11 December 2020||NEW Delhi,||New Parliament building will reflect India’s aspirations: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said the new Parliament building, for which the ground-breaking ceremony was held, would channel and reflect the aspirations of 21st century India. The ceremony was attended by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Deputy Chairman of the Rajya Sabha Harivansh, and Union Ministers Hardeep Puri and Pralhad Joshi, along with members of the Union Cabinet, diplomats, and Members of Parliament. The ceremony included an all-faith prayer and rituals by priests from the Sringeri Sharada Peetham, Karnataka. The shankha (conch shell) and n avaratnas (nine precious stones) had come from the Peetham. Mr. Modi said, “The new building will be the amalgamation of the new and the ancient, and reflects also the spirit of fostering change in oneself adapting to changing circumstances. Our Constitution was framed and given to us in the current Parliament building and it is the repository of much of our democratic legacy but it is important to be realistic as well. Over the last 100 years, several modifications have been made to the current building to the point where even the building requires rest. Which is why the decision was taken to construct a new Parliament building.” Mr. Modi spoke of some of the new features, including a space where people from constituencies could meet their MPs, something lacking in the current building. Spirit of optimism Mr. Modi called upon MPs to keep the spirit of optimism alive around democracy by being always accountable to people and the Constitution. He spoke of the spirit of conversation and dialogue, quoting the first Guru of the Sikhs, Guru Nanak Devji: “as long as the world exists, conversations must continue”, noting that it was the spirit of democracy, a comment significant with regard to the stalled negotiations between the government and farmer groups over the three farmer-specific laws passed by Parliament. While there could be disagreements, there cannot be space for disconnect, he stated.
11 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. asks farmers’ unions to reconsider its proposal||Responding to an appeal on Thursday from the Centre that the farmers’ unions reconsider its proposal for amendments to the three agriculture sector laws and resume dialogue, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a joint front of the farmers’ unions, maintained that they too had not “shut the doors” for negotiations. However, they said the government must come up with a “concrete solution” to end the impasse. A day after the unions rejected the government’s proposal, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, at a joint press conference with Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal, said he was “pained” to see that the farmers were not able to make a decision despite all their doubts being addressed by the government. He made an appeal to the farmers to consider the proposal sent by the Centre and resume talks. Mr. Tomar said the government was ready for talks with an “open mind”, adding that the farmers should decide on the next date of talks. He said the unions should give up the path of agitation and it was not correct to intensify the stir when talks were still on. He said he was “hopeful” of a solution to the matter. ‘No law completely bad’ When asked about the possibility of the withdrawal of the laws, Mr. Tomar maintained that no law was “completely bad”. Mr. Goyal said the government was “very, very open and flexible” to find an amicable solution to the concerns raised by the farmers. “We make an honest appeal to the union leaders to allow the farmers to return to their villages and continue dialogue with the government to dispel any apprehensions,” he said. In reply to a question, Mr. Goyal said the media should use its “investigative skills” to find out whether the farmers were being misled. Reacting to the government’s appeal, Bharatiya Kisan Union (R) president Balbir Singh Rajewal, speaking at an SKM press conference at the Singhu border, said the farmers, too, had not “shut the doors” for talks, but stressed that the government must offer a “concrete solution” for the dialogue to resume. He said the proposal sent on Wednesday had been discussed for hours and there was nothing new in them. He reiterated that agriculture was a State subject and the three laws were “unconstitutional” and should be withdrawn.
11 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||KCR for Delhi today||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will leave for New Delhi on Friday on a three-day visit to meet, among others, Union Ministers Nirmala Sitaraman and Rajnath Singh and important Opposition leaders. Though his meetings with Union Ministers were officially not confirmed, it was said he was likely to meet Ms. Sitaraman to seek GST compensation dues to the State and Mr. Singh on unresolved issues of State bifurcation. Sources said he might also meet Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and other Opposition leaders to discuss initiatives to strengthen the farmers’ struggle against farm Bills. They added that Mr. Rao had not sought appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi . It was also likely that he will inspect the land allotted to TRS in Vasant Vihar near Delhi airport. As a State recognised party, the TRS was allotted 1,100 sq mts of prime land to set up its office. Mr. Rao will be accompanied by Roads and Buildings Minister Prashant Reddy and Finance Minister T. Harish Rao.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Anti-cow slaughter Bill not taken up in Council||The controversial anti-cow slaughter Bill, which was passed in the Legislative Assembly on Wednesday, was not presented and taken up for discussion on Thursday in the Legislative Council before it was adjourned sine die . Interestingly, though it was on the day’s agenda and Council chairman K. Pratapchandra Shetty asked that the Bill be presented, floor leader Kota Srinivas Poojary said it could be taken up on Friday. However, the Council was adjourned sine die . While this implies that the Bill has to be taken up again during the next session, BJP sources said the the government is also contemplating promulgating an Ordinance. Ordinance route? The party is not willing to heed to the Opposition’s demand to refer this to a joint select committee. A senior BJP minister said that Ordinance appears to be the “most feasible” route. “We will discuss in the next Cabinet,” he said. Meanwhile, Congress leaders said the BJP had chosen not to take up the Bill “sensing defeat” with both the Congress as well as the Janata Dal-Secular (which had stood by the BJP on the Land Reforms Bill) opposed to the anti-cow slaughter Bill. The BJP does not have a clear majority in the Legislative Council.
11 December 2020||GUNTUR,||‘Jagananna Jeeva Kranthi’ launched||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday virtually launched ‘Jagananna Jeeva Kranthi’ scheme, under which 2.49 lakh units of sheep and goats will be distributed to women in a phased manner at a cost of Rs. 1,869 crore. Speaking on the occasion, the Chief Minister said that the scheme aims at improving the living standards of women with less investment. By promoting the agricultural allied sectors, more economic development would take place and eventually benefit farmers. Under the scheme, women belonging to the Backward Classes, the Scheduled Castes (SCs), and the Scheduled Tribes (STs) in the age group of 45-60 years would get 2.49 lakh sheep and goat units. Each unit consists of 15 sheep or goats (with one ram or billy) in each unit. The State would facilitate and provide suggestions, in case the women want to buy the sheep and goats on their own. The Chief Minister said the State government signed MoUs with Reliance, Allana Group, Amul, HUL, Procter & Gamble and ITC to collaborate and empower women beneficiaries of YSR Cheyutha and Aasara schemes.  “The main objective of partnerships is to provide more business opportunities and bring self-reliance among the women, by providing assistance for better investments.” He said that Allana Group would buy meat as the government entered into an agreement with that company. However, if the price anywhere else was more remunerative than Allana, women can sell their produce directly and there was no compulsion that they have to sell to Allana only. The government also launched the distribution of 4.69 lakh units of cows and buffaloes with Rs. 3,500 crore to strengthen the dairy sector besides 2.49 lakh units of sheep and goats at a cost of Rs. 1,869 crore, taking to a total of Rs. 5,400 crore. Training centres As part of the Jagananna Jeeva Kranthi , 20,000 units will be distributed in the first phase till March 2021. In the second phase from April to August 2021, 1,30,000 units will be distributed, and in the third phase from September to December 2021, another 99,000 units will be distributed. Allana Group chairman Irfan Allana said the group would be more supportive of the schemes and programmes being implemented by the State government. He suggested that good breeds of goats and sheep were available in countries like Britain, Australia and South Africa, which can be provided to farmers for higher returns.
11 December 2020||Kolkata,||Convoy of BJP president attacked in West Bengal||The convoy of BJP president J.P. Nadda came under attack on Thursday in West Bengal’s Diamond Harbour area, triggering a major political row in the poll-bound State. Videos of the incident that surfaced on social media and also circulated by the BJP showed stones and bottles raining on the passing vehicles, as Trinamool Congress supporters holding flags stood on both sides of the road. Several vehicles suffered damage and many people, including BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, were injured in the incident. The entire BJP leadership condemned the attack, and the party held demonstrations at several places across West Bengal. Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the State had gone into an era of “tyranny, anarchy and darkness under Trinamool rule”. “The manner in which political violence has been institutionalised and brought to the extreme within West Bengal under Trinamool rule is sad and worrying for all those who believe in democratic values,” Mr. Shah said, adding that the Centre was taking the issue seriously and the State government will have to answer the people of the State on the issue. Speaking at the event in Diamond Harbour, which he reached with considerable difficulty, Mr. Nadda said what he witnessed made it evident that the West Bengal government had become synonymous with a “state of lawlessness and intolerance”. “Not a single vehicle had been spared. Today I have reached this destination with the grace of Ma Durga. Trinamool activists and goons left no stone unturned to strangle democracy,” he said. Later in the day, speaking at a press conference, the BJP chief said law and order and the entire administration had crumbled in the State. Mr. Vijayvargiya, who suffered injuries in his left hand, called it a “planned and targeted” attack. All lies: Mamata The Trinamool Congress leadership said there was provocation on the part of the BJP president, who was visiting Ms. Banerjee’s constituency Bhawanipur, and Abhishek Banerjee’s constituency, Diamond Harbour. Ms. Banerjee said BJP leaders had the protection of different central agencies, including the CISF and the CRPF, insinuating that the attacks may have been the result of “planning” by the BJP itself. “I have told the police to make a total inquiry because I will not tolerate all the lies,” she said.
11 December 2020||WASHINGTON/ PALO ALTO,||Lawsuits could force FB to sell Instagram, WhatsApp||Facebook Inc could be forced to sell WhatsApp and Instagram after the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and nearly every U.S. State filed lawsuits against the company, saying it used a “buy or bury” strategy to snap up rivals and keep smaller competitors at bay. The twin lawsuits filed on Wednesday accuse Facebook of buying up rivals, focusing specifically on its acquisitions of photo-sharing app Instagram for $1 billion in 2012 and messaging app WhatsApp for $19 billion in 2014. Regulators said the acquisitions should be unwound, which could set off a long legal challenge as the deals were cleared years earlier by the FTC. With the filing of the twin lawsuits on Wednesday, Facebook becomes the second Big Tech company to face a major legal challenge this year after the U.S. Justice Department sued Alphabet Inc’s Google in October, accusing the $1 trillion company of using its market power to fend off rivals. The lawsuits highlight the growing bipartisan consensus to hold Big Tech accountable for business practices and mark a rare moment of agreement between the Trump administration and Democrats, some of whom have advocated breaking up both Google and Facebook. “For nearly a decade, Facebook has used its dominance and monopoly power to crush smaller rivals,” said New York Attorney General Letitia James on behalf of the coalition of 46 states, Washington, D.C. and Guam. Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina and South Dakota did not participate in the lawsuit.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Let women rule for 2.5 years: O. Panneerselvam||Violence and crime against women will come down if there is a provision that mandates men and women to govern the country for two-and-a-half years each, Tamil Nadu Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam said on Thursday. Speaking at a seminar on elimination of violence against women, organised by the Department of Planning and Development, Mr. Panneerselvam said, “Why shouldn’t men and women rule the country for two-and-a-half years each? If such an opportunity is granted through the Constitution, there will be equality in society, and violence against women will come down.” He said he would discuss with the Chief Minister the issues raised during the seminar, including providing training to those in the judiciary and the police, to help women get access to justice. He said violence against women in a civilised society is a violation of human rights and there is a need to take steps to remove the sufferings of women and children who have been affected by violence. “There is a need for us to increase punishment and bring in change in societal mentality on issues such as violence against women. There is a need to increase awareness among officials on these issues,” he said. He said women against women in a civilised society is a violation of human rights and there is a need to take steps to remove the sufferings of women and children who have been affected by violence. “There is a need for us to increase punishments and bring in a change in societal mentality on issues such as violence against women. There is a need to increase awareness among officials on these issues,” he said.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Police to inquire into Chitra’s death||While a post-mortem examination was conducted on television actor K. Chitra, who was found dead inside a hotel room, the police are gearing up to hold an inquiry among her friends and family in connection with her death. Chitra, famous for her role in the serial Pandian Stores , was found dead in a hotel room in Poonamallee. She was staying there with her husband, and was taking part in a shoot nearby. After post-mortem, the body was handed over to her family. “As of now, we do not see any indication of foul play. It looks like suicide. We will be conducting detailed investigations with her husband, family and friends. Only after the probe can we come to a conclusion. As of now, we are relying on the doctor’s report,” a senior police officer said. Speaking to the media, her mother, Vijaya Kamaraj, stated that her daughter would not have taken such an extreme step, and alleged foul play. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||Sisodia’s house was attacked, alleges AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) alleged that “BJP goons” attacked Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia’s residence on Thursday when he was not present. The party claimed that it was done with the support of the police who were present at the spot. While AAP shared a video of the purported attack, the BJP said the video shared as evidence by the party was “fake”.
11 December 2020||Kolkata,||Trinamool highlights 10-year Mamata govt.’s achievements||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Thursday released a report card highlighting the achievements of 10 years of the Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal. “The report card talks about the developments taken place in the last 10 years under several subsections, including economy, education, health, food, housing and sanitisation, electricity, roads and water, farmers, women empowerment, SC/ST empowerment, employment, and social security,” a TMC release said. Among other things, the card emphasised that the “average per person income has more than doubled — from Rs. 51,543 in 2010 to Rs. 1,09,491 in 2019”. “Bengal’s GDP has grown from Rs. 4.51 lakh crore to Rs. 6.9 lakh crore (53% rise). Similarly, agriculture and allied services have grown by 30%, industries by 60%, and the service sector by 62%,” the document said. On the issue of jobs, the TMC report card said that 1.63 crore people had been provided employment for 249.3 crore man-days of work generated under the MGNREGA (100 days of work scheme).
11 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||HelpAge India presented UN Population Award for 2020||HelpAge India has been presented the UN Population Award for 2020 (institutional category), according to a release issued by UNFPA. Established by the United Nations General Assembly in 1981, the United Nations Population Award recognises contributions in the fields of population and reproductive health. The Committee for the United Nations Population Award, which made the selections, is chaired by Ion Jinga, the permanent representative of Romania to the United Nations, and is composed of representatives of nine other UN Member States. “For the first time in the history of the UN Population Award, the honour is being conferred on an Indian institution. The last time the Award came to an Indian was 28 years ago, back in 1992, when it was awarded to Mr. J.R.D. Tata as an individual laureate. HelpAge India, which has been working for ‘the cause and care of disadvantaged older persons to improve their quality of life’ for over four decades, is the first Indian institution to receive this award,” added the release.
11 December 2020||Vijayawada,||More mystery illness cases||Thirteen more cases of undiagnosed illness were reported in Eluru on Thursday pushing the total number to 600, said District Coordinator of Health Services A.V.R. Mohan.
11 December 2020||Kolkata,||Nadda’s convoy attacked in West Bengal||The convoy of BJP president J.P. Nadda came under attack on Thursday in West Bengal’s Diamond Harbour area, triggering a major political row. Videos of the incident that surfaced on social media showed stones and bottles raining on the passing vehicles, as Trinamool Congress supporters holding flags stood on both sides of the road. Several vehicles suffered damage and many people, including BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, were injured. The entire BJP leadership condemned the attack. Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the State had gone into an era of “tyranny, anarchy and darkness under the Trinamool rule”.
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||Constable accuses two CRPF officers of rape||The Delhi Police have registered an FIR against an officer of the rank of Deputy Inspector-General and another in the CRPF after a woman constable alleged that she was raped by them for several years, a police officer said. The FIR was registered against team coach Surjit Singh and Chief Sports Officer Khazan Singh, the police said.
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||Sisodia’s house attacked by ‘BJP goons’: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party alleged that “BJP goons” attacked Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia’s residence on Thursday when he was not present. While the AAP shared a video of the purported attack, the BJP said the video shared as evidence by the party was “fake.”
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Seven months on, students await trimmed syllabus||Although it has been seven months since the 2020-2021 academic year commenced, the State government is yet to approve the trimmed syllabus for classes one to 10. The delay is a cause for concern among teachers.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,||NIA court convicts 3 in fake currency case||The NIA special court on Thursday convicted three people in a fake currency racket case and sentenced each of them to six, five and two years of imprisonment. The convicts have also been ordered to pay a fine of Rs. 5,000 failing which they will have to face an additional six months of imprisonment.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Police detain over 350 farmers||The police on Thursday detained more than 350 farmers for violating prohibitory orders and COVID-19 rules as organisations intensified their protest.
11 December 2020||SIVAGANGA,||Man with ‘pipe bomb’ arrested||The Third Master Plan for the Chennai Metropolitan Area is set to be framed on the basis of consultations with residents on major infrastruc- ture projects such as building of an exclusive cycle way network and autonomous vehicles infrastructure.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Kamal Haasan to begin campaign on Dec. 13||Actor and Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan will begin the first phase of his election campaigning on December 13. He would kickstart his campaign tour from Madurai for the upcoming Assembly election.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,||CM launches free bicycle scheme for students||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami inaugurated a scheme to provide bicycles to Plus One students in govern- ment and government-aided schools for the year 2020-21. He also laid the foundation stone for the Government Veterinary College and Research Institute in Theni district, to be built at a cost of Rs. 265.87 crore
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,||State records 1,220 fresh cases, 17 fatalities||With 1,220 more persons testing positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, the State’s case tally touched 7,95,240. The number of active cases stood at 10,392. A total of 1,302 persons were discharged after treatment. The State recorded 17 more deaths, taking its toll to 11,853.
11 December 2020||SIVAGANGA,||Man with ‘pipe bomb’ arrested||Police arrested Tamil Kumaran, 38, on Thursday on the charge of threatening a Congress functionary, Mangudi of Burma Colony who was a former panchayat president and had held the post of vice-president of Sivaganga District Congress Committee, to part with Rs. 1 crore.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Another drone found in Pulicat||Hardly a week after an aerial target drone was found floating near a fishing hamlet in Pulicat, another one landed at Nadukuppam in Pulicat on Thursday afternoon. On December 5, an aerial target drone was found floating in the sea at Koraikuppam.
11 December 2020||Guwahati,||Kolkata nearby||The authorities in eastern Assam’s Dibrugarh district have undertaken a drive to vaccinate livestock around the Joypur rainforest after anthrax was confirmed as the cause of the death of two female elephants a week ago. This is the second case of anthrax in the State after two Asiatic water buffaloes died in the Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary in October 2019. The sanctuary, 48 km east of Guwahati, is often called ‘Mini Kaziranga’ owing to a similar landscape. Anthrax is a disease caused by Bacillus anthracis , a spore-forming bacteria.
11 December 2020||Guwahati,||Second Kolkata nearby||The affidavit submitted by Assam’s National Register of Citizens (NRC) Coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma before the Gauhati High Court on December 3 said officials handling the exercise to update the citizens’ list sought a change in the status of 10,199 applicants. Some 19.06 lakh of a total of 3.3 crore applicants were excluded from the updated NRC released on August 31, 2019. The affidavit said the updated NRC was only a supplementary list of inclusion and exclusion of names as the RGI is yet to publish the final one.
11 December 2020||KARAIKAL,||Online booking must for ‘Sani Peyarchi’ darshan||The Karaikal administration has made online booking mandatory for pilgrims taking part in the ‘Sani Peyarchi’ festival at Sri Saneeswara Bhagavan shrine, Thirunallaru, this month.
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 cases cross 6 lakh mark in the Capital||The Capital witnessed 1,575 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,01,150, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. Also, 61 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 9,874.
11 December 2020||Mangaluru,||Legislators meet CM on airport renaming issue||Demand to name Mangaluru International Airport after Koti and Chennaya, has grown with legislators from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi meeting Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday and asked him to recommend it to the Union government.
11 December 2020||KOCHI,||76.38% vote in Kerala local body polls phase II||While rural and mofussil areas in Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad districts witnessed brisk polling in the second phase of the local body elections held on Thursday, urban voters did not demonstrate similar enthusiasm, partly owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. Statistics released by the State Election Commission at 8 p.m. suggested an overall polling percentage of 76.38, as against 78.7% in 2015. The voter turnout was 73.91% (78.3% in 2015) in Kottayam, 77.13% (78.5%) in Ernakulam, 75.03% (76.5%) in Thrissur, 77.97% (78.9%) in Palakkad, and 79.46% (81.5% in 2015) in Wayanad. However, the two Corporations that went to the polls on Thursday, Kochi and Thrissur, recorded 62.01% (69.62% in 2015) and 63.77% (71.88%) polling respectively. A total of 38,51,350 women, 36,72,206 men and 15 transgenders exercised their right to franchise. Two deaths, of a voter and a police officer on duty, were reported from Wayanad. While strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocols was observed in several places, such restrictions went for a toss in the early hours of voting in places which witnessed a heavy rush of voters. As in the first phase, an extended hour of voting was made available to COVID-19 patients and quarantined people to vote. The surge in turnout in the second phase compared to the first phase on December 8 had the major fronts claiming advantage. Senior Congress leader V.D. Satheesan said central Kerala being a traditional stronghold of the UDF, even in hard times, it would stay with the alliance. “The Left Front’s was a defensive campaign which hasn’t worked very well,” he said, foreseeing a favourable outcome in Kottayam, Ernakulam and Wayanad districts while remaining hopeful of improving its tally in Thrissur and Palakkad. “However, how the Left Front’s alliance with the KC(M), which contested on its traditional symbol of ‘two leaves’, worked, is something that remains to be seen,” he added. The alliance would prove beneficial to the Left in Kottayam district, claimed acting CPI(M) State Secretary A. Vijayaraghavan, citing low voter turnout in areas where the UDF traditionally had an edge.
11 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Congress MPs skip ceremony||The Congress on Thursday targeted the Narendra Modi government over the proposed new Parliament building, with senior leaders pointing out that India’s democracy is not made by “grand buildings” but its constitutional values. The Congress’s parliamentary leaders stayed away from the ground-breaking ceremony of the building. The party has been critical of the government for proceeding with the Central Vista project in the middle of the pandemic. While former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram tweeted that “the foundation for a new Parliament building was laid on the ruins of a liberal democracy”, his colleague and the Congress’s deputy leader in the Rajya Sabha, Anand Sharma, called it a “case of misplaced priorities in times of a pandemic, economic distress and farmers are fighting for justice and their rights in the biting cold”. “Vibrant Democracy is sustained and strengthened not by grand buildings but by nurturing the spirit of India’s hard-earned constitutional democracy which was brazenly assaulted when the farm Bills were rammed through by muzzling the Opposition, using the COVID pandemic as a shield, and in violation of parliamentary rules and established practices,” Mr. Sharma tweeted. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said history would record that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was busy laying the foundation stone when farmers were fighting for their rights on the streets. Congress Chief Whip in the Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh said the existing Parliament building, built by the British, resembled the Chausath Yogini Temple in Morena (Madhya Pradesh) while the new atmanirbhar Parliament looked like the Pentagon in Washington. On his Twitter handle, Mr. Ramesh shared pictures of the old and new buildings and that of the Pentagon and the Morena temple.
11 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Virus cases stay below 40,000||India’s cumulative COVID-19 testing has crossed 15 crore on Thursday, with one crore tests being conducted in the past 10 days, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. India had conducted 10 crore tests by October 23. “A total of 9,22,959 samples were tested in the last 24 hours which has increased India’s total cumulative tests to 15,07,59,726,” the Ministry said in a release. The Ministry added that India had reported less than 40,000 new daily COVID-19 cases for 11 straight days. In the last 24 hours, 31,521 persons had tested positive. 77.67 per cent of the 412 case fatalities reported in the past 24 hours are from 10 States/Union Territories and 18.2% of new fatalities reported are from Maharashtra, which reported 75 deaths. Delhi also saw a fatality count of 50 contributing another 12.13 per cent of the fatalities. The number of fatalities per day has been fewer than 500 for the last five days. India registered 1,069 fatalities in the beginning of October, which declined to 670 cases in November and had now fallen below 500, according to the Ministry. “India also registered 37,725 new recoveries in the same duration which has led to a further contraction of the active caseload. India’s present active caseload of 3,72,293 consists of just 3.81% of India’s total positive cases. 92.5 lakh recoveries The total recovered cases have surpassed 92.5 lakh (92,53,306) on Thursday and the recovery rate has improved to 94.74%. The gap between recovered cases and active cases is steadily increasing and presently stands at 8,881,013,” the release said. Also 77.30% of the new recoveries have been reported by 10 States/UTs with Maharashtra registering 5,051 recoveries. Kerala and Delhi saw 4,647 and 4,177 new recoveries, respectively.
11 December 2020||Srinagar,||51% turnout in J&K DDC election||J&K recorded 51.2% polling in 37 District Development Council (DDC) constituencies in the fifth phase of the election on Thursday, as volatile south Kashmir continued to witness lower voter turnout. “Over 51% polling was recorded in J&K in the fifth phase. The Kashmir division recorded 33.57% average voter turnout, while the Jammu division saw 66.67%,” State Election Commissioner (SEC) K.K. Sharma said. Mr. Sharma said polling was peaceful and people participated. Bandipora saw the highest polling at 56.4% in the Kashmir valley, followed by Kupwara at 52.35% and Budgam at 45.65%, Ganderbal at 37.47% and Baramulla at 44.31%. An official said Anantnag saw the highest turnout — 21.89% — in south Kashmir. “Kulgam registered 26.94%, Pulwama 8.12%, and Shopian the lowest 5.52%,” officials said. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti, in a tweet, said security forces had cordoned Matribugh in Shopian and were not allowing people to come out to vote. Mr. Sharma said Jammu division’s Poonch district saw the highest poll percentage of 71.62%, followed by Doda at 70.95%, Rajouri at 70.83%, Samba at 64.71%, Udhampur at 69.47%, Kishtwar at 68.27%, Ramban at 67.11%, Reasi at 69.15%, and Kathua 62.36%. “The lowest turnout in the Jammu division was in Jammu district at 60.24%,” Mr. Sharma said.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||India ‘totally’ responsible for situation: China||China on Thursday said “the responsibility totally lies with the Indian side” for the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), responding to External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar’s statement that China had violated border agreements by deploying a large number of soldiers along the border. Mr. Jaishankar said China had given India “five differing explanations” for its unprecedented deployment of forces on the LAC this summer, speaking at a virtual session with the Sydney-based Lowy Institute on Wednesday. “We are today probably at the most difficult phase of our relationship with China, certainly in the last 30 to 40 years or you could argue even more,” he had said. He added that “the relationship this year has been very significantly damaged” by China violating border agreements under which both sides would not deploy large number of forces along the LAC. “The Chinese have literally brought tens of thousands of soldiers in full military preparation mode right to the LAC in Ladakh. Naturally the relationship would be profoundly disturbed by this,” Mr. Jaishankar said ‘Merits very clear’ In Beijing, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying, responding to a question about his statement, said “the merits of the situation” were “very clear”. “China and India are neighbours and the world’s two biggest emerging markets and keeping good relations serves the fundamental interests of both countries and its people but it requires common efforts from both sides,” Ms. Hua said. “The merits of the situation at the border area are very clear and the responsibility totally lies with the Indian side. China has been strictly observing the agreements signed between the two sides and committed to resolving the border issue through dialogue and we are committed to safeguarding regional peace and tranquillity at border areas… But like all sovereign states we are determined in safeguarding our territorial integrity. So on the Indian side, I think this is a serious question on what it should reflect upon.” Mr. Jaishankar also made clear that it was impossible for the relationship to continue as normal given the situation on the LAC. “We are very clear that maintaining peace and tranquillity along the LAC is the basis for the rest of the relationship to progress,” he said. “You can’t have the kind of situation you have on the border and say let’s carry on with life in all other sectors of activity. It’s just unrealistic,” he said. De-linking issues The Chinese side, however, has in recent statements sought to de-link the border situation from other aspects of the relationship such as economic ties and called for India to put the boundary dispute in a “proper” position — a view that India has said is untenable as peace on the border was a prerequisite for the relationship. China also so far hasn’t signalled any willingness to return to the status quo prior to May’s multiple transgressions by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA). Both sides have held eight rounds of talks at the Corps Commander level, the last of which was held on November 6, but are yet to agree on a plan to disengage. Ms. Hua repeated that view on putting the border tensions in a “proper” position on Thursday, saying “We hope India can work with us and contribute to solidarity, cooperation and common development.” “There are challenges in bilateral relations but China’s position and policy on India hasn’t changed,” she said. “As two major countries and emerging markets, keeping good relations serves the fundamental interests of both and we will stay committed to safeguarding the peace and tranquillity in the border area. On the historical issues, China believes that we should find fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable solutions based on equal-footed consultation and put it on the proper position in our bilateral relations. We hope we can reach consensus, properly manage differences, enhance practical cooperation and bring our bilateral relations back on the right track.”
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||Modi’s govt. is destroying democracy, says Yechury||The Left parties panned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech at the ground-breaking ceremony for the new Parliament building. Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said that Mr. Modi’s speech was a case of “diabolic doublespeak”. “Mr. Modi is giving a moral lecture on the ‘values’ and ‘culture’ of democracy while in practice [he is] destroying democracy. Every single institution that holds up our democracy has been assaulted, his government brazenly attacks civil liberties, every dissenter is labelled as anti-national. A boy and a girl can not freely marry in this country without the government’s intervention,” Mr. Yechury said. He pointed out that major political parties stayed away from the function on Thursday, clearly showing that there was nothing democratic about it. CPI general secretary D. Raja said that a new Parliament should not be the beginning of a new order replacing constitutional democracy with theocracy. “Replacing the present building with a new building shouldn’t lead to replacing the present Constitution with a new one based on Manusmriti,” he said.
11 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBSE exam dates to be fixed after discussions: Minister||Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ on Thursday said the schedule of Class 10 and 12 examinations was yet to be decided by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), but would be announced soon after consulting all stakeholders. During a virtual interaction with students, parents and teachers, the Minister was asked about the dates for exams and their possible postponement. Last week, the CBSE had announced that the board exams in 2021 would be in written mode only and not online. He said the government would examine the suggestion that the JEE (Main) 2021 be held four times in 2021 — February, March, April and May. He said the syllabus for the JEE (Main) 2021 would “remain same as the previous year”. He added that the government was examining a proposal for giving students the choice to answer 75 questions out of 90. He said there were 75 questions to be answered in the JEE (Main) 2020. Practical exams Responding to a question about cancellation or postponement of the CBSE practical exams, he said the CBSE was “yet to take a decision on the dates of conducting Board examinations including practical. Consultations with the stakeholders are in progress.” He added that alternatives would be explored if students are unable to take the practicals in classes before the exams. Asked about the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), he said the schedule for NEET (UG) 2021 was being finalised and would be announced soon. He said the syllabus for the exam would stay the same as the previous year’s. He said the conduct of competitive exams such as NEET and JEE had continued safely during the COVID-19 pandemic. Clarifying doubts among the students and teachers about deleted portions of Class 12 syllabus, the Minister said the CBSE had already uploaded the revised syllabus on its website.   (With PTI inputs)
11 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala gets Rs. 642 crore as GST compensation dues||Close on joining the bandwagon of other States and Union Territories to accept Option I put forward by the Union government for meeting the Goods and Service Tax (GST) compensation cess shortfall, Kerala has got Rs. 642.12 crore as the second instalment of the dues. The Rs. 642.12 crore that has already reached the State exchequer has been taken as loan by the Centre through the Special Window of the Reserve Bank of India at an interest rate of 4.20%. In all, the Centre has taken Rs. 5,516.6 crore as loan from the Reserve Bank of India’s Special Window for all States that have opted for Option I in the sixth instalment of clearing the GST compensation dues. Kerala, which was in the forefront in the fight for getting the mounting GST compensation cess, missed out the first four instalments following the delay in joining the twin options mooted by the Centre. A sum of Rs. 328.2 crore was earlier received in the State as GST compensation dues from the Centre. The shortfall arising out of the GST implementation, which has been pegged at Rs. 1.1 lakh crore, is being made available through a special borrowing window put in place by the Centre. For 23 States and three Union Territories that went for Option I, the instalment was given in October and November. The Centre has already granted additional borrowing permission of Rs. 4,522 crore to Kerala (0.5% of Kerala’s GSDP), according to the Ministry. With these, Kerala will have a ‘NIL’ GST revenue shortfall. Kerala had anticipated Rs. 9,006 crore as GST compensation till January 2021 as per the Centre’s decision to borrow through a special window and provide back-to-back loans to the States. For the State, reeling under financial crisis due to the pandemic induced lockdown, this will be a big relief.
11 December 2020||Kozhikode,||Chennithala raises corruption charges against Kerala Speaker||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Thursday levelled serious allegations against Kerala Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan in the financial handling of the Assembly and said he would approach Governor Arif Mohammad Khan for a probe into the charges. Addressing a news conference here, Mr. Chennithala alleged that Mr. Sreeramakrishnan had indulged in large-scale extravagance in the conduct of the Loka Kerala Sabha, hosted by the State government to bring Keralites living around the globe under one platform. A sum of Rs. 1.84 crore had been spent just for the seating arrangements in Sankaranarayanan Thampi Hall in the Assembly Complex in 2018. He alleged that the profligacy had been led by Vadakara-based Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS). The renovation included replacing new seats and erecting imported lanterns costing Rs. 16.65 crore in January 2020. All this for hosting a programme for one-and-a-half days. He alleged that Rs. 52.31 crore was spent for the software e-Niyamasabha (e-Assembly). For this, Rs. 13.59 crore had been offered as advance to the ULCCS. It was mysterious that the ULCCS had been awarded the contract without inviting tenders for the project. He said the appointment of the consultants of the Sabha TV and the organisation of Festival of Democracy, both initiatives of the Assembly, were steeped in corruption. Mr. Chennithala said the Speaker, who was a State committee member of the CPI (M), had behaved in a manner unbecoming of his position, he said. Mr. Sreeramakrishnan attempted to mount a strong defence against the imputation that gold smuggling case suspect Swapna Suresh had implicated him in the racket. The Opposition parties had seized on the allegation to disadvantage the ruling front during the local body polls. Mr. Sreeramakrishnan said he was willing to face any investigation agency as an ‘ordinary citizen’ and without the ‘insulation’ of his constitutional office to clarify the ‘vile lie.’ He had not accused any agency of bias and had no cause to mistrust them. The Speaker challenged BJP State president K. Surendran to furnish evidence that he had abetted smugglers. He was considering legal action against the BJP leader. The Speaker said he had interacted with Swapna as executive secretary to the UAE Consulate General. The Speaker slammed Mr. Chennithala for raising baseless allegations of corruption and extravagance against the Legislative Secretariat. He denied there was any fraud in contracting the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society for carrying out works in the Assembly complex. The Sabha TV was a new concept for bringing the Assembly closer to the public. . The well-appointed Assembly lounge, which Mr. Chennithala had highlighted as wasteful expenditure, was widely appreciated for its aesthetics, he said.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram bureau)
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka says no to forcible eviction||The State government on Thursday said that people living in 1,533 villages in the Western Ghats region, coming under eco-sensitive zone as classified by Dr. K. Kasthurirangan report, would not be forcibly evicted. Replying to a debate in the Assembly on the implementation of the report, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said the State would explore the option of impleading before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in a bid to make known its stand on the report. “I will talk to both the Forests and Law Ministers in this regard to explore the option,” he said. Seeking to allay fears that there would be mass eviction of people from the villages if the report is implemented by the end of this year, Mr. Kumar said the Centre was yet to issue the final notification in this regard. The State had not only filed objections about all the four draft notifications issued by the Centre on implementation of the report, but also written to the Centre now making it clear that it would not accept implementation of the report in its present form, he said. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, in his letter to the Union Minister for Environment and Forests, had also sought that the State should be informed about any new draft notification to be issued in this regard before taking a final call on the report, he said. Referring to the reports about some villages in the Malnad region getting ready to boycott the upcoming gram panchayat elections as part of efforts to express their anger against the report, Mr. Kumar appealed to people to drop such plans. He assured the House that measures would be taken to ensure that creation and maintenance of basic infrastructure would not be affected in these areas owing to their inclusion in the eco-sensitive zone by the report. He said a Cabinet sub-committee, which had been formed to look into the issue, would file its report before the Centre, within this month. Earlier, all the MLAs from the Western Ghats region expressed concern citing media reports that the NGT had asked the Centre to implement the report from December 30.
11 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Virus-wary Indians indulging film craze at home: Netflix||With much of 2020 spent indoors, Indians turned to watching movies on Netflix, with the country having the highest viewership of films on the video streaming platform globally. Over the last year, 80% of Netflix’s members in India chose to watch a film every week, the platform said. “It’s no surprise that we love films in India....This year, the most popular thriller that kept us on the edge of our seats was Raat Akeli Hai. Extraction, Malang and The Old Guard gave us our dose of adrenaline as the most popular action films,” Monika Shergill, vice-president, content, Netflix India, said in a blog post. She noted that Ludo was the most popular comedy film. Films such as Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo (Telugu), Kannum Kannum Kollaiyadithaal (Tamil), Kappela (Malayalam), and Uma Maheswara Ugra Roopasya (Telugu) were among the films that featured in India’s top-10. The U.S.-headquartered platform saw about a 250% increase in viewing in 2020 over 2019 for both non-fiction series and romantic films and series. “In 2020, we explored the world of non-fiction series and documentaries. The viewing for non-fiction series on Netflix in India grew more than 250% in 2020 over 2019 and the most popular non-fiction shows that got us hooked were Too Hot to Handle, Indian Matchmaking and the recently released Fabulous Lives of Bollywood Wives ,” Ms. Shergill said. The viewing of documentaries grew more than 100%, and Bad Boy Billionaires, The Social Dilemma and Money Heist: The Phenomenon were the most popular ones in India this year. In romance, Love Aaj Kal, Ginny Weds Sunny and Mismatched were some of the most popular romantic films and series that made us swoon this year. This year, Indians also explored stories from around the world, irrespective of the original language. The German series Dark was on the top-10 row in India for 95 days and the Spanish series Money Heist featured in the row for 170 days. “The Turkish series The Protector is among the most popular titles in the fantasy genre this year and was also the non-Indian, non-English title that was viewed the most with subtitles and/or dubs.” The viewing of kids’ titles increased more than 100% in India in 2020 over 2019.
11 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Slot booking for registration/mutation of non-agricultural properties from today||The government has finally decided to resume the land registrations relating to the non-agricultural properties from Friday. Slot booking for registration through the old CARD (computer aided registration of documents) system would resume from Friday after a gap of more than three months. Registration of agriculture and non-agricultural properties came to a grinding halt from September 7 after the government banned the process following the passage of two crucial legislations envisaging overhaul of the revenue administration which faced several allegations. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has announced that the government had firmed up its resolve to reform the revenue administration enabling it to issue conclusive titles to land owners. Accordingly, the Assembly passed two Bills – The Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act, 2020 and The Telangana Abolition of the Posts of Village Revenue Officers Act 2020. And, at the same time, the government had stopped registration of agricultural and non-agricultural properties till formal guidelines relating to the new legislations were issued. In the process, the government had to face shortfall in the revenue on account of stoppage of registrations relating to non-agricultural properties. Though the government had opened up registration/mutation of land transactions pertaining to agricultural properties from October 29, the day when the Chief Minister launched the Dharani portal, there was no significant improvement on the revenue front owing to the teething problems that were witnessed before stabilising the operations through the portal. According to the monthly performance indicators of of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, the revenue from the Stamps and Registration department till October stood at Rs. 1,692.51 crore as against the budget estimates for the year at Rs. 10,000 crore. The achievement till October was just 16.93% as against the 60.46% registered during the corresponding period of the previous financial year. The government’s decision to open up the process of registration of non-agricultural properties came as a relief to those engaged in the real estate business as the dealers as well as the buyers as they were worried over the prospects of their investments of the delays continued further. The development follows suggestions made by the division bench headed by the Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan that the government revive registration of no-agricultural properties by continuing the old procedures.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Cong. boycotts Assembly against passage of anti-cow slaughter Bill||The principal Opposition, Congress, boycotted the proceedings of the Legislative Assembly on Thursday opposing the introduction and passage of the anti-cow slaughter Bill, despite appeals by the Speaker to participate. The controversial Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, was passed in the Assembly on Wednesday amid protest by the Congress. The former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah had announced on Wednesday that the Congress would boycott the Assembly proceedings on Thursday opposing the Bill, which was tabled and passed without discussing in the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) of the House. He termed it an “anti-democratic move”. Congress MLAs participated in the legislature party meeting on Thursday in the State Secretariat. ‘Rules followed’ Recalling developments in the House on Thursday, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said the Leader of the Opposition had raised a couple of issues regarding the passage of the Bill and clarified that he had conducted the House “within the framework of House rules and procedures”. The Speaker said it was made clear at the BAC meeting that some Ordinances and important Bills would be taken up during the session. Mr. Kageri said the Bill had figured in the supplementary agenda on Wednesday, before it was tabled and passed. Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy conceded that taking up the anti-cow slaughter Bill was not specifically mentioned in the BAC. However, it was made clear that “a couple of important Bills” would be introduced during the session, he said. The Minister said that only after realising that the Legislative Council would be adjourned sine die on Thursday, the Bill was introduced in the Assembly with an objective to get it passed in both the Houses in this session. During the last session, some Bills passed by the Assembly were held up in the Council and the government had to promulgate Ordinances. It may be mentioned here that the Bill was not taken up for discussion in the Council before it was adjourned sine die .
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘No move to replace Sonia as UPA chief’||A member of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Thursday said that reports of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar taking over as the head of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) was a ploy to break Opposition unity and divert attention from pressing issues such as the ongoing farmers’ strike. Speculation that Mr. Pawar could be asked by non-Congress parties to take over as the UPA chairperson gained momentum after the NCP chief, in a recent interview, had questioned former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi’s “consistency as well as leadership abilities”. It also comes at a time when the Congress is gearing up for organisational elections to elect a party president. There has also been renewed activity by a section of the Group of 23 (G-23) Congress leaders who had written to Ms. Gandhi in August pressing for an organisational revamp. “To the best of my knowledge, Sonia ji continues to be the UPA chairperson and there is no move to replace her. The Congress is a bigger party and naturally, the president of the Congress will head the UPA,” Tariq Anwar, a member of the CWC, said. Mr. Anwar, a former founding member of the NCP and colleague of Mr. Pawar, said “such stories are also planted to divert attention from issues like the on-going farmers’ protests”. However, talk of Mr. Pawar playing a bigger role in the opposition ranks could be linked to apprehension among some opposition parties as to who could replace Ms. Gandhi as the Congress chief. Ms Gandhi will step down once the party’s the Central Election Authority (CEA) firms up a timeline for elections and the next All India Congress Committee (AICC) session. While the elections schedule may be ready as early as this month, the AICC session is unlikely before January or end-February. Organisational elections and having elected members to the CWC were among the key demands of the Congress dissenters. “If Rahul contests, then I don’t think we would have a candidate but if there is someone else, then it is altogether a different scenario,” said a member of the G-23. The G-23 had also pitched for getting former Congress leaders, who now head regional parties, under one umbrella to take on the BJP. “We have not heard anything about Mr. Pawar as the UPA chief,” said the leader quoted above.
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||Deboo, the dancer who defied norms||When Astad Deboo took the stage, it was difficult to fathom when Kathak merged into Kathakali and when Martha Graham’s techniques were woven in. Holistic in comprehending the Indian and Western dance aesthetics, Deboo imbued modern dance with a narrative treatment and blended facial expressions with body movements to tell tales of contemporary India. His chakkars (pirouette) sent the audience into a trance while his socio-political concepts stirred their conscience and kept them rooted to the ground realities. From the transcendent poetry of Bulleh Shah to the biting text of Manto, nothing was outside the enchanting web that one of the pioneers of contemporary dance in India wove on the stage.  Vocal on stage Born into a Parsi family, Deboo described himself as a Hindustani first and maintained that artistes should be more vocal about the issues that “untune” society. Many of his works had political undertones. Inspired by Muktibodh’s poem, Lakdi Ka Ravan , he explored how political leaders have feet of clay. In Rhythm Divine: River Runs Deep ”, he collaborated with Manipuri drummers to bring out the political turmoil in the northeast.  He was awarded the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award in 1996. Born in Navsari, Gujarat on July 13, 1947, he was introduced to Kathak by Guru Prahlad Das when he was six. Years later, he learnt Kathakali under Guru E. Krishna Panicker after exploring the western dance where he mastered the modern dance techniques of Martha Graham and Jose Limon in London and New York respectively. He collaborated with several international artists included Pina Bausch, Alison Becker Chase and Pink Floyd and always ensured what he drew from different cultures complemented his work.
11 December 2020||Kallol Bhattacherjee,||India, Nepal to restart commercial flights||India and Nepal have decided to launch an air bubble arrangement for restarting commercial flights, after months of disruption caused by the pandemic. India had proposed the arrangement, which was cleared after the recent visit of Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla to Kathmandu, an informed source said on Thursday. “Initially we are starting with one flight daily from each side between Delhi and Kathmandu. From the Indian side, it will be Air India which, in normal times, had a daily flight between Delhi and Kathmandu. We are starting with Indians, Nepalese, OCI/PIO cardholders of all nationalities and all valid Indian visa holders,” said the source, adding that tourist visas would not be considered in the starting phase. Usual medical protocols The air bubble arrangement, the source said, would follow the usual medical protocols as mandatory in other cases and include the need for RT PCR test report 72 hours prior to travel. Thursday’s information came against the backdrop of the eighth meeting of the Joint Working Group on Nepal-India Cooperation in Power Sector, which took place in virtual mode and led by Joint Secretaries of the energy Ministries of both sides. The discussion on power transmission is expected to continue on Friday. A Nepalese source said that Nepal reverted with “readiness to the Indian proposal for the air bubble system and cleared it in the first week of this month”. Nepal had suspended the entry of all foreigners, including its nationals from abroad from midnight of March 20. Subsequently, it started limited flight services with a few countries. Mr. Shringla visited Kathmandu during November 26-27, restarting Foreign Secretary-level talks with Nepal that was stuck because of tension over Nepal’s assertion over the Kalapani region.
11 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Constable accuses 2 CRPF officers of rape||The Delhi police have registered an FIR against an officer of the rank of Deputy Inspector-General and another in the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) after a woman constable alleged that she was raped by them for several years, a senior city police officer said. The FIR was registered against team coach Surjit Singh and chief sports officer (CSO) Khazan Singh, the DIG-level officer, under sections of rape, sexual harassment and intimidation in the India Penal Code at the Baba Haridas Nagar police station, the police officer said. To record statement “After getting the complaint, we contacted the woman. She claimed that she was out of town for some personal work. She will record her statement after she comes back to Delhi,” the officer said. In the complaint, the constable, who joined the force in 2010, said she was raped by both of them on several instances between 2014 and 2017. Repeated harassment Surjit Singh allegedly harassed women constables. Under the pretext of giving training, he allegedly touched her and other women inappropriately, the complaint said. He allegedly took advantage of being the coach, asked her and other women in the team to meet him individually, the complaint added. The CRPF, in an official statement, stated that an inquiry had been instituted. “FIR of rape charge filed against Shri Khazan Singh, DIG, by a woman constable. The CRPF has taken a serious note of it and constituted an internal complaint committee headed by an Inspector-General-level officer to conduct an enquiry. As far as the FIR is concerned, the department will facilitate the investigation agency in all respects,” a CRPF spokesperson said.
11 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||CSIR-CCMB, Apollo to scale up dry swab tests||CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) and Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Limited announced a collaboration for joint manufacturing and commercialisation of an innovative dry swab test or the Direct Amplification rapid RT-PCR (DArRT-PCR) for SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) detection on Thursday. Rapid, safe, cost-effective The dry swab test is developed by CSIR-CCMB and the collaboration with Apollo Hospitals will focus on scaling up manufacturing and commercialisation of the tests jointly with the rapid, safe and cost-effective DArRT-PCR tests to be made available nationally through the hospitals network. Can be directly isolated In DArRT-PCR test for SARS-COV-2 sample collection, centres can send dry nasal or oropharyngeal swabs to testing centres with no need for the imported and expensive ‘Viral Transport Medium’. The biological sample can be directly isolated from patient swabs, and testing can be done using a one-step protocol, said CCMB director Rakesh Mishra and Apollo Hospitals Joint MD Sangitha Reddy on Thursday. The gold-standard RT-PCR method currently in use, on the contrary, requires many expensive reagents and steps that add to the expertise, money and time required for the tests. DArRT-PCR test reduces the time and human effort by 40-50% in the current setting of testing, said Dr. Mishra. “It is important for us to ramp up our testing for coronavirus as people are getting back to their normal lives and businesses. The virus will be here for some time, it seems, and those who test more frequently will be able to contain the impact of COVID-19 better,” he said. ‘More accurate’ Ms. Sangita Reddy said cheaper, rapid, accurate and easy to use tests are the need of the hour. Apollo and its vast network of hospitals and health services are glad to collaborate with CSIR-CCMB in this path-breaking initiative of a more rapid, easy to use and accurate testing option and work to make it available nationwide, she said. “Widespread testing will enable quick identification, immediate isolation and early treatment to prevent spread. With nearly half of all COVID-19 infections transmitted by people being asymptomatic, these easy and quick tests will go a long way in facilitating the identification of infected individuals. This will play a major role in controlling the pandemic,” she added.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Convoy of BJP president attacked in West Bengal||Speaking at the event in Diamond Harbour, which he reached with considerable difficulty, Mr. Nadda said what he witnessed made it evident that the West Bengal government had become synonymous with a “state of lawlessness and intolerance”. “Not a single vehicle had been spared. Today I have reached this destination with the grace of Ma Durga. Trinamool activists and goons left no stone unturned to strangle democracy,” he said. Later in the day, speaking at a press conference, the BJP chief said law and order and the entire administration had crumbled in the State. Mr. Vijayvargiya, who suffered injuries in his left hand, called it a “planned and targeted” attack. All lies: Mamata The Trinamool Congress leadership said there was provocation on the part of the BJP president, who was visiting Ms. Banerjee’s constituency Bhawanipur, and Abhishek Banerjee’s constituency, Diamond Harbour. Ms. Banerjee said BJP leaders had the protection of different central agencies, including the CISF and the CRPF, insinuating that the attacks may have been the result of “planning” by the BJP itself. “I have told the police to make a total inquiry because I will not tolerate all the lies,” she said. She alleged that every time she went to Delhi, BJP people “gheraoed” the place where she is put up. “Remember if you want to be respected then you have to extend respect to others. I know how to give that respect,” she said. Mr. Abhishek Banerjee said he cannot be blamed for the sentiments and anger of the common people. “Today Nadda went to Diamond Harbour and fell into a ‘gadda’ [ditch]. So, what can I do?”. West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar summoned the Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police to apprise him of the law and order situation in the State.
11 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||SAD sees plot to paint stir in communal colours||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Thursday said if the Centre government was willing to change clauses of the controversial farm laws, then why was it standing on prestige to revoke the laws. “After all, if you are conceding all demands of the farmers, why not put it all in the new Act and end the debate once and for all,” the party asked in a resolution passed at its core committee meeting here, presided over by its president Sukhbir Singh Badal. Harcharan Bains, principal adviser to the party president, said the Akali Dal strongly condemned the conspiracy to paint the movement of the patriotic farmers in communal and separatist colours. “The movement is not only peaceful and democratic but also totally secular and nationalist and patriotic. The sons of a large number of the agitators are right now defending the borders of the country against China and Pakistan,” the resolution read. Mr. Bains said the resolution expressed deep concern and anxiety over “ominous signs” of a deep conspiracy to divide Hindus and Sikhs and farmers and traders.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Govt. asks farmers’ unions to reconsider its proposal||In reply to a question, Mr. Goyal said the media should use its “investigative skills” to find out whether the farmers were being misled. Reacting to the government’s appeal, Bharatiya Kisan Union (R) president Balbir Singh Rajewal, speaking at an SKM press meet at the Singhu border, said the farmers, too, had not “shut the doors” for talks, but stressed that the government must offer a “concrete solution” for the dialogue to resume. He said the proposal sent on Wednesday had been discussed for hours and there was nothing new in them. He reiterated that agriculture was a State subject and the three laws were “unconstitutional” and should be withdrawn. “The Ministers in the press conference today (on Thursday) conceded that the laws were for trade and commerce, validating our stand,” said Mr. Rajewal. He added that the focus of the government was traders and corporate houses and the farmers did not exist for them. Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal said the unions were, “in principle”, opposed to contract farming, private markets and hoarding and therefore, the three laws should be repealed. He also alleged that farmers headed to Delhi from neighbouring States, such as Uttarakhand, were being harassed by the police. The Morcha leaders said the government should not “fool around” with the farmers and understand their sentiments.
11 December 2020||Thrissur,||Row over Minister’s voting||Allegations of Minister for Local Self-Government A.C. Moideen casting his vote ahead of the scheduled polling time for the local body elections triggered a controversy here on Thursday. T.N. Prathapan, MP, and Thrissur District Congress Committee president M.P. Vincent sent a joint complaint to the State Election Commission in this regard. The Minister cast his vote at the Panangattukara booth in the Thekkumkara grama panchayat in the morning. He used to reach the booth as the first voter for almost all elections. This time too he reached the booth around 6.40 a.m. and waited in the queue as first voter. After the arrangements, the polling officer called him for casting the vote. But there is an allegation that the Minister cast his vote a few minutes before the scheduled timing of 7 a.m. for the commencement of polling. But it is said that the polling officer asked the Minster to cast his vote as his watch showed 7 a.m. Nobody in the booth raised any complaints at that time. Later, Wadakkanchery MLA Anil Akkara raised a complaint and alleged that it was a violation of the election norms and said he would approach the Election Commission. It is alleged that the polling officer allowed him to cast his vote at 6.55 a.m. However, the Minister’s office responded that he entered the booth only after he was invited by the polling officer. In the complaint to the Election Commission, the Congress leaders alleged that the Minister misused his position and violated the election norms. They sought action against him and the polling officer at the booth. However, the Minister refuted the allegations of the MLA. “It’s an unnecessary controversy and it will not affect the victory of the LDF,” he said.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Parliament building will reflect India’s aspirations’||Mr. Modi called upon MPs to keep the spirit of optimism alive around democracy by being always accountable to people and the Constitution. He spoke of the spirit of conversation and dialogue, quoting the first Guru of the Sikhs, Guru Nanak Devji: “as long as the world exists, conversations must continue”, noting that it was the spirit of democracy, a comment significant with regard to the stalled negotiations between the government and farmer groups over the three farmer-specific laws passed by Parliament. While there could be disagreements, there cannot be space for disconnect, he stated. Ancient roots While pointing out that many nations felt Indian democracy would not last, the country had proven naysayers wrong, especially because of the ancient roots of democracy in India as elaborated in the concept of the 12th century Anubhava Mantapam set up by Basaveshwara; a 10th century stone inscription in a village near Chennai, describing a panchayat mahasabha and its elaborate rules, including the need for members to disclose their income; and the ancient republics of the Lichchavis and Shakyas. ‘Mother of democracy’ “As a nation we must pledge to keep the spirit of democracy and public service alive,” he observed. “The day isn’t far when the world acknowledges that India is the mother of democracy,” he asserted. Speaking earlier, Mr. Puri, whose Ministry is the nodal agency for the construction of the new Parliament, said it was hoped that the 2022 winter session of Parliament would be held in the new building.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Lawsuits could force FB to sell Instagram, WhatsApp||“For nearly a decade, Facebook has used its dominance and monopoly power to crush smaller rivals, snuff out competition, all at the expense of everyday users,” said New York Attorney General Letitia James on behalf of the coalition of 46 states, Washington, D.C. and Guam. Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina and South Dakota did not participate in the lawsuit. Ms. James said the company acquired rivals before they could threaten the company’s dominance. Facebook’s general counsel Jennifer Newstead called the lawsuits “revisionist history” and said antitrust laws do not exist to punish “successful companies.” She said WhatsApp and Instagram have succeeded after Facebook invested billions of dollars in growing the apps. “The government now wants a do-over, sending a chilling warning to American business that no sale is ever final,” Ms. Newstead said. She also raised doubts about alleged harms caused by Facebook, arguing that consumers benefited from its decision to make WhatsApp free, and rivals like YouTube, Twitter and WeChat did “just fine” without access to its developer platform. In a post on Facebook’s internal discussion platform, chief executive Mark Zuckerberg told employees he did not anticipate “any impact on individual teams or roles” as a result of the lawsuits, which he said were “one step in a process which could take years to play out in its entirety.” Comments were turned off for Mr. Zuckerberg's post, as well as for other posts on the lawsuits shared by Ms. Newstead and Chief Privacy Officer for Product Michel Protti, according to copies viewed by Reuters. Ms. Newstead also warned employees not to post about the cases. Facebook did not immediately respond to questions about the posts. Mr. Zuckerberg told employees in July that Facebook would “go to the mat” to fight a legal challenge to break up the company, calling it an “existential” threat, according to audio clips of internal company meetings published by The Verge . Some antitrust experts said the case was unusually strong given damning statements by Mr. Zuckerberg from Facebook’s own documents, like a 2008 email in which he said “it is better to buy than compete.”
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||In full flow||
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Caring hands||
11 December 2020||Mumbai,||NCP dismisses talk of Pawar heading UPA||As reports surfaced of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar being asked to lead the United Progressive Alliance till the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, the NCP said no such discussions had been held. “There are unsubstantiated reports in the media regarding our national president Sharad Pawar taking over as the UPA chairperson. The NCP would like to clarify that there is no discussion within UPA partners. The reports seem to be have been planted by vested interests to divert attention from the farmers agitation,” said Mahesh Tapase, chief spokesperson of the party. Earlier in the day, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar too had denied such a move. “Pawar Saheb has excellent relations with leaders across parties, regardless of whether he is in power or opposition. The UPA decides its strategy by sitting together and as of now we have not heard any move regarding changes at the helm,” he said. However, NCP MP from Raigad, Sunil Tatkare, said Mr. Pawar has experience and can bring everyone together.
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘No action on Roshni Act order for now’||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Thursday made an oral statement in the Supreme Court that it will not immediately take “coercive action” against petitioners, who claim to be lawful occupants and land holders, challenging the “omnibus” verdict of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court to scrap the Roshni Act. The petitioners alleged that the High Court had not given them the opportunity of a hearing. They were being deprived of their rightful property in violation of Article 300A of the Constitution. The Bench asked petitioners to join in with others seeking a review of the verdict.
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||Sisodia’s house was attacked: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) alleged that “BJP’s goons” attacked Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia’s residence on Thursday when he was not present. The party claimed that it was done with the support of the police who were present at the spot. Six people have been arrested and a case registered, said Eish Singhal, Delhi Police PRO. While the AAP shared a video of the purported attack, the BJP stated that the “real” protest was peaceful and the video shared as evidence by the party was “fake.” Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asked why there was so much anger in the BJP about the AAP’s support to the farmers.
11 December 2020||Srinagar,||3 journalists slapped by police officer||Three journalists were allegedly beaten up by a police officer in Anantnag district in Kashmir on Thursday. The Kashmir Press Club has sought action against the officer. “We were at a polling station where no vote was allowed to be cast till 8.30 a.m. despite the polling time of 7 a.m. This we tried to raise with Senior Superintendent of Police Sandeep Choudhary... Without any reason, I and two other colleagues were slapped by the officer,” said Mudasir Qadri, who works with News-18. A police spokesman said, a minor stone throwing started in Liwar, Anantnag, by miscreants to dissuade voters from participating in the election. “The situation aggravated with the arrival of some media persons. To bring the situation under control and to instil confidence among the voters, the media persons were taken away from the village and let go after a brief period. The removal of the media persons brought the situation under control,” said the police. He said an FIR has been registered into the stone throwing incident.
11 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||NHRC got over 46,000 plaints since April||During the COVID-19 pandemic, the National Human Rights Commission has received over 46,000 complaints of violation of rights and disposed of over 49,000 complaints, both old and new, NHRC member Justice P.C. Pant said on Thursday. At the NHRC’s virtual event to mark Human Rights Day, Justice Pant said this year had been very difficult for humanity and there was a need for a cohesive response from public healthcare systems and the public, an NHRC statement said. He said that in the past eight months, from April 1 till November 30, the NHRC registered 46,544 complaints and disposed of 49,759 complaints.
11 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajnath pitches for dialogue||Terming terrorism a major scourge for the world, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said structures which support and sustain terrorism “continue to exist, including in India’s neighbourhood.” Virtually addressing the 14th ASEAN Defence Ministers Meeting (ADMM) Plus which includes China and its thematic discussions organised by Vietnam, Mr. Singh reiterated India’s call for an inclusive Indo-Pacific based on sovereignty and territorial integrity of nations, peaceful resolution of disputes through dialogue and adherence to international laws. “He also reiterated India’s support to freedom of navigation and over-flight for all in international waters in accordance with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS),” the Defence Ministry said in a statement, adding that Mr. Singh underlined the importance of mutual trust and confidence based on “restraint in activities and actions that may further complicate the situation in the region.” Mr. Singh underlined the need to collectively address threats to rules-based order, maritime security, cyber crimes and terror.
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||Home Secretary seeks data on frontline staff||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla on Thursday held a review with the State police, Central Armed Police Forces and home guards, seeking a database of all frontline workers who will be eligible for COVID-19 vaccine as and when it is ready. Several vaccines are in the final phase of trial.
11 December 2020||Jaipur,||9 newborns die in Kota hospital||Nine newborns have died at a State-run hospital in Kota city of Rajasthan within a span of hours, officials said on Thursday. Five of the babies, who were 1-4 days old, died on Wednesday night and four more on Thursday at the J K Lon Hospital, an official said. The health facility had hit national headlines in December last year over deaths of an unusual number of infants. Health Minister Raghu Sharma has ordered an inquiry.PTI
11 December 2020||Pune,||Activist Trupti Desai detained by Maharashtra police en route to Shirdi||The Maharashtra police on Thursday detained gender rights activist and Bhumata Brigade leader Trupti Desai along with other members of her outfit at Ahmednagar while they were en route to Sai Baba temple at Shirdi. Ms. Desai had criticised boards allegedly put up by the temple trust outside the premises, urging devotees to be dressed in a “civilised” manner as per “Indian culture”. She had announced her intention to go to Shirdi and pull down the boards with the “contentious” messages on December 10. On Tuesday, Ahmednagar district authorities issued a notice to Ms. Desai, debarring her from entering Shirdi from December 8 midnight to December 11 midnight. However, defying the notice, Ms. Desai and 20 other members of her outfit, left Pune on Thursday morning to remove the hoardings by force. The entourage was detained near Supa village on the Pune-Ahmednagar highway under Section 68 of the Bombay Police Act, said police authorities. “We released all the activists on Thursday evening and escorted them back till the Pune district border,” said Ahmednagar Superintendent of Police Manoj Patil. Meanwhile, the temple trust officials clarified that they had not imposed any dress code on devotees and their message was just an appeal following complaints that some people had visited the shrine wearing allegedly objectionable clothes. “We urge the temple trust to remove the boards by December 31. If the boards are not removed, we will once again go to Shirdi,” Ms. Desai said. The gender rights activist made news a few years ago with her temple-entry ‘crusades’ to demolish gender barriers at shrines across Maharashtra. (With PTI inputs)
11 December 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra orders probe into charge of Navlakha being denied spectacles at jail||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday ordered a probe into allegations that activist Gautam Navlakha was denied spectacles at the Taloja Central Jail. Mr. Deshmukh told reporters and also tweeted, “Bhima-Koregaon case accused Gautam Navlakha denied spectacles by jail authorities as they refused to accept parcel sent by his family. I have ordered an inquiry in this matter. I believe this situation should have been handled humanly and such incidents need to be avoided in future.” On December 7, Mr. Navlakha’s partner Sahba Husain alleged that the Taloja Central Jail refused to accept spectacles sent for him after they were stolen. Talking to The Hindu , Taloja jail Superintendent Kaustubh Kurlekar said, “We do not accept any couriers and we have not received any parcel for him through post. I have told him if he wants to get another pair made, he can give us the power of his specs and we can make one for him. But he hasn’t. So, what can we do ...?”
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||DRDO completes trials of indigenous protective carbine||A protective carbine designed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation has successfully undergone the final phase of user trials on Thursday, meeting all parameters. In a separate development, an India-Brazil joint venture to manufacture ammunition locally is set to be ready by mid-2021, an official of that country said. The Joint Venture Protective Carbine, a gas-operated semi bull-pup automatic weapon, has a firing rate of more than 700 rounds a minute.
11 December 2020||Hyderabad,||(briefl)||Kamareddy Deputy Superintendent of Police, Laxminarayana, who landed in jail after he was arrested by the Anti-Corruption Bureau recently for owing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income, was placed under suspension by police department today.
11 December 2020||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||Public hearing held||A public hearing was conducted at Kayarlabath near here on Thursday to hear the views of the people on increasing the quantum of limestone mining at Kallankurichi by the Tamil Nadu Cements Corporation Limited. Collector D. Rathna presided over the hearing. In her introductory remarks, Ms.Rathna said that TNCCL had planned to increase the quantum of mining from .28 million tonnes to 1.34 million tonnes for its plant at Kayarlabath. The views of the people had been noted down and they would be sent to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change of the Central Government. The Collector said that she would study the demands of the residents on employment and their concern on environment and pollution control. Appropriate steps would be taken to meet their demands.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. plans to restore tanks in Chennai’s western suburbs||As part of the measures to tackle floods and droughts affecting Chennai, the Water Resources Department (WRD) proposes to restore a cascade of tanks in the western suburbs and convert them into sources of drinking water. The project, proposed under the Chennai City Partnership Programme, is under scrutiny, and awaits funds from the World Bank. The network of 10 urban tanks is spread from Thirunindravur to Retteri. Surplus water from each of these tanks drains into the subsequent one and reach Retteri. The tanks include those at Thandurai, Sekkadu, Vilinjiyampakkam, Paruthipattu, Ayapakkam, Arabath eri, Ambattur and Korattur. Metrowater has already been developing the waterbody at Retteri as a source of drinking water. WRD officials said many tanks in the Kosasthalaiyar sub-basin were neglected. As the areas around them were urbanised, links between the tanks went missing, with portions of the surplus channels having disappeared over the years. This often led to flooding of the surrounding localities and wastage of rainwater that would have drained into these tanks. Through this Rs. 26 crore restoration project, the WRD expects to mitigate floods in the vulnerable areas and augment storage for drinking purposes. Capacity to be increased The original capacity of the tanks is 965.50 million cubic feet (mcft), and the project will help to increase their capacity to 1,351.70 mcft and to recharge the groundwater table in neighbouring areas. Once the project is completed, the tanks together would have more storage than the new reservoir at Thervoy Kandigai Kannankottai, which can store 500 mcft. The WRD plans to raise the full tank level of these waterbodies. Besides providing shutters and rebuilding weirs, which allow surplus water to flow out, the bunds would be fortified and foreshore bunds formed. “We are also planning to construct an off-take channel from the stretch of the Cooum river near the Korattur check-dam. Once the check-dam is reconstructed, the stored water will be conveyed to the Thirunindravur tank,” an official said. Measures will be taken to construct channels to bridge the gaps, especially near Thirunindravur and between Paruthipattu and Ayapakkam. However, sewage release into the tanks from Sekkadu to Retteri is a major challenge. The surplus channel from Ayapakkam to Korattur, too, carries rainwater mixed with sewage.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CMDA may focus on big ticket projects in Third Master Plan||The Third Master Plan for the Chennai Metropolitan Area is set to be framed on the basis of consultations with residents on major infrastructure projects, like building of an exclusive cycle way network and autonomous vehicles infrastructure. According to sources, the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) plans to outsource the preparation of the vision document for the Third Master Plan, which will be implemented with technical and financial support from the World Bank. “The Second Master Plan focused on policy. It did not have many big ticket infrastructure project proposals. But the Third Master Plan for the 1,189 sq km of the metropolis will have big ticket projects. We may need infrastructure for an exclusive cycle way network. We may need to plan for autonomous vehicles,” said an official. The preparation of the vision document will begin shortly. Public consultations will be held only in March next because of the COVID-19 restrictions. “A large number of residents may gather at various locations for the consultations... So we have planned to conduct the consultations in March after the restrictions are lifted,” an official said. In 2008, public consultations were held in various parts of the city only after the draft of the Second Master Plan was prepared.  Needs of residents The Third Master Plan will be based on the requirements of residents and the outcome of a survey of various sectors, officials said. “The Second Master Plan focused more on land use. It was more of a policy document. For instance, it stressed the need for line agencies to promote rainwater harvesting. But the First Master Plan focused more on physical proposals. We are planning to start from scratch for the preparation of the Third Master Plan, explaining the previous Master Plans to the people... We will start discussions with residents on FM radio on topics such as water supply, drainage, housing and recreation for the preparation of the vision document,” said an official. The vision document is expected to be completed in three months after the public consultations. The preparation of the plan will begin after data on the 2021 census are readied. According to the 2011 census, the Chennai Metropolitan Area had a population of 8.65 million in 1,189 sq. km., the fourth largest urban agglomeration after Mumbai, Delhi and Kolkata. The workforce participation rate was 43.3%, with 3.68 million employees. It is estimated that one lakh persons were moving to the Chennai Metropolitan Area every year. The scope of the vision document includes understanding the gaps in the Second Master Plan and an efficient use of urban land, covering aspects such as transit-oriented development, enhancement of the city’s historic values and community characteristics. The thematic vision includes housing, transport and mobility, tourism, disaster risk, commerce, waterbodies and sewage disposal. A. Srivatsan, professor of CEPT University, said the master planning approach had failed in the city. Questioning the lack of review of the deficiencies in the master plan, he said the planning agency was taking the old ways without delivering on what it had promised in the Second Master Plan.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Schools mull giving holidays after holding tests online||During a regular academic year, December would mean half-yearly examinations and a long break for the students. However, with campuses remaining shut since March, schools are now mulling putting in place some form of assessment while also factoring in a short break from the online classes for the students. State board schools are yet to receive information on whether there will be changes to the syllabus or if they need to conduct virtual exams at the end of the second term. Most schools that have been conducting online classes are already considering conducting exams, in a virtual format, which is feasible for the students. “While students from the senior classes have been attending online classes regularly, taking an initiative to learn, we have been facing challenges while ensuring that students of Classes 6 to 9 learn in some way or the other,” said G.J. Manohar, headmaster and correspondent, MCC Higher Secondary School. For these classes, the school was planning on having term papers that would mainly act as a way to review learning over the last few months, he said. Guidelines for classes In accordance with the guidelines issued for conducting online classes, schools have been holding assessments that have not been mandatory for students, so far. While the second-term breaks start after December 23, usually extending till around January 2, schools are considering the possibility of working for a few days after Christmas and before New Year. A few holidays are expected in January as well, and the schools are keen on having classes for a few days in between, particularly for the senior classes. The principal of a private school said that while there would be holidays for Christmas and New Year, they were considering a shorter break, compared to the previous years. “We are awaiting directions from the School Education Department in this regard,” he added. Analysing efficiency Stressing the need to have some form of assessment or evaluation, R. Visalakshi, president of the Tamil Nadu Private Schools’ Association, said schools could consider having short exams, with multiple choice or one-mark questions, for a majority of the classes. “Only this way can we get an idea of how much the students have learnt, all these months, through online classes. The idea is to analyse how effective the learning has been and to bring about some seriousness among the students,” she added.  We have been facing challenges while ensuring that students from Classes 6 to 9 learn in some way or the other G.J. Manohar Headmaster and correspondent, MCC Higher Secondary School
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s daily case count drops to 1,220||With 1,220 more persons testing positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, the State’s case tally touched 7,95,240. The number of active cases stood at 10,392. Among those who tested positive were three international passengers — two from Bangladesh and one from the United Arab Emirates. Four passengers from Karnataka, two from Maharashtra, and one each from Kerala and West Bengal also tested positive. A total of 1,302 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 7,72,995. The State recorded 17 more deaths, taking its toll to 11,853, according to a daily health bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health. Chennai saw 313 more infections, even as 296 persons were discharged from various facilities. Five deaths were reported in the district. As many as 3,242 persons are currently under treatment. As on date, 2,18,856 persons have tested positive and 2,11,716 discharged after treatment. The district has accounted for 3,898 deaths so far. Districts’ tally Among other districts, Coimbatore recorded 146 cases, whereas 12 districts saw under 10 fresh infections. Perambalur reported no new case. Among the deceased, except one, all others had co-morbidities. While eight of them died in private health facilities, five persons died in government medical college hospitals, and three persons died at the ESIC hospital in Coimbatore. The youngest among those who died was a 44-year-old man who was admitted to a private medical college hospital in Vellore, after testing positive for the infection on November 24. He had complaints of fever for 10 days, cough for five days and difficulty in breathing for a day. He died of acute respiratory distress syndrome caused by COVID-19 pneumonia on Tuesday. A 99-year-old man from Chennai, who tested positive for the infection on December 3, was admitted the next day to a private hospital. He had coronary artery disease and was hypertensive. He had complaints of fever and difficulty in breathing for three days. Doctors recorded his death on Wednesday morning, as due to ARDS/COVID-19 pneumonia.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Highways Dept., Railways to widen culverts||Fixing problem points in its stormwater drain (SWD) network is what the Highways Department has embarked upon this monsoon. After installing temporary pipes at various locations on city roads to aid water flow, it has now shifted focus to fixing culverts that carry water beneath the railway tracks. “Apart from frequent silting up and blockage due to dumping of garbage into these culverts, these spaces are used to draw power and internet cables, leaving not much space for rainwater to run. Local bodies, too, face similar issues. Since they do not have enough capacity, adjacent roads and sometimes even the space near the tracks get flooded,” said an official. Six spots — Vepery, Periyamet, St. Thomas Mount, Pallavaram, Chromepet and Tiruvallur Nagar — have been identified by the department for corrective action. “We used multiple pumps to remove water but it took time for it to run to nearby canals. We want to ensure that these culverts have more carrying capacity, especially because we have been having extreme rain incidents. We want to redesign our network at places so that collection points carry more water. This we will do in tandem with various line departments,” said a senior official. Recently, Chief Engineer (Construction and Maintenance) Shanthi visited the spots and directed officials to take up the issues with other departments and ensure that water did not stagnate on the roads. Apart from issues with culverts beneath railway tracks, the closure of natural water courses was a problem that local bodies and highways faced. “For instance, several vast open spaces along the Thoraipakkam-Pallavaram Road used to hold the run-off from residential areas, but over the years they have been filled up and construction has happened, leading to those areas being flooded. Roads are carrying all the water and there is not much space for groundwater recharge,” said another official. A retired town planner said what was needed was a comprehensive study of the SWD network and the natural flow of water. “What is needed is a master plan for draining rainwater. Just widening the cross drains will not work. The lead off drains on the other side of the tracks would have disappeared over time. Also in many places, culverts have been closed. A classic example is Poonamallee High Road, which had 13 cross drains in the urban stretch but only one remains now,” he added.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||File report on ECR stormwater drain project soon, says NGT||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal has directed a joint committee to inspect the area between Kottivakkam and Uthandi at two different locations, where the Municipal Administration Department is constructing a stormwater drain, evaluate the project and submit a report within a short time. The bench directed the joint committee, which was already constituted nearly 10 days ago to inspect and evaluate the project and submit a report. Double applications The direction came on yet another application against the stormwater drain project, citing that it would affect marine ecology and the aquifer recharge zone which in turn will affect the recharge of groundwater. The applicant also said a huge amount of public money was being wasted without any planning. The Bench also combined the earlier application filed against the project with the current application. The committee has been directed to evaluate whether the project requires any CRZ clearance, if it will have any environmental impact on the aquifer and the coastal zone due to the construction of concrete stormwater drains in the aquifer region, to see if alternate methods by which the apprehension of people affecting natural percolation and water recharge system in the aquifer can be eased, and if the project has to proceed while causing the least environmental damage. “The MoEF & Climate Change and the Coastal Zone Management Authority are directed to take appropriate action against the authorities who are engaged in this project, if found in violation of any environmental laws, including stopping of the project till necessary clearance is obtained,” the bench said. The Committee has also been directed to suggest and recommend methods by which the project can be progressed without causing much environmental impact on the coastal areas and aquifer regions, if such work is legally permissible to continue. The Tribunal directed the Committee to file a consolidated report. Interim report If it is not able to file a final report within such time, the Committee should at least file an interim report regarding the prima facie violation if any, so that the Tribunal can consider whether the project can be proceeded with or not. “Urgency in this matter must be understood by the Committee. Especially, when serious environmental issues have been raised affecting the coastal ecosystem, which plays a greater role in protecting the environment,” the bench said and directed the consolidated report to be filed on or before January 11, 2021. The Bench said any construction made in the project would be subject to further orders.  The MoEF & Climate Change and the Coastal Zone Management Authority are directed to take action against authorities who are engaged in this project
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Tangedco cannot change tariff category without regulator’s nod’||Tamil Nadu Electricity Ombudsman has ruled in favour of Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) Limited by stating that Tangedco could not change the tariff category without nod from the State power regulator. In its petition, IOC said it owns and operates Chennai-Trichy-Madurai cross country product pipeline installation at Asanur availing tariff under HT-III category. After obtaining factory licence, the company said it had requested for tariff change and as per the regulations of Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC), its installation was categorised under HT-IA from April 1, 2012 onwards till August 2019, it added. IOC said it was informed that their service connection has been changed to HT-III and current consumption charges for the month of September 2019 and October 2019 have been billed under that category. IOC said it had taken up the issue with Tangedco and there was no favourable response and the Consumer Grievance Redressal Forum of Kallakurichi Electricity Distribution Circle also ruled against it. The company said it paid the revised tariff under protest. The IOC said the reason given by Tangedco for categorisation under HT-III is that the supply is being utilised for pumping of oil and there is no manufacturing process. However, it noted as per the provisions of the Factories Act 1948, pumping of oil is a manufacturing process. In its response, the Tangedco said the TNERC in its 2017 tariff order had clearly mentioned that the registered factories such as LPG bottling units are classified as non-manufacturing industries. The IOC pointed out that as per TNERC 2017 tariff order, HT Tariff 1A is applicable to all manufacturing and Industrial establishments and registered factories including tea estate, textiles, fertilizer plants, steel plants, heavy water plants, chemical plants. However, registered factories such as LPG bottling units which are non-manufacturing in nature are not to be included in this tariff category. It also said the TNERC had noted that in case Tangedco identifies the need for excluding any other activity, then the State power utility should submit the necessary proposal for the same. S. Devarajan, Electricity Ombudsman, accepted the argument putforth by IOC and directed Tangedco to reinstate the tariff under HT Tariff IA and refund the excess amount paid on account of alleged tariff short fall arrears till date.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||366 g of gold seized at airport||Air Customs officials have seized 366 g of gold worth Rs. 18.4 lakh from two passengers who arrived from Dubai. According to a statement, Rafi, 23, of Chennai, who arrived from Dubai by an Air India Express Flight, was intercepted at the exit as he was rushing through green channel. On being questioned, he gave evasive answers; so his baggage was checked, the statement added. When the passenger picked up his back pack kept in the basket of the airport trolley for getting it scanned, an alert customs officer noticed a small white packet stuck to the trolley frame with a double sided tape which he had cleverly covered with his back pack, according to the release. Gold chain found On opening the plastic packet, a semi-finished gold chain weighing 194 g, worth Rs. 9.8 lakh, was found in a small white paper envelope kept inside and was seized under the Customs Act. In another case, Abdul Kareem, 35, of Chennai, who arrived from Dubai, was intercepted at the exit. Two gold paste bundles weighing 200 g were recovered from his rectum which, on extraction, yielded 172 g of gold worth Rs. 8.6 lakh.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Six arrested for kidnapping three-month-old infant||The Koyambedu police have arrested six persons in connection with the kidnap of a child from Koyambedu a month ago. According to the police, Sanjana, three-month-old child of Ramesh and Sandhya, was kidnapped from the Koyambedu market complex last month. However, the next day, the child was found abandoned in Ambattur Industrial Estate. A special team, headed by Koyambedu inspector Chidambara Murugesan, was formed to nab the suspects. “We narrowed down on some suspects using CCTV footage. Investigations revealed that Babu, an autorickshaw driver, was behind the abduction,” said a police officer. Babu, his wife Gayatri and their juvenile son were behind the kidnap. “Abhinaya, who runs a catering unit, wanted to adopt a child and she had sought help from her employee Sengottuvan. He, in turn, requested Ganesh, a cook, to identify a child for his boss to adopt in a legal manner,” said a police officer. Mr. Ganesh requested Babu and, lured by the money involved, he reportedly kidnapped the child, based on information provided by a juvenile who loiters around the market. However, as Ms. Abhinaya wanted to see the child’s family and house, Babu abandoned the child in Ambattur Industrial Estate. “He called the police control room and acted as if he had found an abandoned baby,” said a police source. Babu, Gayathri, their son, the juvenile who helped identify the child for kidnap and two others have been arrested by the police. Childline operates a helpline 1098 for children in distress across the country.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Southern Railway Scouts and Guides cyclothon flagged off||To carry forward the Fit India Movement envisaged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Southern Railway organised a cyclothon on Thursday. Thirty participants of the Southern Railway State Bharath Scouts and Guides (SRBSG) were flagged off from the city to Katpadi via Tiruvallur and Arakkonam, covering 150 km. The cyclists will create awareness by giving demonstrations of various yoga techniques, including breathing techniques and other physical exercises, and also distribute pamphlets. During the cyclothon, the volunteers will perform street plays, mono acting and drama to promote the Fit India Movement. John Thomas, General Manager, Southern Railway, congratulating the participants for taking up the initiative said the awareness campaign was the need of the hour during such pandemic times, helping promote people to stay fit. He said that this bicycle rally would motivate and inspire others to join the Fit India Movement. B.G. Mallya, Additional General Manager and president SRBSG, who released the T-shirt for the cyclists, stressed on the importance of spending at least 30 minutes on any fitness regimen. V.G. Bhooma, Senior Deputy General Manager of Southern Railway, was present.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Arrested in ganja case, man dies in jail||The wife of a 41-year-old man, who was arrested in a ganja case and died in the Saidapet sub-jail, refused to collect his body from the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on Thursday, saying she had suspicions about his death. Mahalingam, of Annai Sathya Nagar, was arrested last Sunday. It is alleged that Mahalingam collapsed in the jail and was taken to a hospital where he was declared dead. His body was sent to the RGGGH for post-mortem examination. His wife Praba refused to collect the body, and alleged that he was beaten up by policemen in the jail. “She came to know about the death on Thursday morning. A few days after his arrest, she and her children filed a petition and met him in the jail,” said K. Rajan, Mahalingam’s neighbour. The police said he was arrested, along with another person, and remanded in judicial custody immediately. “There is no foul play,” a policeman said. A police officer said a judicial inquiry would be conducted into the death.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Patch work on roads being carried out||Cyclone Nivar and rains after that have left many stretches and subways in the city with bad patches and potholes. Water stagnation and vehicles driving over those spots had made the top coat wear off. Even a stretch of Anna Salai near the Omandurar Estate, Jawaharlal Nehru Salai and a stretch of Poonamallee High Road near Vepery have developed bad patches. The Highways Department has been fixing these points, including those inside subways. The spots are being scrubbed and cleared of blue metal and dust and then repair is done. “We are using different methods according to the location. If there is too much water stagnation and traffic is heavy, we opt for cement concrete since it would set quickly. We use wet mix macadam in places where potholes are deep or of a large size. If the pothole is small, we use bituminous hot mix.” “The new pothole fixing machine has been put to good use this time of the year,” said an engineer. G. Murugan, a Chromepet resident, said several roads had lost their top coat after the rain, making it difficult to drive on them. “Steps must be taken to ensure that rainwater from residential areas do not run into subways, which is the case with all the structures along G.S.T. Road. When there is water gushing into the subway, riding is difficult. Rainwater from residential areas continue to be let into subways even though the rain has stopped,” he said.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CEG dean E. Natarajan dies at 53||E. Natarajan, Dean of College of Engineering, Guindy, died following a heart attack early on Thursday. He was 53. He is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son. Prof. Natarajan took over as Dean on June 1. He graduated in mechanical engineering from Vellore Engineering College, then affiliated to the University of Madras, won the gold medal and stood first. He did his Master’s from the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras and joined Anna University in 1992 for a Ph.D. in renewable energy on biomass gasification. Prof. Natarajan was selected and trained by the Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency in 1996, when the sector was at a nascent stage, on design and applications of solar systems. He trained under experts in the National Institute of Solar Energy, the erstwhile Solar Energy Centre and Siemens’ Solar Industries, U.S., under a World Bank-sponsored programme. Prof. Natarajan recently bagged a multi-crore research contract with the NLCIL. Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa said Prof. Natarajan was able to secure significant funding from industry, especially in the renewable energy centre. Prof. Natarajan has authored a book on thermodynamics. The university held a memorial meeting to honour him.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Judges will look out for talam control||It is said that the Carnatic trinity of M.S. Subbulakshmi, D.K. Pattammal and M.L. Vasanthakumari had an amazing sense of layam . Intricate talams at various speeds used to be child’s play for them, recall old timers. E-mail from participants of The Hindu Margazhi Classical Music Competition have been enquiring if they could use various accompaniments to ensure talam in their performances. Keeping talam would be one of the basic things that the judges would look out for in this competition. Last date The last date for sending entries as Google Drive or Dropbox links tothmargazhi @thehindu.co.inis Saturday. Vocalist Ashwath Narayanan recalled how Nagaswaram musicians in those days used the betel nut cracking tools to keep their talam , so that they could multi-task between betel nut cracking and practising. “They were such masters of layam. Laya praghnya or having an innate sense of rhythm, is intrinsic to music, as it is to life in general. It is that ability to comprehend time signatures, that transcends as various ideas like talams , gathis and nadais. Rhythm gives the grip for any melodic sequence to be expressed in a certain way,” he said. For more details clickhttps:// www.google.com/amp/s/www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/ the-hindu-announces-margazhi- competition-for-young- indian-classical-musicians/ article33231111.ece/amp/
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,500 irrigation tanks reach full capacity in 2 weeks||More than 1,500 irrigation tanks in Tamil Nadu have reached full capacity in two weeks, the period when a cyclone, Nivar, and a depression in the Bay of Bengal, Burevi, passed through the State. As on Thursday, the total number of irrigation tanks that had reached full capacity was 4,034, as against 2,528 on November 28, according to data from the Public Works Department. Likewise, as against four reservoirs two weeks ago, 16 reservoirs are now almost full, with storage ranging from 91% to 99%. Seven reservoirs were filled to the brim, an addition of three in the last couple of weeks. Cyclone’s impact Rainfall received in several parts of the State under the influence of Burevi has made a difference to the storage of the tanks and the reservoirs. The State, which registered about 25 cm of rain during the period from October 1 to November 25, received 18 cm more in the next two weeks, taking the total quantum to about 43 cm. Nivar crossed the Tamil Nadu-Puducherry coast in the late hours of November 25 and the early hours of the next day. Over 80% storage Of the reservoirs having storage in excess of 80%, those located in the northern districts account for 15 of 31; the rest are in the western districts, 9, and the southern districts, 7. As for the tanks, those situated in the northern districts of the State benefited more than in the rest. In Chengalpattu, 495 out of a total of 564 tanks are full, whereas the number was 289 two weeks ago. While 208 tanks in Tiruvallur; 173 in Kancheepuram; 46 in Tiruvannamalai; 51 in Cuddalore; and 95 in Villupuram were full on November 28, the latest figures for the districts respectively were 363, 315, 211, 186 and 197.  Other beneficiaries As for the other parts of the State, Thanjavur and Pudukottai were the significant beneficiaries, with 449 and 175 tanks reaching their full capacity. Though Madurai and Kanniyakumari in the south do have a considerable number of tanks at full capacity, the present position marks no perceptible shift from what prevailed two weeks ago. At present, the two districts have 264 tanks and 305 tanks that are full.  Rainfall received in several parts of the State under the influence of Burevi made a difference to the storage of the tanks and the reservoirs
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only 10% of 2,213 new buses will be low-floored, govt. tells Madras HC||The State government on Thursday informed the Madras High Court that 10% of the 2,213 city buses to be purchased for use in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai would be low-floor ones, which could be accessed easily by the differently-abled. Appearing before a Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha, Advocate-General Vijay Narayan said the government had inked a pact with German development bank KfW for purchasing new buses. The bank had agreed to finance a project for climate-friendly modernisation of bus service in major cities to improve the performance and restructuring of the ailing State Transport Undertakings. Stating that the government had not been able to add more buses to the fleet due to financial constraints, the A-G said the revenue through the Transport Department in 2019-20 was only Rs. 10,366 crore, while the expenditure stood at Rs. 14,800 crore. “In such circumstances, conversion of all buses into low-floor buses will not be viable since the expenses incurred are higher than the collected revenue,” he said.  The Division Bench said practical or financial difficulties could not be cited as a reason by the State for non-implementation of Section 41 (access to transport) of the Right of Persons with Disabilities Act of 2016. As long as statutory provisions were in force, they must be complied with, the judges said. They said the High Court itself had been passing a series of orders since 2016 for introduction of buses that could be accessed by the differently-abled. Failure to implement the directions would amount to contempt of court, the Bench said and recorded the submission of the A-G that he would hold deliberations with Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam. The judges directed the A-G to disclose the outcome of the deliberations on February 26.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Representatives of 7 SC sub-sects thank CM||Representatives of seven Scheduled Caste sub-sects met Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday to thank him for announcing that the government would recommend to the Centre to include them under the Devendrakula Vellalar community. Retired IPS officers Kamaraj, Vadivel and Shanmugam, IFS officers Karuppaiah, Irulandi and Kandharajan, IAS officer Thanga Kaliyaperumal, IRS officers Rajendran, Dhanasekaran and Sankaran and members of the Devendrakula Vellalar Mallar Chamber of Commerce met the Chief Minister along with the representatives of various forums belonging to the seven sub-sects and thanked him, an official release said.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wipro GE Healthcare offers fellowship to IIT-M students||Wipro GE Healthcare (WGE) has entered into an agreement to offer fellowships to M.S. students of the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras. WGE’s chairman Azim Premji said through the partnership the company aimed to mentor students and help them develop their ideas into affordable healthcare solutions. The students would be offered a nine-month internship at the company. IIT-M Director Bhaskar Ramamurthi said the collaboration would provide “a rich experience to research scholars of the programme as they will get a chance to work on diverse healthcare projects and get mentored by industry experts from Wipro GE Healthcare.” Nalinikanth Gollagunta, global chief operating officer, Digital, GE Healthcare, said the investment in talent was to build capacity for the entire healthcare ecosystem. Mohanasankar Sivaprakasam, head of the Institute’s Healthcare Technology Innovation Centre and programme coordinator, said the centre had an “engaging and productive research and development collaboration” with the company for the past six years.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC quashes criminal defamation cases slapped against Stalin||The Madras High Court on Thursday quashed four criminal defamation cases that had been slapped against DMK president M.K. Stalin for having criticised the then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. Justice N. Sathish Kumar found no substance in the prosecution launched for criticising Chief Minister’s stay in Kodanad, claiming that Siruthavur bungalow had been constructed on encroached land and reprehending the opening of Chembarambakkam lake during 2015 floods. The judge agreed with Mr. Stalin’s counsel P. Kumaresan that people holding high office and those in public life must show some tolerance and should not waste the time of the courts by filing criminal defamation cases at the drop of a hat. He also concurred with State Public Prosecutor (SPP) A. Natarajan that politicians must show restraint and should avoid making scurrilous remarks. The judge said there must be a bonhomie among political leaders, and they must set an example to others. Though as many as 12 quash petitions filed by the DMK president had been listed before the judge on Thursday, he quashed four of them since it was reported that the co-accused in those cases had already obtained favourable orders from the High Court. When it was brought to the notice of the judge that the defamation case in 2012 was filed because Mr. Stalin had accused Jayalalithaa of vacationing in Kodanad when there was an outbreak of cholera in Chennai, he wondered how the State would prove the charge. “It is an admitted fact that the then Chief Minister was residing in Kodanad and discharging her official functions from there. What is the defamation in this? How are you going to prove it? In what way has this statement affected her official functions?” he asked. In reply, the SPP stated that it was not right on the part of the petitioner to have accused the then Chief Minister of having gone on vacation to Kodanad. He also said that the state was ready to prove its case during trial by producing witnesses. Further, during the hearing of the petition to quash the prosecution launched for reprehending the opening of Chembarambakkam lake in 2015, the judge appreciated the State government for the precautionary measures taken during the recent monsoon.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar held on refugee crisis and pandemic||The Ethiraj College and Yuva Leadership Institute on Thursday organised a webinar on ‘COVID-19 — the refugee crisis’ here. The webinar focused on how refugees faced the COVID-19 pandemic. At the peak of the pandemic, as many as 168 countries closed their borders partially or fully, with 90 of them making no exception for those seeking asylum. The webinar was held to mark World Human Rights Day. The theme this year is ‘Recover better — stand up for human rights’. R. Pathmanathan, educational officer, Organisation for Eelam Refugees’ Rehabilitation, said while Tamil Nadu recorded over 8 lakh cases of COVID-19, 487 cases were detected in the 107 refugee camps in the State. He said the State government had taken “a lot of effort to protect refugees from COVID-19”. Florina, regional adviser, Refugee Return and Reintegration Act for Peace, Australia, said that the pandemic had encouraged more Sri Lankan refugees to consider returning home. Aishwarya Kalpathi, founder of the Yuva Active Advocacy Forum that established the institute, said it was an opportunity to look at refugees’ rights across countries and not limit it to India. Ethiraj College principal S. Kothai appreciated Yuva’s efforts in encouraging young people to stand up for human rights.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Patch work on roads being carried out||Cyclone Nivar and rains after that have left many stretches and subways in the city with bad patches and potholes. Water stagnation and vehicles driving over those spots had made the top coat wear off. Even a stretch of Anna Salai near the Omandurar Estate, Jawaharlal Nehru Salai and a stretch of Poonamallee High Road near Vepery have developed bad patches. The Highways Department has been fixing these points, including those inside subways. The spots are being scrubbed and cleared of blue metal and dust and then repair is done. “We are using different methods according to the location. If there is too much water stagnation and traffic is heavy, we opt for cement concrete since it would set quickly. We use wet mix macadam in places where potholes are deep or of a large size. If the pothole is small, we use bituminous hot mix.” “The new pothole fixing machine has been put to good use this time of the year,” said an engineer. G. Murugan, a Chromepet resident, said several roads had lost their top coat after the rain, making it difficult to drive on them. “Steps must be taken to ensure that rainwater from residential areas do not run into subways, which is the case with all the structures along G.S.T. Road. When there is water gushing into the subway, riding is difficult. Rainwater from residential areas continue to be let into subways even though the rain has stopped,” he said.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||People are uninformed about cancers: Dr. Shanta||Cancer was a little-known disease in the early days of Independence, and it took another 10 years to accept the need for a specialised hospital to treat the disease, V. Shanta said, outlining the milestones in her journey as an oncologist. In a conversation with Ar Rm Arun, president of the South Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which organised SICCI-360O, a monthly discussion with eminent guests, she traced the history of Cancer Institute (Adyar), which started as a 12-bed facility in 1952 and has since grown into a 650-bed hospital. The hospital had been set up with “the ethos to treat underprivileged persons”, she said. “Between 1954 and today, there is an enormous development in management and outlook” of cancer treatment, she pointed said. However, due to lack of information and awareness, people continue to be afraid of cancer, she added. When asked how a person contracts cancer and why paediatric cancer is on the rise, she said, “It is a heterogeneous condition consisting of hundreds of cancers. India is fortunate that we have more curable cancers like oral cancer.” The emphasis on data and validation of statistics helped understand trends, she said. “Unfortunately, most people in the medical profession are unwilling to take up research as laboratory work is strenuous and laborious,” she noted. Indian oncologists are able to cure 65% of curable leukaemia whereas in affluent countries, it is as high as 80%, she said.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Airport authorities remind passengers about water bottle rule||In post-COVID-19 times, air passengers think twice before taking a flight. And when they do deem it essential to fly, a list of precautions is the first thought that comes to their minds. Besides masks, face shields and a small sanitiser bottle, a lot of travellers are bringing in their water bottles, which only end up being confiscated during the security check. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said they had been witnessing a slight rise in those carrying water bottles, unaware that liquids over 100 ml cannot be taken past security. Half or one litre bottles are immediately confiscated and disposed of, an official said. “It is not clear why we see more people carrying water bottles now. They can always purchase them in the security hold area if they want. Maybe some are worried about buying food and water, and hence prefer bringing their own,” he added. Some of them could also be first-time passengers who do not know the rules, another official said. “Earlier, we did not have so many shops open, so people may have assumed that they may not get water. They can always purchase it in the security hold area if needed,” he added.  They can always purchase it in the security hold area if needed Official
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||First phase of general counselling ends||The first phase of counselling for the general category seats ended on Thursday, with 275 vacancies in government medical colleges and 202 vacancies in self-financing medical colleges. On Thursday, 42 seats were filled in government medical colleges and 10 in self-financing institutions. In government dental colleges, while 15 seats were filled, there were 51 vacancies. In self-financing dental colleges, 26 seats were filled and 896 seats remained vacant. Of the 551 candidates who were called, 393 attended counselling and 296 opted to be wait-listed. As many as 158 candidates were absent. On Friday, counselling will begin for seats under SC, SCA and ST category. This year the scores in National Eligibility cum Entrance Test were much higher than in 2018 and 2019, which pushed the cut off up by over 90 marks in some categories. Few takers for BDS The lack of enthusiasm for BDS has surprised medical education officials. “Even in government dental college, only one seat has been taken this year under all-India Quota,” a medical education official said. “Students want to take up MBBS and are willing to wait,” he added. The expectation that the State government would commission 11 medical colleges in the coming academic year had enthused the students to try and qualify NEET with higher marks next year and aim for MBBS, said some medical educators.  On Thursday, 42 seats were filled in government medical colleges and 10 in self-financing institutions
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM launches free bicycle scheme for students||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday inaugurated a scheme to provide bicycles to Plus One students in government and government-aided schools for the year 2020-21. The government will provide 5,45,166 students with free bicycles under the scheme to be implemented at a cost of Rs. 214.79 crore. As a symbolic gesture of inaugurating the scheme, he handed over the cycles to nine students. Other projects Mr. Palaniswami also laid the foundation stone for the Government Veterinary College and Research Institute in Theni district, to be built at a cost of Rs. 265.87 crore.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DPH extends deadline to register names||The Directorate of Public Health has extended the deadline for citizens to include the name of children in birth certificates. The government made it mandatory, in 1969, to include the name of the child in the birth certificate. There is no penalty if the process is completed within a year of birth. Parents or guardians of the child may approach the respective registrars of births and deaths and give an undertaking in writing. Fifteen-year window Further delays are condoned, and the name of the child can be included in the certificate, in the next 15 years, by paying a penalty. The facility has been made available for children born on or after January 1, 2000. The deadline ended on December 31, 2014, but the government, later, extended it, on demand, till December 31, 2019. The government has further extended the deadline, for five more years, now. People can visit the panchayat office and approach the village administrative officer to complete the work. In municipalities, the executive officer or sanitary inspectors can be approached. Similarly, the sanitary inspector will ensure that the paperwork is completed at primary health centres and government hospitals, according to the DPH.  In municipalities, the executive officer or sanitary inspectors can be approached for the work
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan to begin campaign on Dec. 13||Actor and Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan will begin the first phase of his election campaigning from December 13. In an announcement, party vice-president R. Mahendran said that Mr. Haasan would kickstart his campaign tour from Madurai for the upcoming Assembly election with the slogan ‘Reimagining Thamizh Nadu.’ He will be touring Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari from December 13 to 16. While all party members and office-bearers have been asked to participate in the campaign tour, they have also been instructed to keep in mind and follow the COVID-19 prevention norms.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Rectify defects on National Highways immediately’||National highways are the drivers of economic growth and they should be maintained well, said PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Thursday and called for correcting the defects in Maduravoyal-Walajapet stretch and others. He was reacting to Madras High Court coming down heavily on National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for bad roads and directing it to collect only 50% of the user fee at the two toll plazas in the Maduravoyal-Walajapet stretch, until all craters on the highway are closed. “There cannot be harsher punishment than this for NHAI for not maintaining the roads properly. This is not the first time NHAI has come under criticism from the Madras High Court, which made a similar observation a year back,” Dr. Ramadoss said in a statement.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||University gets new Chancellor||S.P. Thyagarajan, former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Madras, has taken charge as Chancellor of Avinashilingam Women’s University. Mr. Thyagarajan is currently a professor of eminence and Dean of Research at Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research. Mr. Thyagarajan was the Vice-Chancellor of Madras University from 2003 to 2006. A microbiologist with around 37 years of experience teaching undergraduate and postgraduate students in medical colleges, besides guiding many research scholars, he took over as pro-Chancellor at SRU. Mr. Thyagarajan said he had joined Avinashilingam University on Thursday.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Water board’s head office to be renovated||The Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB)’s head office functioning at Chintadripet will be temporarily shifted to M.R.C. Nagar in R.A. Puram from December 15. This is to facilitate renovation of the old building. According to a press release, the administrative office is now functioning at No.1, Pumping Station Road, Chintadripet. All the administrative wings would be shifted to the Urban Administrative Building, 75, Santhome High Road, M.R.C. Nagar, R.A. Puram. The 24x7 complaint cell would continue to function on the ground floor of the old building at Chintadripet.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police recover stolen phone||The cyber crime team of the Sembium police recovered a phone, stolen in August, and handed it over to its owner on Thursday. On August 26, two youngsters snatched the phone of V. Ganesan, 60, on Bharathi Road, Perambur, and sped away Mr. Ganesan lodged a complaint at the Sembium police station. The cyber crime team tracked the suspects and recovered the phone. Inspector Martin Premraj handed over the phone to Mr. Ganesan.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aortic Summit on Dec. 12, 13||The Institute of Cardiac and Aortic Disorders, SIMS Hospital, announced its global collaboration with the American Association for Thoracic Surgery, the Asian Society for Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery, the Indian Association of Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery to host the ninth International Aortic Summit virtually on December 12 and 13 in Chennai. The event will bring together experts across the globe in cardiac and aortic treatment. Topics to be covered are management of challenges faced during inacute aortic dissections, thoraco abdominal aneurysms and so on.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DGP apprises HC of cases against protesters||The Director General of Police (DGP) on Wednesday informed the Madras High Court of criminal cases booked against those who had indulged in unauthorised protests in public places against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act early this year, and those who had taken out a ‘Vel Yatra’ recently in violation of COVID-19 safety norms. A status report filed on behalf of the DGP before Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha, said 1,241 cases had been booked across the State against those who had indulged in authorised protests and agitations in 786 places between February 14 and 26 demanding the repeal of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the National Population Register and the National Register of Citizens. Similarly, 135 cases had been registered against those who indulged in unlawful activities in connection with the ‘Vel Yatra’, taken out at the instance of BJP State president L. Murugan. The government had banned such processions. The court was also told that as many as 397 cases were booked by the Greater Chennai police alone in connection with the anti-CAA protests, and the investigation had been completed in some cases. Status reports were filed following a contempt of court petition moved against police officials for having allegedly failed to prevent anti-CAA protests held on February 19.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister congratulates Prime Minister||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi for laying the foundation stone for the construction of a new Parliament building on Thursday. In a letter to Mr. Modi, Mr. Palaniswami said he was confident the new Parliament building that will be part of the iconic Central Vista project “will be a landmark structure in independent India”. “On behalf of the people of Tamil Nadu, I congratulate you for your personal touch in shaping the project. I had the pleasure of taking part in the function through video conference,” he said.
11 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Shola forests restored in parts of the Nilgiris||Saplings of native Shola tree species planted in places such as Avalanche and Coonoor in the Nilgiris district, after removing the invasive wattle a year ago, are showing signs of restoring the original flora. Around 4,000 saplings of native Shola trees planted by the Forest Department on around 20 hectares in Avalanche last year have now grown up to 10-feet. Similarly, 1,000 native Shola tree saplings are coming up well on 3.27 hectares at Sampangi near Coonoor where people used to dump garbage earlier. D. Gurusamy, district forest officer, Nilgiris Forest Division, said that the main aim of the continuing initiative was to restore the original Shola forest ecosystem. Saplings of native trees planted in different locations include Eleocarpus obalongus, Syzygium cumini, Syzygium montanum, Michelia nilagirica and Daphniphyllum neilgherrense.  At the Coonoor peak, the department planted 1,250 such saplings this year after removing Lantana camara, another invasive plant. Protecting the saplings planted at Avalanche demanded extra care due to the challenges posed by extreme weather conditions, said K. Saravana Kumar, Assistant Conservator of Forests, Nilgiris Forest Division. Avalanche, coming under Ooty south forest range, had received a record rainfall of 820 mm in 24 hours in August last year. The location also witnessed heavy rainfalls this year. In 2018, multiple landslips destroyed patches of the pristine Shola forests at Avalanche. “The location where we planted the native tree saplings at Avalanche witnesses heavy wind. Tree guards were set up for all saplings to protect them from the extreme weather. The saplings are healthy now,” he said. Kotagiri and Ooty north forest ranges are among places the Nilgiris Forest Division introduced regeneration of native Shola tree species.
11 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||A ‘green’ tribute to SPB||‘S.P.B. Vanam’, a joint initiative by environmental NGO Siruthuli and Perur Chettipalayam village panchayat, as a tribute to playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, was inaugurated at Pachapalayam on the outskirts of Coimbatore on Thursday. Kinathukadavu MLA Ettimadai A. Shanmugam, actor A. Vivek and Siruthuli’s managing trustee Vanitha Mohan participated at the inaugural event, while Balasubrahmanyam’s son S.P. Charan and younger sister S.P. Sailaja participated through the virtual platform. The S.P.B. Vanam was set up on an 1.8-acre reserve site at Pachapalayam belonging to the Perur Chettipalayam village panchayat, a release said. A total of 74 saplings were planted at the site to mark the age of the renowned singer, who died on September 25. Saplings These saplings were that of trees from which musical instruments are made, sthala vrikshas or sacred trees for the deities in praise of which Balasubrahmanyam recorded songs, and trees that yield fragrant flowers. All 74 saplings were planted around a pathway constructed in the shape of a treble clef, which is one of the most popular symbols from music notation. The Officers Colony Association of Pachapalayam has volunteered to maintain the S.P.B. Vanam, which would be developed into a space with play areas for children, a library, and other amenities, the release said.
11 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Periyarist organisations attempt rail blockade in protest against farm laws||Members of various Periyarist organisations on Thursday attempted a rail blockade here to extend their solidarity to farmers,who are protestingagainst the farm laws. The police detained and removed 24 members of the Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK), Tamil Puligal Katchi, Puratchigara Ilaignar Munnani, Makkal Athikaram and Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam who attempted the rail blockade under the banner of Federation of Periyarist Thinkers. TPDK general secretary K. Ramakrishnan told media persons that the Central government was staging a drama by holding talks with the protesting farmers that did not yield results. “We will continue to support the farmers till their demands are met or the three farm laws are withdrawn,” he said. As protesters led by Mr. Ramakrishnan attempted to enter the railway station premises here, the police stopped and detained them. They were shifted to an auditorium and released in the evening.
11 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Moths top the list of species in Coimbatore forest division faunal survey||Moths, the mostly nocturnal and less celebrated cousins of butterflies, topped the list of species in the recently concluded faunal survey in Coimbatore forest division areas. Of the 666 species of birds, butterflies, moths and odonates recorded by enumerators, 345 species were moths – majority of them spotted from Karamadai and Mettupalyam forest ranges. The moth diversity in the forest division was once again reiterated in the third edition of the faunal survey jointly conducted by the Coimbatore forest division and Act for Butterflies in seven forest ranges of the forest division recently. According to experts, Coimbatore forest division is believed to be home for 2,000 to 3,000 species of moths, a plethora of diversity which nature enthusiasts are exploring. “In a 2018 survey, more than 500 species of moths were recorded in the forest division. We suspect that climatic changes caused by the cyclones resulted in spotting less number of moths and butterflies,” said Mohan Prasath from Act for Butterflies. Uncommon moth species such as Greater golden emperor moth, Hypolamprus angulalis and Pangora matherana were found during the survey. Orange-tailed awl and Nilgiri grass yellow from Mettupalayam range were among the 124 species of butterflies recorded. Enumerators had recorded about 170 and 200 species of butterflies in the first and second editions of the survey. “Population density of butterflies was also less this time. Interestingly, local dispersion of Common albatross was found in Sirumugai range,” added Mr. Prasath. The list of dragonflies spotted in the survey was limited to 21 which included Blue darner, Nilgiri torrent dart and Common clubtail. Jungle owlet and Great hornbill were among the 175 species of birds found in the survey. At the inauguration of the survey, District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh said that documenting lesser known faunas such as moths, odonates and butterflies was very important as they are contributing more in the wildlife than some of the large mammals. Sanjay Molur, executive director of Zoo Outreach Organisation, was also present.
11 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Industry association heads plan to meet Union Minister||Representatives of industrial associations in Coimbatore plan to meet the Union Steel Minister shortly to explain the problems faced by Micro, Small, and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) because of the exponential rise in raw material prices in the recent weeks. Heads of the associations that are part of the Joint Council of Associations of Coimbatore told press persons here on Thursday that industries will not be able to continue operations if the price increase continues for a month more. According to them, prices of steel, copper, stainless steel rods, AMINE gas, PVC resin, aluminium have all increased multi fold. “The MSMEs are just recovering after the lockdown and we fear that we will be pushed to slow down again because of the raw material issue,” said KV Karthik, president of Southern India Engineering Manufacturers’ Association. MV Ramesh Babu, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (Codissia), said, “The MSMEs are getting more orders now because larger industries want to place orders at this price level, fearing the prices may go up. But, the MSMEs are unable to execute the orders because of high prices of raw materials and shortage in availability of the materials.” The MSMEs in the engineering sector in Coimbatore consume two lakh to 2.5 lakh tonne of steel and steel products a month. The price started going up on a daily basis from the beginning of this month. For the last couple of days, the traders are quoting different prices in the morning and evening on the same day, added R. Ramamoorthy, former president of Codissia. Foundries are facing several challenges - shortage of manpower, non-availability of scrap, and hike in raw material prices, pointed out S. Balraj, head of the Coimbatore chapter of the Institute of Indian Foundrymen. The micro units fear that they will not be able to pay the EMI for bank loans, said C. Sivakumar, president of Coimbatore and Tiruppur District Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association. The shortage in availability is an artificial one, said K. Maniraj, president of Kovai Power Driven Pumps and Spares Manufacturers’ Association. According to Sivakumar, State joint general secretary of Laghu Udyog Bharati, the organisation will take it up with its national heads and represent the issue to the government. The associations sought ban on export of raw materials, price parity between products that are imported and made in the country, and opening of a yard by SAIL here. Government organisations such as the SIDCO and NSIC can buy the raw materials in bulk and supply to the MSMEs, they said.
11 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man injured in elephant attack||A 36-year-old man from Chinnathadagam near Coimbatore was injured in an elephant attack early on Thursday morning. The injured has been identified as V. Nandheeswaran from Nanjundapuram village. Forest officials said Nandheeswaran was attacked by a lone elephant when he went to his farm around 1.30 a.m. He was immediately taken to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. Nandheewaran’s right shoulder and right arm were injured in the attack. He was discharged from the hospital around 5 a.m. In another incident, K. Satheeshkumar (28) from Karamarathur was injured after the two-wheeler he travelled was hit by a wild boar late on Wednesday. Forest officials said the accident took place when Mr. Satheeshkumar was riding his two-wheeler from Chellappa Goundan Pudur to Pooluvampatti around 10.30 p.m. He suffered minor injuries.  CRPF head constable run over by train A head constable of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), who was posted at the CRPF’s Thoppampatti campus near Coimbatore, died after he was run over by a train on Wednesday. The Government Railway Police (GRP) have identified the deceased as Bharat Chandra Behera (37) from Odisha. GRP officials said the accident took place when Behera allegedly attempted to alight from the moving train at Coimbatore north railway station at 2.10 p.m. on Wednesday. He was returning from Odisha after holidays, the officials said.
11 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pumpset manufacturers fear slowdown||The pumpset manufacturers fear that farmers, who are dependent on pumps for irrigation, may delay their purchases because of the increase in prices and this can lead to a slowdown in the pumpset industry. The Indian Pump Manufacturers’ Association, Southern India Engineering Manufacturers’ Association, and Rajkot Engineering Association, representing 99 % of the pump manufacturers of the country, discussed at a meeting held on Wednesday the issues of steep hike in raw material prices and its impact. According to a press release from the Associations, prices of copper, steel rods, PVC resin, and craft paper, have all increased more than 10 %. “The impact on the overall costing of the pumpset is 15 %. Pumpset manufacturers operate in thin margins and such an increase in cost cannot be absorbed by anyone. Pump and motor prices will have to be increased by a minimum of 10% for sustenance. The Indian farmer is totally dependent on pump for irrigation. The cost of setting up a new pumpset with accessories like copper cable, pipes and fittings have gone up by more than 20 %. This price increase can lead to a slowdown of the industry as the farmers will put off their requirements,” the Associations said in the press release. The industries also face shortage in availability of these materials. The working capital requirement is shooting up and the manufacturers need 40 % additional capital. The Associations urged the government to step in and control the prices.
11 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||New Chancellor for Avinashilingam Institute assumes office||Former Vice-Chancellor of University of Madras S.P. Thyagarajan assumed office as the Chancellor of Avinashilingam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education for Women, Coimbatore, on Thursday. A prominent academic and scientist, he has 51 years of experience in teaching and research. He has completed 60 research projects funded by national and international agencies at various institutions, according to a press release. Mr. Thyagarajan has also published 347 research papers and 20 books in the areas of infectious and non-communicable diseases. Mr. Thyagarajan also invented a drug for the treatment of chronic jaundice or Hepatitis-B using the medicinal plant Phyllanthus amarus ( Kizhanelli in Tamil) and secured patent in the name of University of Madras. He received the A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Award in 2018 from the State government in recognition of his contributions to scientific development. He is part of various expert committees formed by the Central government for institutions such as the University Grants Commission (UGC), Indian Council of Medical Research and National Assessment and Accreditation Council and has formed several UGC regulations in the past, according to the release. Former Managing Director of Arya Vaidya Pharmacy P.R. Krishnakumar, who passed away in September, was the Chancellor of Avinashilingam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education for Women prior to Mr. Thyagarajan.
11 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Bringing spirituality into politics is not right, says Kanimozhi||Responding to the concept of “spiritual politics” mentioned by actor Rajinikanth, DMK women’s wing leader and Thoothukudi MP M.K. Kanimozhi on Thursday said bringing spirituality into politics would not be correct. Addressing mediapersons as part of Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural (Stalin’s voice for a new dawn) campaign, she said including elements such as “spirituality, caste and religion” in politics would divide people. “Politics must be for the people,” she said. Rubbishing claims made by AIADMK leaders that the entry of Mr. Rajinikanth would impact DMK’s vote bank, Ms. Kanimozhi said the AIADMK should worry about the impact of the actor’s move on their vote bank. The basis of the three farm laws, brought by the Central government, was “wrong”, and must be “completely rejected”, she said, replying to a question on the talks being held between protesting farmers and the Central government in Delhi. Apart from adversely affecting the farmers, the laws will also affect middle-class residents, as the public distribution system is in danger of being “disrupted”, she said. “The Chief Minister knows this, but he is still supporting [the laws] to save his post,” Ms. Kanimozhi said. Pollachi case Speaking about the 2019 Pollachi sexual abuse case, she accused the State government of being in favour of the guilty and asserted that women in the State had not forgotten the crime. To a question on rumours about expelled DMK leader M.K. Alagiri floating his own party, she replied that any person was free to start one. Regarding issues in Coimbatore district, Ms. Kanimozhi said the State government had failed to stop the pollution of river Noyyal. It had not completed works such as the construction of a bridge across the railway crossing in SIHS Colony, which was started during the DMK regime, and had also not ensured basic facilities for the people, she said. The State government still had not submitted a white paper on the ‘kudimaramathu’ works undertaken in the State, she said, adding that this had been a long-standing demand of DMK president M.K. Stalin.
11 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi man held in meth smuggling attempt||The Narcotics Intelligence Bureau CID (NIB-CID) of the police on Thursday arrested a Tiruchi native in connection with an attempt to smuggle 1.2 kg of methamphetamine to Sharjah through Coimbatore International Airport on December 5. Arul (53) from Thavakudi in Tiruchi was arrested by the NIB-CID sleuths on Thursday evening. The contraband was seized by the Central Industrial Security (CISF) personnel from a briefcase carried by K. Nagarathinam of Thavakudi when he came to the airport to board a flight to Sharjah on December 5 morning. NIB-CID found that Arul and another person named Alibhai had handed over the empty briefcase to Mr. Nagarathinam on the airport premises. The duo told him that someone else would collect the briefcase from him in Sharjah. However, Mr. Nagarathinam, who had been working as a driver in Saudi Arabia, grew suspicious about the briefcase and approached the CISF personnel. They scanned the briefcase and found the contraband.
11 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||NIB-CID arrests Tiruchi native in meth smuggling attempt||The Narcotics Intelligence Bureau CID (NIB-CID) of the police on Thursday arrested a Tiruchi native in connection with the attempt to smuggle 1.2 kg of methamphetamine to Sharjah through Coimbatore International Airport on December 5. Arul (53) from Thavakudi in Tiruchi was arrested by the NIB-CID sleuths on Thursday evening. The contraband was seized by the Central Industrial Security (CISF) personnel from a briefcase carried by K. Nagarathinam of Thavakudi when he came to the airport to board a flight to Sharjah on December 5 morning. NIB-CID found that Arul and another person Alibhai had handed over the empty briefcase to Mr. Nagarathinam on the airport premises. The duo told him that someone else would collect the briefcase from him in Sharjah. However, Mr. Nagarathinam, who had been working as a driver in Saudi Arabia, grew suspicious about the briefcase and approached the CISF personnel. They scanned the briefcase and found the contraband. Financial help Mr. Nagarathinam told investigators that Arul had helped him financially for the journey to Sharjah. NIB-CID is on the lookout for Alibhai and another person Anbu in the case.
11 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Ex-policeman involved in chain snatchings held||The Race Course police (Crime) on Thursday arrested an ex-policeman in connection with two chain snatchings reported on the Police Recruit School (PRS) campus on Avinashi Road recently. A special team headed by inspector P.S. Sujatha arrested R. Muneeswaan (32), a native of Poovanthi, near Madurai. The police said he snatched chains of five sovereigns each from two women when they were walking inside the PRS campus in October and November. The police recovered seven sovereigns of the stolen chains from him. A 2011-batch policeman, Muneeswaran was initially attached to Tamil Nadu Special Police Battalion IV at Kovaipudur. Expelled from service Later, he moved to the Armed Reserve of Coimbatore City Police. He was expelled from service in 2019 following his involvement in various offences. A policeman, who had worked with Muneeswaran, identified him from a surveillance camera visual which led to the arrest. Though Muneeswaran was not using a mobile phone, the police managed to trace him after getting his whereabouts from his wife. He was produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.
11 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Federation’s appeal to govt.||The Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations has appealed to the State government to take up with the Central government the issue of spiralling raw material prices. Representatives of the Federation submitted a memorandum to the Industries Commissioner Anu George on Thursday. Waiver in registration deeds It also said the waiver in registration deeds to get benefits under the Atma Nirbhar scheme should be given with retrospective effect from June this year. Subsidy scheme The limit for machinery cost for Credit Linked Capital Subsidy scheme given by the State government should be increased to Rs. 1 crore, the Federation said.
11 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||4-month-old baby undergoes brain surgery||A four-month-old premature baby boy with an abnormally large head underwent a complex brain surgery recently at a private hospital here. According to a release, doctors at Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital (KMCH) diagnosed the baby with congenital hydrocephalous, a condition where cerebrospinal fluid builds up in the brain and produces excess pressure on the brain, leading to neurological issues. The baby had also recovered from COVID-19 at the time of admission in the neonatal intensive care unit at the hospital. Senior Neurosurgeon at KMCH J.K.B.C. Parthiban performed the keyhole endoscopic brain surgery. “The technique is challenging but good for patients, particularly in this type of cases where the baby was underweight at birth, emaciated and [was at] post-COVID-19 status,” he said in the release. Following the surgery, the baby’s neurological status improved as his eye and limb movements almost returned to normal. The baby was later discharged.
11 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||NCSC seeks report from Collector, SP on new wall at Nadur||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has sought from the Coimbatore District Collector and Coimbatore District (Rural) Superintendent of Police facts and information on the new wall that has come up at Nadur, near Mettupalayam, where a wall collapse killed 17 persons on December 2, 2019. The report was sought based on a complaint lodged by Kovai Marx, State general secretary of Tamil Puligal Katchi. Mr. Marx, in his complaint, had alleged that the new wall that had come in place of the collapsed wall was a ‘wall of discrimination’. The petitioner wanted the new wall demolished and S. Sivasubramaniam, on whose land the old wall existed and the wall had come up, arrested under provisions of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The notice dated December 2 has directed the Collector and the SP to submit facts, information and the action taken on Marx’s allegations within 15 days from the receipt of the notice.
11 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Three held for pickpocketing||The Podanur police arrested three persons who pickpocketed more than Rs. 1 lakh from three men in an event attended by DMK MP M.K. Kanimozhi at Sundarapuram and Kurichi on Wednesday. The police said, the trio pickpocketed cash carried by Muthalif, Manikadanan and Sivamani. While Muthalif carried Rs. 30,000, Manikandan had Rs. 1.15 lakh with him. Sivamani had kept Rs. 22,000 in his pocket. Using videos of the event and surveillance camera visuals, DMK workers identified the accused as Azhagesan (27), Sivakumar (30) and Karthikeyan (27), all from Sundarapuram. They traced the accused and handed them over to the police. More than Rs. 1 lakh was recovered from them.
11 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MP donates Rs. 4 lakh for libraries in govt. schools||Coimbatore MP PR Natarajan has donated Rs. 4 lakh for libraries in government schools in the district to purchase books. Books related to science and social science were purchased for the benefit of students and teachers through Bharathi Puthaga Alayam, a release said.    The Tiruppur Exporters’ Association has welcomed the cabinet approval given for Atmanirbhar Bharat Rojgar Yojana to boost employment in formal sector and incentivise creation of new employment opportunities during the COVID-19 recovery phase under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Package 3.0. Raja. M. Shanmugham, president of the Association, said the scheme would benefit exporting units in Tiruppur as these provided new employment opportunities.
11 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||There will be no power supply in the following areas under Vilankurichi sub-station from 9.15 a.m. to 4 p.m. on December 11 : Thaneerpandal, Lakshmi Nagar, Murugan Nagar, Cheranmanagar, Kumudham Nagar, Jeeva Nagar, and Sengaliappan Nagar.
11 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||T.N. leading in higher education, says Minister||Tamil Nadu has been making big strides in higher education and the State’s Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) stands higher than the national average, said Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan. Inaugurating the Centre for Sophisticated Instruments and Interdisciplinary Research and other renovated buildings at the Annamalai University in Chidambaram on Thursday, Mr. Anbalagan said GER, at the national level, was 28.3% while Tamil Nadu’s figure had touched 49%, taking the lead in the country. According to the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), as many as 21 universities and 35 colleges from Tamil Nadu figured in the ‘top 100 in universities’ and ‘top 100 in colleges’ categories respectively. Mr. Anbalagan pointed out that good planning by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa and steps taken by the present government had contributed to the growth of higher education in the State. When Annamalai University was facing severe economic strain, Jayalalithaa intervened and the government took over the institution to keep it alive. The University had made progress because of its practically viable programmes, he added. Industries Minister M.C. Sampath, Chidambaram MLA K.A. Pandiyan, Vice-Chancellor V. Murugesan and Registrar (in-charge) R. Gnanadevan were present.  When Annamalai University was facing severe economic strain, former CM Jayalalithaa intervened and the government took over the institution to keep it alive
11 December 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Uninterrupted drinking water supply likely||Forests Minister Dindigul C Srinivasan said on Thursday that residents of Dindigul in the Corporation limits would get uninterrupted drinking water supply. He inspected the Athur Kamarajar reservoir along with Collector M Vijayalakshmi and other senior officials from the PWD, District Rural Development and Revenue departments. Every district in the State had benefited from the ‘kudimaramathu’ project since Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had given funds for the work. The Water Resources Organisation in PWD had taken up 114 works and spent Rs. 34.35 crore last year in Dindigul. The District Rural Development Agency had taken up desilting of 291 minor irrigation tanks and spent Rs. 12.17 crore and Rs. 3.6 crore to desilt 360 ooranis/ponds. With the desilting of tanks and ponds, the district benefited considerably from the north-east monsoon. Athur Kamarajar dam has Kudaganaru and Kuzhaiyaaru as major catchment points. Water bodies got a facelift thanks to kudimaramathu project and desilting of irrigation tanks. PWD engineers said that the water body conservation had led to recharge of water tables in many pockets. The Athur dam had an added capacity of 6,000 million litres this season, which would be sufficient to provide potable water to the residents in the corporation limits till December 2021 without any interruption. The daily distribution of 12 million litres would be smooth and expressed the hope there might not be any question of drinking water shortage during the next year.
11 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Increase in arrival of cattle to weekly shandy||Arrival of cattle to the weekly shandy at Karungalpalayam that saw a dip in the past two weeks increased on Thursday. Cattle from various districts are brought to the shandy and traders from other districts and States visit the market and purchase the cattle. Due to incessant rains and spread of lumpy skin disease in cattle in the district, arrival of animals dropped in the past two weeks causing disappointment to the traders. On Thursday, 700 cattle were brought to the shandy and traders from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana arrived for purchasing them. Since local body election is in progress in Kerala, traders from the State did not arrive at the shandy. Farmers said that they were able to get good prices for their cattle. Traders from other States said that due to the recent cyclone, arrival of cattle was affected in the past two weeks and they faced difficulty in purchasing the animals. Since, lumpy skin diseases in cattle were reported across the district, the district administration has warned farmers to be cautious and approach the nearest veterinary hospital if they found large sized lymph nodes in the body of the cattle. Since the disease affects milk yield, farmers were asked to take all precautions.
11 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Exhibition of puja items in progress at Poompuhar showroom||Puja items, including brass lamps of different sizes, were on display at the exhibition being held at the Poompuhar showroom on Mettur Road here. Kubera and Kamadhenu lambs, Tanjore paintings, Valampuri Sangu and conches of different sizes, Rudraksham, cosmetics and sandalwood and other puja items were kept for sale at the exhibition. Besides these, Jaipur paintings, decorative wall mounting panels, Moradabad art works, Channapatna dolls, wooden engraved gifts and custom wooden gifts, Jaipur gems and stones, and silver anklets were also on display. Officials said that the handcrafted items ranging from Rs. 50 to Rs. 1 lakh are available for sale and the public can visit the showroom till December 19. The officials said that service charge will not be levied for debit and credit cards and asked the people to avail the facility. The purpose of organising the exhibition is to provide a market opportunity for the products that were handmade by artists and artisans across the country, the offiicials added.
11 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Delay in re-laying road causes inconvenience to motorists||The delay in re-laying Kollampalayam bypass road is causing hardship to the residents and motorists, who wanted the works to be expedited and completed. The road connects Karur Bypass Road with Erode Main Road and is used by thousands of two-wheeler riders and motorists every day. In March, the corporation executed the underground sewerage scheme works and laid drinking water pipelines for the dedicated water supply scheme. Narrow stretch The works caused extensive damage to the entire one km narrow stretch causing hardship to the motorists and residents. Later, the damaged road was again dug for house service connections and the works were completed in August. However, the Highways Department failed to carry out repair works or re-lay the road. Preliminary works began in the last week of October for tar-topping the stretch and the work was expected to be completed in two weeks. “But even after more than 40 days, tar-topping work is yet to be taken up”, said a two-wheeler rider. He said that frequent closure of the stretch is affecting motorists and wanted the tar-topping works to be taken up at the earliest and completed soon. A resident Balamurugan said that the stretch had turned non-motorable in March this year and though all the works were completed, re-laying is delayed for reasons unknown.
11 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers urged to insure crops for rabi season||The district administration has asked the farmers to insure crops under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme) so that they can get relief for crop loss due to natural calamities, pest attack or disease outbreak in the current rabi season. Collector C. Kathiravan, in a press release, said that banana, onion, cabbage and lady’s finger crops are widely cultivated in the district in the current season that can be insured under the scheme. Premium for different crops per acre are, onion – Rs. 1,731 (premium should be paid by January 18, 2021), cabbage – Rs. 865 (February 15), lady’s finger – Rs. 800 (March 1), banana – Rs. 3,519 (March 1) and tapioca – Rs. 1,522 (March 1). Mr. Kathiravan said that premium can be paid through banks, primary agriculture cooperative societies and common service centres and asked farmers to utilise the opportunity.
11 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Over 11,000 staff to be deployed for poll duty’||Over 11,000 polling personnel will be deployed for the Assembly elections to be held next year, said District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan. Chairing a meeting on deploying polling personnel for the elections, Mr. Kathiravan said that as per the draft electoral roll released recently, there are 19,16,809 electors in the eight Assembly constituencies in the district. There are 2,215 polling stations in the district, he added. He said that polling personnel will be drawn from the government departments and their details were collected and being processed by the election department. Duty will be allotted to the personnel based on draw of lots by the computer. He said that the details of personnel allotted for the works will be shared with the department heads.
11 December 2020||KANCHEEPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle stolen||The police are on the lookout for a gang that reportedly stole a vehicle carrying two-wheeler spare parts from a factory in Oragadam to the company’s unit in Poonamallee on Thursday. According to the police, Manjunatha was driving a mini van carrying spare parts from a two-wheeler factory in Orgadam to the company’s outlet in Poonamallee.
11 December 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Emerald Beach out of reckoning for Blue Flag||Emerald Beach at Karaikal has been edged out of the reckoning for the Blue Flag certification under a programme initiated in 2018 by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change to propel tourism with improved amenities. A team of experts from the Ministries of Science and Technology and Environment and Forests had visited Karaikal two years ago to determine whether the Emerald Beach measured up to the requirements of the certification by the Denmark-based Foundation for Environment Education based on 33 stringent criteria under the four heads: environmental education and information; bathing water quality; environment management and conservation; and safety and services. The Emerald Beach is acclaimed in tourism circles as one of the best in south Tamil Nadu. However, the team had also taken note of the report of the Central Pollution Control Board that the Arasalar river in Karaikal, a tributary of the Cauvery, is polluted with nitrate and chromium owing to the mixing of sewage and industrial waste. Eight beaches in the country were awarded the certification in October. They are Shivrajpur (Gujarat), Ghoghla (Diu), Kasarkod and Padubidri (Karnataka), Kappad (Kerala), Rushikonda (Andhra Pradesh), Golden Beach (Puri, Odisha) and Radhanagar (Andaman and Nicobar Islands). The Emerald Beach did not figure among the 13 pilot beaches identified for the certification. The five other pilot beaches were Bhogave (Maharashtra), Kovalam (Tamil Nadu), Eden (Puducherry), Miramar (Goa) and Bangaram (Lakshadweep). According to a senior official of Puducherry’s Tourism Department, the cases of Emerald Beach and other beaches in Puducherry are still under consideration of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. The Ministry’s target is to develop at least 50-100 Blue Flag beaches in the next five years, according to sources. With the Blue Flag certification, the Society of Integrated Coastal Management, a body of the Ministry, strives for sustainable development of the coastal regions through its flagship programme called BEAMS (Beach Environment and Aesthetics Management Services) under the Integrated Coastal Zone Management Project. The objectives of BEAMS are to control pollution in coastal waters and on beaches, promote sustainable development of beach amenities, and conserve coastal ecosystems, among other things.
11 December 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Online booking mandatory for Thirunallaru ‘Sani Peyarchi’ darshan||The Karaikal administration has made online booking mandatory for pilgrims taking part in the ‘Sani Peyarchi’ festival at Sri Saneeswara Bhagavan shrine, Thirunallaru, this month. The transit of Lord Saneeswara Bhagavan from the zodiac sign Sagittarius to Capricorn will take place at 5.22 a.m. on December 27. The online booking for darshan through temple websitehttps://thirunallarutemple. org/sanipayarchihas been made mandatory for free as well as ticketed entry on 19th, 20th, 26th, and 27th of December, and on 2nd, 3rd, 9th, 10th, 16th, 17th, 23rd, and 24th of January, 2021. There will be no archana/pooja. In a press release, District Collector Arjun Sharma said entry into the temple would be permitted only on production of valid e-ticket. Bathing or holy dips or conduct of religious rituals at Nala Theertham, Brahma Theertham and other Theerthams will not be allowed. All pilgrims are required to wash/sanitise their hands frequently, maintain physical distancing and always wear face masks properly, the Collector said. COVID-19 testing will be done at entry points and symptomatic pilgrims will not be allowed for darshan. Pilgrims experiencing COVID-19 symptoms will be required to contact the medical teams stationed at all the entry points or volunteers inside the temple. Those who had been recently exposed to COVID-19 or had symptoms like fever, cough, respiratory problems, loss of smell and fatigue, must refrain from undertaking the pilgrimage. Those who have recovered from COVID-19 are advised to avoid the pilgrimage. Children, elders and persons with co-morbidities must refrain from embarking on the pilgrimage, the release said. All pilgrims have to follow the advisories/ guidelines and standard precautions issued by the District Disaster Management Authority, Mr. Arjun Sharma said.
11 December 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Avadhanapatty lake will be opened for tourists from today||Avadhanapatty lake and the children’s park will be opened for on Friday. On Thursday, the park witnessed an overhaul with boat men dusting up and washing the life jackets. Holiday season With tourists spots set to open up in the upcoming days for the public, the park will open just in time for the holiday season. Avadhanapatty lake with its boat house and children’s park is perhaps the only recreational spots in Krishnagiri falling on the Krishnagiri-Hosur national highway lending respite to the inter-state commuters and tourists passing by Krishnagiri. It has been a low-budget getaway for families taking the day out on weekends. The reasonably wooded park and its well-kept environs, and the abutting Avadhanapatty lake were closed down with the onset of COVID-19 and the lockdown since March. The park and the lake were given a re-haul a few years ago as part of the administration’s bid to boost footfall of the floating tourists traffic that pass through the district. Given its location on the national highway, the park and the lake was pepped up not just as a pit stop for floating commute traffic but also to the resident dwellers. The park, the lake and its boat tours are set to open up its counters for the public giving a semblance of normalcy during a dire pandemic, albeit with safety protocols.
11 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Communication to MP in Hindi sent inadvertently’||The Centre has informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday that the reply in Hindi by the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai to a query raised by Madurai Member of Parliament Su. Venkatesan was unintentional and the English version of the communication was not sent inadvertently. The court was also informed that the same mistake was repeated again. It was submitted that the MP had received an invite in Hindi to the foundation stone laying ceremony for the new Parliament building. It was only after Mr. Venkatesan raised objection again, a communication was sent in English, after two days. Taking cognisance of the submission, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that this had become a perennial problem. Though it has been submitted that this has happened inadvertently, it should not be repeated again, the judges said and directed the Centre to file a further counter affidavit on December 18. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by Mr. Venkatesan who represents the Communist Party of India (Marxist). Upset over the reply that he received in Hindi to a query on why there were no examination centres in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for the recruitment of CRPF Para Medical Staff, he sought the communication in English. Mr. Venkatesan had pointed out that as per Section 3 of the Official Languages Act, 1963, English language should be used in communications between the Union and the State that has not adopted Hindi. He said since Tamil Nadu followed a two-language policy- Tamil and English, English should be the link language between the Centre and the State. Apart from seeking an English version of the communication, he sought a direction to restrain the Centre from addressing any communication between the Centre and the State in Hindi. He pointed out that the Centre was following a practice of sending replies only in Hindi to MPs from Tamil Nadu.
11 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||CBI told to submit charge sheet copy in custodial death case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) to submit a copy of the charge sheet filed against the erring police officers in the 2019 case of custodial torture and subsequent death of a 17-year-old boy involving S.S. Colony police here. Justice J. Nisha Banu, who was hearing the petition filed by the boy’s mother who sought a CB-CID probe into the death of her son and appropriate compensation, directed the CB-CID to submit a copy of the charge sheet to the court on December 14. The complainant had alleged that her son died due to custodial torture by S.S. Colony police. In her petition, the boy’s mother said her son was picked up for inquiry in a jewellery theft case and detained in illegal custody for three days. They let him off. They picked him up again after a week and detained him in illegal custody, she said. She complained that her son was subjected to torture by the police. The boy later succumbed to his injuries at Government Rajaji Hospital. The court, which had ordered a CB-CID probe into the case, had expressed displeasure over the manner in which the investigation was handled by the local police. Taking into account the fact that no post mortem was conducted nor a case was registered against the erring officials till the intervention of the court, the court said it would monitor the case. It also expressed its displeasure with the police, the GRH and the Juvenile Justice Board for not acting fairly in the case. While transferring the case to the CB-CID, the court had observed that an investigating officer in the rank of an IPS officer should probe the case and the officer should not be shifted from the investigation. However, the plea by the woman for compensation has been deferred till further orders.
11 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Metal barricades on highways cause accidents, remove them’||A Madurai resident has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday seeking a direction to the Centre and the State to remove barricades put up on State and National Highways and other roads in Tamil Nadu. He said the barricades were placed in an unscientific manner and sought a standing order be framed in this regard. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi ordered notice to the Centre and the State and sought response over a set of queries on the issue in the public interest litigation petition filed by M. Saravanan from K.K. Nagar, Madurai. The court adjourned the hearing in the case for the respondents to file their response to the queries. In his petition, Mr. Saravanan said that in the last 15 years the number of vehicles plying on roads had multiplied several times. Though it was the duty of the authorities to ensure the safety and well-being of the vehicle users, no major scientific study had been undertaken to address traffic-related problems. With a view to streamlining traffic, the police department was putting up metal barricades in the middle of the road in an unplanned, unmanned and unscientific manner causing danger to the vehicles users. These barricades were put up at major junctions to make the drivers reduce the speed of the vehicle. But instead of reducing the accidents, the barricades have become the cause of them, including fatal ones. These barricades pose a threat at night as they have no reflectors or warning signs. Moreover, the barricades are put up in the middle of the road. Also, these barricades carry advertisements of commercial establishments, he said. He said that he had sent a representation to the authorities concerned to remove the barricades as they posed a threat to the vehicle users. Since the representation was not considered by the authorities, he moved court seeking relief, the petitioner said. He also sought a direction to the authorities to frame a standing order for placement of the barricades.  The barricades pose a threat at night as they have no reflectors or warning signs Petitioner
11 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Usilampatti-Andipatti line inspection on Dec. 16||Commissioner of Railway Safety, Southern Circle, Abhai Kumar Rai, will inspect the Usilampatti-Andipatti gauge conversion work on December 16. The 21-km stretch forms part of Madurai-Bodi gauge conversion project. Railway Constructions has built a major bridge and 30 minor bridges on this stretch. “The major challenge in the section was rock-cutting at Andipatti pass. Explosives were used for blasting the hard rock for one km in two stretches to provide wider opening for the broad gauge track,” an engineer said. The work also included construction of new buildings for Usilampatti and Andipatti railway stations. The first phase of work between Madurai and Usilampatti for 37 km has been completed and cleared by the CRS for operation of trains in last January. However, train services were not started following disruption of rail services owing to the COVID-19 pandemic induced lockdown. The work was also suspended for 45 days during the initial phase of lockdown. Work on Andipatti-Theni stretch was at an advanced stage then. After completing the earth work, track linking has been completed for 10 km out of 17 km. The third phase of work is expected to be completed by March 2021. However, the final phase of work between Theni and Bodi is yet to take off. “Fresh fund allocation is needed for taking up the work,” the engineer said.
11 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for sexual harassment of daughter||A man has been arrested from his house in Othakadai here on Wednesday on a charge of sexually harassing his minor daughter. Police said the girl, who was studying Class 11 in a school in Kodaikanal, had come to her grandmother’s house when the accused, a driver with the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, harassed her. Othakadai police have booked him under the provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.     A woman, T. Kala, 42, of Annamparipatti, sustained injuries when two unidentified persons yanked her gold chain while she was riding a two-wheeler on Vadakattupatti to Mekkilarpatti Road on Wednesday. Police said the woman who lost control of the vehicle as the pillion rider pulled her gold chain fell down on the road. The robbers sped away with the chain weighing eight sovereigns. Usilampatti police are investigating.
11 December 2020||Mayiladuthurai,TAMIL NADU||Poompuhar’s history now lies buried under sheer neglect||Poompuhar, one of the popular tourist destinations of the State, has lost its sheen due to sheer neglect. There has absolutely been no maintenance of the park, memorials, the Paavai mandapam, statues, sculptors and other tourism infrastructure for several months. Growth of weeds, discarded empty liquor bottles, dried up leaves and unhygienic environment greet the visitors, who still throng the place in large numbers despite COVID-19 restrictions, to enjoy the beautiful seashore during weekend. The visitors are left shocked on finding the sorry state of affairs. The Silapathikaram Art Gallery, the main attraction of the tourists and its entrance, look deserted without visitors for several months. The sculptors of Kannagi, Kovalan and Ilango Adigal look unkempt with droppings of birds. Weeds, bushes and thorny bushes have grown in the park and around the mandapam and statues. Locals say that the spot has become a centre of anti-social activities. A section of youth visit the beach front and the mandapam mainly to drink alcohol. Moreover, many use the secluded spots for attending to nature’s call. The Tourism Department, which is supposed to maintain the infrastructure built with taxpayers money, has done nothing to preserve the infrastructure and portray the glory of the town, locals allege. The dilapidated condition of the infrastructure, which was built about 40 years ago, revealed that it had been neglected for so long. Dissatisfaction is palpable among the tourists, who visit the historical place with a great expectation. “It is a must see destination for each and every Tamil as Poompuhar showcases the ancient maritime history of Tamils. The town symbolises the ancient culture and civilisation of Tamils. But, it has been made a ghost town with no maintenance. It is shocking,” says A. Mohamed of Mayiladuthurai, a tourist.
11 December 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Fisheries university admits eight students under special category||Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University (TNJFU), Nagapattinam, has admitted eight students under the ‘Fishermen’s Wards Special Category’ this year for its UG programmes. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar issued the admission card to the students at a function held at the State Secretariat on Wednesday. The students admitted under this special category constitute A. Selva Abila, A. Jenshiya and R. Rabitha from Thoothukudi, T. Sahaya Sneha from Kanniyakumari, E. Edwin Anish from Nagercoil, S. Rani Samlin from Tirunelveli for the Bachelor of Fisheries Science programme. For B.Tech (Fisheries Engineering), M. Saron Rose from Thoothukudi, and K. Catherine Shiba from Tirunelveli were admitted. Admission cards issued The Minister issued the admission cards in the presence of Vice Chancellor G. Sugumar, UG admission committee Chairman P. Jawahar and department officials. There were 150 applications for B.F.Sc. and 37 applications for B.Tech. (Fisheries Engineering) degree courses from wards of fishermen. Government would pay the semester fee, hostel fee and mess fee for candidates selected in this category. In-person counselling was conducted for these candidates on November 7. In a press release, the Vice-Chancellor said that admission to 386 seats in the various UG degree courses offered through the constituent colleges of the University, for the academic year 2020-21, was carried out through online mode. Overall, 3,030 applications were received. The Bachelor of Fisheries Science (B.F.Sc.) programme is offered in three colleges, Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) programmes in three colleges, B.B.A. in Fisheries Business Management programme in Fisheries Business School and vocational degree programs in four paraprofessional institutes. A total of 1,655 applications were received for 120 seats of B.F.Sc. and 448 applications were received for 30 seats of B.Tech. (Fisheries Engineering) degree courses.
11 December 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai-based firm’s CMD, three others held by ED||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested four persons, including the chairman-cum-managing director of Chennai-based Disc Assets Lead India Limited, in connection with an alleged collective investment scheme fraud involving over Rs. 1,100 crore. The accused have been identified as N.M. Umashankar, CMD of Disc Assets Lead India, its managing director V. Janarthanan and director N. Arunkumar, besides Saravanakumar, a director of Dal Marketing Solutions. The ED case is based on an FIR registered by the Economic Offences Wing of the Tamil Nadu police, on the allegation that the company collected money under various schemes. The customers were asked to pay a fixed amount every month for a fixed period, by the end of which they were promised land parcels. However, it is alleged that the company never allotted any land. The SEBI had initiated an inquiry against the company as its permission had not been sought for the investment scheme. The company then started collecting funds through another firm named Dal Marketing Solutions, it is alleged. The total amount declared to have been collected was Rs. 1,137 crore. However, the agency found inconsistencies in the data submitted by the directors and the figures received from banks. It is alleged that funds were diverted in the form of investment in various subsidiaries, royalty, donations, land advance and commission to many entities, including their immediate family members, relatives, employees and key managerial personnel, said the agency.  The customers were asked to pay a fixed amount every month for a fixed period, by the end of which they were promised land parcels
11 December 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Two lakes brim after 11 years||A youth group of Perali village in Perambalur district have revived two lakes in the village which had remained unattended for 11 years. The youth, who claim they learned how to swim in the lakes worked for six years to see the lakes fill up. The work began six years ago with the support of the then Project Director, District Rural Development Agency, who took the first step to recharge the two lakes, said T. Nallappan of Pudhiya Payanam, who took up the works. “He helped trace the path of a canal, flowing along Eraiyur Road that connects the lakes. Since then, we have been cleaning up weeds, ‘Seemai Karuvelam’ trees and large rocks so that water may flow to the lakes,” he said. The two lakes- each at least 10 acres, did not just add beauty to the landscape but were also primary sources of water for the residents. “There is a drinking water tank which the people could access, and the water would recharge borewells and irrigation wells. The lake was a drinking water source for cattle and sheep, which is a predominant means of livelihood in the region,” Nallappan said. Paddy farmers who were dependent upon this water were forced to cultivate maize and pulses but this year, they hope to sow paddy again. When the lakes dried up, farmers, shepherds and cowherds would drive far in search of water. Now, they have been able to save on various invisible costs including diesel. While the work has not been easy, especially due to opposition from some villagers, the people have learned the importance of waterbodies now, Nallappan said. “People who would threaten to beat us up now come to help us with a spade in hand,” he said, smiling. The people of Perali, in an attempt to ensure that the canal feeding the lakes keep flowing, have built bridges to cross over to their farms. “Earlier they would dump sandbags and use it as a bridge, but now there is awareness,” Nallappan said. The six-year-long effort was funded by the youth group, the people of the village, and their family members who have settled abroad over the recent years. “The people and the authorities need to know that lakes need to desilted as they are the best sources of water for villages like ours. Through them, groundwater, borewells and irrigation tanks are recharged. The authorities must ensure that the lakes are cleaned up before monsoons set in and not during the monsoon,” said S. Ragavan of Pudhiya Payanam, a NGO.
11 December 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Outbreak of lumpy skin disease: veterinary teams to conduct awareness camps in Perambalur||About 40 veterinary medical teams have been formed in the district to conduct veterinary medical-cum-awareness camps across the district from Friday in the wake of an outbreak of lumpy skin disease reported in Veppanthattai taluk in the district. Collector P. Srivenkada Priya said the camps would be held in all the 121 village panchayats in the district till the end of this month. Her statement comes in the wake of the outbreak of the disease reported in Veppanthanttai taluk. According to sources in the Animal Husbandry Department, about 350-450 cows were estimated to have been affected by the disease in and around Anukkur village in the taluk. Officials said there was no specific treatment for the disease but for symptomatic treatment. A similar outbreak was reported in May-June in the district, but it subsided later, officials pointed out. “The viral diseases is largely spread by the stable flies, which thrive in the wet and soggy conditions in stables. People need not panic; the disease will not affect the quality of milk though there will be a reduction in the milk yield. Bio-security – maintaining the stables clean and dry – is the key in checking the stable flies and the spread of the disease,” said D. Suresh Christopher, Joint Director, Animal Husbandry, Perambalur.
11 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Flooding adds to the woes of the Irulas||The recent spell of rain aggravated the misery of around 20 Irula families living in tiny thatched huts in Puliansalai near Perumalpuram, Villianur. Settled in a portion of land that the government acquired after the death of a woman having no descendants, the families have been fighting for patta (title deed), toilets and proper drinking water facilities for the last 29 years. “Living in a hut that is around 100 sq ft makes every day an ordeal. But the last 10 days were disturbing as water entered the houses. Even now, the water has not receded completely. We had to move out to a nearby place provided by a family,” said M. Egambaram. His wife E. Sukanya said all household articles and clothes were submerged in the muddy water. “We had to take all the items to the riverfront to clean them. The children and the elderly have to undergo a lot of suffering during the rainy season,” he said. M. Ponni said only one hut had a proper toilet. “It is the most difficult thing about residing here. Women take bath either in the night or before sunrise. Some use the single toilet. On certain occasions, there is no other way other but to resort to open defecation,” she said. The settlement has only one common water tap, said Ms. Sukanya, adding that sometimes the residents had to skip bathing altogether due to a paucity of water. “Those who claim that the Union Territory has become open defecation free have to come and see our plight.” The residents said if the government had paid heed to their long-pending demand for patta, the situation would have been different. “Most of us earn by selling goods or by wage work. If the government had issued patta, we could have constructed proper houses by availing government schemes or taking loans,” said Mr. Egambaram. The problem, he said, was with the Villianur Commune Panchayat’s failure to implement the directive of the Directorate of Survey and Land Records. In 2011 itself, then Director of Survey and Land Records S. Rajamanickam had directed the commune panchayat to transfer the land for issuing patta. The Director, in his communication dated November, 18, 2011, asked the commune panchayat to “transfer the land free of cost to the Directorate for issue of free house site to poor landless tribal people”. Last year, the National Human Rights Commission issued an order directing the Directorate to issue the patta within eight weeks. “The Directorate could not comply as the land was yet to be transferred,” said Mr. Egambaram, who has been fighting for the cause of the Irula community over the last several years. The government should prevail upon the commune panchayat to transfer the land at the earliest, the Irula families said. An official with the local administration told The Hindu that opposition from people settled in the nearby areas was the reason for the delay. The government was working out ways to resolve the issue, the official said.
11 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs two deaths, 24 cases||Puducherry recorded two more COVID-19 deaths while adding 24 new cases to its overall tally on Thursday. The two male patients who died in the capital did not have any co-morbidities. While a 45-year-old patient died of septic shock and refractory hypoxemia, the other (aged 72) succumbed to Covid pneumonia and ARDS. With this, the coronavirus toll in the Union Territory has risen to 617. Puducherry accounted for 505 deaths, followed by Karaikal (59), Yanam (45) and Mahe (eight). Of the new cases, which were detected from testing 1,570 samples during the last 24 hours, 12 patients were in Puducherry and six each in Karaikal and Mahe. Yanam did not report a new case. Recovery rate The test positivity rate was 1.52%, case fatality rate 1.65% and recovery rate 97.35%. Of the estimated 4.28 lakh samples tested so far, 3.85 lakh returned negative. As many as 18 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours. The overall tally of COVID-19 cases in the Union territory stood at 37,363 cases, while the total recoveries aggregated to 36,372 cases. The Union Territory has 374 active cases, with 209 patients in hospital and 165 persons in home isolation. Cuddalore sees 11 cases Cuddalore district reported 11 fresh cases on Thursday, taking the district’s tally to 24,392. While 24,057 persons have been discharged, the active cases were 57. In Villupuram district, eight tested positive, taking the tally to 14,751. Kallakurichi district reported three cases.
11 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Demand for immediate compensation to farmers||The Left parties on Thursday demanded immediate compensation to farmers who had suffered crop losses in the recent rain. Addressing a press conference by CPI, CPI (M) and CPI (ML) leaders in the Union Territory, CPI secretary A.M. Saleem said the farmers should be given compensation immediately. The parties wanted the government to provide financial assistance of Rs. 20,000 per acre for paddy cultivators and Rs. 50,000 per hectare for sugarcane, banana and vegetable cultivators in the Union Territory as compensation for the damage in the recent rain. He flayed the Central team for not making a full assessment of the damage to crops. Mr. Saleem urged the Union Ministry of Home Affairs to immediately approve the territorial administration’s demand for 10% reservation to government school students in medical admissions. He wanted the Ministry to clear the Cabinet’s decision seeking 50% of seats from private medical colleges under government quota. Mr. Saleem said “a network” of people were trying to usurp the opportunities of local students in medical admissions by forging residency certificates. Secretary of CPI (M) R. Rajangam flayed the Union government for its decision to privatise power distribution in the Union Territory. The move was to hand over the distribution network to a private entity. The decision would not be in the interest of employees of the Electricity Department and the consumers, he said.
11 December 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Camp for differently abled persons held||The District Differently Abled Welfare Department, in association with the ALIMCO, a Central government enterprise, has proposed to conduct special camps at eight places in the district for providing artificial gadgets to differently abled persons. Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver launched the camp at Bogalur Panchayat Union office on Thursday. DDWO K Jothilingam said that 135 persons had applied for 14 types of assistance such as three-wheeler chairs, battery operated cycles, hearing-aids, Braille kits and artificial legs, among others, at Bogalur. The team from the ALIMCO would take measurements for orthopedic patients based on the medical certificates issued by a panel of doctors. Dates Camps will be held at Nainarkoil on December 11, Paramakudi on December 14, Kamudi on December 15, Kadaladi on December 16, Mudukalathur on December 17, Ramanathapuram on December 18 and Uchipuli on December 19.
11 December 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Court issues warrant to arrest bank manager||A warrant of arrest was served on a bank manager after he was found to have indulged in contempt of court in a case filed by a farmer in the district. A farmer, Radhakrishnan, 57, approached a public sector bank on Salai Street here in 2017 seeking a farm loan of Rs. 4 lakh. He deposited his immovable property as collateral security as required by the bank, he stated in his petition. For the loan of Rs. 4 lakh, he was eligible for a subsidy of Rs. 1.20 lakh from the government. He asked the bank to adjust the subsidy component towards his loan but the bank turned down the suggestion, he said. Under such circumstances, Radhakrishnan had gone to the Lok Adalat, which had settled the petition by directing the bank to adjust the subsidy towards the loan and return the collateral security. As the farmer did not get back the document, he approached the court with the Lok Adalat’s settlement order, which was in his favour. When the case came up for hearing, the judge issued a warrant of arrest. The court staff went to the bank but the staff said that the manager was on leave.
11 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Tourism back on track as boating resumes in Yercaud lake||With resumption of boating in Yercaud lake on Monday, the tourism industry in Yercaud has come back to life after about eight months of nation-wide lockdown. Tourists were permitted to visit the hill station from September as part of relaxations by the State government and though the parks under the Horticulture department were opened up for the public, the boathouse and boating at Yercaud lake did not resume operations. Following relaxations issued by the State government, the boathouse has been receiving decent footfall of tourists. The boathouse operators are hoping that the response would improve by weekend. According to authorities at the boathouse, all standard safety procedures are followed here. Visitors to the boathouse are checked for body temperature, masks are mandated to the visitors and hand sanitisers are provided, an official said. Officials added that while there is sufficient spacing in pedal boats, they have reduced the number of passengers on group boats, were only 7-8 persons are allowed instead of 10 persons. About 56 boats are operated here. The renovation works which were being carried out at the lake are progressing at steady pace and nearing completion. Officials said that the renovation works are being carried out for Rs. 48 lakh and boathouse would get six new boat jetties with shelter. Officials said that 90% works have been completed and hand railings, other final works are being carried out.
11 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Electoral roll revision works reviewed||Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran conducted field inspections and reviewed electoral roll revision activities here on Wednesday. Mr. Ravichandran along with senior officials visited the houses of applicants who have applied for revision of various details as part of the special revision camp in the Salem South and North Assembly segments. Mr. Ravichandran verified the details furnished by applicants.
11 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Farm laws: VCK stages protest||Members of the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi protested in front of Collectorate here on Thursday demanding repeal of the farm laws passed by the Centre. The protesters gathered in front of the Collectorate and raised slogans in solidarity with the farmers protesting in Delhi. They termed the new farm laws anti-farmer and condemned the Centre for passing them. The protesters demanded that the Central government should fulfil the demands of farmers and withdraw the laws. The members staged a road roko on Periyar Bridge leading to traffic congestion at the place. Vehicles had to be diverted from Periyar Bridge and Ambedkar statue area to prevent further congestion at the Collectorate Junction.
11 December 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Farmers in tail-end areas criticise PWD officials||Farmers in the tail end of the district at Keelapasalai and Melapasalai near Manamadurai here blamed the PWD engineers for not releasing water in a regulated manner for irrigation from the Vaigai and resorted to road roko on Madurai-Rameswaram four-lane National Highway on Thursday. The demonstration, which lasted for an hour, led to suspension of vehicular movement. According to the farmers, PWD officials should have released it in such a way that every block in the stretch received the due share from the Vaigai. As it was not done, villagers en route allegedly drew more than their share or altered the course of water so that the deviation benefited others. PWD officials kept quiet though the issue was brought to their notice. As a result, the cultivable area in the tail-end areas had not received a drop of water from the Vaigai. The police and revenue officials rushed to the spot and pacified the agitators following which they dispersed. Meanwhile, following the Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s visit to the district and assurance to take stock of damage to the crops, Horticulture Additional Director Tamivendan inspected the locations in Tirupuvanam, Illayankudi and Kalayarkoil. He told reporters that the survey indicated that at least 10,000 acres of chilly and another 125 acres of onion in these pockets were damaged in the rain. He said the district administration would take stock of the damage independently. Novel stir Tesidents of Devakottai resorted to a novel demonstration of transplanting seedlings on the roads. Though the government had promised to complete the underground drainage work in the Karaikudi Municipality covering all the 36 wards by March, not even 50 % of the work had so far been completed. The TWAD Board had taken up the work at a cost of Rs. 112.50 crore in 2017 to lay pipes for 155 km and create 5,559 manholes, among others. With the roads being dug up for the work, buses to Devakottai too have been suspended. The farmers submitted a memorandum to the Agriculture and PWD officials to immediately drain the rainwater stagnating in at least 400 acres as the standing crops may totally be destroyed. They said that the Nadamangalam big tank near Sivaganga had surplussed in the recent rainfall and the water could not be drained from the lands. There has not been any action despite repeated pleas, they said.
11 December 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Man with ‘pipe bomb’ arrested in Karaikudi||Karaikudi North police have arrested Tamil Kumaran, 38, on Thursday on a charge of threatening a Congress functionary to part with Rs. 1 crore. In a complaint, Mangudi of Burma Colony said he was a former panchayat president and had held the post of vice-president of Sivaganga District Congress Committee. He said Tamil Kumaran came to his house on Thursday and demanded Rs. 1 crore. When he refused to give him any money, Tamil Kumaran took out some objects and placed them on the table stating that they were explosives. Tamil Kumaran also showed two long knives and a steel pipe which he claimed would explode as it was stuffed with explosives. The police rushed to his spot and took the accused for interrogation. A senior police officer said Tamil Kumaran was a member of Tamil Desam Makkal Katchi. He had figured in a criminal case after he threatened to hurl explosive substances at the residence of former Union Minister P. Chidambaram. Pamphlets were issued to the public in this regard, the police said. Sivaganga Superintendent of Police Rohithnathan Rajagopal, Additional SP Muralidaran, Deputy SP Arun and Inspector Sundara Mahalingam are investigating. The explosive substances were sent for analysis, the police said.
11 December 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Cane growers take to the streets after sugar firm breaks promise||Sugarcane farmers of the district, who are yet to get arrears to the tune of Rs. 23.72 crore from a company, revived their wait-in protest near the Collectorate on Thursday. The move came after the company, Dharani Sugars, located at Vasudevanallur failed to keep its promise to make the payment by October-end. Holding sugarcane in their hands, the farmers led by Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association vice-president Palanisamy began the dharna near the Collectorate. Persuasive efforts made by officials to appease them failed. The protestors said the factory management failed to pay Rs. 23.72 crore for the sugarcane procured from farmers in 2018-19 and also refused to give the incentive of Rs. 137.50 per tonne. Moreover, the dividend amounting to Rs. 10 crore for the period between 2004 and 2008 was yet to be paid. “The sugar factory should give Rs. 5,000 for every tonne of sugarcane to be procured from farmers from 2020-21, besides bearing the harvest cost,” Mr. Palanisamy said. Of the 42 sugar factories in Tamil Nadu, 18 cooperative and public sector sugar mills and 21 private sugar factories paid the procurement price of Rs. 2,612.50 per tonne for 2018-19, while three factories of Dharani Sugars alone evaded payment for the past 21 months. “Though we raise the issue at farmers’ grievance redressal meets chaired by the Collector since 2018, the sugar factory adamantly refuses to pay the arrears. Consequently, we have been forced to take loans from usurers at exorbitant interest rate to meet medical and educational expenses, the farmers said. As their demand failed to move the factory administration, the farmers led by P. Ayyakannu, president of Farmers’ Association for National – South Indian Rivers Linking, started the wait-in protest near the Collectorate on October 12. They prepared their food under the flyover near the Collector’s Office and continued their agitation the next day too. Collector G.K. Arun Sundar Thayalan and Superintendent of Police Suguna Singh held talks with them. They suspended their agitation after the factory administration assured the Collector that the arrears would be settled positively by October-end. Since the promise was not kept, the farmers resumed their wait-in protest on Thursday. The farmers withdrew their agitation around 7 p.m. after the factory management gave fresh promise to Collector G. S. Sameeran that it would submit a cheque towards the arrears before December 31. “Accepting the assurance, the farmers gave up their agitation,” Mr. Palanisamy said.
11 December 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Tenkasi farmers along Western Ghats find themselves up against the wall||The continuing wild animal invasion into farms, causing extensive damage to standing crops, along the Western Ghats has led to a reinforced plea from farmers for erection of solar fence. The 70-km-long stertch between Kadayam and Sivagiri is dotted with five reservoirs, Gadana, Ramanadhi, Karuppanadhi, Gundar and Adavinainar, all receiving water from the mountain, which forms the backbone of farming operations here. At the same time, invasion of wild animals into the farms close to Western Ghats poses a serious challenge to the crop and safety of farmers. “We have lost more than 10 farmers since 2005 to wild animals,” says S.T. Shaik Maideen of Vadakarai, a village close to Adavinainar dam. Areas close to Kadayam, Puliyangudi, Puliyarai, Mekkarai, Achanpudhur, Vadakarai, Vasudevanallur and Sivagiri often witness invasion of wild animals like wild boars and elephants into the fields in search of food and water. While wild boars invade farms in all these areas, Vadakarai and Vasudevanallur farmers often encounter wild elephants. In a recent case, two wild elephants camping near Adavinainar dam gave sleepless nights to locals after they uprooted a few coconut trees. Whenever Indian Gaurs enter fields in Puliyangudi, Vadakarai and Vasudevanallur areas, farmers should be doubly cautious as their attacks can be fatal. Farmers of Kadayam also face threat from leopards and bears. While bears enter farms in search of fruits, leopards target pet dogs. Sometimes, leopards enter villages close to the Western Ghats near Manimuthar dam to hunt down pet dogs and cattle. Also, spotted deer and sambar deer are usual visitors. Wile they are harmless, the damage they cause to crops, particularly vegetables, is extensive, the farmers say. “Hence, we demand erection of solar fences with 100% subsidy around fields and farms,” says Mr. Shaik Maideen. Though solar fences were erected for about 20 km between Sivagiri and Vadakarai Keezhpidagai 10 years ago, with 33% contribution by beneficiary farmers, lack of proper maintenance made them defunct. The trenches dug along the forest boundary were also not maintained properly by forest department. Solar fencing “Hence, solar fencing should be created from Kadayam and Sivagiri,” says Senthurpandian of Courtallam. Another major demand is removal of wild boar from the Wildlife Protection Act, as done by the Kerala government. “It will enable farmers to chase or hunt them down,” says Mr. Shaik Maideen. Forest officials say adequate funds have not been allocated by the department for fulfilling the demands of farmers. “If you cultivate a crop that attracts wild animals, you cannot stop them from entering your farms. If you have the farm close to the Western Ghats, you should avoid going in for crops that attract wild animals, which is the only temporary measure available now,” an official said on condition of anonymity.  If you have the farm close to the Western Ghats, you should avoid growing crops that attract wild animals Forest official
11 December 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Five held with Turkish lira||Thermal Nagar police on Thursday nabbed five persons with demonetised currency notes of Turkey, worth about Rs. 2 crore, when they were trying to exchange it for Indian currency. The Turkish currency notes seized by police were notes demonetised in 2006 by the Eurasian Republic. Further investigations were on to unearth the source from whom the youth received the lira.
11 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Five held with Turkish Lira||Thermal Nagar police on Thursday nabbed five persons with demonetised currency notes of Turkey, worth about Rs. 2 crore, when they were trying to exchange it for Indian currency. Police picked up N. Jeeva, 23, of Perur in Coimbatore, S. Vijayamanickam, 22, of Surandai in Tenkasi district, and S. Mohamed Bhukari, 22, A. Mohamed Riswan, 20, and M. Mohamed Asgar, 20, all from Kadayanallur in Tenkasi district, during patrolling. When the patrol team led by Inspector Kokila checked the bags of the youth, the police personnel found that they were carrying 40 notes in Turkish currency, each worth about 5 lakh Turkish Lira. The exchange rate of a Turkish Lira worked out to Rs. 9.37 on Thursday.
11 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Cyclone Burevi fills up irrigation tanks in Ariyalur||The recent spell of widespread rainfall has brought good inflows to irrigation tanks under the Public Works Department in Ariyalur district. Tanks in some parts of Perambalur district too have appreciable storage following the rain. However, most of the rainfed tanks in neighbouring Tiruchi remain largely dry as the northeast monsoon has not brought adequate rainfall to the district. While Ariyalur district received good spells of rainfall under the influence of the cyclonic storms Burevi and Nivar, many parts of the drought-prone Perambalur district received moderate rainfall. Despite good rainfall in some parts of Tiruchi, the district on the whole has received inadequate rainfall so far this season. Of the 69 PWD tanks in Ariyalur district, 34 have filled up and another was nearing its full capacity following the rain. Three other tanks had water up to 81 to 90% of their storage capacity, while nine others had water to 71 to 80% of their capacity. Ten tanks had 50 to 70% of their capacity, six tanks had 25 to 50% of their capacity and an equal number had water to 25% of their capacity. Prominent among the tanks which were full in the district were the Anaikudi, Kasudaiyan, Poovodai,Sengalodai, Valavan and Thirukalappur Periya Eri. The Morakulai Odaikaran Eri is also nearing its full capacity, according to information provided by the PWD. Fifteen of the 73 PWD tanks in Perambalur district have filled up so far. Arumbavur big and small tanks were among them . Four others had 81 to 90% water storage and five tanks had 71 to 80%. Water storage in six others was between 50 to 70%. Eight other tanks had 25 to 50% water storage. The remaining 35 tanks had storage of 1-25% of their capacity. “Some parts of the district have received moderate rainfall, but it is still not enough. While the late cholam crop may benefit from the rain, most other standing crops including onion and cotton may not benefit much from the rain now. However, the groundwater table will improve wherever there has been rain and at least help meet the drinking water requirements locally,” observed R. Raja Chidambaram, a farmers’ leader of the district. Meanwhile, Tiruchi district continues to show a deficit in the NE monsoon rainfall and consequently most of the non-system tanks under the Ariyar Division of the PWD are still empty. According to rainfall statistics of the Regional Meteorological Centre, Chennai, Tiruchi district shows a 31% deficit in rainfall during the period October 1 to December 10. The district had received 240.3 mm of rainfall against the normal average of 349.5 mm for the period. Of the 98 rainfed tanks under the division, only four have filled up so far. All of them were in the Thuraiyur region which get inflows from the Kolli Hills. Alathudayanpatti Periya Eri and Jamberi have filled up following good inflows during the southwest monsoon itself. As many as 53 tanks had nil storage and 31 others had less than 25% storage of their full capacity. Ten tanks had 25 to 50% of their capacity. Poor rainfall and the sight of empty tanks have been a cause of much concern among farmers, especially in drought prone areas such as Manapparai. “We have not received much rainfall. The situation is bad and will turn worse in the coming months unless we get some good rainfall before the NE monsoon withdraws,” observed R. Renganathan, a farmer of Manapparai.  Rain gauge  Of the 69 PWD tanks in Ariyalur district, 34 have filled up  Fifteen of the 73 PWD tanks in Perambalur district have filled up so far  Of the 98 rainfed tanks under the division, only four have filled up so far
11 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Sharp decline in new cases||The central districts on Thursday reported less than 100 fresh cases of COVID-19, a sharp decline over the last few days. Eighty-two patients tested positive for the viral infection and no death was recorded in the region, according to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. All districts in the region reported less than 20 fresh COVID-19 cases while only two districts- Nagapattinam and Tiruchi reported over 15 cases. Perambalur reported no new cases for the viral infection. In Tiruchi, 18 patients tested positive while in Nagapattinam, 16 fresh cases were reported. Among them were isolated cases, primary contacts, inter-district travellers and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. Meanwhile, 10 patients who had been undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged from the hospital after recovering from the viral infection. Thanjavur reported a sharp decline over the past few days with 15 patients testing positive while in Tiruvarur 11 fresh cases for the viral infection were reported. Among them were patients detected at various fever camps held in the districts. In Karur, 10 patients tested positive, including those who hailed from Gandhigramam and Maravapalayam among other localities. Inter-district travellers also tested positive. Pudukottai and Ariyalur both reported six cases for the viral infection while Perambalur reported zero new cases.
11 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Residents stage protest seeking better roads||Residents of Sanjeevi Nagar in the city organised a protest on Thursday outside the Tiruchi Corporation office on Bharathidasan Salai demanding better roads and other amenities. Despite having completed the underground drainage system (UGD) works over a year ago, the civic body is yet to relay roads which were dug up, said Basheer Ahmed, of Makkal Urimai Meetpu Iyakkam, which led the protest. “The roads are filled with slush and potholes as the mud which was dug up was not cleared, and the roads were uneven,” he said. “We have four demands - relay roads, remove the stagnant water, fit street lights and repair the drinking water pipeline to ensure that water does not mix with the drain water,” Mr. Ahmed said. The protesters claimed that they had submitted their petitions to various officials in the civic body and the district administration, but in vain. The protesters met the officials of the civic body who said that they would begin work soon. “They said that they would start with doing temporary repairs on the roads and would asphalt it after the monsoons. For all other work, they said that they would complete it within three months,” Mr. Ahmed said.
11 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Memorials of leaders will be ready by January end’||The memorials being built for Perumpidugu Mutharaiyar, Justice Party leader A.T. Panneerselvam and M.K. Thyagaraja Bhagavathar in Tiruchi will be completed before January 31, said Collector S. Sivarasu. He was inspecting the progress of the construction work with the Public Works Department officials on Thursday. He said that a sum of Rs. 99.25 lakh had been allocated for the Perumpidugu Mutharaiyar memorial. It would come up on 223 square meter of land. In addition to it, there would be a library on 110 square meter. A provision has been made to install a statue of him at the centre of the memorial. Mr. Sivarasu said that a sum of Rs. 43.40 lakh would be spent for building a memorial for A.T. Panneerselvam. It would come on a piece of land of 160 square meter. Similarly, same size of site had been earmarked for housing a memorial for Thyagaraja Bhagavathar. A sum of Rs. 42.69 lakh had been allocated for it. The construction of the memorials had begun on September 21. Officials have been asked to expedite the works, he said .
11 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Electoral roll revision: special drive to be held||About 65,000 applications have been received for inclusion and deletion of names in the electoral rolls in the district so far. Of them, 58,123 applications have been accepted and 2,895 forms were rejected, according to Collector S. Sivarasu. Pointing out that the Election Commission had ordered a summary revision of the electoral rolls with January 1, 2021 as the qualifying date, he urged all those who attain the age of 18 on the qualifying date to get themselves enrolled in the voters list. Speaking at an all party meeting held here on Thursday, he said that several youngsters, who had attained the age of 18, were yet to show interest to include their names in the electoral rolls. A special drive would be conducted on Saturday and Sunday for inclusion/deletion in the electoral rolls. The Election Commission has appointed Sajjansingh R. Chavan, Commissioner of Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection, as Roll Observer for the district. He would visit the special camps on Saturday and Sunday. The Collector said that political parties could play a pro active role in updating the rolls. Mr. Sivarasu also disclosed that the Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) to be used in the upcoming Assembly polls in the district will be brought from Maharashtra. About 1,120 ballot units, 3,490 control units and 4,560 VVPAT units would be used in nine Assembly constituencies of the district. Malaikottai V. Ayyappan (AIADMK), K.N. Sekaran (DMK), A. Tirupathi (DMDK), R. Ganesh (BJP), T. Suresh (CPI) and K.V.S. Induraj (CPI M) were among those who participated.
11 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Commercial complex sealed||A commercial complex, which was allegedly built with deviations from the approved building plan, on Nandhi Kovil Street in the city's central business district was sealed by the Tiruchi City Corporation on Thursday. The building was one of 27 others named in a public interest litigation filed two years ago. The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, when it heard the PIL, had directed strict action in accordance with law, including locking and sealing of the premises which were in violation of existing building rules. The Corporation had issued a notice, dated November 18, had informed the owner that if the necessary alterations in the building were not made, it would be sealed on December 10. Following inaction, the civic body sealed the building on Thursday.
11 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for duping residents||A 25-year-old man was arrested recently after he attempted to dupe residents of Edumalai village in the district by collecting Rs. 100 per head for “issuing new identity cards” under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. The youth, Dinesh (25) of Mathur in Pudukottai district, had allegedly claimed that he had been appointed by an NGO to issue the identity cards. He had been carrying on the process in the village community centre since December 2. On December 7, a section of the villagers grew suspicious and staged a protest in front of the community centre. A team of police from Siruganur rushed to the spot on receipt of information and found that the youth had apparently given wrong information to the Edumalai Panchayat president and had collected money from 600 persons. A laptop, printer and laminating machine were seized from the arrested youth, an official release from the district administration said.
11 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Villages notch up food grain production||Agriculture production in four revenue villages near here, all getting water for irrigation from the rejuvenated Manur Periyakulam, has gone up substantially during this year. The villages – Manur, Mavadi, Ettankulam and Madhavakurichi – all getting water from Manur Periyakulam have jointly produced 4,423 tonnes of food grains, including paddy, during 2019 - 20 against last year’s (2018 – 2019) production of 2,925 tonnes. The feat has been achieved by ensuring proper influx of water into Periyakulam by removing man-made and nature’s obstacles at several places of the Chittar watercourse that feed the water body and also rejuvenating it under the State Government’s ‘kudimaramathu’ scheme. When rejuvenation of water bodies was taken up by the district administration exactly a year ago by meticulously involving the government departments, non-governmental organisations and the public, it yielded excellent results. The district administration, in association with Anna University, Chennai, designed a methodology in 2018 to restore the hitherto uncared for water bodies with the active involvement of the locals for coordinated execution. The prime objective of this exercise was to renovate the waterbodies with locals’ participation to ensure increased agriculture productivity. The methodology was formulated by demarcating the river region and to allocate the responsibility to all the stakeholders. The specified area was maintained by the stakeholders concerned after the work was completed. An activity should be carried out in the form of techno-physical studies, general surveys, physical cleaning, awareness creation, etc. on monthly basis so that the renovated water body would be maintained in desirable shape for longer duration. Before and after the event, a review in the presence of all the stakeholders was conducted to understand the breakthrough, loopholes and obstacles of the work, if any. Events to educate the students and the local residents, on the importance of conserving waterbodies and also stressing them the importance of their responsibilities were also conducted. Apart from the locals, there was a good coordination among the government departments, technical institutions, schools, colleges and the non-governmental organisations in this techno-physical exercise. Anna University prepared the satellite data mapping with the data obtained from National Remote Sensing Centre, Hyderabad, and compared the status of the river in earlier year with the current situation. Based on the processed data, the district administration organised for a discussion on the methods to be adopted for the rejuvenation work with the participation from different government departments, institutions, NGOs’ and the public. This methodology was meticulously adopted with the participation of the stakeholders. Two major works done by the district administration with the public participation were the renovation of Manur Periyakulam and the supply channels. After blasting the rocks blocking the free flow of water at several places between Veerakeralampudhur and Manur, the channel carrying water from Chittar that originates at Courtallam was desilted with public contribution and active participation. This work did not cause any expenditure to the exchequer as the farmers and others met the expenses by giving money or providing heavy equipment required for the work. Meanwhile, the irrigation tank was given a facelift under the ‘kudimaramathu’ scheme that ensured storage of increased quantity of water. “It has collectively achieved the increased quantity of food grains in the four beneficiary villages,” says G. Sakthinathan of Anna University who coordinated the channel desilting work, the toughest part. After the completion of the renovation a year ago, crop has been cultivated on hitherto unused 130 hectares of land under Manur Periyakulam which has boosted the food production to unprecedented 4,423 tonnes, including the additional yield of 1,076 tonnes of paddy, in 2019 – 2020, say officials attached to the Department of Agriculture. Similarly, the renovation of nearby Pallamadai tank also has boosted the farmers’ moral and their productivity.
11 December 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Bomb threat to Tiruppur station turns out to be a hoax||The Tiruppur City Police were on high alert late on Wednesday after they were notified of a bomb threat to the Tiruppur railway station. The threat eventually turned out to be a hoax. Police sources said the ‘108’ State ambulance helpline received an anonymous call on Wednesday night about a bomb that was planted at the railway station. Ambulance helpline personnel from Chennai alerted the Tiruppur police, who in turn began search operations at the station. Around 50 police personnel, including those from the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and the Government Railway Police, were involved in the search. No bomb was detected during the search, which ended at around 1 a.m. on Thursday, sources said. Caller arrested Following this, the Tiruppur South Police arrested a man on Thursday morning on charges of making the hoax call. Sources said the accused, S. Anand, 28, from Theni district, was an engineering graduate who was working at a TASMAC outlet in Dharapuram. Having quit his job, he reached Tiruppur on Wednesday and was staying at a lodge near the Old Bus Terminus. According to the sources, he made the hoax call on Wednesday night in an inebriated state. The accused was booked under Sections 505 (Statements conducing public mischief) and 506(2) (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and was remanded in judicial custody on Thursday.
11 December 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Nanjarayan Tank sees decline in migratory birds||Birdwatchers has expressed concern over the apparent reduction in number of migratory birds at Nanjarayan Tank near Uthukuli in Tiruppur district even after the onset of December, while the Forest Department is yet to quantify the decline. According to K. Ravindran, president of Nature Society of Tiruppur, there has been a gradual decline in the arrival of migratory birds for the past few years. With Tiruppur district witnessing steady rainfall in the past few weeks, the water level in Nanjarayan Tank has increased this year. This has left virtually no shores or mud flats, which are preferred by ducks and shorebirds (also known as waders) and are seen only when the water recedes at the Tank, he said. “In ducks, we were only able to see about 10 to 12 garganeys and about six northern shovelers [in Nanjarayan Tank],” Mr. Ravindran said recently. Last year, the Nature Society of Tiruppur enumerated around 250 ducks in both the species, he recalled. Shorebirds such as black-tailed godwits usually arrive as a large flock but only two has been spotted at the Tank so far, he said. In the case of bar-headed geese which arrive from parts of Central Asia annually, Mr. Ravindran said that a flock of around 30 geese was found landing in the last week of November at Manickapuram Tank, which is located a few kilometres away from Nanjarayan Tank. A Forest Department official said that the bird census exercise will be carried out at Nanjarayan Tank in January 2021, by which the number of migratory birds is expected to stabilise. The results of this census will help in ascertaining whether there had been any sharp decline in the arrival of migratory birds as compared to previous years, the official said.
11 December 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||With 43 cases, Vellore’s tally at 19,718||With 43 fresh infections on Thursday, Vellore district’s COVID-19 tally touched 19,718. While 19,028 persons have been discharged so far, as many as 352 are still undergoing treatment. The district’s toll stands at 338. Eight new cases were reported in Ranipet district, taking its tally to 15,720. Tirupathur count Tirupathur district, which has so far reported 7,330 cases, saw two more infections on Thursday. Six more persons tested positive in Tiruvannamalai, taking its total figure to 18,835. Of these, 18,424 have been discharged, and the district’s active cases stand at 135.
11 December 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Warehouse for storing EVMs opened||Collector A. Annadurai on Thursday inaugurated the district’s warehouse for storage of electronic voting machines (EVMs) and voter-verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) machines at the Master Plan complex. The 1,463 sq m building was built at a cost of Rs. 6.5 crore. It has a strong room and a warehouse for storing EVMs. All EVMs and VVPAT machines meant for the six Assembly constituencies in the district would be kept at the warehouse, an official said.
11 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects site for dental college in Virudhunagar||A discussion to identify land for a government dental college in Virudhunagar, announced by the then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa in 2015, took place on Thursday. Principal (full in-charge) of Virudhunagar Government Dental College S. Jayachandran and Collector R. Kannan inspected the site after a discussion. Five acres of land “We are providing five acres of land for the dental college adjacent to the Virudhunagar Government Medical College site,” Mr. Kannan said. Stating that an application seeking approval for the dental college has been submitted to Dental Council of India, New Delhi, he said the construction would be started immediately after getting the nod. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has sanctioned Rs. 50 crore for the second government dental college in the State. Dr. Jayachandran said that the State Government was planning to admit students for the five-year course from 2021 academic year. A total of 100 students would be admitted in the first year. An academic block, clinical block, administrative building, separate hostels for boys and girls would be constructed. The dental college would be the second major higher educational institution run by the government in the district after the government medical college for which construction is going on.
11 December 2020||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Appointment order given to woman||Appointment for the post of Anganwadi assistant was given to V. Sivaranjani, wife of C. Mutheeswaran, who was washed away in wild stream of Peiyanaru, on compassionate grounds. Collector, R. Kannan, handed over the appointment order to Sivaranjani, mother of a one-year-old girl child at the Collectorate on Wednesday. Her mother is mentally challenged. She has been made the Anganwadi assistant at Mangapuram Kaliamman Temple Anganwadi. District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Sivakasi Sub-Collector, C. Dinesh Kumar, Project Officer, Rajam and Deputy Collector (Training), Shalini, were present.
11 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Produce Aadhar card to buy fertilizer, Collector tells farmers||Farmers must produce their Aadhar cards while buying fertilizers from cooperative societies and private shops, said Collector R. Kannan. In a press release, he said farmers must leave their fingerprints on the point of sales machine at the fertilizer. Further, they must buy fertilizers based on the soil condition of their farms. He warned of stringent action against fertilizer shops if they did not insist on production of Aadhar card from farmers. “If any farmer is found selling more than required quantity of fertilizer, license of the shop would be cancelled,” he said. The shops should neither sell fertilizer to wholesale dealers of other districts nor buy from other districts. Stocking of fertilizer in unauthorized places and fertilizers that were not permitted by the Department of Agriculture should not be done.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Raise commission: Aavin agents||Seeking higher commission, milk agents of Madurai Aavin staged a protest here on Thursday. The protesters, affiliated to the Madurai Milk Agents and Sellers Association – Centre of Indian Tradu Unions, said they were given a commission of Rs. 2 per litre, while private players gave Rs. 5. “Aavin has not revised the commission for at least seven years,” said R. Lenin, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Cooperative Association Workers’ Association. Aavin officials had been finding fault with agents for selling milk packets of private players. As per Aavin rules, the agents were not allowed to sell it. “The officials say the agents’ family members were selling milk of private players at places other than the Aavin milk booths. But an agent can earn only a meagre income at the current commission level. So the family members have to take up other business to sustain their livelihood. This issue can be resolved only if the commission is raised,” he said. Mr. Lenin also charged that some of the officials were trying to divert business established by the agents with tea stalls. “While agents brought these businesses in, the officials try to supply directly to the tea stalls, bypassing the agents,” he said. The agents should be given raincoats for unhindered supply of milk, and free accident insurance, Mr. Lenin said. Association president G.S. Amarnath also participated in the protest.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Number of cases crosses 50,000-mark in Coimbatore||Erode district reported 85 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the district’s tally to 12,926. While 52 persons were discharged, 391 continue to be under treatment. Salem reported 71 cases, of which 70 were indigenous, including 31 in the Corporation limits. One patient returned from Namakkal. Coimbatore district crossed the 50,000-mark in terms of the total number of positive cases reported, so far. Thursday’s 124 new cases took the district’s tally to 50,080, of which 48,500 persons recovered. The Health Department said that 51 persons were discharged, and 954 were under institutional care. Four patients died, taking the toll to 626. Tiruppur district reported 51 new cases, raising its tally to 16,025. No deaths were reported on Thursday. A total of 15,276 patients recovered, so far, and 538 remained as active cases. The district reported 211 deaths. On Thursday, 62 patients were discharged. In Namakkal, 28 persons tested positive, of whom three returned from Salem and Erode. Krishnagiri reported 21 new cases, taking the total number of active cases to 167. Fifteen persons were discharged. The total number of infections in the district stood at 7,574. Dharmapuri saw 10 cases and eight persons were discharged on Thursday. The number of active cases stood at 132 and the total number of infections 6,204. In the Nilgiris, 10 persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 7,628. Twenty persons were discharged.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Centre flayed over handling of farmers’ protest||Members of ‘Naatai Kaapom -Tamil Nadu’ staged a demonstration here on Thursday marking Human Rights Day. Leading the agitation, Rajya Sabha MP M.Shanmugam, advocate C.J. Rajan, former MLA N Nanmaran, Mahaboob John from Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam raised objections to the way the Central government handled the farmers’ issue. After the Bharaiya Janata Party came to power, the nation had lost the secular fabric. Everywhere the Sanathana dharma was indirectly introduced. It was unfortunate that the Dravidians here (AIADMK) had also joined hands with the BJP and welcomed the Farmers’ Act, the protesters said. Before the agitation in New Delhi, which has been going on for more than 10 days, turned for the worse, the Centre should withdraw the laws forthwith and ensure peace. When livelihood was at stake, such anti-farmers laws should not be allowed and it was a clear case of violation of human rights, the participants said. Incidents of people belonging to the upper castes harassing the Scheduled Caste people had come to the fore. Many writers and social activists, including Stan Swamy, who had recently voiced for the Dalits, were arrested under fictitious charges. The police should drop the cases and not throttle the voices of the people in a democratic country, the protesters said.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Providing information||
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Empty threat||
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Let women rule for 2.5 years’||He said violence against women in a civilised society is a violation of human rights and there is a need to take steps to remove the sufferings of women and children who have been affected by violence. “There is a need for us to increase punishment and bring change in societal mentality on issues like violence against women. There is a need to increase awareness of these issues among officials,” he said.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||Bharathiar University: Presentation of Illam Bharathi 2020 awards, University campus, 10.30 a.m.  CMS College of Science and Commerce: Inauguration of DBT - Star College Scheme, 9.30 a.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Bharathi Vizha, 10 a.m.  Coimbatore Speakers Forum of Toastmasters International: Virtual meeting, 6.29 p.m.  Coimbatore Management Association: AGM, ND Hall, COINDIA premises, 6 p.m.  Institution of Valuers: Indian Valuers Conference, Jenneys Residency, 10 a.m.
11 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Third phase of vaccine trials begins in Belagavi||The third phase of COVID -19 vaccine trials began in Belagavi on Thursday. City-based Jeevan Rekha Hospital has made preparations to organise the trials on a large scale and has issued a public appeal asking volunteers to take part. “We have begun administering the test dose of Covaxin to volunteers,” said Paritosh Desai, in charge of the trial process. As many as 40 volunteers were given the vaccine on Thursday. “We hope to give the vaccine to at least 1,000 volunteers,” Dr. Desai said. He says increased awareness about the vaccine has made their job easier. “Now people know about the vaccine and they are coming forward for the trials,” Dr. Desai said. He said the third phase is different from the second in multiple ways. “The test dose used is almost the same as the final product and the number of volunteers is bigger. Only healthy individuals in a specific age range were selected for the second phase. But in the third phase, any one above the age of 18 will be administered the vaccine. Those with health problems and comorbidities are not rejected,” he said. The vital part is that the third phase involves a placebo-based double blind and randomised testing. “The process involves the patient receiving two shots of the vaccine or of the placebo two times. After that the volunteers are monitored by the hospital for a year. There is a provision for SOS visits to the hospital if the patients suffer from symptoms or any other problem,” he said. Volunteers of the first and second phase had to make multiple visits to the hospital for monitoring. Jeevan Rekha has been conducting two separate sets of trials. It conducted the first and the second phase of trials for Covaxin, while it organised only the second phase of trials for ZyCoV-D develped by Zydus Cadilla. As many as 50 healthy young people volunteered for Covaxin and 275 were given the ZyCoV-D doses. The Belagavi hospital is yet to get the go ahead for the third phase of ZyCoV-D. Reports from the first and second phase trials have proved the safety and efficacy of Covaxin. “Covaxin, the made-in-India vaccine has been proven to be safe. It has been given to over 25,800 people in 250 centres across the country till now,” says Amit Bhate, director of the hospital. Those wanting to participate can call the hospital helpline at 9743433294, 9019601976, or 9113222185.
11 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Farmers protest against amendment to legislation||Farmers’ associations took out a protest against amendments to farm legislation in front of the Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi on Thursday. Police stopped the farmers who were walking to the soudha, nearly half a kilometre away. The police also created a space for the protest by erecting barricades. The farmers sat on the road and shouted slogans against the government. They cooked and ate lunch on the spot. They said that the Union government had conspired to turn farmers into the slaves of large corporations. They also said that the Centre’s policies would threaten the country’s food security, seed bio-diversity, and take away the independence of the small farmer. Jayashree Gurannanavar, Raju Pawar, Choonappa Pujari, and others led the protest. Ms. Gurannanavar said that there was no scope for talks with the government and the only way left was to repeal the laws.
11 December 2020||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Senior journalist Ashok Yalagi passes away||Ashok Yalagi, senior journalist, Marathi writer, theatre person and cultural personality, died in Belagavi on Thursday. He was 82. He was the founder Editor of Avaliya, a Marathi weekly. He served for long as the chief reporter of Tarun Bharat, a Maratha daily. A postgraduate in Marathi literature, he continued to write fiction and non-fiction in various newspapers. He later headed the cultural wing of the Lokamanya trust. He served as the honorary president of the Lokamanya Library and Vangmaya Charcha Mandal, a cultural club. Several of his relatives were involved in the Goa liberation struggle and a unified Maharashtra movement. His parents and uncles were jailed in the Goa liberation movement. He served as the president of the Belgaum Press Club and Ajantha Film Society. He was a journalist with an attractive writing style. Several of his articles on political and social issues were considered explosive in those times, recalls Sarjoo Katkar, senior journalist. He was also among the few cultural personalities who acted as a bridge between Kannada and Marathi writers and cultural groups in Belagavi.
11 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||IMA members protest against Centre’s ‘unscientific orders’||Members of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) held a protest in Belagavi recently against, what they called, unscientific orders by the Union government about public health and medical education. Protesters marched to the Deputy Commissioner’s office and submitted a memorandum to the Union government. This was part of the nationwide movement by the IMA, they said. Their main objection is against permitting Ayurveda doctors to perform surgeries. “The gazette notification issued by the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), a statutory body under the AYUSH Ministry, specifies a total of 58 surgical procedures that postgraduate scholars of Shalya Tantra can perform, encompassing specialities of surgery, orthopaedics, ENT, ophthalmology, and dental surgeries. This is not acceptable,” they said. This is a retrograde step of unscientific mixing of system of medicine which will produce hybrid doctors who will not be at par with the medical specialists of modern medicine. This can have negative repercussions that could endanger public health, the protesters said. The memorandum seeks maintaining the legacy and sanctity of each system of medicine. ‘No mixopathy’ “We urge that the government should not introduce mixopathy. Purity of all the different systems of medicine should be maintained. Research and development should happen in respective fields of medicine and each should follow their system of medicine,” they said. Anil Patil, president, IMA Belagavi; Devagouda, secretary; A.S. Godhi, former principal of KLE Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College; Sashikant Kulgod, Ravindra Angol, Sudhir Bhat, Vijay Patil, and Yalaburgi, were present.
11 December 2020||belagavi,KARNATAKA||AAP begins ‘Hubballi Calling’||The Aam Aadmi Party has begun ‘Hubballi Calling’, a movement to invite IT companies to tier-cities like Hubballi- Dharwad. This is in line with the theme of `Beyond Bengaluru’ as mentioned in the State’s IT policy. However, the State government is not following it up, AAP leaders said in Hubballi on Thursday. Jagadish Shettar, Industries Minister, has announced that Infosys will start functioning in Hubballi soon. He has argued that COVID -19 related reasons had delayed its functioning. “We want either him or the company to announce the date of its formal launch,” he said.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP Bill: More brickbats than bouquets||The speed with which the State Legislative Assembly passed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Bill, 2020, on Thursday has caused a stir among civil organisations and activists. The Bill received more brickbats than bouquets, with many viewing it as another opportunity lost for the much-needed administrative and governance reforms for the city. The lack of public consultations, apart from no solution to the lack of coordination between different civic agencies and parastatals in the city is one of the major drawbacks in the Bill, said urban planners. Former Opposition leader in BBMP Council M. Shivaraju, who filed a PIL petition questioning the delay in holding polls to the civic body, termed the Bill as “unconstitutional”, going to the extent of calling it a “Black Day” for the city. In a statement, the non-profit organisation, Janaagraha, said that the Bill should have been far more ambitious and comprehensive, and based on a far more systematic, consultative and well-informed process. Srikanth Viswanathan, CEO, Janaagrahaa, said: “The silver lining to the cloud is decentralisation of powers and functions to the zones and wards and citizen participation through ward committees and area sabhas. We need to, however, emphasise to the State government that major missing pieces such as metropolitan governance, spatial planning, and financial and human resource capacities, besides digitalisation need to be addressed.” Jagadish Reddy from Varthur Rising maintained that the Bill did not address the problems of the city, especially administrative gaps. The State’s exchequer gets nearly 60% revenue from the city and yet, the “myopic Bill” has no vision for Bengaluru’s future development, he maintained. Stating that the BBMP Bill was better than the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, in some ways, urban expert V. Ravichandar, who was also part of the government-constituted BBMP Restructuring Committee, said the hits were the recognition of municipal authorities, such as Mayor, zonal committees, ward committees and area sabhas, and emphasis on heritage and solid waste management. But he questioned why the MLAs were made central to the BBMP Bill, when the executive is actually the elected councillor. “There are a few city corporations in the country where the MLAs don’t belong to them. The Bill should have ideally taken this path,” he said and also pointed out that the drawing of the ward should be citizen centric and not whether it cuts across two or three Assembly constituencies.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cow Bill: Did BJP’s original plans backfire in Council?||The ruling BJP in Karnataka, which had tabled and passed the controversial Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, in The Assembly, showed no inclination to present it in the Council on Thursday. As the Bill was in the day’s agenda, Council Chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty asked the ruling party to present the Bill for discussion. However, Floor Leader Kota Srinivas Poojary said it could be taken up on Friday. Following this, Congress members led by their leader S.R. Patil insisted that it should be taken up as it had been listed. However, the ruling party members dodged the subject and instead raised their demand for no-confidence motion against the Chairman. When contacted, Mr. Poojary said they did not present the Bill on Thursday assuming that the session would continue on Friday as scheduled earlier. However, Congress leaders said the BJP, sensing defeat, tried to postpone presenting the Bill. They claimed that the party did not have majority in the House when the Bill was supposed to be presented. “It is a surprise that the ruling party that had presented the Bill in a hurried manner in the Assembly and got it adopted refused to present it in the Council despite being allowed to do so,” S.R. Patil, Leader of the Opposition, told The Hindu . ‘They sensed defeat’ Alleging that the party had sensed that the Bill would be defeated by the combined Opposition, Mr. Patil said, “We were prepared to vehemently oppose the Bill and had decided to demand that it be referred to a joint select committee for a detailed study.” Sources said although the BJP was prepared to present the Bill till the House was adjourned for lunch, they changed their plan after realising that the Opposition Congress and the JD(S) had come together to defeat the Bill. “They had come prepared wearing saffron shawls in the first half. However, by late afternoon they pretended that they would not take it up. This was an attempt to mislead us. They assumed that following their pretence to not present the Bill, the Opposition would rest assured without minding about full attendance in the House,” said Congress member B.K. Hariprasad. However, the Congress had discussed with JD(S) leaders and had garnered their support. “The JD(S) agreed to go with us on this issue. And all our 36 members were present in the House as against the 30 BJP members. Hence, they backed off,” he said.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC initiates suo motu petition on delay in holding ULB elections||Taking note of not holding elections to a large number of urban local bodies (ULBs) in the State despite expiry of tenure of the elected body, the Karnataka High Court on Thursday initiated a suo motu PIL petition to ensure that the constitutional mandate is adhered to. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty passed the order while hearing a petition related to holding of elections to Vijayapura City Corporation (VCC). It is not only necessary but also duty of the High Court to ensure that mandate of Article 243U of the Constitution, to hold elections before the expiry of tenure of the elected body, is adhered to, the Bench observed while directing the Registrar-General of the High Court to file a petition seeking direction to the authorities to hold elections as per the constitutional mandate. The Bench ordered for initiation of suo motu petition after senior advocate K.N. Phanindra, appearing for the State Election Commission (SEC) in the petition related to VCC, pointed out that elections to a few other city corporations like Kalaburagi and some municipal bodies were also not held. Earlier, the Bench directed the SEC to declare elections to VCC in five months while directing the State government to notify the delimited wards to enable the SEC to commence the process of preparing electoral roll. The Bench held that the amendment made to the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act on October 3, 2020 will not be applicable for the present elections to the VCC as the tenure of the corporation had ended before the new law came into force.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Government wants to put off BBMP polls: Oppn.||Councillors and leaders in the Congress are up in arms over the State Assembly passing the BBMP Bill, 2020, a day after the Joint Legislature Committee constituted to review it submitted its report. Abdul Wajid, former Opposition leader in BBMP Council, who had also filed a PIL petition in the High Court of Karnataka, questioning the delay in holding polls to the civic body along with M. Shivaraju, also former Opposition leader, said the main agenda of the government seemed to be to put off polls to the BBMP for a couple of years. “They want to achieve this by hook or crook. The government is likely to appeal against the High Court order in the Supreme Court by presenting this as a ruse,” he said. HC direction The High Court had recently directed the State government and the State Election Commission to hold polls for the 198 wards in BBMP. The court held that allowing application of amendment to the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, which increased the number of wards to the BBMP, would be contrary to the constitutional mandate of timely holding of elections. Concurring with Mr. Wajid, Mr. Shivaraju said the court had noted that the process of delimitation, reservation and amendment with regard to number of wards should have happened at least six months before the end of the term of council. The term of the council ended on September 10, 2020. Role of Assembly Urban experts Ashwin Mahesh said the Assembly clearing the Bill appeared to be a legislative response to the court’s ruling to the SEC to declare the elections to the BBMP within six weeks from the date of publication of final reservation notification by the government. ‘Local governments’ “There needs to be a mechanism to ensure that the government doesn’t decide when to hold polls to the local bodies by setting up a delimitation commission that is separate from the SEC. “It is only when local bodies are considered to be local governments that there will be unbroken elections,” he said.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||With children and families in tow, road transport staff take out rally||Freedom Park, which has been the venue of many protests this week, saw children and family members of transport corporation workers lending their voice in support of a rally on Thursday. Holding placards, hundreds of people working for Road Transport Corporations, accompanied by their families, took out the massive rally and staged a protest at Freedom Park, demanding that the State consider them as ‘government employees’. Protesters assembled near Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna city railway station and marched to Freedom Park. Traffic in the Majestic area was badly hit for hours and traffic was diverted by the police. Over 300 participants were detained by the police. ‘Huge disparity in pay’ “For years, we have been asking the State government to consider us as government employees and extend the benefits. We are not getting salaries on time and there is a huge disparity in what we earn compared to government employees,” said a protester. Another protester pointed to the long hours and stressful conditions that drivers and conductors are subjected to. “We work for nearly 10-12 hours, but are denied good facilities. In the interest of our families and children, the State should consider us as government employees,” he said. In the protest, family members of the drivers and conductors participated with their kids. Retired workers of the corporations too joined in. Vishwanath, an employee with one of the corporations, said: “A year ago, the State government had formed a committee to look into our demands, but nothing happened. We are seeking a rightful demand. Drivers and conductors start their career with very low salaries and probationary periods are long too. We spend over 10 hours on Bengaluru’s roads because of the bad traffic. The State government should end this discriminatory attitude against us.” Another demand Another major demand was providing compensation of Rs. 30 lakh for families of employees who died of COVID-19. Some of the family members of employees who died after contracting the virus also took part in the protest and demanded compensation. ‘Services unaffected’ BMTC officials claimed that services remained unaffected despite the show of support. “We believe those who had a weekly-off participated in the protests. Bus operations in the city was as usual and there was no shortage of staff,” said a senior official. The KSRTC too maintained that services were operated without any disruptions.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC notice to environment Ministry on appraisal panel||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday ordered issue of notice to the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change on a PIL petition challenging selection of five individuals to the Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) for River Valley and Hydroelectric Projects. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty passed the order on the petition filed by United Conservation Movement Charitable Welfare Trust, Bengaluru, challenging the July 13, 2020 notification of constituting the EAC for river valley and hydroelectric projects. The petitioner has contended that K. Gopakumar of the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, who has been appointed as Chairperson of the committee has no statutorily prescribed qualification in the field of environment. Also, three other members – B.K. Panigraphi of IIT Delhi, Udaya Kumar R.V of Malaviya National Institute of Technology, Jaipur in Rajasthan, and Chandrahas Deshpande of Walingkar Institute of Management Development and Research, Mumbai, have no requisite qualification in environment though they are experts in their domain, the petitioner has contended. Another member On appointment of another member, Balraj Joshi, former Chairman of the public sector undertaking National Hydro Power Corporation, the petitioner has contended that his appointment would result in conflict of interest as he is a proponent of hydroelectric project rather than environment. ‘Frame guidelines’ The petitioner has also sought a direction to the Ministry to frame guidelines for selection to EAC at the Central level, and the State Environment Impact Assessment Authorities, and the State Expert Appraisal Committees while pointing out that at present the Ministry is selecting individuals without any minimum safeguards without laying down any procedure. The Ministry will have to devise guidelines, including issuing public notice through advertisements inviting applications from eligible persons as per qualifications prescribed in the Environment Impact Assessment notification of 2006 and to set up a panel to select chairperson and members to the EAC.   Petitioner says K. Gopakumar of the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, who has been appointed as Chairperson of the committee, has no statutorily prescribed qualification in the field of environment.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Central team to visit flood-hit areas to decide compensation||A Central team will visit the State in three or four days to decide on the compensation to be provided for the damage caused by floods that ravaged various districts from September 15 to October third week. Announcing this in the Legislative Assembly on Thursday, while replying to a debate on floods, Revenue Minister R. Ashok saidboth himself and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa would hold consultations with the Central team. The team would visit all the flood-hit areas to assess the damage level. He said floods had ravaged the State in three phases this year. While the first phase was from August 1 to September 15, the second and third phases ranged from September 15 to 30 and October second week to third week. The Central team will decide the compensation for the second and third phases, the Minister explained. In the second phase of floods, 50 taluks in 16 districts were affected while several northern areas had been affected in the third phase, he said. The Minister maintained that the State had managed the flood situation well this time owing to adequate precautionary measures. In all, 48,307 houses had been damaged while crops on 20.87 lakh hectares had been devastated. In addition to this, 4,084 bridges, 7,606 government buildings, and 650 tanks coming under the Minor Irrigation Department and zilla panchayats had suffered damage. As many as 52,240 affected people had been put in relief centres, the Minister noted, while briefing about the relief measures taken up by the government. Referring to the floods witnessed in the State last year, the Minister reiterated that several eligible beneficiaries had not collected their remaining instalments of compensation for building houses after getting the first instalment. He appealed to those who had lost their houses to get the full compensation amount.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Look at anti-cow slaughter Bill from farmers’ perspective’||Former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy said that the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, is detrimental to the farming community and it should be viewed from that perspective. “It is also important to think of the welfare of farmers who nurture go maata . Who will stand by the farmer when taking care of a cow becomes a burden on him?” asked Mr. Kumaraswamy. He sought to know how a farmer is to shoulder the financial burden when cattle fall sick or are aged when he/she is not allowed to sell it. He pointed out that taking care of a male calf is also a financial burden on farmers. The new law, he said, will make such cattle a financial burden a poor farmer cannot bear. Given the strong penal provisions in the new law, farmers will also suffer at the hands of the police, he said. “How is it fair to punish a poor farmer in the garb of protecting cows?” he asked in the release.  Who will stand by the farmer when taking care of a cow becomes a burden on him?H.D. KumaraswamyJD(S) leader
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru civic body to get its own law for better governance||Both Houses of the Karnataka legislature on Thursday passed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Bill, 2020, to give a separate law for the city corporation that ensures a new municipal governance, increases the number of wards from 198 to 243 and empowers it to levy a fee on advertisement and impose entertainment tax. The Bill was passed amidst boycott of the session by the principal Opposition Congress and the absence of JD (S) members. Opposition members argued that it was passed without due consultation. The Bill, that runs into 109 pages, was drafted based on a report of the Legislature’s Joint Select Committee headed by BJP MLA S. Raghu. The Bill, among other things, increases the term of the Mayor and the Deputy Mayor from one year to 30 months. With this Bill, the BBMP comes out of the governance structure under the Karnataka Corporation Act (KCA), 1976. The KCA “is inadequate in administrative and structural matters to govern Bengaluru,” said the bill, adding that there is “an urgent need to formulate an independent legislation for the working of the BBMP for the purposes of improving, decentralization, integration of public participation at various levels of the BBMP.” The Bill allows the government to nominate residents of the city, such as experts in the fields of health, town planning, education, but the number of such members should not exceed 10% of the councillors. The nominated members won’t have the right to vote in the meetings of the corporation.  Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy, who tabled the Bill, said only MLAs whose constituencies are within the BBMP limits and MLCs who are registered voters in the corporation would become members of the corporation. The Bill also tweaks functions of standing committees, he said. The Bill empowers the BBMP to levy a fee on advertisement and entertainment tax. It said no hoardings would be allowed to be displayed in the city without the written permission of the commissioner. The fee to be collected is not for more than one year period. “After introduction of GST, we could not levy tax on advertisements. Instead of a tax, there will be a fee,” he said. Entertainment tax should be levied and collected by the BBMP over any ticket-based, non-ticket-based, and televisied entertainment, in accordance with the Act. Rainwater harvesting has been made mandatory for houses built on 60 x 40 sq.ft. and more area.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police detain over 350 farmers as organisations intensify stir||The police on Thursday detained more than 350 farmers, including Kodihalli Chandrashekar, the president of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, for violating prohibitory orders and COVID-19 rules as organisations intensified their protest against the farm laws passed by the Centre as well as the State. Protesters led by Mr. Chandrashekar tried to breach security cover outside Freedom Park to reach the Vidhana Soudha, following which they were detained. They were taken to the CAR (South) ground in Adugodi and later, released. Tense moments Meanwhile, Aikya Horata, a coalition of farmers, Dalits and workers’ groups, also held a protest in the city, marching from the city railway station to Raj Bhavan. Organisers said that over 3,000 people from across the State had participated in the protest. The protesters attempted to proceed to Raj Bhavan, but were stopped by the police, leading to some tense moments. The police finally escorted a delegation led by farmers’ leader Kurubur Shanthakumar to Raj Bhavan where he submitted a memorandum to the Governor. In the memorandum, Aikya Horata urged that the Governor to return the farm Bills passed by the Karnataka Legislature, which they argued were “detrimental to the interest of farmers”. The agitation has been called off temporarily following assurance from the Governor that their demands will be considered, said Mr. Shanthakumar. Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah visited the protest site. Speaking to farmers, he said that the party’s support to the cause was “not for political gains”. He burnt copies of two farm Bills as a mark of protest. In all, around 700 protesters were detained in the city on Thursday, including employees of transport corporations who had also staged a rally and protest. As many as 80 platoons of reserve police force were deployed to supervise law and order for both rallies.  Traffic disruption in city With both employees of transport corporations and farmers marching from KSR station to Freedom Park, traffic was disrupted for hours around Majestic area.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress MLAs oppose Bill||Two Congress MLAs, who were part of the Joint Legislature Committee constituted to review the draft BBMP Bill, 2020, have expressed their objection to the Bill passed by the Assembly. Byatarayanapura MLA Krishna Byre Gowda and Gandhinagar MLA Dinesh Gundu Rao submitted a letter stating their objections to chairperson of the Joint Legislative Committee S. Raghu. They pointed to the need for a more thorough Act for Bengaluru’s overall development. They stated that this was because Bengaluru, a global city vital to not just Karnataka, but the country, lacked a governance system that meets its current and future needs. “We have stated in many meetings of the committee that this was a golden opportunity to provide the much-needed system of good governance. However, despite our best efforts, the draft finalised by the committee does not do justice to needs, expectations and aspirations of Bengalureans,” the letter stated. The two MLAs have demanded wide-ranging consultations with all stakeholders, including civic groups, residents’ associations and experts, apart from reviewing recommendations of expert committees set up by the past governments.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Give compensation for crop loss: Speaker Kageri||Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Thursday directedthe State government to provide an adequate amount of compensation to farmers who incur crop loss owing to the menace of wild animals such as elephants and monkeys in Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga, and coastal districts. During the discussion on a question of M.P. Kumaraswamy of the BJP regarding crop loss incurred by farmers in Mudigere constituency, Mr. Kageri said the government should provide compensation on time and the amount should match the crop loss.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State sees 1,238 new cases, 5,076 recoveries||As many as 1,238 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in the State on Thursday. The total number of people who contracted the virus in the State since the start of the pandemic now stands at 8.97 lakh. In total, 5,076 persons were discharged on Thursday, taking the total number to 8.66 lakh. Twelve people were reported to have succumbed to the virus on Thursday, taking the total number of deaths to 11,912. Of the 19,206 active cases, as many as 258 patients are in intensive care units across different designated hospitals. The number of COVID-19 tests conducted on Wednesday stood at 84,270. However, the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.46% and case fatality rate stood at 0.96%.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NIA special court convicts 3 in fake currency case||The NIA special court on Thursday convicted three people in a fake currency racket case and sentenced each of them to six, five and two years of imprisonment. The convicts — Dalim Mia, Ashok Mahadev Kumbar and Shukruddin Sekh — have also been ordered to pay a fine of Rs. 5,000 failing which they will have to face an additional six months of imprisonment. The case relates to recovery of counterfeit Indian currency notes of total face value of Rs. 82,000. It was originally registered in March 2018 by the police in Chikkodi, Belagavi district, but was taken over by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in April that year. Four others arrested The fake notes were found in the possession of Ashok Mahadev Kumbar who had received them from Dalim Mia. During investigation, the NIA uncovered the involvement of four others, Rajendra Patil Desai, Gangadhar Kolkar, Shahanoyaj Kasuri, and Shukuruddin, who were also arrested. Investigation also revealed that the fake currency was smuggled across the Indo-Bangladesh border by Shukruddin Sekh and another accused in the case, Sariful Islam, who is absconding. They had received it from Saddam Sekh and Hakim Sekh, both residents of Bangladesh, said the NIA in a press release. Trial against the remaining three charge-sheeted accused, and further investigation against the absconding accused Saddam Sekh and Hakim Sekh from Bangladesh along with the Indian fugitive Sariful Islam are continuing, the NIA said.  The special court sentenced each of the convicts to six, five, and two years imprisonment.
11 December 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two ex-Customs officials convicted of bribery||The special CBI court on Wednesday convicted a former Superintendent of Customs and the head havaldar at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), and sentenced them to four years of imprisonment. They were caught red-handed accepting Rs. 50,000 from a businessman for a favour. The court also slapped a fine of Rs. 30,000 and Rs. 15,000 on the duo, respectively. The case dates back to 2015. The convicted official Srinivas Prasad, in December 2015, caught a businessman, Srikumar, with 15 laptops when he arrived at KIA from Singapore. The official demanded Rs. 1 lakh to release the goods, but after negotiations the amount was brought down to Rs. 50,000. He and head havaldar Lour Prabhu confiscated Srikumar’s travel documents and let him go to get the money. Srikumar recorded the conversation on his phone and lodged a complaint with the CBI. Based on his complaint, the CBI laid a trap and arrested Prabhu who had come to collect the bribe at a hotel in Kammanahalli. The CBI officials filed a charge sheet based on which the court convicted the duo.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Health Dept.’s COVID-19 expenses touch Rs. 205 cr.||The State Health and Family Welfare Department has so far incurred expenses of Rs. 205 crore towards handling the COVID-19 pandemic, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai informed the Karnataka Legislative Council on Thursday. Apart from this, Rs. 108.75 crore has been spent on salaries, incentives, and risk allowances paid to employees. During the lockdown period, the State had distributed additional 5 kg of rice to eligible families under PDS and had spent Rs. 711.62 crore towards this, the Minister said. Replying to members during a discussion on supplementary estimates aggregating to Rs. 3,320.4 crore, the Minister said the Health Department had spent Rs. 205 crore on procuring equipment, testing kits, and other required infrastructure. After a nearly three-hour discussion, the estimates were approved by the Council.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Metro to have driverless trains||Siemens Limited will implement driverless train solutions for Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL). The company said it would provide state-of-the-art automated train technology systems for phase II of the metro. This would be Siemens’ first CBTC (communications-based train control) project with the highest grade of automation, GOA4, where the train is automatically controlled without any manual intervention on board, said the company. The technology will improve capacity, punctuality, reliability, and provide enhanced safety for passengers. The solution includes electronic interlocking, automatic train protection system, operation control for automatic train monitoring by train supervision system and telecommunication system, said the company. “Siemens has been a leader in providing metro rail solutions and takes great pride in partnering BMRCL to improve the connectivity, accessibility, and coverage of Bengaluru’s metro rail network,” said Tilak Raj Seth, Head, Mobility, Siemens. Bengaluru Metro is the ninth metro service where Siemens India is involved.
11 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Revision in train timings||South Western Railway will revise the timings of the following trains at some stations to provide additional stoppage time at KSR Bengaluru to unload parcels. Train no 02975 Mysuru-Jaipur Express special will arrive at 1.10 p.m. and depart at 1.30 p.m. Bengaluru Cantonment 1.42 p.m. and 1.44 p.m. Hindupur 3.15 p.m. and 3.17 p.m. from December 12, from Mysuru. Train no. 02976 Jaipur-Mysuru Express will arrive at Hindupur at 10.18 a.m. and leave at 10.20 a.m. KSR Bengaluru 1.10 p.m. and 1.30 p.m. Mandya 2.53 p.m. and 2.55 p.m. and reach Mysuru at 4 p.m. from December 14 from Jaipur. Train no. 06229 Mysuru-Varanasi Express special will arrive at KSR Bengluru station at 9.55 a.m. and depart at 10.10 a.m. with effect from December 15, from Mysuru.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Takes charge||Dinesh Chandra Patwari, IRS, took charge as Principal Chief Commissioner of Income Tax, Karnataka and Goa Region, Bengaluru on December 9. According to a release, prior to joining the Karnataka and Goa Region, Mr. Patwari was Director-General of Income Tax (Investigation), Tamil Nadu and Puducherry Region, the post which he will now hold additionally.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Both Houses adjourned sine die||Both Houses of the Karnataka legislature were adjourned sine die on Thursday. The legislature session, which had commenced on December 7, was originally scheduled to end on December 15. However, it was decided that it would be wound up on Thursday in view of the upcoming elections to gram panchayats. Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said the House had transacted more than 90% of the business listed in the agenda in the four days of the session. The House also adopted the APMC (Amendment Bill), which seeks to permit farmers to sell their produce outside APMC yards.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Health Dept. asks OPDs to function normally||With healthcare services likely to be disrupted on Friday due to the strike called by doctors, the Department of Health and Family Welfare stated that all out-patient departments in government hospitals and private colleges should function normally. In a letter to several officials of the Heath Department and deans of medical colleges, the Health Commissioner said all OPDs should work normally and doctors should not be given leave. Doctors in the State are expected to be part of the nationwide protest against the Centre’s move to allow AYUSH practitioners to offer allopathy treatment and perform surgeries. Barring emergency services and COVID-19 testing and treatment, all non-essential services, including outpatient services, are expected to be affected.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SWR cancels Kisan Rail citing poor patronage||Citing poor response from farmers, the South Western Railways (SWR) has cancelled the Kisan Rail special train service, which it had introduced in September to transport agricultural produce. The train was operated from KSR Bengaluru to H. Nizamuddin in Delhi via Mysuru, Hubballi, Pune, Bhopal, Jhansi, Agra cantonment, and Mathura. E. Vijaya, chief PRO of SWR, said: “A total of 12 trips of Kisan rail services (train number 00625) operated from Bengaluru covering various destinations such as Mysuru and Hubballi. Agricultural commodity weighing 1,729 tonnes was transported and it had helped the SWR earn Rs. 82 lakh. We made all efforts to popularise the service by even roping in APMC markets, but demand remained low.” The first train from Bengaluru was operated on September 19.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No metro from Mysuru Road to Vijayanagar||To facilitate electrical cable laying works at the Mysuru Road station on the Purple Line, the BMRCL has decided to suspend train services between Mysuru Road and Vijayanagar Metro station on Saturday and Sunday (December 12, 13). Services between Baiyappanahalli and Vijayanagar station will run as usual from 7 a.m. onwards. Green Line trains will also run as per schedule.
11 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||EC condemns auctioning of GP seats||The State Election Commission has directed the officers to take action with regard to incidents of auctioning gram panchayat seats. The officers could register criminal cases. State Election Commissioner B. Basavaraj gave the instruction through video-conference on Thursday. There were reports of a few seats auctioned in Hassan district. Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish said the administration had information about auctioning of seats in three gram panchayats. The assistant commissioners visited 10 villages and verified the facts. “There was no auction process. However, in these villages people have been electing their members unopposed in the last few elections”, he said.
11 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Held for theft||Arsikere police have arrested a person wanted in many theft cases and recovered valuables worth Rs. 20 lakh from him. Mohammed Ibrahim, 34, a resident of R.S.Palya in Turuvekere taluk of Tumkuru district, was allegedly involved in 26 theft cases reported in Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga, Tumakuru and Hassan districts. Hassan Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda, in a press conference in Hassan on Thursday, said Arsikere Rural Police had received a complaint from Mahalakshmi of Chikkolalu in Arsikere taluk on September 1 alleging that miscreants had taken away 122 grams of gold ornaments from her house when she had gone out. The police registered the case and made continuous efforts to nab the accused. “The team of officers led by Arasikere DySP Nageshworked hard to crack the case. Finally, the accused was arrested at Mayasandra in Turuvekere taluk on Wednesday”, he said. The police recovered 500 gm of gold ornaments and 770 gm of silver items.
11 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi city corporation plans to set up zones for street vendors||The Kalaburagi city corporation is planning to set up zones in the city to help vendors carry out their business in the earmarked places, without disturbing traffic. Corporation Commissioner Snehal Sudhakar Lokhande speaking to The Hindu said that a Detailed Project Report (DPR) has been prepared which carries the details of infrastructure, the number of vendors to be incorporated in zones, and the total funds required for implementing the project. “The corporation had submitted the DPR to the government and is yet to get approval,” he added. The Commissioner said that unplanned civic sense had made it difficult for both vendors and citizens. The roads which are already busy get even more overcrowded as street vendors occupy half of the roads. Mr. Lokhande said that after conducting a survey, the corporation has identified five suitable locations for establishing the zones for vendors. As per the DPR, around 550 individual units will be constructed at an estimated cost of Rs. 3.88 crore. As many as 140 units will be constructed on the stretch between Karnataka Milk Federation Dairy and Hanuman Temple, 130 on the stretch between Nobel school and New Jewargi cross, 100 from Kanni market to Central Bus Stand, and 85 each on the stretches between Kanni Market and Hirapur Cross and between Ram Mandir Circle and New Jewargi Cross in the city. The Commissioner added that each unit would cost anywhere between Rs. 66,300 and Rs. 77,600. The stalls will measure 2x2m, and some units are of 2x1.5m and 2x1.75m size, depending on the availability of space. The stalls will be constructed with the help of a steel-framed structure and a metal roof sheet. Recently, the corporation officials carried out a drive and identified 6,000 street vendors for registration and issued an identity card for them. These cards will help in eliminating duplicate and fake beneficiaries during the allotment of vending stalls, Mr. Lokhande said. Mr. Lokhande said once the project gets approval by the State government, the corporation will resume the work. The allotment of vending units will be done through a draw of lots. Priority will be given to registered street vendors.
11 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Protesters burn copy of Bill against cow slaughter||Activists associated with the Janwadi Mahila Sanghatan (JMS), on Thursday, burnt a copy of the Bill against cow slaughter that was passed in the Assembly on Wednesday as a token of their protest. Led by K. Neela, leader of JMS, the activists staged a symbolic demonstration at Jagat Circle in Kalaburagi to oppose the State government’s move and raised slogans against the Bharatiya Janata Party for introducing and passing the Bill which, they termed, was against the basic structure of the Constitution. “The Bill that was passed in the Assembly goes well against the basic foundation of the Constitution that guaranteed the right to choice of food to every citizen. The Bill, which prevents the slaughter of not just cow, but also other livestock such as bull, bullock and buffaloes, would hit the rural economy hard as well as nobody would come forward to rear the animals because of restrictions imposed,” Ms. Neela said during the agitation. She also alleged that the Bill was designed to target only marginal communities such as Muslims and Dalits who ate beef and not the corporate companies that were into the beef export business. “The Bill seeks imposition of ban on transporting and slaughtering cattle by poor communities and it doesn’t impose any restriction on corporate entities that are into beef transporting business. It clearly shows how the government is targeting poor communities and help big corporate companies. The Bill also legalises the goonda activities of anti-social elements such as the members of Bajrang Dal who have been attacking minorities and Dalits in the name of cow protection,” she said. The agitating activists also opposed the amendments to the land reforms Act that were passed in the Assembly on the grounds that they would help corporatisation of agriculture.
11 December 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Action sought against drinking water plants without licence||Members of the Gulbarga Packaged Drinking Water Manufacturers’ Association demanded immediate closure of the drinking water plants those do not possess licences from any civic agencies or the ISI mark. Association president Abdul Samad and secretary Shivu Koralli addressing presspersons here on Thursday said that as per the city corporation around 75 non-ISI water plants were functioning in the city, But there are more than 180 such units, Mr. Samad claimed. However, the corporation does not have any data on the water plants registered with them. To set up a drinking water plant, one needs approval from the ISI mark certificate, a Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) licence, a certificate from the Central Pollution Control Board, and a trade licence. Most of the firms do not go for these certifications as they need to invest a huge amount. Whereas without the required permits, it takes about Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 3 lakh to set up a plant. The association alleged that most of the mineral water plants are set up in houses illegally. The illegal water plants are charging Rs. 15 for every 20-litre can, but the ones with the ISI mark cannot sell at this price. Mr. Koralli demanded that Gescom officials cut the power supply water plants which do not have permission.
11 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||I-T raid on cement factory||Following complaints of tax evasion, the Income Tax department on Wednesday conducted a raid on the Chettinad Cement factory at Kallur village in Chincholi taluk of Kalaburagi district. A team of over 15 IT sleuths came to the factory and its quarters at 7 a.m. and picked up officials. According to the sources, the sleuths raided the administrative department, the finance department, and the human resources department and conducted a close-door raid. The department also conducted raids at Chettinad Group of Companies in Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu.
11 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Legislators want CM to urge Centre to rename airport after Koti and Chennaya||Demand to name Mangaluru International Airport after Koti and Chennaya, the legendary heroes of the Tulu speaking region, has grown with legislators from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi meeting Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in Bengaluru on Thursday and urging him to recommend to the Union government for the same. The legislators, led by Kota Srinivasa Poojary, Minister in charge of Dakshina Kannada and Minister for Fisheries, Ports, Inland Water Transport and Muzari, who submitted him a memorandum, said that the State Cabinet should pass a resolution on it and recommend it to the Union government. It said that Koti and Chennaya had fought for social reforms 500 years ago. Legislators from Dakshina Kannada Sanjeeva Matandoor, Umanath A Kotian, Rajesh Naik U, Y. Bharat Shetty, D. Vedavyasa Kamath, Harish Poonja and legislators from Udupi V. Sunil Kumar, and K. Raghupati Bhat met the Chief Minister. Mithun Rai, president, Dakshina Kannada Youth Congress, staged a dharna in front of Mangaluru International Airport last month pressing for the same demand. Mr. Rai and former Congress minister K. Abhayachandra Jain have put up a flex board at the airport welcoming visitors to ‘Koti-Chennaya International Airport, Mangaluru’. Others’ demand On the other hand, members of the Ullal Veerarani Abbakka Utsava Samiti demanded last month that the airport be renamed after Rani Abbakka, who fought the Portuguese 450 years ago. According to Dinakar Ullal, councillor of Ullal civic body and member of the samiti which conducted the Abbakka Utsav before State government took it over, said that since the first utsav in 2015 resolutions have been passed in every utsav asking the government to rename the airport after Rani Abbakka. “This name [Rani Abbakka] was proposed first even before other names, including that of the revered twins of Tulu folklore Koti Chennayya and the former Member of Parliament U. Srinivas Mallya, cropped up,” he said. Udupi Puttige Mutt seer Sugunendra Tirtha demanded last month that the airport be named after philosophers Sankaracharya and Madhwacharya, as MadhwaSankara International Airport. Meanwhile, a group of citizens has demanded that the airport renamed as Tulunadu airport. The Adani Group, which had won the concession to operate, manage and develop the airport, took charge of Mangaluru airport on the midnight of October 30.
11 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Six couples tie the knot in mass wedding||As many as four couples entered into wedlock during a mass marriage celebration at Sri Kukke Subrahmanya Temple in Kukke, Dakshina Kannada, on Thursday. The temple which is administered by the Religious and Charitable Endowments Department sponsored the mass marriage. Harish and K. Divya, A. Naveen Kumar and M. Geetha, Shivarama Ainakidu and Pushpa Devaragadde, and Anand and K. Shobha were the couples who tied the knot during the celebrations solomnised as per Hindu rituals by priest Madhusudhana Kalluraya. The couples were later felicitated with shawls and provided the maha prasada of the presiding deity.  While the brides were provided Rs. 10,000 cash and a gold taali , the grooms were provided Rs. 5,000 cash by the temple management. The couples were also given fixed deposit receipts of Rs. 10,000 each by the Revenue Department under the Adarsha Vivaha scheme while the couples belonging to Scheduled Castes were also given Rs. 50,000 by the Social Welfare Department.  Two couples also entered into wedlock at a mass marriage ceremony at the Bappanadu Durgaparameshwari Temple at Mulki.
11 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||DK reports two COVID-19 deaths||Dakshina Kannada reported two COVID-19 deaths on Thursday taking the total toll to 726. The district also reported 30 new cases. With 29 patients being discharged on the day the active cases stood at 427. Udupi reported 15 new cases on the day. The active cases in the district stood at 139. Dakshina Kananda district administration collected Rs. 17.38 lakh as fine by filing 16,347 cases till Thursday for not wearing masks.
11 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||SCADS declares 5% dividend to members||South Canara Agriculture Development Cooperative Society (SCADS) Ltd., Mangaluru, has declared 5% dividend to its members after posting a net profit of Rs. 8.86 lakh for 2019-20. SCADS president Ravindra Kambali made this announcement at the annual general meeting of the society in Mangaluru recently, said a release. He said that the society has consistently maintained ‘A grade’ in cooperative audit. Despite less demand for power tillers and competition from private dealers, the society was able to do business worth Rs. 6.6 crore, besides Rs. 10.97 crore turnover in banking section.
11 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Two more special trains to be operated||Railways will operate additional fully-reserved special trains between Mangaluru-Thiruvananthapuram and Dadar-Tirunelveli. A release from Southern Railway’s Palakkad Division here said Train No. 06348 Mangaluru Central- Thiruvananthapuram Central Daily (Thiruvananthapuram) Express Special will leave Mangaluru Central at 2.20 p.m. with effect from December 19 to reach Thiruvananthapuram Central at 4.40 a.m. the next day. Train No. 06347 Thiruvananthapuram Central- Mangaluru Central Daily (Mangaluru) Express Special leaves Thiruvananthapuram Central at 8.50 p.m. with effect from December 16 to reach Mangaluru Central at 11.35 a.m. the next day. Releases from SR and Konkan Railway Corporation said Train No. 06072 Tirunelveli - Dadar Weekly Superfast Festival Special will leave Tirunelveli at 7.15 a.m. on Wednesdays [December 16, 23, and 30] to reach Dadar at 3 p.m. the next day. Train No. 06071 Dadar - Tirunelveli Weekly Superfast Festival Special leaves Dadar at 8 p.m. Thursdays [December 17, 24, and 31] to reach reach Tirunelveli at 4 a.m. the third day.
11 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Elected||City-based physician and professor of Medicine at A.J. Institute of Medical Sciences Devdas Rai has been elected as the State chief editor of Indian Medical Association Karnataka’s monthly magazine Focus .
11 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Some areas in the city will have no power supply on December 12 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The areas are Police Lane, Old Kent Road, Pandeshwar, Mannagudda, Lalbagh, Lady Hill and Chilimbi. It is for maintenance works.     Dakshina Kannada chapter of Associations of Physicians of India will observe ‘Physicians’ Day’ in the virtual mode on December 13 in the IMA House, Attavar at 6 p.m. Y. Bharat Shetty, MLA, Mangaluru City North and the acting president of the Dental Council of India will be the guest.
11 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||UPOR: documents of 46,000 properties not legally tenable||Nearly 46,000 properties in Mysuru city and surrounding areas are devoid of authentic documents and are not eligible to receive the Property Register (PR) cards under the Urban Property Ownership Records (UPOR) project. The UPOR was launched in Mysuru in 2010 and entails digitizing the property documents embedded with spatial details based on GIS survey and land mapping, documenting mutation if any in the property records, ownership details, etc and will help curb fraudulent deals in land transactions. As on date, 3, 23, 616 properties in Mysuru and 42 villages covered under the UPOR, have been surveyed and the authorities have received 2,18,884 documents. Of these, 108,508 final PR cards are ready for issue and 49,383 PR final PR cards have already been issued. In case of those who have not collected the draft PR cards, the authorities have launched a campaign to individually contact the addressee. But in case of nearly 46,000 properties, the owners have not been able to provide authentic documents pertaining to the properties. “Some have submitted documents on bond papers of Rs. 5 or Rs. 10 none of which is legally tenable’’, said the officials. As a result the authorities have put on hold the issue of final PR cards till the government takes a call on it. This makes any transaction related to such properties untenable. Though the PR card is not yet made compulsory, the UPOR office in the city tends to receive inquiries from potential buyers to ascertain if the property on which they propose to invest was legally valid. Based on the UPOR survey, the Revenue department managed to recovered vast swathe of government land that was encroached. Vacant sites Though there are nearly 3.23 lakh properties in the project’s jurisdictional area and nearly 2.18 lakh applications have been collected, there were nearly 105,000 vacant sites on which no transaction has taken place nor were the authorities in a position to trace the owners to seek the documents. “But within the heart of the city there have been many cases in which property has been inherited from forefathers and yet have been issued PR cards as the documents were in order’’, said the officials. Sources in the Revenue Department said as per section 133 of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act, the property card or Form 13 issued under the UPOR project was to be considered the only valid ownership record once made compulsory. But PR card is yet to be made mandatory for property-related transactions though the coverage and penetration has increased over the years.
11 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||KSOU gets ‘exclusive’ right for running ODL courses||The Mysuru-based Karnataka State Open University (KSOU), the State’s only Open University, has now got the exclusive right of running courses under open distance learning (ODL) mode with the passage of the Karnataka State Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 in the Legislative Assembly. This means the conventional universities in the State that were offering the correspondence courses all these years have to discontinue them. The KSOU hopes that the move is expected to expand its reach and attract more students within its jurisdiction. The KSOU had taken strong exception to the conventional universities offering ODL courses and sought the government’s intervention for giving it the sole right of running distance education programmes in the State. Early this year, the State Cabinet had taken the decision in KSOU’s favour with the intention of helping the university expand its student base besides providing exclusive self-learning materials to the students. Since inception more than two decades ago, the KSOU had been seeking the right on the ODL courses when the conventional universities, including the University of Mysore, started offering distance education courses and argued with the Department of Higher Education for the sole rights on ODL programmes considering the purpose of its establishment. The KSOU had even accused the State universities of breaching their territorial jurisdiction for offering ODL courses beyond their territory with mutual NOCs availed from other conventional universities in the State for running the correspondence courses. Citing the example of Maharashtra, the KSOU had claimed that only Open universities were allowed to offer ODL courses following a notification by the government there. A similar amendment to the existing acts in Karnataka too was sought for ensuring the rights of the university. This was finally done in the State. After its recognition was restored by the UGC, the University has been striving to revive its lost charm, and over 31 courses now being offered with the UGC’s nod. It has brought various reforms, including contactless admissions making all admission procedures online and transparent. The government’s move conferring exclusive rights of ODL courses to the KSOU was welcomed here. Thanking the government, KSOU Registrar Lingaraj Gandhi said the university has become the only institution of higher learning to run the correspondence courses with the amendment to the Karnataka Universities Act.
11 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) flayed for supporting land reforms bill||The Congress has lashed out at the Janata Dal (Secular) for abetting the passage of land reforms (amendment) bill in the Legislative Council and described it as the “B team’’ of the BJP. Congress spokesperson M. Lakshman said here on Thursday that people have lost trust in the JD(S) and it is incumbent on the party leadership to explain its stance and ideology to the public. The party should stop calling itself ‘secular’ anymore, he added. The JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy came under flak for his frequent criticism of the Congress leaders while sparing the BJP leadership. “In case the Congress criticises the BJP, it is Mr. Kumaraswamy who speaks in defence of the latter as if he is their spokesperson’’, said Mr. Lakshman. He said Mr. Kumaraswamy was “going soft” on the BJP in anticipation of the “replacement of the current Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa within the next few months.” The latter could revolt and break away with a section of his followers and Mr. Kumaraswamy’s game plan is to form a new government with the support of the break-away faction led by Mr. Yediyurappa, Mr.Lakshman speculated. He accused the JD (S) of betraying the farmers by enabling the passage of the amendment to the land reforms bill and the farmers “will never forgive this act of betrayal’’. The State BJP leadership also came under flak. Mr. Lakshman flayed the Minister for Agriculture B.C.Patil for his recent remarks that farmers who committed suicide were cowards. “It is reprehensible that not a single BJP leader has spoken out against such statements nor spoken for farmers whose future is at stake due to the passage of farm bills,” Mr. Lakshman said.
11 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Panchalinga Darshan begins on a muted note||The Panchalinga Darshan began on a muted note at Talakad in T.Narsipur taluk of Mysuru district on Thursday, sans devotees. Conducted as per the Hindu almanac based on astrological calculations it is not an annual event and the gap between the two editions tend to vary from 3 to 12 years. The previous Panchalinga Darshan was conducted in 2013. But being held amidst the pandemic and the imperatives of minimising public gathering, the district administration has restricted the event only to the local populace. The event entails the devout to have darshan of all the five Shivalingas in the region – Sri Vaidyanatheshwara, Sri Maruleshwara, Mudukothore Sri Mallikarjunaswamy, Sri Pathaleshwara and Sri Arkeshwara – on the same day. Normally, lakhs of people would throng to Talakad but there were hardly any devotees but for the entourage of the district in-charge Minister S.T. Somashekar. The rituals related to the commencement of Panchalinga Darshan was conducted by a battery of priests who held special prayers for the well-being of the citizens. Sri Vaidyanatheshwara temple was illuminated for the occasion. The authorities have also restricted the entry to a maximum of 1,000 devotees per day and 1,500 persons for the main event on December 14. But it is not a free entry for all and those desirous of gaining entry should carry the COVID-19 negative RT-PCR report. The event will conclude on December 19. During 2013 Panchalinga Darshan, nearly seven lakh people visited Talakad. Mr. Somashekar said the entry to the temples was restricted to local people as per the recommendations of the task force and expert committee keeping in view the situation arising out of the pandemic. He said the government had released Rs. 2.25 crore for the event. Additional funds would be released for the development of the town and the temples. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is expected to visit Talakad on December 14.
11 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Hoping for more admissions||The admissions to various courses in the Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) has now been extended till January 15, 2021. With this, the university is hoping to attract more students although the number of admissions so far has been encouraging despite the pandemic. “As of now, nearly 14,000 students had taken admissions among 18,000 students who had registered with the university for availing admissions to various courses. This number is really heartening in the year of pandemic. With the UGC extending the admission date, we hope more admissions in the days ahead,” said KSOU Registrar Lingaraj Gandhi. All admissions are contactless and students can take admissions online submitting all relevant documents.
11 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||GP polls: Kodagu seeks Kasargod DC’s support||Even as the elections to gram panchayats are fast approaching, the Kodagu district administration had consultation with the administration of Kasaragod in Kerala on the steps to be taken on the inter-State border for ensuring free and fair elections. The Deputy Commissioner of Kodagu, Annies Kanmani Joy, and her Kasaragod counterpart D. Sabith Babu, and Dakshina Kannada counterpart K.V. Rajendra took part in the consultations through a videoconference. Ms. Joy urged the Kasargod DC to declare “dry day” on the day of GP election in a radius of five km from the border. The Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada, which shares its borders with Kasaragod, also sought cooperation from the Kasaragod administration on the day of election. A release from the Department of Information and Public Relations, Madikeri, said the DC of Kasaragod assured all help during the elections.
11 December 2020||Special Correspondent Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP move to dislodge Council Chairman hits technical roadblock||The ruling BJP’s plan to dislodge Karnataka Legislative Council Chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty, with the JD(S) support, seems to have hit a technical roadblock. Mr. Shetty had on Wednesday set aside the ruling party members’ attempts to move a no-confidence motion against him, saying that he was seeking legal opinion on the subject. Stating that the subject could be taken up only after 14 days of submission of the notice, he had refused to include it in the agenda. When BJP members again raised the issue on Thursday, the Chairman said the subject was not in the agenda and that he had directed the officials concerned to convey the legal opinion to the BJP members. Single largest party This irked BJP that has emerged as the single largest party after the recent elections to the graduates’ and teachers’ constituencies. Following this, the ruling party was hopeful of dislodging the Chairman with the support of JD(S) members. In the wake of this, the government is now planning to write to the Chairman asking that the Council be convened for another day on Tuesday. Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy told reporters that the plan was to actually conduct the Council till Tuesday (December 15). “We had demanded this in the Business Advisory Committee. But as the Chairman had objected to this, we had asked him to take a decision based on majority. We will again write to him to conduct the House on Tuesday and allow us to take up the no- confidence motion,” he said. Stating that it has been 14 days since the BJP members submitted a notice seeking no-confidence motion, he said: “Although it was not in the agenda, we had thought it will be taken up as an additional subject. He has adjourned the House without even bringing it to our notice. This has set a bad precedent.” Floor Leader Kota Srinivas Poojary said the party members would meet the Governor on Friday and seek convening of the session on Tuesday for moving the no-confidence motion. As per rules, discussion should be allowed on the no-confidence motion as soon as it is raised in the House, BJP sources said. However, Congress sources said that as per rules the no-confidence can be moved only after 14 days of submitting the notice. The support of the JD(S), which has 14 members in the 75-member House, is crucial to the BJP, which lacks numbers. While the BJP, after a clean sweep in the recent elections to the graduates’ and teachers’ constituencies, has 31 members in the House, the Congress has 28 besides Mr. Shetty. There is one Independent member.  BJP members will meet the Governor on Friday and seek convening of the Council session on Tuesday for moving the no-confidence motion. Kota Srinivas Poojary,Floor Leader
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Seven months into academic year, students await trimmed syllabus||Although it has been seven months since the 2020-2021 academic year commenced, the State government is yet to approve the trimmed syllabus for classes one to 10. The delay is a cause for concern among teachers who are unsure of which lessons to skip this year. The ambiguity has hit class 10 students the worst as they have to prepare for the board examination next year. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar had announced earlier that the syllabus would be completed by December giving students ample time for prep work. Although the Karnataka Textbook Society (KTBS) had published a pared down syllabus in July, roughly 30% of the portion had been cut, it was later withdrawn by the State government after protests over its decision to omit or trim chapters on Tipu Sultan, the Constitution, Jesus Christ, and Prophet Mohammed. However, some schools are still following this syllabus. “We did not get any information that the trimmed syllabus was withdrawn and we continue to use that blueprint to teach our students,” said a principal of a private school in Bengaluru. A senior official of the department said they had revised the trimmed syllabus after the controversy and were waiting for government approval before they could send it to schools. Chirag S., a class 10 student, said he and his classmates were confused about which portions to study. “Although we read in the papers that 30% of the syllabus has been cut, our teachers are yet to tell us of the lessons to omit,” he said. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements’ of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said not only should the government release the revised syllabus without further delay, but should cut more than 30% of the syllabus. The association has written a memorandum to the department asking for an even more pared down syllabus for class 10 students. “A significant number of class 10 students have not attended online classes. It will be very difficult for them to appear for the board examination,” he said. He also questioned how the government planned to implement the 75% attendance that SSLC students must have if they wanted to write the board examination.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Thanksgiving||
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Lit up||
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Dharmasthala  Organising Committee: Lakshadeepotsava, Kere Katte Utsava, 9 p.m.
11 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Polling peaceful in Wayanad||Polling for civic bodies in Wayanad district on Thursday passed off peacefully amid tight security arrangements. The district witnessed a high voter turnout. According to preliminary reports, 79.42% of the 6.25 lakh voters exercised their franchise. The polling percentage is likely to increase as the State Election Commission is yet to release the final figures. In the 2015 local body polls, the district recorded 82% turnout. Despite the pandemic threat, voters, including tribal people, turned out in large numbers and formed long queues outside polling booths in various parts of the district. The district recorded 18.47% polling by 9 a.m. The polling percentage rose to 37.71% and 63.51% by 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. respectively, according to District Collector Adeela Abdulla. Polling was peaceful and largely incident-free, barring minor technical snags in Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) at a few polling booths. The machines were promptly replaced and voting continued unabated. From morning, long queues, especially of women from plantations, were seen in most polling stations. Forest personnel escorted voters in remote hamlets at Kurichyad and Vettathur. As many as 82 voters in Kurichyad Kattunayakka hamlet travelled nearly 20 km to exercise their franchise. Their booth was set up at Vadakkanad near Sulthan Bathery. Elaborate security arrangements were made by the police for the smooth conduct of elections. Officials of the anti-Naxal force were deployed at 132 polling booths which were identified as Maoist-affected booths. Two deaths were reported in the district during polling. Karunakaran, 48, a senior civil police officer attached to the Kerala Armed Police at Puthoorvayal, collapsed and died while guarding an election strong room at Sulthan Bathery around 2 p.m.
11 December 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||More special trains from December 15||The Railways will operate several additional special trains from December 15. Train No.16305 Ernakulam-Kannur daily (Intercity) special will leave Ernakulam at 6 a.m. and reach Kannur at 11.45 a.m. with effect from December 15. Likewise, the Kannur-Ernakulam daily (intercity ) special will leave Kannur at 2.50 p.m. and reach Ernakulam at 9.10 p.m. The Mangaluru Central-Thiruvananthapuram Central daily (Thiruvananthapuram) Express Special will leave Mangaluru Central at 2.20 p.m. with effect from December 16 and reach Thiruvananthapuram Central at 11.35 a.m on the next day. Similarly, the Thiruvananthapuram Central-Mangaluru Central daily (Mangaluru) Express Special will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central at 2.20 p.m. with effect from December 19 and reach Mangaluru Central at 4.40 a.m. on the next day. The Dadar-Tirunelveli Weekly Superfast Special will leave Dadar at 7.15 a.m on December 16, 23, and 30 and reach Tirunelveli at 03.00 p.m on Fridays. The train will travel via the Erode-Palakkad Junction route. The Tirunelveli–Dadar Weekly Superfast Special will leave Tirunelveli at 8.40 p.m. on December 17, 24, and 31 and reach Dadar at 4 p.m. on Fridays.
11 December 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Another case against child welfare panel chief||The Thalassery police on Thursday registered another Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) case against E.D. Joseph, chairman of the Kannur district Child Welfare Committee, following a confidential statement given by the sister of a girl who had earlier lodged a complaint against him. The girls, aged between 15 and 17, testified against Mr. Joseph alleging that he had spoken to them improperly and that he had used sexually explicit and derogatory language during counselling. The sisters were taken to the office of the Child Welfare Committee at Eranholi, Thalassery, for counselling on October 21. They appeared for the counselling in connection with a POCSO case registered within the limits of the Kannur Kudiyanmala police station. After the counselling, the elder girl gave a confidential statement that Mr. Joseph had misbehaved with her. The younger girl raised a similar allegation later. The Social Justice Department had removed Mr. Joseph from the post following the statement given by the elder girl. The younger girl also gave a secret statement before the Mattannur magistrate. Charge denied Mr. Joseph reiterated that he had done nothing wrong.
11 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Voter surge enthuses all fronts||The surge in voter turnout in the second phase of local body elections on Thursday compared to the first phase on December 8 had the major fronts claiming advantage. Senior Congress leader V.D. Satheesan said that central Kerala being a traditional stronghold of the United Democratic Front, even in hard times it would stay with the alliance. “The Left front’s was a defensive campaign which hasn’t worked very well,” he said, foreseeing a favourable outcome in Kottayam, Ernakulam and Wayanad, while remaining hopeful of improving its tally in Thrissur and Palakkad. “However, how the Left front’s alliance with the Kerala Congress (M), which contested on its traditional symbol of ‘two leaves’, worked is something that remains to be seen,” he added. The alliance would prove beneficial to the Left in Kottayam district, claimed CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan, citing the low voter turnout in areas where the UDF traditionally had an edge. “There’s a clear shift in voting in the district where we will be in a comfortable position. We hope to better our position in Ernakulam, whose eastern areas witnessed heavy polling. That apart, Thrissur and rural Palakkad will stay with us,” he said. The UDF, he said, would suffer a jolt while the BJP would be further diminished in the State thanks to internal squabbles. He did not think that the onslaught on the State government would have an impact on the outcome.  Modi factor “Showcasing Narendra Modi as their mascot is going to be costly for the BJP, as they will soon realise that he’s more of a burden in Kerala,” he added. BJP State general secretary A.N. Radhakrishnan exuded confidence that the National Democratic Alliance would make strides in Kottayam district, particularly in Changanassery, Ettumanur and Vaikom and in municipalities across Ernakulam. “We will be the single largest party in Tripunithura,” he said. Thrissur is where the BJP would gain considerably, winning about 25 seats in the Corporation and a seat in the district panchayat and governance in at least 15 grama panchayats, Mr. Radhakrishnan said. Mr. Radhakrishnan also remained hopeful about the party retaining Palakkad municipality.
11 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Islanders in Kochi pour out their commuting woes post-lockdown||Even as city dwellers envy them for the fresh air and scenic surroundings that they live in, thousands of people who reside in about a dozen picturesque islands that are a stone’s throw away from the Greater Kochi mainland have harrowing tales to narrate, thanks to non-availability of modes of public transport. This is because private buses that operated to isles that have bridge connectivity, and ferries operated by the State Water Transport Department (SWTD) have halted services, post the lockdown. “This has resulted in youth and men — most of whom are sole bread winners in a family and earn less than Rs. 10,000 a month, being forced to avail loan to purchase two-wheelers. Still, women and elderly people are devoid of a mode of commute,” said Jerald Muzhagunthara, a resident of Kothad Island and an IT professional. Associated with Kudumbashree self-help groups, he takes time to engage in social work on Chennur Island (one of the eight islands in Kadamakudy), which was linked by eight buses and a ferry till the pandemic struck. With all of them halting service, islanders, especially women, children and aged people, are left with no option but to walk many kilometres up to bus stops on arterial routes. Else, they will have to pay Rs. 100 and commute in autorickshaw, which most cannot afford. The situation was better a couple of decades ago when the islands were linked by ferries. Agencies like the newly-constituted Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) must urgently intervene in such issues, he said. So near, yet afar Mr. Muzhagunthara narrated the paradoxical situation that people face on many islands. “After much agitations, the Chathanad-Kadamakudy bridge was realised. But for incomplete approach roads the islanders could have reached Container Road by commuting just 4.5 km. The delay in readying approach roads has resulted in people being forced to travel 25 km through Varapuzha to reach the mainland. Road development has suffered due to CRZ norms, even as vast wetlands have been illegally amassed by the land mafia,” he added. Former member of Edappally block panchayat, Sukumaran K.K. cited the example of Pizhala-Moolampilly bridge, which is underutilised since approach roads have not been developed. “Thus islanders, who could have reached the nearest multi-speciality hospital in 1.50 km, now commute 9 km through Varapuzha. Political willpower is lacking although GIDA — which ought to ensure development of Goshree Islands — has funds. The agency’s general council has not met during the past five years. Ultimately, inadequate connectivity has resulted in islanders being unable to avail of job opportunities that abound in the mainland.” Circular service sought “The SWTD must initiate a circular boat service from Ernakulam Boat Jetty, linking Mulavukad, Chittur, Pizhala, Kothad, Chennur, Cheranallore, Varapuzha, Eloor, Thudathumkadavu, Chennur (west), Kadamakudy and Njarakkal. The approximately 36-km route linking the isles can be completed in around 3.5 hours,” said Ebenzer Chukkikat, executive committee member of Greater Kochi Development Watch, an NGO that is focused on developing isles that abound in the city’s north-western side. “The department must rely on modern but simple technological solutions like GPS tracking so that commuters get to know real-time info about the expected arrival time of ferries. The KMTA must take the lead in fast-tracking such initiatives,” Mr. Chullikat said.
11 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||When the first vote was ushered in with applause||Venugopal, a senior citizen in Mulavukad panchayat, was startled by a sudden round of applause that rang around St. Joseph LP School at Panambukad on Thursday at 9.35 a.m. He was among a number of voters who had to wait for over an hour outside polling booth No. 1 in the school after the start of the voting was delayed by a snag in the Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs). It soon emerged that the applause was a sarcastic gesture by a slew of voters when the first vote was cast over two-and-a-half hours after the voting was supposed to begin. “We had to replace a control unit and three ballot units and the delay was caused by the time taken to bring it to the booth. Then the technical team had to set it and even run a mock poll before voting could be opened. Our efforts to revive the machines failed, thus making the replacement necessary,” said a senior polling official at the booth. By then, the queue had grown long and the voters had turned restive and started questioning the delay, throwing the social distancing norms out of the window in the process. Martin, a Congress agent, could be heard bemoaning the loss of crucial voting time. Voting machines developed snags at various places in the coastal regions though they were largely rectified by the roving technical teams of the Election Commission without great delay though even that put off a small section of voters who left the booths. In booth 1 in ward 7 of the Pallipuram panchayat, the voting machine developed a snag after eight voters had cast their votes while something similar occurred in booth 2 in ward 22 and in ward 23 voting got off to a delayed start owing to a technical snag. In booth 1 in Edavanakkad Government UP School, the machine developed a snag after four voters had cast their votes whereas, in SKV LP School in Njarakkal, the machines developed problems intermittently. In a booth in ward 14 of Njarakkal panchayat, the machine had to be replaced.
11 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Entering into the spirit of democracy||It was an hour since the voting had started and as he emerged from the polling booth at ALPS in the coastal panchayat of Mulavukad after casting his vote, M.K. Nishad, a casual worker, had a smile on his face. “There was social distancing but no delay. It was far smoother than I had expected,” he said with the mask firmly in place. Having dropped in at the booth, K.B. Sunil, the LDF candidate from ward 3, was relieved that the pandemic hasn’t kept voters away. A few kilometres away at the toll plaza along the Container Terminal Road, 55-year-old Elsy, though, had no change in routine as she swept the plaza premises. Having to wait to cast her vote, she, however, wasn’t bothered as the company had assured her a voting break. Beyond the second Goshree Bridge at a booth in the famed Vallarpadam Basilica, Thresya, an 85-year-old bent over by frailties of age, however, was in no mood to wait. “She never misses her vote and insists on voting early,” said Binthi, her younger relative who accompanied the octogenarian to the booth. A little away at the St. Joseph LPS set amidst lush surroundings and waterbodies, 50-year-old Daisy was sitting alone waiting for voting to get under way after being delayed by a voting machine snag. For her, the polling was about the construction of a ring bund to protect her property, along with many others along the waterfront, from inundating during every high tide. Large stretches along the route to Puthuvype in Elamkunnapuzha panchayat were isolated, a far cry from the pre-pandemic times when the streets roiled with public protests against the IOC LPG bottling plant. In the Puthuvype UPS abutting the police barricaded area where the prohibition orders are still in place, heavy polling was progressing. “The bottling plant may be an issue perhaps in wards 20 and 23 and nowhere else,” observed Josy P. Thomas, district president of the Youth Front. A deserted tea shop Right next to the school, 65-year-old Babu cut a desolate figure in his deserted tea shop. Though the booths were teeming with voters, he hardly had any business reminding him that things haven’t changed much since the pandemic forced the closure of his three-year-old shop ten months ago. The polling booths at St. George LPS, Chakkarakkadavu, at Cherai in the neighbouring Pallippuram panchayat was cramped, and outside in his wheelchair was K.P. Suresh, a differently abled lottery vendor, buoyed to have sold a few tickets to voters. “I have never missed voting in a single election,” said the 58-year-old who was eager to show YouTube videos of his performances in a popular television comedy show. High turnout The electorate along the coastal belt in the district beat pandemic blues as they voted in large numbers pushing the average polling percentage to the high 70s as per the initial estimates of the Election Commission. Voting was held to 143 wards across eight major coastal panchayats.
11 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam’s polling percentage falls to 77.13||The voter turnout in the 13 municipalities across Ernakulam registered a dip of 3.5 per cent compared with the poll percentage recorded in 2015. Compared with the 82.02 per cent five years ago, the total poll percentage as per the initial estimate was 78.5 this time. Muvattupuzha continued to hold the record of topping the list of municipalities that registered the highest poll percentage. The civic body clocked the highest voter turnout of 83.91 per cent. The corresponding figures in 2015 and 2010 (only 11 municipalities) were 85.14 and 82.56 per cent respectively. Besides Muvattupuzha, the municipalities that registered polling percentage above 80 were Perumbavoor (81.16 per cent); Angamaly (80.72 per cent); North Paravur (80.61 per cent); and Eloor (81.3 per cent). Thrikkakara municipality recorded the lowest turnout this time with 71.97 per cent. The polling dipped by 6.22 per cent compared with 2015. The municipalities that registered poll percentage between 75 and 80 were Koothattukulam (79.8); Thripunithura (76.68); Kothamangalam (78.84); Aluva (75.06); Kalamassery (75.42); Maradu (78.61); and Piravom (76.37). The United Democratic Front (UDF) remained confident of retaining its traditional strongholds and improving the performances in civic bodies where it was in the Opposition bench the last time. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) exuded confidence of making dents in civic bodies which had stood with the UDF for long. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance claimed it would emerge first in various divisions, besides increasing its seat tally in at least half a dozen municipalities. The voting percentage in the Ernakulam District Panchayat too witnessed a dip compared with 2015. The total percentage in the 27 divisions was 80.33 against the 84.57 per cent in 2015. Among the block panchayats, Vazhakkulam recorded the highest voter turnout of 84.11 per cent while Edappally figured last in the list (75.07 per cent). Kizhakkambalam, which witnessed an intense battle between the Twenty20 formation and the other key fronts, came first in voter turnout among the grama panchayats (87.88). The police had to intervene here after the UDF and LDF workers tried to block migrant workers from casting their ballots. They alleged that the workers were employed at the corporate firm that was backing Twenty20. However, they were allowed to vote as the election officials found that they had the temporary election cards issued by the authorities. Elanji grama panchayat recorded the lowest turnout (69.15 per cent).
11 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fall of woman from apartment turns murky||The incident in which a house maid was seriously injured last week after falling while reportedly scaling down from a sixth floor apartment near Marine Drive where she was employed turned murky after her husband lodged a complaint with the Central police. The police registered a case invoking, among others, IPC Sections 342 (wrongful confinement) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) on the husband’s complaint that she was locked up against her will in the apartment. The police said that further investigations would be carried out even as the woman’s condition remained critical in a private hospital where she was referred to after being rushed to the General Hospital. Hence, the police could not record her statement yet. Kumari, a 55-year-old from Salem in Tamil Nadu, was found on the portico of the apartment complex in the morning last Saturday reportedly hours after she might have fallen while scaling down. She had two conjoined saris tied to the handrail of the balcony of the apartment where she used to work and perhaps lost the grip on the sari along the way, leading to the fall. Though the incident had all the trappings of a desperate attempt, the police could not register a case till they received the petition on Wednesday since there was no complaint or allegations of a potential crime. The police had found the woman to have returned to work just a week before the incident, having gone back home during the lockdown. The police are expected to collect afresh the statement of the family, which employed the woman, besides that of the other residents of the apartment complex in the light of her husband’s complaint.
11 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Community policing to bring Munambam under CCTV watch||A wide swathe of nearly 12 km under the Munambam Janamaithri police station will be brought under a security network of 74 CCTVs by the end of this month thanks to a commendable community policing initiative. The Rs. 21-lakh project is being implemented jointly by the Munambam police and the Munambam Welfare Association (MWA), a combined apex body of Pallipuram and Kuzhupilly residents associations’ apex councils, by mobilising resources through contributions from individuals and organisations, including merchants associations and hospitals. “The cameras are likely to bring down crime rate and ensure round-the-clock monitoring. Live feeds will be available at the police station. The cameras can also be adjusted from the police station, and the footage can be stored up to 28 days. The cameras will be strategically placed, so that entry and exit from the station limits unmonitored will be impossible,” said A.K. Sudheer, Station House Officer, Munambam. The plan is to set up cameras at 33 major points covering, among other areas, the entire stretch of State highways passing through the station limits and the three major beaches at Munambam, Cherai, and Kuzhupilly. The camera feeds may not only help the Munambam police crack cases within their limits but may also come in handy for law enforcement by nearby stations.
11 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Senior citizens brave odds to exercise their franchise||Braving the pandemic situation, senior citizens turned up to cast their votes in various booths across the municipalities in Ernakulam. Key political fronts were apprehensive about a possible dip in the turnout of the elderly in view of the COVID-19 situation. However, senior voters in the age group between 70 and 80 were seen coming out after exercising their franchise right from the initial hours of the polling. At the polling booth at St. Joseph’s High School for ward 25 of the Angamaly municipality, an elderly woman climbed the few steps ahead of the polling station using her walking stick. She was helped by family members and policeman on duty to cast her vote. Despite her ailments, the senior citizen expressed joy in having exercised her franchise even amidst the pandemic crisis. Poll managers had arranged vehicles to ensure that senior citizens reached booths in the morning hours itself. As in a convoy, the autorickshaws engaged for the work were seen busy coming in and out of the polling booth in the ward 13 of the Karumalloor panchayat. “We are only permitting maximum of two senior voters at a time in view of the COVID-19 restrictions,” said an autorickshaw driver as he requested his passengers to wear masks and use sanitiser before and after casting votes. Election officials and police personnel on duty across the district had taken care to provide easy access to senior voters, and preference for casting their votes without delay. Family members were permitted to press buttons in electronic voting machines on behalf of elderly voters who had trouble identifying candidates of their choice.
11 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Pandemic fails to dampen spirit||The pandemic situation did not dampen the mood and excitement at polling booths as hundreds turned up to exercise their franchise in municipalities across Ernakualm right from the initial hours. Long queues were visible even before the start of the polling at 7 a.m. in several booths. A section of voters, who had turned up at the Govt. L.P. School at North Kadungalloor in Aluva, pointed out that they wanted to cast their votes early anticipating a rush as the day progressed. Candidates of key fronts were also found outside booths acknowledging voters silently. Roads wore a deserted look along the Aluva-Angamaly stretch around 8 a.m. as most of the shops had declared a holiday for its workers in view of the polling. At the St. Joseph’s High School in Angamaly, the atmosphere was vibrant as the institution had housed three booths for wards 23, 25 and 26 respectively. Poll managers were present in good numbers as they were seen directing voters to respective booths. Women and young voters formed a major part of the crowd that had turned up at the three booths by 9 a.m. The initial round of polling at the booths in Aluva town was not upbeat even though the situation improved later. A woman police official at the two booths at Govt. H.S.S., Muppathadam, was seen asking poll managers of various parties to leave the booth premises as they were busy wooing the attention of voters. About 30% of the nearly 1,400 voters in these two booths had exercised their franchise by 11 a.m. Women voters standing in the long queue at the booth at Edamula ward in Eloor forgot the pandemic threat for a while as they were seen standing close to each other. The policeman on duty had to warn them to ensure adequate physical distance. UDF workers injured Three workers of the United Democratic Front, including the district president of the Muslim Students Federation, were injured in an alleged attack by activists of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) after the end of the polling in ward eight of the Kalamassery municipality on Thursday evening. The police said that a case would be registered against those involved in the incident after collecting the statements of the three persons admitted to a private hospital at Edappally. Those injured include Sahal Hassan, district secretary of the MSF; Hamid Hassan, and T.K. Koyakutty.
11 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi shows the way in green voting||It was a green voting experience that awaited voters such as S. Divya at the polling booths set up at SRV LP School in Ernakulam. The young voter, who came to the polling booth along with her family members, did not hide her happiness on witnessing the green affair that was on display at the booth and its premises. At the entrance of the school building, a welcome message was displayed in coconut palm fronts which was adorned with kanikonna flowers. Three flower stalks of coconut trees, which are used in auspicious occasions, were placed at the courtyard as if to celebrate the day. A young volunteer, who wore a white T-shirt with conservation messages printed on it, was seen clicking selfies in her mobile phone at the school auditorium. A few traditional Thrikkakaraappan, which is used during Onam celebrations, decorated with kanikkonna flowers provided the colourful backdrop for a perfect selfie. Festoons made of Kuruthola, the tender leaves of coconut trees, were drawn along the walkway to the polling stations. Green was the colour of the display materials, all from nature, that were used to spread the message. As the voters walk in, messages highlighting the need for maintaining eco-friendly practices in voting and life greet them. “During the earlier elections, I had voted at the booth set up in the school. This is a first time experience and it really feels good,” Ms. Divya said. “However, they could have placed some plants too, which would have significantly improved the atmosphere,” Ms. Divya said. “The campaign is to urge people to go green and use nature-friendly materials and to reduce the use of plastic and other non-biodegradable materials,” said Dhanya Roni, the programme officer of the Suchithwa Kerala Mission. The mission and Haritha Kerala Mission had suggested green protocols to be followed in all polling stations. One polling station each in every local body was selected for implementing the programme, Ms. Rony said. Drinking water is provided inside the booth in earthen pots. Paper pens are used by the election officials. They have also been provided steel glasses and plates in place of disposable ones. Food was supplied to them in banana leaves to complete the campaign, she said.
11 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC rejects pleas for MBBS third allotment||The Kerala High Court on Thursday dismissed the pleas for a directive to the Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) to conduct the third counselling/allotment or a mop-up counselling for admission to the MBBS seats in the all-India quota. The pleas were made by Shahsad P. and two other candidates in the NEET (UG) rank list from Malappuram. According to them, many States had failed to complete their first allotment in the 85% State quota before the completion of the second allotment of the all-India quota. Only if the first allotment for the State quota was completed before the finalisation of the second allotment to the 15% of the all-India quota (AIQ), the students who opt for State seats could find a place in the allotment towards the AIQ. The MCC had completed the first and second allotments on November 5and 27 respectively. The petitioner sought a third allotment or a mop-up allotment to enable eligible candidates, like the petitioners who secured high marks in NEET (UG), to participate in the admission process for the AIQ. No third round Counsel for the National Medical Commission submitted that a third round of counselling was not intended or permitted for admission by the Supreme Court. Dismissing the petition, the court observed that it was seen that a third counselling/allotment or mop-up counselling was not envisaged for admission to the AIQ in any of the judgments of the apex court.
11 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Satyarthi to speak on ‘Globalising Compassion for Children’||Nobel Peace laureate Kailash Satyarthi will be the speaker in the first talk under the Pos-Poss English series on the theme, “Globalising Compassion for Children”, at 7 p.m. on December 11. The popular Pos-Poss (Positivity and explore Possibilities) Friday Talk series is a flagship programme of Mission Better Tomorrow (MBT), a global collective united in the task of creating young change leaders and making creative and meaningful social interventions. Inspector General of Police P. Vijayan, known for various impactful children-centred programmes, is the key mentor of the MBT. The talk can be viewed through the social media channels of MBT: http://facebook.com/mbtunited http://instagram.com/mbtunited http://youtube.com/mbtunited.
11 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||555 test positive in Ernakulam||Four health workers were among the 555 persons diagnosed with COVID-19 in the district on Thursday. The day also saw 649 patients recover from the disease. Koovappady recorded a spurt in cases with 52 new patients while Thrikkakara had 21 new patients, Elamkunnapuzha and Varapetty 18, Kuttampuzha 17, and Mattancherry 14. The number of quarantined people was 27,038, including 1,523 added to the list on Thursday. There were 107 new admissions to FLTCs/hospitals. The district had a total of 8,070 cases as on Thursday evening. A fresh batch of 5,754 samples were sent for testing on the day.
11 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Mammootty’s name missing from list||Actor Mammootty, a regular voter, could not exercise his franchise in the elections on Thursday as his name was missing from the voters’ list. Mr. Mammootty had recently shifted to his new residence in Kadavanthra from Panampilly Nagar.
11 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi voters turn up in large numbers||Clad in a snow-white personal protection equipment, complete with a face shield and turquoise blue gloves, Nidhish stepped out of his white car which he carefully drove into the courtyard of the Vennala High School. It was around 5.40 p.m. The school premises, which were bustling with activity till a few hours ago, wore a deserted look. Barring a few agents of candidates and some last-minute voters, no one was around. After waiting in the vehicle for a few minutes, T.C. Subramaniyan and his brother-in-law Prathapan, too stepped out of the vehicle. The polling officer, who made some quick arrangements inside the polling station to facilitate the COVID-positive voters to exercise their franchise, called out Mr. Pratapan. He walked into the polling station to vote in the machine that was turned towards the entrance. And it made a beep sound. Caution thrown to wind Thousands of city residents queued up before polling booths from the early hours of the day to elect their civic representatives, often throwing caution to the wind. Physical-distancing norms went up in smoke in most of the polling stations as people stood close to each other exchanging pleasantries. The only solace was the scene of voters using hand sanitisers provided by officials inside the booth as they waited for their names to be called. Voters could be seen forming groups among themselves and engaging in animated conversations at a booth set up at MMO VHSS at Moulana Azad Road at Panayappally. Voting was held up for some time in a booth at the school as the machine developed a glitch. Voting resumed after the machine was replaced. “It was impossible to ask voters to maintain social distancing as the crowd was swelling every minute,” said a police officer who was posted at a booth at Thoppumpady. The morning hours witnessed heavy voter turnout in most of the booths and over 30% of the votes were polled within three hours. Women too turned up at booths enthusiastically in large numbers and waited patiently for their turn to vote. Most of the voters carried pens with them to sign election-related documents. The polling figures of the Kochi Corporation, according to data provided by the State Election Commission, stood at 62.01% at 8 p.m. In 2015, it was 69.62%. Tense moments Some anxious moments unfolded at a booth at Vennala when a voter, who was listed as a COVID patient, turned up in person to vote. Realising the folly, the presiding officer raised an alarm to send him home, said a polling agent of a candidate. The young and the aged one, accompanied by their relatives, could be seen coming to polling booths across the city. Police personnel and voters who stood in queue were seen making way for the elderly to vote.
11 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Voting peaceful in Ernakulam||The Ernakulam rural police heaved a sigh of relief as the local body poll turned out to be uneventful and peaceful. District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik had deployed around 3,600 police personnel in 2,356 polling stations across the rural police limits. This was in addition to another 632 special police officers with separate strike teams and patrolling teams for the maintenance of law and order. The police have now shifted attention to the security of the 19 counting stations where armed guards will remain deployed round-the-clock till the day of counting.
11 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Athletic club sealed for non-payment of dues||The Revenue Department on Thursday sealed Quilon Athletic Club after the club failed to pay lease dues exceeding Rs. 60 lakh. “The building was leased out to the club in 1986-87, but they defaulted on payments all these years despite repeated reminders. The department had served notices to the club authorities, but the amount was not paid,” said an official. The club building and 65 cents of land adjoining it were sealed by a Revenue team that included S. Sasidharan Pillai, Kollam tahsildar; P. Subhan, tahsildar (LR); C. Devarajan, deputy tahsildar; and Suresh, Vadakkevila village officer. One-time settlement “The amount had already crossed crores, but after government intervention we opted for a one-time settlement. They were given a deadline to pay and when they failed to meet it, we initiated the procedures at the instruction of District Collector. The Collector had issued an order to seal the club,” the official said. Revenue recovery He added that the department will initiate revenue recovery measures against the office-bearers of the club if they did not pay the dues. “This was causing huge revenue loss to the government. If they pay the amount, they can renew the lease,” he said.
11 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam posts 346 cases, 312 recoveries||As many as 346 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Thursday. Of the fresh cases, all but three contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 42 children and 55 persons aged above 60. With 38 cases, the Kottayam municipal area led the tally, followed by Changanassery with 29 cases. Vazhappally and Kuravilangad reported 17 and 15 cases respectively. With 312 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,021 active cases. 305 in Kollam Kollam district reported 305 new COVID-19 cases, one death and 280 recoveries on the day. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 298 local contact cases, three health-care workers and three persons with no known source. The Health Department also confirmed that the death of a 59-year-old Karicode resident is due to COVID-19. Cases with no known source have been reported from Chavara, Pavithreswaram and Velinallur. The health workers who tested positive include a 44-year-old Karungappally resident, 29-year-old Thevalakkara resident and a 25-year-old Sasthamcotta resident. The district currently has 14,993 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 4,98,968. While 1,018 persons completed home quarantine on Thursday, the Health Department has also traced 1,15,741 primary and 9,935 secondary contacts of the patients. 200 in Pathanamthitta As many as 200 persons tested positive in Pathanamthitta on the day. Of the fresh cases, 190 persons contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 67 cases were yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Adoor and Pandala-Thekkekara reported 17 cases each, followed by Thiruvalla with 15 cases. One death Meanwhile, the disease claimed one more life in the district with a 50-year-old Thuvayur native testing positive post death. With 150 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 2,401 active cases. (With contributions from Kollam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)
11 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam sees moderate voter turnout||The local body polls in Kottayam, which is witnessing a high-stakes battle between the splinter groups of the Kerala Congress (M), witnessed a moderate turnout on Thursday. As per the estimates by the State Election Commission (SEC), the provisional polling percentage of the district stood at 73.91% with 11,89,499 out of total 16,13,627 voters in the district exercising their franchise. Those who voted comprised 76.7% of the 7.80 lakh male and 71.06% of the 8.33 lakh female voters in the district. Meanwhile, the overall voting level stood much lesser than the 78.3% turnout recorded in 2015. The political parties, however, regard the present voting level significantly high, considering a sharp spike in the COVID-19 cases over the past few days. High in the morning Though a brisk polling in the early hours took Kottayam on the top among other districts in polling percentage in the morning, it slowed down by noon. Contrary to the expectations, the turnout was much lesser in the Kerala Congress fortresses such as the Uzhavoor and Lalam block panchayats and the Pala municipality. While the Uzhavoor block panchayat recorded the lowest polling percentage of 70.13, the Lalam block recorded a moderate polling of 72.94%. Among the 11 blocks, Vaikom recorded the highest turnout of 80.18%. Among municipalities Across the six municipalities, Erattupetta recorded the highest polling of 85.35%, while Changanassery saw the lowest turnout of 71.05%. Barring a few minor incidents, polling was relatively peaceful in the district. Meanwhile, EVM disruptions were reported from a handful of booths though it did not affect polling. Confusion prevailed in the polling booth in Elamkadu, near Mundakkayam, when the polling officials allowed voting at 6 a.m. shortly after the mock poll. Following complaints, officials had to reset the EVM and call back 19 voters who had cast their votes before 7 a.m. to vote again.
11 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||All fronts confident in Kottayam||With the polls to the local bodies in Kottayam firing up voter interest despite the COVID-19 situation, leading parties have exuded confidence about the voting levels turning to their advantage. While the United Democratic Front (UDF) termed the voting pattern consistent with its calculations of a clean sweep, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) attributed it to a reversing of the political trend in rural Kottayam — long regarded as UDF bastions. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA), meanwhile, attributed the ‘rather high voting level’ to its supporters pouring in to the polling stations. “The inclusion of the Kerala Congress (M) [KC(M)] has clearly worked in favour of the LDF as the core vote bank of the Kerala Congress came out in huge numbers to support us. Riding on this momentum, the LDF is set to win the Kottayam district panchayat — which is one of the most keenly watched across Kerala,” said V.N. Vasavan, district secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)]. Personal connect Seeking to dispel the conventional notion that a higher voter turnout always favoured the UDF, he said the LDF could make a huge difference this time by reaching out to each voter at a personal level. KC(M) leader Jose K. Mani too shared the overall enthusiasm within the LDF and held that the outcome would be a fitting reply to those who betrayed K.M. Mani. Congress leader Oommen Chandy, however, had no doubt that the outcome would be a reflection of the growing public ire against the governments at the Centre and the State. Administrative lapses Addressing the media after casting his vote at Puthupally, Mr. Chandy said the LDF had not been able to counter any of the allegations raised by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, which eventually came out to be true. “These controversies combined with the administrative lapses over the past five years are sure to have an impact on the final outcome,” he said. Earlier in the day, Nair Service Society general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair too had made a remark on the growing public sentiment against ‘the prevailing situation.’ “The people are too upset and hence, this election should ensure the victory of democracy,” he said in response to queries from media persons. ‘BJP supporters’ The NDA, meanwhile, said it was about to win several seats across the various local bodies as evident from the huge turnout of its supporters. “Higher turnouts in local body polls were traditionally regarded as a trend in favour of the UDF. But with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) gaining considerable ground and the minority communities increasingly leaning towards us, this is a trend in favour of the NDA,” said Noble Mathew, BJP district unit president.
11 December 2020||KOZHIIKODE,KERALA||10,108 applications received for special ballots||The District Election Office has so far received 10,108 applications from the electoral list for casting their votes through the special ballots in Kozhikode. The special ballots have been facilitated for COVID-19 patients as well as those under observation, to exercise their franchise in the polls on Monday. A team comprising a special polling officer, special polling assistant and a civil police officer in PPE attire will deliver the ballots to these voters. They have also been allotted a special vehicle for the purpose as well. The special ballot papers have been issued through the returning officers based on a list prepared by the designated health officer. These will be given out till 3 p.m. on Sunday.
11 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||More non-COVID patients approach overstretched MCH||More people approaching the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kozhikode, for non-COVID-19 treatment have left the staff in a quandary as the services there are yet to return to the pre-pandemic phase. According to sources, the lifting of restrictions coupled with a general sense of ease have led the people to reach the hospital in large numbers for consultation and treatment for non-COVID-19 diseases. Earlier, many were not keen on going to the MCH, one of the two facilities designated by the government for COVID-19 treatment, for fear of contracting the infection. Infected persons from other districts in the Malabar region too are being treated here. “Patients who had avoided visiting the hospital for the past seven-eight months are returning now. But the problem is that we may not have space to accommodate all of them as in-patients. For example, of the 11 wards in the general medicine department, eight are still being used for COVID-19 patients. Two wards have been adopted from other departments for the purpose as well,” some of the doctors said. The sources claimed that of the nine wards in the surgery department, only four were being utilised now. Only emergency surgeries and those for cancer patients were being performed. Cancer patients were not getting ward facilities. The gynaecology section is occupied by COVID patients as the MCH is the only government hospital in the district where their delivery cases are attended to. Most of the infected dialysis patients too are approaching only the MCH, they said. “Unless a plan of action is devised to deal with both COVID and non-COVID patients, there is going to be chaos,” one doctor, who wished not to be quoted, said. Meanwhile, the pandemic has delayed the academic work of postgraduate as well as graduate medical students, resident doctors and house surgeons. In most medical college hospitals, they are the ones who work round-the-clock to run the system. “If a batch of students and residents finish their tenure and leave, and if they are not replaced by fresh batches, it is likely to affect the quality of services,” a doctor said.
11 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Curbs on ‘kottikalasam’ in Kozhikode||Considering the COVID-19 scare and the stringent health protocol in place, there will be restrictions on ‘kottikalasam’, the high-spirited final outdoor campaign by political parties before elections. The campaign for the local body polls will come to an end on Saturday. The police have sought the cooperation of party leaders to keep workers informed of the guidelines. The Station House Officers taking care of sensitive booths will call meetings of party leaders to ensure safe polling on Monday. In case of violations, the party leaders concerned will be accountable for action under the Epidemic Diseases Control Act. Meanwhile, some party leaders have sought the permission of the authorities to organise small gatherings. However, police sources said they were unlikely in areas where the Health Department had advised caution. Of the 2,987 booths in Kozhikode district, 1,000 have been classified as vulnerable. Special safety arrangements will be made at such booths with the deployment of additional police personnel from the Armed Reserve Camp. Besides, there will be live webcasting for close monitoring of as many as 91 sensitive booths. Further safety arrangements will be finalised shortly. A major challenge for the police is to maintain a good strength despite the pandemic spread. Incidentally, several officers are undergoing treatment for viral infection or are in home quarantine. The shortage of human resources will be addressed by deploying staff from other police stations. They will also be supported by Special Police Officers appointed by the District Election Authority. Though containment zone regulations are still in place to contain the pandemic spread, political parties have been holding uninterrupted campaign by complying with the safety protocol. Along with online programmes, they have been free to conduct house visits, outdoor campaigns, and other promotional programmes with less participants. Restrictions on Kottikalasam are mainly aimed at avoiding chances of further spread of the pandemic.
11 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||10-member team to leave for Delhi||After the local body elections, a 10-member committee of various farmers’ organisations led by the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh from Kozhikode district will leave for New Delhi to join the ongoing agitation of farmers against the Centre’s new farm laws. There are also plans to send more such district-level delegations to express solidarity with the protesters and make its repercussions visible in Kerala. The committee members said here on Thursday that the latest farmers’ uprising would make a sweeping change in the farm sector and the correction of anti-farm policies and laws. Farmers in all States were seemingly enthusiastic to take forward the fight and they would not go back without revoking the new amendments which were meant to pass on the responsibility of public procurement of agriculture produce to private players, they said. Boycott call The protesters’ call for boycotting Adani and Reliance products across India had already been taken up by many agriculture families and organisations in Kozhikode. Expressing solidarity with the agitating farmers, the hillside farmers were planning to lay siege to various Reliance outlets in Kozhikode next week as part of intensifying their protests.
11 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||578 test positive in Kozhikode district||A total of 578 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Thursday and there were 650 recoveries. According to the District Medical Officer, 6,958 lab tests were performed. The daily test positivity rate is 8.30%. Of the fresh cases, 552 were due to local transmission of the infection, and the source was unknown in 16 cases. Kozhikode Corporation had the highest number of locally acquired infections at 177, followed by Thamarassery (28). The active case load in the district stands at 6,347. Meanwhile, four persons died of the infection at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Wednesday and another person on Thursday. In Wayanad As many as 114 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Thursday. Of the new cases 113 patients, three health workers were infected through local contact and a person had returned from Karnataka. The district has so far reported 12,762 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 10,630 have recovered from the disease, including 115 persons on the day. The total number of active cases as on date was 2,055 in the district. As many as 12,216 persons are under observation.  In Malappuram As many as 700 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Malappuram district on Thursday. While 647 of them had contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons, there were 30 cases whose source of infection could not be traced. When 11 cases came from abroad and 12 came from other States. There were 680 recoveries in the district on Thursday. The number of active COVID-19 cases currently under treatment stood at 7,151. There were 85,445 people in quarantine.
11 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Control rooms to monitor hyper-sensitive booths||Three special control rooms will be opened in the district to monitor live feeds from web cameras covering hyper-sensitive polling booths. Of the 120 such booths, 91 will be brought under webcasting as part of the improved surveillance measures recommended by the State Election Commission. The control rooms will be set up at the collectorate and the offices of the District Police Chiefs (Kozhikode Rural and Kozhikode City). The IT Mission District Project Manager will be the nodal officer for the surveillance initiative, which will be implemented with technical support from Keltron. The visuals will be handed over to the Election Commission. Videographers will be deployed at other hyper-sensitive booths to capture crucial moments. Candidates or their parties can also appoint their own videographers. For that, they should obtain prior permission from the District Election Officer after remitting a fee. Till date, the district-level monitoring committee, which was constituted to check violation of the model code of conduct, has received 10,097 complaints. Of them, 17 complaints are related to defamatory campaigns and misconduct against officials on duty. The State Election Commission will directly consider 10 of the 17 complaints. Seven other complaints have already been settled by the district-level committee. To support the monitoring committee, five anti-defacement squads, including a district-level squad, have been deployed to track code of conduct violations. The squads operate on the basis of confidential complaints received through helplines and those noticed during their daily patrol.
11 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||PPE mandatory for infected persons to vote||Those who test positive for SARS-CoV-2 between 3 p.m. on December 13 and 6 p.m. on the voting day on December 14 can exercise their franchise by going directly to the polling station. According to a release on Thursday, such people should produce a certification letter in Form 19C given by the designated health officers. They should also reach the polling station by 6 p.m. on the polling day and will be allowed to vote after all the other voters exercise their franchise. Polling agents and officials should put on personal protection equipment (PPE) before such special voters enter the polling station. All the other procedures for voters are applicable to infected persons as well. However, they should not touch the electronic voting machine without wearing gloves. Signature should be given using a special pen. Those undergoing treatment at government facilities will be transported by the Health Department, and people under home isolation should reach the polling station on their own wearing PPE. Voters should not get out of the vehicle on the way. Drivers too should wear PPE, the release said. A Poll Manager web application has been launched to streamline election work. The district polling officer could evaluate all the activities related to voting in every hour through the app. Returning officers will update information on a designated portal and sectoral officers, presiding officers, and first polling officers can access it.
11 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||A voice that gave Malayalam timeless melodies||There is to G. Venugopal’s voice a rare quality that gladdens the ear and soothes the mind. That refreshingly original voice turned 60 on Thursday. He may not be among the most prolific of our playback singers, but he has to his credit some of the sweetest melodies in Malayalam cinema of the last four decades. He had arrived at the tinsel town at a time when it was very difficult to get an opportunity for a new singer. First hit It certainly was not easy for him, for all his talent and training, but all he needed was one big hit. He got that in 1986, with Onnu Muthal Poojyam Vare , Raghunath Paleri's directorial debut produced by Navodaya.  Raree rareeram raaro , the sweet lullaby, tuned by Mohan Sithara, another debutant, became an instant hit. That was two years after his playback career kicked off with the Priyadarshan comedy Odaruthammava Aalariyam . The 1980s and 90s saw Venugopal establishing himself as one of the leading singers in Malayalam cinema, with a series of chart-toppers, such as C handana mani vaathil... (Marikkunnila Njan), Thane poovitta moham... (Sasneham), Onnaam raagam paadi... (Thoovanathumpikal) and Pallitherundo... (Mazhavilkavadi) . Unique style His unique voice and style as well as the ability to bring out the true emotion of a song did not go unnoticed. It is doubtful if he has sung as many songs as he should have in films, but he more than made up for that by doing something that no other playback singer ever attempted: he took an initiative to give music to several great poems in Malayalam and brought out albums. He got lesser known composers such as Jaison J. Nair and Suresh Manimala to tune well-known poems of O.N.V. Kurup, Sugathakumari, Satchidanandan, N.N. Kakkad, Balachandran Chullikkad and others. The result was pure magic. To listen to poems such as Saphalamee Yathra , Meera Paadunnu, Krishna Neeyenne Ariyilla and Sandarshanam in Venugopal’s voice is an out-of-the-world experience. His contribution in taking poetry to the average listener cannot be overstated. “Yes, that is something I am proud of, looking back at my career,” Venugopal told The Hindu. “I am working on another album of poems, which will be out soon.” That surely is worth looking forward to.
11 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Cleanliness programme held||NCC cadets of Malabar Christian College in Kozhikode organised a one-day cleanliness programme as part of encouraging the new awareness initiative of Swachh Bharat Mission. The motive was to clean the statues of veterans and freedom fighters in the college with the objective of bringing cleanliness right from the college through each cadet.
11 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Dissolve Assembly: P. K. Krishnadas||BJP national executive committee member P.K. Krishnadas has sought the dissolution of the Assembly in the wake of the allegations faced by Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and also Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala. At a meet-the-leader programme organised by the Calicut Press Club on Thursday, he said that Kerala was going through a Constitutional crisis and the reputation of the three persons holding important positions was tainted by serious charges. “It was an insult to the democratic system and polity of the State if the Assembly was allowed to continue. It would be appropriate if the Assembly was dissolved and fresh elections held,” he said. Mr. Krishnadas said the Chief Minister who had tried to become a renaissance leader had now become a mafia leader. CM’s office The probe in the gold smuggling and drug pedalling cases would soon reach the office of the Chief Minister. The Leader of the Opposition was also facing charges of corruption, he said.
11 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||77.51% turn up to vote in Palakkad||Palakkad registered 77.51% voter turnout when the three-tier local civic bodies went to the polls on Thursday. However, the polling figure made available at 6 p.m. would go up as polling continued into late evening at several polling stations. District Collector D. Balamurali said that all voters who reached the polling station at 6 p.m. were allowed to vote in spite of the lagging in polling. The district had recorded 80.41% polling when 17.13 lakh cast their votes in the last local body elections held in 2015. Long queues Throwing caution about the spread of COVID-19 pandemic to the winds, voters reached polling booths in groups. Long queues of voters were seen in front of most of the 3,000 polling stations from morning. Election officials said that 18.11 lakh people out of the 23.37 lakh voters in the district exercised their franchise till 6 p.m. This figure is, however, likely to change. Among those who voted, 9.39 lakh were women and 8.72 lakh men. Only four of the 20 transgender voters polled their votes. Among the seven municipalities in the district, Chittur Thathamangalam registered the highest polling of 81.52% and Palakkkad the lowest at 66.52%. Shoranur recorded 74.4%, Ottapalam 73.67%, Pattambi 77.88% , Cherpulassery 79.81%, and Mannarkkad 75.09% . Among the 13 block panchayatss, Chittur recorded the highest polling of 81.61% and Malampuzha the lowest polling at 75.11%. Kuzhalmannam block registered 79.12%, Kollangode 80.12%, Thrithala 75.82%, Alathur 78.76%, Nemmara 81.13%, Pattambi 77.43%, Ottapalam 76.68%, Sreekrishnapuram 79.15%, Mannarkkad 78.16%, Attappady 75.87%, and Palakkad 77.19% . Webcasting Polling was monitored through webcasting in 89 sensitive booths with potential threat from Maoists. As many as 24 of them were in Attappady and 10 in Malampuzha. Officials watched the polling live from the District Police Chief’s office, Collectorate control room and from Election Commission’s office. Keltron provided the software for webcasting done on BSNL network.
11 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Ganja worth Rs. 2 cr. seized at Walayar||Excise officers seized 125 kg of ganja worth Rs. 2 crore from a pickup van at Walayar, near here, on Thursday. The ganja was brought from Visakhapatnam for distribution in Kochi. Four persons were arrested. Two special squads of the excise worked in tandem to seize the smuggled in ganja on the basis of a tip-off received by Deputy Excise Commissioner Shaji S. Rajan. A car that escorted the pickup was also seized by the excise team. Those arrested were Vijesh, 31, from Thiruvegappura; Shinoj, 33, from Kannamangalam, Payyanur; Sixson, 31, from Punithara, Kochi; and Rajesh, 42, from Tripunithura, Kochi. Excise officials said the ganja had been bought from Padayilu, near Visakhapatnam. Surveillance tightened They said surveillance had been tightened in view of the elections and upcoming Christmas and New Year celebrations. Inspectorss P.K. Sateesh and A. Shoukathali, preventive officer Mansoor Ali, and civil officers Rajesh S., Austin K.J., Shajuj K.T., Abhilash K., Sruthish G., Biju A., Anil Kumar and G. Sattar were part of the team that seized the ganja.
11 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||212 more test positive in Palakkad||As many as 212 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad district on Thursday. District officials said that 88 of the new cases had contracted the disease through direct contact with infected persons. The source of infection could not be traced in 118 cases. There were six cases that came from across the borders. 263 recoveries The officials said that 263 people recovered from COVID-19 in Palakkad on Thursday. The number of active cases currently under treatment in Palakkad was 4,204. Apart from them, 197 people from Palakkad were being treated in other districts for COVID-19. While 93 of them were in Malappuram, 42 were in Ernakulam, 39 in Thrissur, 16 in Kozhikode, two each in Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram, and one each in Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Kasaragod.
11 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||IMA’s nationwide medical bandh today||Doctors of modern medicine in the State are joining their colleagues in other parts of the country in observing a nationwide medical bandh being organised by the Indian Medical Association on Friday in protest against the Central government’s recent move to allow Ayurveda doctors also to perform surgeries in modern medicine. The doctors in private and public sector hospitals will stay away from outpatient clinics from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. and other than emergency services, ICU and labour room services and COVID-19 care, no other hospital services will be available on Friday. Indian Medical Association’s State leaders on Thursday appealed to the public to join the strike of the doctors who were defending public health. Appeal to public They also appealed to the public not to go to hospitals on Friday so as to avoid inconvenience. All professional associations of the doctors in the private and public sectors, including the Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association and the Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association, are participating in the strike. Notification The IMA’s call for strike follows a notification by the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) which regulates Ayurveda education and practice, amending the Postgraduate Ayurveda Education Regulations, 2016 and allowing PG students of Shalyatantra (general surgery) and Shalakyatantra (ENT, eye, dentistry) to practice 58 surgical procedures after obtaining formal training. Without adopting the principles of modern medicine, including sterilisation, anaesthesia, and the solid back-up of modern medicine’s pharmacopoeia, surgeries cannot be performed in a crude manner. Surgery is not just one procedure alone and it involves monitoring the patient, preventing infection using antibiotics and anticipating and preventing any medical emergencies which might suddenly surface. How will Ayurveda surgeons handle all this, the IMA asked. Ancient texts Though Ayurveda might have recorded surgical procedures in its ancient past, it is very evident that it has never progressed beyond the mention in ancient texts, it said. The Centre is endangering the health of the public by assuming that short-term training will enable the Ayurveda doctors to perform surgeries, which modern medicine doctors perform after several years of intense study and training. The CCIM should immediately withdraw the controversial notification, the IMA demanded  Doctors in private and public sector hospitals will stay away from outpatient clinics from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.
11 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Engineering colleges may reopen by year end||Engineering colleges in Kerala are planning resumption of offline classes by year end in a phased manner. APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has prepared a draft schedule that slightly modifies the ongoing academic semester to accommodate a window for contact classes. The university’s academic council, which met a few days ago, proposed an extension of the regular classes to provide facility for contact classes, including practical sessions, internal assessments and discussion on crucial theory topics in each engineering stream. Students are likely to be permitted to the campus, one semester at a time, to adhere to the COVID-19 guideline of physical distancing. The end-semester examination will be conducted semester wise to prevent crowding. The draft schedule envisages concluding the online classes of MBA (4th semester), BTech (3rd, 5th and 7th semesters), MTech (3rd semester), BArch (3rd, 5th and 9th semesters), MArch (3rd semester), MCA (3rd and 5th semesters), Integrated MCA (3rd, 5th, 7th, 9th semesters), MPlan (3rd semester), BHMCT (3rd, 5th semester) and BDes (3rd semester) courses on December 18. Those of MBA (1st semester), BTech LeT (3rd semester), BArch (7th semester), and first semester PG and UG courses are also likely to come to a close on January 23, 31, February 15, 20 and 27 respectively. Online revision The contact classes for 7th semester BTech and 9th semester BArch will be held from December 28 to January 9. While online revision will be held from January 10 to 31, the examinations for the semesters will be conducted from February 15 to March 1. Likewise, the contact classes for 3rd semester MTech, MArch and MPlan, 5th semester MCA and 9th semester Integrated MCA will also begin on December 28, while that of 5th semester BTech, BHMCT, BArch, 5th and 7th semesters Integrated MCA will resume on January 11. The resumption of offline classes of the 1st semester MBA (January 25), 3rd semester BTech, BHMCT, BDes, BArch, BTech LeT (February 1), 1st semester PG courses (February 22) and 1st semester UG courses (March 1) has also been planned. The commencement of the next semester will be staggered with that of some courses slated for March 1 and others on April 1. The university will stick to the conventional pen-and-paper mode for its end-semester examinations. According to official sources, the schedule of the contact classes is subject to the government’s approval. The university Syndicate will take the recommendations of the academic council for discussion next week.
11 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Details of dragonflies, damselflies in e-book||The Society for Odonate Studies, an organisation dedicated to the study and conservation of dragonflies and damselflies, has launched an e-book to identify 175 odonate species recorded in Kerala. The e-book titled ‘Introduction to Odonata with Identification Keys for Dragonflies & Damselflies seen in Kerala,’ edited by odonate enthusiasts Jeevan Jose and Vivek Chandran, helps identify all the 175 odonate species recorded from Kerala so far. Photos, flow charts Each species account consists of its scientific name, Malayalam name, high-quality photographs taken from the field, and a brief description. Easy-to-use flow charts help distinguish between similar species. The e-book features species recently reported from Kerala like the Coorg False Spreadwing (Indolestes pulcherrimus) and species newly described from the State like the Kiran’s Spreadwing (Platylestes kirani), named after C.G. Kiran, the odonate enthusiast who passed away at the age of 40. “Odonates are ecological indicators and changes in their diversity and abundance reflect changes in the ecosystem,” says Jeevan, also the president of the Society for Odonate Studies. “Being predators in all stages of their life cycles, odonates play a key role in controlling mosquitoes and agricultural pests.” The e-book also gives clues about some ‘mysterious’ species, which are mostly species known only from type specimens collected decades ago. “We hope the e-book will attract more people towards odonates. They have the potential to act as flagship species for conservation, just like birds,” adds Vivek, who is pursuing research on odonates. The Society for Odonate Studies (SOS) formed in 2019, has over 70 members who are trained in the basics of odonatology, the study of dragonflies and damselflies. Free download The e-book can be downloaded for free at:https://archive.org/ download/ introduction -to- odonata-2 /Introduction%20to%2 0Odonata%202.pdf.
11 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||TVM launches a clean-up mission||The Thiruvananthapuram Vikasana Munnettam (TVM), a newly formed apolitical party that fielded 14 candidates in the December 8 elections to the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, is setting an example for political parties by swiftly removing flex boards and banners used for campaigning. “Our candidates and supporters set out on a clean-up mission immediately after the election to remove the campaigning materials from the streets in 14 wards. Almost all the materials have been removed,” TVM president S.N. Raghuchandran Nair and general secretary M.S. Venugopal said on Thursday. Plea to political parties The TVM has also appealed to the political parties to remove their banners, flex boards, and cut-outs put up at public places at the earliest. At many places in the capital, the campaign materials put up by the three fronts in the vicinity of the polling booths are still to be removed. “Political parties should adopt innovative ways for electioneering to avoid campaign materials that cause environmental pollution,” Mr. Nair and Mr. Venugopal added. The TVM has appealed to the Election Commission to come up with guidelines to restrict the use of flex boards and banners in elections. The election commission has also been urged to issue a directive to political parties to set up booths 200 metres from the polling station , the TVM office-bearers said. Corporation’s directive Meanwhile, the Corporation has appealed to the political parties to remove the campaign materials immediately from the public places and the roadside. If they failed to do so, the civic body will remove the materials, the secretary of the Corporation said in a release here. The cost of the removal of the materials will be added to the expense of candidates.
11 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM convenes meeting to discuss school reopening||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has convened a high-level meeting on December 17 to discuss reopening of schools and conduct of examinations in the State. The meeting will be attended by the General Education Minister, Chief Secretary and General Education Secretary. The government is considering school reopening in January for Classes 10 and 12 subject to the pandemic conditions then. The government had a couple of weeks ago asked 50% of the teachers handling subjects for Classes 10 and 12 (Plus Two) to report for work from December 17. This was to improve academic support for students and gear up for revision of the portions completed through the First Bell digital classes. The government wants to complete the digital lessons for both Classes 10 and 12 in January. Exam dates A decision on the dates of SSLC and Plus Two examinations, officials said, would rest on the schedule for the CBSE board, NEET examinations and election dates. “If those examinations are pushed back, Kerala too can postpone its public examinations,” an official said. A detailed plan on the arrangements to be put in place for student safety in schools is under preparation by the Director of General Education in consultation with teachers’ associations. On the basis of the recommendations made at the meeting with the Chief Minister, working instructions will be issued by the department in association with Health and other related departments. Schools too have been asked to prepare own plans on how to accommodate the students. Students in a division of Plus Two, say 50, could be divided into two groups of 25 or even smaller groups, depending on the availability of vacant classrooms and teachers. Officials had earlier said that a decision on return of Classes 1 to 9 to schools will depend on the COVID-19 situation, and there was a possibility that it might not happen soon.  Government is considering school reopening in January for Classes 10 and 12.
11 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||4,470 new cases, 4,847 recoveries||Kerala reported 4,470 new cases of COVID -19 on Thursday when 52,769 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 6,54,041 cases. The test positivity rate remained at 8.47%, not showing much decline in disease transmission. More recoveries than new cases were reported on Thursday, with 4,847 patients getting discharged from hospitals across the State.The active caseload of the State dropped further to 59,517 cases, while the cumulative recoveries till date rose to 5,91,845 cases. Another 26 deaths were entered into the official COVID death list of the State on Thursday, which took the COVID toll of the State till date to 2,533. Palakkad reported six of these deaths, Thiruvananthapuram four, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram and Kozhikode three each, Kannur two and Kollam and Kottayam reported one death each. COVID patients who are critically ill in ICUs in various hospitals at present are at 857, with 219 of them requiring ventilator support. Locally acquired Of the 4,470 new cases reported on Thursday, 4,393 cases are locally acquired infections, while in 77 cases, the Health Department recorded a history of travel outside the State. Among the locally acquired infections, the source of infection could not be traced in 498 cases, while 37 health-care workers were also reported to have contracted the infection. Among districts, Malappuram reported 700 cases, Kozhikode 578, Ernakulam 555, Thrissur 393, Kottayam 346, Kollam 305, Alappuzha 289, Thiruvananthapuram 282, Palakkad 212, Idukki 200, Pathanamthitta 200, Kannur 186, Wayanad 114 and Kasaragod 110 cases.
11 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Willing to face any inquiry: Speaker||Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan on Thursday attempted to mount a strong defence against the imputation that gold smuggling case suspect Swapna Suresh had implicated him in the racket. Opposition parties had seized on the allegation to disadvantage the ruling front during the local body polls. Mr. Sreeramakrishnan said he was willing to face any investigation agency as an ‘ordinary citizen’ and without the ‘insulation’ of his constitutional office to clarify the ‘vile lie.’ He had not accused any agency of bias and had no cause to mistrust them. The Speaker challenged Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran to furnish evidence that he had abetted smugglers. He was considering legal action against the BJP leader. “She was a familiar face. I maintained an officially punctilious contact with her. Swapna's criminal background came as a shock,” he said. The Speaker denied he had travelled along with Swapna or met with other suspects in the Gulf. “My brother and sister work in the Gulf. My mother is with them. My son is doing an internship in the country. I visit them periodically. Often, the diaspora invite me,” he said. The Speaker also slammed Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala for raising baseless allegations of corruption and extravagance against the Legislative Secretariat. Worked for free He denied there was any fraud in contracting the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society for carrying out works in the Assembly complex. The Sabha TV was a new concept for bringing the Assembly closer to the public and not an overreach. The chief consultant for the Sabha TV worked for free. The well-appointed Assembly lounge, which Mr. Chennithala had highlighted as wasteful expenditure, was widely appreciated for its aesthetics, he said.
11 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Railway Board nod for three more festival special trains||The Railway Board has approved the introduction of three more weekly and bi-weekly festival special trains in the Kochuveli-Indore-Kochuveli, Ernakulam Junction-Okha-Ernakulam Junction and Nagercoil Junction-Mumbai CSMT-Nagercoil Junction corridors. Kochuveli-Indore (02646) weekly superfast festival special will leave Kochuveli at 6.15 a.m. on Saturdays to reach Indore at 5.05 a.m. on the third day According to Railways, the services from Kochuveli will be on December 12, 19 and 26. In the return, Indore-Kochuveli (02645) weekly superfast festival special will leave Indore at 4.50 p.m. on Mondays to reach Kochuveli at 4.20 p.m. on the third day. The service from Indore will be on December 14, 21 and 28. Ernakulam Junction-Okha (06338) bi-weekly superfast festival special train will leave Ernakulam at 8.25 p.m. on Wednesdays and Fridays to reach Okha at 4.40 p.m. on the third day. The train will operate from Ernakulam Junction on December 11, 16, 18, 23, 25 and 30. Okha-Ernakulam (06337) bi-weekly festival special, in the return direction, will leave Okha at 6.45 a.m. on Mondays and Saturdays to reach Ernakulam Junction at 11.55 p.m. the third day. The service from Okha will be on December 14, 19, 21, 26, 28 and January 2, 2021. Nagercoil Junction-Mumbai (06352) CSMT bi-weekly superfast festival special will leave Nagercoil Junction at 6 a.m. on Thursdays and Sundays to reach Mumbai CSMT at 7.15 p.m. the next day. The train will have service from Nagercoil Junction on December 13, 17, 20, 24, 27 and 31. In the return direction, Mumbai CSMT-Nagercoil Junction (06351) bi-weekly festival special will leave Mumbai CSMT at 8.35 p.m. on Fridays and Mondays to reach Nagercoil Junction at 7.30 a.m. the third day. The service of the train will be on December 14, 18, 21, 25, 28 and January 1.
11 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sivagiri pilgrimage scaled down||Arrangements are under way for the 88th Sivagiri pilgrimage, set to be observed virtually on December 30, 31, and January 1. Fewer than 1,000 pilgrims will be allowed into Sivagiri every day to reduce crowding. Strict COVID-19 protocols will be followed for the pilgrimage, Sivagiri Madom authorities said at a meeting to review the arrangements. No ‘annadanam’ Large conferences and other programmes will not be held this time. Speeches by prominent people and classes will be telecast through Sivagiri TV from December 25. Melas and other stalls will not be allowed to prevent gatherings at Sivagiri and surrounding areas. There will be no ‘annadanam’ and pilgrims will not be accommodated at Sivagiri this time. Special bus and train services too will not be available. Additional district magistrate V.R. Vinod who presided over the meeting asked pilgrims to avoid visiting Sivagiri in large groups. If public functions are held, only less than 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed. The Madom authorities should inform the people about this, he said. Sanitisers and facilities for hand washing should be made available to all pilgrims as part of COVID-19 safety norms. The Health Department was entrusted with ensuring medicines and other arrangements for the pilgrims at the Varkala taluk hospital. Before the pilgrimage, the bathing ghats and other places should be cleaned. The Varkala municipality authorities have been directed to set up temporary toilets for the pilgrims. The Kerala State Electricity Board has been asked to complete maintenance of street lights and ensure uninterrupted power supply.
11 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Agasthyamala trek season cancelled||The COVID-19 pandemic has forced the Forest Department to cancel the annual trekking season to Agasthyarkoodam (or Agasthyamala) and extend its off-season package in a bid to prevent crowding. A 1,868-metre-tall peak that forms part of the Western Ghats, the biodiversity-rich Agasthyarkoodam is widely regarded a trekkers’ haven with many eagerly awaiting for the annual trekking season that usually commences on the day of the Makaravilakku festival in Sabarimala and continues until Sivarathri. While hundred entry passes are usually issued for each day of the trek, the daily trekkers’ list usually go up to 150 with more trekkers managing to gain entry. Trekkers in their final leg of the three-day-long journey often come across those who have only set forth, paving way for around 250 people to be accommodated at the Athirumala base station all at once. 35 trekkers on two days Since such crowding would contravene the COVID-19 guidelines, the Forest authorities have decided to permit up to 35 trekkers each on two days – Tuesday and Friday – a week to enable social distancing as much as possible. The off-season package, which was wound up in March-end because of the pandemic situation, was revived on November 20. The authorities plan to continue with the package for the time being. According to Thiruvananthapuram Wildlife Warden J.R. Ani, the provision for individual online bookings has been cast aside for the time being. Entry pass rates “Bookings this year will instead be done under a special package operated by the Neyyar-Peppara forest development agency (FDA). The entry pass rates for groups of five people and 10 people have been fixed at Rs. 16,000 and Rs. 28,000 respectively,” he said. While three guides will accompany groups of five trekkers, four guides will be sent along with the batches of 10 people. The guides, who are members of the Bonacaud eco-development committee (EDC), will also be tasked with transporting provisions and cooking food for the trekkers. Certificates must Mr. Ani added that COVID-19-negative certificates would be mandatory for the visitors who will also be screened using thermal scanners at the Bonacaud picket station where they will assemble for the 26-km trek. Children below 12 years will not be allowed. Bookings can be made at the office of the Thiruvananthapuram Wildlife Warden in the department’s office complex in Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Vattiyurkavu. Further details can also be obtained by contacting 8281004537.
11 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Dog squad to join Poojappura prison duty||Surveillance within the Poojappura Central Prison is set to be bolstered with the induction of a dog squad for the first time. Two sniffer dogs, Kaira and Ruby, are set to formally join the Kerala Prisons on Friday. While dog squads had come into being in the Kannur and Viyyur Central Prisons in November 2015, the Poojappura Central Prison is being assigned the service of a such team only now. Director General of Prisons and Correctional Services Rishiraj Singh will inaugurate the Prison Dog Squad at the dog squad centre established near the Freedom petrol pump in Poojappura. An unused building has been renovated to set up the squad office and kennel.  Training programme According to Poojappura Central Prison superintendent N.S. Nirmalanandan Nair, the sniffer dogs had undergone a training programme in the Kerala Police Academy, Thrissur, since March. Four officials of the Kerala Prisons also had taken part in the programme as trainers. Among the two newest members of the force, Kaira had outshone her fellow trainees by winning the gold medal in the ‘narcotics sniffer’ category during their passing-out parade. The canines will primarily be mandated with detecting the presence of narcotic substances on the jail premises.
11 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rights panel directive on hit-and-run cases||The State Human Rights Commission has directed top government officials to look into the demand to locate using modern communication avenues, vehicle owners who fail to stop after causing accidents. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic directed the Chief Secretary, Home Secretary, and the State Police Chief to submit reports in this connection within four weeks. The intervention comes on a complaint by the former Chief Secretary C.P. Nair. The complaint says that it is the responsibility of the person causing the accident to take the victim to hospital at the earliest; not doing so was a punishable offence. In such cases of hit-and-run accidents, victims ended up not even getting any compensation. Officials were reluctant to seize the vehicle involved in the accident. Effective steps should be taken to locate the vehicle owners after holding consultations with technical experts, Mr. Nair’s complaint demanded.
11 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||282 new cases in capital||The district recorded 282 COVID-19 cases on Thursday while 5,088 people were subjected to tests during the last 24 hours, thereby recording a test positivity rate of 5.54%. While as many as 302 people recovered from the illness, the number of active cases dipped slightly to 3,572. Among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, the source of infection is unknown in 92 cases. Only one case has been deemed imported, while all the others have been attributed to local transmission of the infection. Six health care workers are also among those who tested positive. The death toll has gone up to 583 with four more recent deaths being attributed to the disease. The deceased included a 75-year-old man from Vattappara, a 59-year-old woman from Chala, a 71-year-old man from Punnamugal and a 56-year-old woman who hailed from Ooruttambalam. The district administration placed 1,592 persons under quarantine on the day.
11 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Insulting children a violation of rights’||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has said that insulting children or asking them to apologise in the school assembly or in front of other children is a serious violation of child rights against which action should be taken. If a student does violate the discipline of a school, action taken as per rules should be commensurate with it. The commission also said that the police should record the statements of complainants about such incidents and if necessary, register cases and take further action. A Division Bench of the commission, comprising members K. Nazeer and Babitha B., was acting on a complaint by a woman about the action by St. Patrick School, Mananthavady, against her son, a class 3 student, in the name of a haircut. Suspended too She alleged that her son was summoned to the stage during the school assembly attended by 800 students, made to turn around, scolded publicly for his haircut, and suspended for three days. The boy who studied well became emotionally distressed and refused to eat after the incident. The district child protection officer, in a report, said the nine-year-old boy became very disturbed. Instead of looking into the reasons for the lapse in discipline, warn him, or inform the parents, scolding him publicly was a violation of child rights. Magnitude of violation The commission observed that summoning the young boy to the stage and humiliating him in the name of discipline was a denial of his self-respect and violation of child rights. Though Principals had the right to enforce discipline, the action taken by them should be commensurate with the violation. The commission also asked the Director of General Education, CBSE Regional Officer, and ICSE Secretary to ensure that such violation of children’s rights did not occur in any school in the State.  If a student does flout the discipline of a school, action taken as per rules should be commensurate with the violation.
11 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Daily special train to Mysuru||Railways will commence a daily festival special train in the Kochuveli-Mysuru via KSR Bengaluru-Kochuveli sector from December 11. Kochuveli -Mysuru (06316) festival special will leave Kochuveli daily at 4.45 p.m. from December 11 to 31 to reach Mysuru at 11.20 a.m. the next day. In the return direction, Mysuru-Kochuveli (06315) daily festival special will leave Mysuru daily at 12.50 p.m. from December 12 to January 1, 2021. The train will reach Kochuveli at 9.20 a.m. the next day. The special train will have one 2-tier AC coach, three 3-tier AC, 13 sleeper class, three general second class, and two luggage-cum-generator coaches.
11 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Youth held on theft charge||The Medical College police have arrested a 28-year-old youth on the charge of theft of a motorcycle. The accused has been identified as Manoj Kumar of Keezharoor, Kattakada. The case pertained to the theft of a motorcycle owned by Somlal of Manikkal from Murinjapalam, in the city in May 2016.
11 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Attack on woman: two arrested||The Vizhinjam police have arrested two men on the charge of forcible entry into a house, attacking the woman head of the family, and attempted rape. District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay identified the accused as Unni, 23, and Manikanthan, 34, both of Punnakulam, Kottukal. The duo were drinking and creating a nuisance in front of the woman’s house in the same colony where they lived. Barged into house When she objected to it, they barged into the house, attacked the woman and her husband, and tried to rape her. They also got a vehicle to ram the complainant’s sister and injure her. They later went into hiding. The Vizhinjam police arrested them from their hiding location.
11 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Postal adalat||A postal pension adalat for postal and family pensioners drawing pension through post offices or banks across Kerala will be held in December over a videoconferencing network. Applications are to be submitted before December 22. The date and time of the adalat will be intimated later. For details, visitwww.keralapost.gov.in.
11 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Allotment lists published||The Commissioner for Entrance Examinations published the second phase allotment lists of MBBS, BDS, Agriculture, Veterinary, Forestry and Fisheries courses, and the first phase allotment lists of Ayurveda and Homoeo courses onwww.cee.kerala.gov.inon Thursday. Admissions must be secured at the respective college within 4 p.m. on December 16.
11 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rights day observed||Human rights has assumed much more relevance and importance this century and law students, teachers and NGOs have a key role in protection of rights, according to High Court judge N.Nagaresh. He was delivering the inaugural address at the Human Rights Day celebrated at the Thiruvalla campus of the Department of law, Central University of Kerala on Thursday. Head of the Department K.I. Jayasankar presided.
11 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Power supply disruption||Electricity supply to areas in the Thycaud electrical section limits will be disrupted from 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Friday owing to work on Killipalam number 2 transformer, a KSEB statement said.
11 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Meet of rights council||I.B. Satheesh, MLA, inaugurated the 16th State conference of the Human Rights Protection Council here on Thursday. The MLA also inaugurated the Human Rights Day observance
11 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Energy conservation day on Monday||National Energy Conservation Day will be observed on December 14. The day is aimed at preventing excessive exploitation of energy sources and energy conservation. The energy conservation pledge has been given the miss owing to the COVID-19 safety protocols being in force. The energy conservation day message will be put up on the notice board of each department.
11 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||P. Viswambharan commemorated||Janata Dal (S) State president and former Minister Mathew T. Thomas inaugurated the fourth remembrance meet for P. Viswambharan, former MP and socialist leader. Viswambharan not only believed but also showed that ideals were important in public and personal life, he said.
11 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Baby in Ammathottil named after Maradona||A newborn left in the hi-tech electronic cradle ‘Ammathottil’ of the Kerala State Child Welfare Council at Thycaud here early Tuesday morning has been named after football legend Diego Maradona. The boy, who looked to be just a day old, was left in the cradle around 12.30 a.m. He is the 18th infant to be received in the hi-tech cradle that was established on the council premises on February 1 last year. The child was taken to Women and Child Hospital, Thycaud.
11 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Spot admission for ITI courses||Spot admission will be held to vacant seats in dress making and sewing technology courses at Government ITI, Kazhakuttam. Candidates, along with their parents, should reach the Principal’s office on Friday. They should bring their original certificates as eligibility proof and the transfer certificate too. For details, call 9446183579, 9495485166.
11 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur records 75.05% turnout||An impressive 75.05 % polling was recorded in Thrissur in the local body elections held on Thursday inspite of the COVID-19 scare. When 75.49 % male voters cast their votes in the district, 74.66 % female voters and 17.39% transgender voters too turned up for voting. The voting percentage at the Thrissur Corporation was 63.79. Kunnamkulam registered the highest polling percentage among municipalities at 79.32. Chalakudy registered 77.26% Irinjalakuda 74%, Kodungallur 79% Chavakkad 75.92% and Guruvayur 72.88%. Close fight Neck-and-neck fight between the three fronts was witnessed in the district where LIFE Mission flat controversy, gold smuggling and corruption were the main topics of campaigning. All the fronts expressed confidence in improving their positions. The LDF had marked an impressive victory in the 2015 local body elections. It won 88 of the total 111 local body institutions. It ruled the Corporation and the district panchayat. Six of the seven municipalities and 67 of the 86 gram panchayats had voted for the LDF. There are 26,91,016 voters in Thrissur district. As many as 20,78,408 voters are in gram panchayats. The seven municipalities together have 3,47,425 voters and the Corporation has 2,65,183 voters. There were 3,331 polling stations in the district. Except for a few minor incidents, the polling was peaceful in the district. Minor altercations were reported in some places. Election to Pullazhi division of the Thrissur Corporation was postponed following the death of LDF candidate M.K. Mukundan. Technical snag Technical snags were reported twice at Chazhur panchayat. The control unit of the machine had to be replaced at Kannathupadam. Polling was disrupted at various places such as Mala, Kadangode, Aloor, Annamanada, Pallippuram, Kuzhikkattussery, Pananchery, Velur and Thiruvilwamala. Polling at Injakkundu was disrupted for one-and-half hours as the control unit developed snag. Polling was disrupted at Thrikkur, Chalakudy and Pazhayannur too. Polling started only at 8.30 a.m. at Vadama following a snag. There were webcasting system at 54 centres in the district. One polling booth each at Thrissur Corporation; unnamkulam, Wadakkanchery and Kodungallur mnicipalities, and gram panchayats, ncluding Perinjanam, Chelakkara, Mullassery, Edavilangu, Anthikkad, Karalam, Parappookkara, Padiyur, Puthenchira, Mala and Avanissery had the webcasting system. Two booths each of Pavaratty, Kadavallur, Vadanappilly, Sreenarayanapuram, Eriyad, Mattathur, Kodassery,and Pariyaram gram panchayats had the system while three booths of Pananchery and Varanathirappally gram panchayats, and Chavakkad municipality had the webcasting system. Four booths each of Kadappuram and Athirappilly gram panchayats too had the webcasting system.
11 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||LDF in for a big win, says Moideen||People will vote for those who gave them houses not for those who blocked their chance for getting a roof over their head, Minister for Local Self-Government A.C. Moideen said here on Thursday. Talking to mediapersons after casting his vote, Mr. Moideen said the LDF would register an impressive victory. People want continuation of the LDF rule. There is internal war in the UDF. The achievements of the LDF government would be translated to votes, he said. Controversies in the State are creations of the UDF and the media, he added.  ‘Guardians of the State’ The LDF government has become guardian of each house in the state, Education Minster Prof. C. Raveendranath said. Interacting with the media after casting his vote here on Thursday, he said the LDF would have a thumping victory in the State. People know what the LDF government has done for them. When farmers are agitating for their survival in Delhi, the LDF government has given lots of benefits in the State, he added.   No fake campaigns will deter people from voting in favour of the LDF, Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar has said. LDF will register a huge victory in the district, he said after casting vote at L.P. School Muttichur. The LDF will win more gram panchayats this time. There is no anxiety for the LDF, he added.  Charge against Minister Meanwhile, reiterating the allegation that Mr. Moideen misused his power to vote ahead of the polling time, DCC president M.P. Vincent sought tight security for protecting electronic voting machines. As counting will be done only on December 16, CCTV should be connected at all centres where the EVMs are kept, he added.  BJP confident The result of the election will give shock to both the LDF and the UDF this time, said BJP State vice-president and former Thrissur Corporation councillor M.S Samboorna. There will be huge improvement in the vote share of the BJP. It will win the Corporation. The party will win in many panchayats, which it lost for narrow margin last time, she said.
11 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Maiden vote at 65||John Chirammel of Chalakudy cast his maiden vote on Thursday at the age of 65. Mr. John went to Ras al Khaimah in search of a job at the age of 19. Later, whenever there was an election in the State, he would be at his work place. So he never got an opportunity to excercise his franchise. This time the local body election came when Mr. John, who is an electrician, was home. A voter in Ward 18 of the Chalakudy municipality, Mr. John along with his wife cast his first vote at the booth at Government Girls High School.
11 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Age is not a deterrent even at 104||For 104-year-old Kizhakke Valappil Lakshmi of Rappal age is not a deterrent for casting her vote. Especially when her grandson Manoj is a candidate for the UDF this time. She reached booth number one in Ward 3 of Parappookkara for casting her vote. Lakshmi must be one of the oldest voters in the State. It was in 2010 that she voted for the last time. Forgetting all age-related health issues, she reached the polling booth as her grandson himself is a candidate. As Mr. Lakshmi has poor eyesight, the wife of her grandson helped her in casting her vote.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||On-field battle||
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||For a trouble-free polling||
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In the name of polls||
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Layers of support||
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In cheery company||
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Voting in the time of pandemic||
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||COVID-19 impact||
11 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||3,000 acres acquired for 2.03 lakh house sites in Anantapur district||The district administration is gearing up to launch the construction of 1,11,099 houses in the first phase by selecting from the 2.03 lakh house site beneficiaries in the urban areas and villages falling under the Anantapuramu, Hindupur Urban Development Authority (AHUDA). The administration has already acquired 3,000 acres including some stretches of government and assigned land for the project. Collector Gandham Chandrudu and Joint Collector (VWS&D) A. Siri told the media on Thursday that the unit cost of the houses would be around Rs. 1.80 lakh excluding the cost of the house sites which would be distributed to the beneficiaries from December 25. Possession certificate The Central government will provide Rs. 1.5 lakh as unit cost for those houses as the housing scheme is an extension of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. Of the 2.03 lakh beneficiaries in the district, 80,000 would be given possession certificates for the land they are already occupying. As many as 14,000 people would get TIDCO houses that are nearing completion. The construction of 60,000 houses was launched in the district by the previous government, while the remaining 1,10,000 people would get new house sites in the layouts developed by the government with all amenities, said Mr. Chandrudu. The land measuring 1.05 cents would cost close to Rs. 1 lakh in most of the locations in the district, the Collector said. In the house site provided by the State government, a template for 340-sft houses has been drawn and the carpet area of the houses will be 218 sft. with 68 sft of open veranda with a shed, and 272 sft of plinth area, the Collector said. Tender Committee On Thursday, the Tender Committee headed by the Collector and Joint Collector began the exercise of finalising the suppliers and rates for the material to be procured locally. Cement would be provided at a concession of Rs. 125 per bag for 92 bags, 20 MT of sand would be given free of cost. However, the beneficiaries of the scheme need to foot the transport bill for the sand, the officials said.
11 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paritala kin fault govt. on Upper Penna project||Telugu Desam Party Rapthadu Constituency in-charge Paritala Sriram and former Minister Paritala Sunitha have vehemently opposed the deletion of the Puttakanuma reservoir from the original Upper Penna project and adding three other reservoirs in its place. Ms. Sunitha questioned the rationale behind naming the 56-year-old Upper Penna Project after Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy and took objection to the deletion of former Minister Paritala Ravindra’s name for the Jeedipalli to Upper Penna canal. “Did Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy work for the development of the Upper Penna Project constructed half a century ago?” she asked. At a press conference here on Thursday, Mr. Sriram welcomed the decision to add three new reservoirs to the Upper Penna project but questioned the rationale behind not inviting tenders for them nor getting estimates made afresh, while the contractor was not changed, nor the engineers. Referring to Thopudurthi Prakash, the present MLA of Rapthadu, Mr. Sriram said: “If you are a pro-farmer as you claim, you should have retained the Puttakanuma project too and invested additional money to add the three reservoirs at Thopudurthi, Muttala, and Devarakonda. We are for the benefit of farmers and welcome these new reservoirs, but people have understood your deceptive way of implementing the project snatching away the benefit from those around Puttakanuma, who were eagerly waiting for it.” “SSR Rate or the project cost does not change in less than two years. If you believe you could have saved Rs. 200 crore in this Rs. 803-crore project, you should have retained the Puttakanuma reservoir and added the three new ones,” Mr. Sriram observed. “We are for healthy politics and will not match you in hurling abuses,” he said. Dig at Gorantla He also took strong objection to Hindupur MP Gorantla Madhav referring to Paritala Ravindra and family as those connected with murders and factionism. The TDP candidate from Rapthadu Assembly constituency in 2019 elections, Mr. Sriram advised the MP to first get his own name cleared in some serious cases in Kurnool district and then make remarks on others.
11 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to C.R. Reddy||Chittoor MLA Arani Srinivasulu on Thursday said that steps would be initiated to name the bypass road from Kattamanchi to Puttur road after eminent educationalist and political thinker Cattamanchi Ramalinga Reddy. The MLA paid tribute to Ramalinga Reddy by garlanding a his statue near the central bus station here, on the 140th birth anniversary of the political thinker. “Ramalinga Reddy had made the Chittoor region proud by his multifaceted personality and serving as the Vice-Chancellor of Andhra University. His ideologies in education and politics continue to guide different social and political lines. There is a growing demand from the various groups to name the bypass road at Kattamanchi after him. This will be represented to the civic officials,” the MLA said. Speaking on the occasion, Chittoor Urban Development Authority (CHUDA) chairman Purushottam Reddy said that the name of Ramalinga Reddy continued to be the byword for social service and uplift of the the poor even several decades after his demise.
11 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Legal service a vital tool to protect human rights’||District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) secretary I. Karuna Kumar said that the protection of human rights was a bounden duty of all sections of society to realise a life of dignity for one and all. Speaking on the occasion of the World Human Rights Day at DLSA office here on Thursday, Mr Karuna Kumar said the DLSAs had been playing a vital role in protecting the interests of the poor and the downtrodden, by providing them the legal aid against oppression. “Human rights as a subject needs to be promoted across the social order. Legal luminaries all over the world have been contributing to spread the message of human rights education. It is a global issue now and it needs the expansion of legal services,” he said. The DLSA secretary said that several social issues such as foeticide, child marriage, child labour and desertion of elderly parents comes under violation of human rights. Moral responsibility “Early education and awareness on importance of human rights will go a long way in their protection. Apart from the legal systems, it’s the moral responsibility of every individual in society to uphold human rights,” said Mr. Karuna Kumar.
11 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bank official ‘ends life’||Pankaj Beseen (32), a bank official, allegedly ended his life in his flat in the Somala mandal headquarters, 70 km from here, on Thursday. Police said Pankaj was working as an Agriculture Officer at a branch of Corporation Bank since a few months. The deceased, a native of Tehsilal Barra of Balaghat district of Madhya Pradesh, was living alone. His colleagues who reached the flat in the morning found no response from inside. After informing the police, the door was broken open and Pankaj’s body was found hanging from the ceiling. The body was shifted to hospital for autopsy, and his family has been informed. A case has been registered. Those in distress can call 100 for counselling.
11 December 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||KCR is a better actor than me, says Vijayashanti||Film star-politician Vijayashanti, who has returned to the BJP fold, accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of “cheating Telangana people by amassing lot of wealth and perpetuating family rule despite the trust they had reposed in him by electing him twice to power.” “He is a better actor than me. What did he do for the State in last six years, except looting and pushing it into debt trap of Rs. 4 lakh crore? He has come to power due to the sacrifices of martyrs of Telangana agitation. For six years, he has been lying to the people and they are no longer going to accept it. The first blow was delivered in Dubbak byelection, second knock in GHMC and the third blow will be in 2023 Assembly elections,” she said on Thursday. Addressing a press conference at the party office flanked by senior leaders K. Laxman, Vivek Venkatswamy and others, Ms. Vijayshanti said the BJP is the “right” party for Telangana and it is time people get benefits of a separate State with development works. “Mr. Rao loves money and power. He is not at all interested in any development. Not a single section of the society benefited in his governance. There is corruption everywhere and all the ill-gotten wealth should be distributed to the people as it belongs to them,” she said. The BJP leader charged Mr. Rao of having put “handcuffs on farmers” agitating for the right price and not coming to the aid of those who had grown fine rice as demanded by the government. The government has no right to support farmers agitating in Delhi seeking repeal of the farm Acts, she said. “What has this government done to arrest farmers suicides?,” she questioned. Time has come for people to throw out the TRS permanently since the BJP has emerged as the alternative with committed leadership and cadre. The countdown has already begun. Recalling her early days in BJP, the film actor said she had to leave the party to keep the separate Telangana agitation alive as it had to bow to the then coalition partner, the Telugu Desam Party. “I started Talli Telangana Party much before Mr. Rao entered the scene. After being denied ministerial berth in the TDP government, he set up TRS and diabolically forced me to join him using intellectuals, and by putting a lot of pressure. Truth is he could not tolerate another popular leader and wanted only his family to be in the forefront. I endured humiliations like not being allowed to address meetings, but I bore them for sake of Telangana. For no reason I was suspended from TRS though I fought for separate State till the bill was passed in the Parliament,” she said.
11 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT panel inspects damage to mangrove cover on mudflat||The Joint Committee constituted by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) was urged to ensure restoration of Kumbabhishekham mudflat on the Kakinada coast, protecting the country’s one of the last surviving mudflats which is home for migratory birds ‘endangered’ Great Knot (Calidris tenuirostris) and ‘vulnerable’ Indian Skimmer (Rynchops albicollis). The committee headed by Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change representative C. Palpandi and Rahul Pandey, Chief Conservator of Forest - Vijayawada, on Thursday investigated how the 30-acre mudflat was ‘destroyed in a phased manner by the GMR group by depositing dredged material’. The entire patch of mangrove cover on the mudflat has dried up while the bund laid by the GMR group was found as a barrier for the entry of sea water into the mangrove cover. Wetland expert K. Mrutyunjaya Rao, one of the petitioners in the case at the NGT, and environmental activist Eswar Satyanarayana explained to the committee the status of the mudflat before and after the dredged material was dumped. International commitments “The Kumbabhishekham mudflat is arguably the only site in the country that is home for the two migratory birds which visit it in a great number in winter. The destruction of the mudflat will dampen the goals of the country’s ambitious ‘National plan for Conservation of Migratory Birds and their Habitats along the Central Asian Flyway (2018-23)’,” said Mr. Mrutyunjaya Rao. The two bird species had also been included in the country’s single species action plan. Mr. Palpandi reminded the country’s commitments on action plan on the two species during the 13th Conference of Parties (COP) of the Convention on the conservation of migratory species of wild animals held in Gujrat in February. Sightings Mr. Palpandi sought details on the sighting of the bird species on the mudflat from wildlife authorities who confirmed the sighting of Great Knot and Indian Skimmer since 2017, referring to the programme funded by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The committee directed Divisional Forest Officer C. Selvan to share the details on the birds. “We are of the preliminary opinion that the Kumbabhishekham mudflat should be restored and protected,” said Mr. Palpandi. Officials from the AP Maritime Board, representatives of the GMR group and forest officials also shared the information on the mudflat.
11 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Protect site ‘diverted’ for housing’||Fisherfolk and environmental activists led by former TDP MLA Vanamadi Kondababu on Thursday appealed to the Joint Committee constituted by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to protect the 100-acre mangrove ecosystem from being diverted for housing purpose. The NGT committee, headed by Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change representative C. Palpandi, visited the site in Dummulapeta area on Thursday.  Officials give details East Godavari district Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha and other officials submitted details of the housing project on the site, an ecologically important area with a backwater channel, and the mangrove cover that was levelled for the housing project. “The nearly 100-acre site comprised a backwater channel and mangrove cover, serving as a navigational channel for fishing boats and fishing for local folk. The levelling is a major threat for the Kakinada city,” Mr. Kondababu told the committee. The petitioner, Bolisetti Satyanarayana, had to leave the site before the arrival of the committee as a section of people did not allow him to stay there to interact with the committee members. The local communities led by fisherfolk alleged that the district authorities had levelled the site by depositing a huge quantity of soil during the lockdown period. Tense moments Tension prevailed for some time at the site as local people split into groups taking different positions over the issue. However, the committee completed the field study and is expected to submit a report to the National Green Tribunal within a few weeks.
11 December 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||FAPTO holds protest on teachers’ transfers||Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation president and co-chairman of Federation of Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Organisation Koppala Bhanumurthy on Thursday urged the State government to conduct manual counselling immediately for transfer of teachers in the State. FAPTO organised massive protest in Srikakulam over the delay in transfer process. Mr. Bhanumurthy alleged that the State government was harassing teachers intentionally by creating many hurdles. He objected to the changes in rules and regulations and lack of transparency in the vacancy list. United Teachers' Federation State Secretary Gonti Giridhar said that manual transfer process was the right of the teachers and it was achieved with many struggles. Srikakulam District FAPTO leaders Pedada Prabhakar, Majji Madanmohan, Balla Subhash Babu and others were present.
11 December 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. deliberately delaying local body elections: TDP||Accusing the YSRCP government of deliberately delaying the local body elections in the State, the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) insisted on the immediate conduct of the polls. “The administration in villages has taken a backseat in the last two years. Further delay in conducting the elections will lead to collapse of the local administration,” said TDP State Secretary and former president of Srikakulam Sarpanches’ Association Boina Govindarajulu. “The government always expresses concern over the denial of its rights and dominance of the Centre in subjects such as education, health and others which are in the concurrent list. But, the government takes away the rights of local bodies by delaying the election process,” he said.  He accused the government of dilly dallying the election process on the pretext of coronavirus pandemic, in spite of the fact that the infection count had come down significantly. “The general elections in Bihar and GHMC local body elections were conducted amid the pandemic. But, the YSRCP government is trying to settle scores with AP State Election Commission by stopping the election process,” he added.
11 December 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Landslip on ORR close to Silathoranam at Tirumala||The outer ring road that is nearing completion here on Thursday experienced a massive landslip a couple of hundred metres away from Silathoranam, the natural rock arch formation. The incessant rains that pounded the hill town till a couple of days back are believed to have loosened/eroded the soil beneath the rocky formations and triggered the landslide. Early hours Huge chunks of earth along with giant boulders fell on the road from a height of 25-30 feet. Fortunately, there were no casualties as the incident reportedly took place in the early hours. The engineering personnel engaged an earthmover to clear the debris.
11 December 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Balalaya Samprokshanam held||The five-day Balalayam climaxed with the performance of Samprokshanam at the temple of Bhu Varahaswamy here on Thursday. After the completion of certain mandatory rituals, Samprokshanam was ceremoniously observed in Makara Lagnam between 9 and 10.30. The special rituals observed at yagasala also culminated with Maha Poornahuti. Speaking to the media, the TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy said that Balalayam was necessitated following the management’s decision to provide gold coating to the existing gopuram above the sanctum of the ancient temple. It would take four to five months for completion of the gold plating works and till such time devotees would not be allowed for darshanam of the main deity, he said. Only after the performance of Maha Samprokshanam darshanam would be resumed.
11 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Policymakers, media urged to check fake news||Speakers at a webinar on ‘Human rights, duties education in India: Role of citizens and governance’ urged the policymakers and the mainstream media to join hands to check the spread of misinformation in the public domain. In his initial remarks at the day-long event organised by the Academy of Grassroots Studies and Research of India (AGRASRI) here on Thursday, Andhra Pradesh High Court former judge Justice D. Reddeppa Reddy stressed on the need for the executive to have a duty-minded approach to let development percolate to the grass-roots level. He said turning deaf ears to farmers’ aspirations on building irrigation projects, offering support price and developing storage facilities for crops amounted to violation of their rights. Indicating that one’s failure to discharge duty was tantamount to infringement of another’s right, AGRASRI Director D. Sundar Ram wanted the policymakers to join hands with media to deal with the fake news. Acharya Nagarjuna University (Guntur) former Vice-Chancellor A. Rajendra Prasad expressed concern on the rise in the cases of child abuse, atrocities against women, honour killings.  Referring to poverty alleviation programmes and its success rate, Kakatiya University (Warangal) retired professor Ch. Balaramulu sought rights-based and duty-minded approach to provide food, clothing, shelter, health and education to the needy. Shahaji Law College (Kolhapur) principal Rayadurgam Narayana spoke on the occasion.
11 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Old students extend birthday wishes to their first principal||When K. Rajeswari Murthy entered her 100th year on Thursday, she was widely remembered by the alumni and her junior colleagues at Sri Padmavathi Women’s College. Now settled in the U.S., the best gift Dr. Rajeswari received on the memorable occasion was the wishes from her old students, many of whom were sexagenarians and septuagenarians! Born on December 10, 1921, at Peddapuram in East Godavari district, Dr. Rajeswari had studied in the prestigious Madras Presidency College, where she taught mathematics later. At the behest of the then TTD Executive Officer, C. Anna Rao, she had shifted to the little town of Tirupati in 1954 to become the first principal of the women’s college. The path-breaking and reformative steps during her two-decade stint had paved the way for the emergence of the all-women institution as No.1 in the backward Rayalaseema region. Dr. Rajeswari’s bold steps included the launch of India’s first undergraduate course in population studies, the State’s first course in Home Science, and the ‘Earn while you learn’ programme to make education enlightening as well as remunerative for the students. USIEF recognition The college had attained fame at the international level on its recognition in 1965 by the United States India Educational Foundation (USIEF). Though the college is older to SVU by four years, the dwindling patronage has been a cause for concern. “Whatever be the present situation, the college owes its existence to Dr. Rajeswari,” recalled D.M. Premavathy, a retired Reader in Telugu. With Dr. Premavathy as the coordinator, many old students came together to send birthday wishes to their beloved ‘principal’ through mail, which the latter promptly acknowledged with thanks.
11 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book throws insights into Punganur Zamindari||History has branded Zamindars as swindlers of public property and the system of hereditary landlords per se is abhorred for being ‘high-handed’. However, here is a Zamindari that reached out to the needy in the poverty-stricken western Chittoor. Known for its chequered history, Punganur Zamindari was the first to come under the British rule in 1799 on the death of Tipu Sultan of Mysore, while the others in Rayalaseema came only the next year. In his latest book titled ‘Famines and famine relief measures during 19th century’, K.S.S. Seshan, a retired professor and head of history at the University of Hyderabad, has thrown new insights into the Punganur Zamindari’s way of addressing The Great Famine. Punganur remained the only Zamindari in Rayalaseema after the then Collector Thomas Munro dispossessed all other Palegars. Among the Zamindaris of Chittoor district, Kalahasthi, Karvetinagar, Kangundi belonged to Arcot and not in the ceded districts, like Punganur was. Harsh British system With foreword written by Marxist historian Irfan Habib, the book was released recently with special focus on Punganur and the people-centric relief measures during The Great Famine of 1876-78. In an exclusive interview to The Hindu , Prof. Seshan explained how the British rule was marked by frequent, severe and widespread famines, though they occurred even in the pre-colonial era. “The British administration aimed at making more profits and hence famine relief was meagre. In fact, the Zamindars had more empathy for the victims, which was conspicuously absent among British administrators,” observed Prof. Seshan, who hails from Chittoor district. People were forced to eat leaves and roots during the ‘Dhathu Karuvu’ (named after the Hindu cyclic year ‘Dhathu’), but the British reduced the daily wages instead of giving relief work to the poor. On the other hand, the Zamindar waived collection of land tax and even organised ‘Langar Khanas’. It triggered interest those days as the Governor of Bengal Sir Richard Temple came to Punganur and wrote to the administrators of Madras Presidency on how the local ruler had thrown open his sprawling palace to the poor. Prof. Seshan finds a lesson or two in Punganur Zamindari for today’s administrators. “Today’s parameters like price rise and monsoon failure should serve as signals of imminent scarcity and administrators should take steps to prevent famines, rather than addressing them on their onset,” he said.
11 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Uber launches services in Tirupati||The temple city of Tirupati became the 90th in India and the third in Andhra Pradesh to have Uber services, including premium mobility solutions such as Uber Premier, Uber Rentals and Uber Auto. The move came in sync with many pilgrims and tourists hesitating to travelling to Tirumala temple in public transport after the COVID-19 induced lockdown. The company offers doorstep pick-up, contact-less payment at affordable prices.
11 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police book case against website organisers||The Tirupati East police have booked a case against the organisers of the website — www.balajiprasadam. com — for offering to door-deliver the Tirumala Srivari laddu prasadam anywhere in the world. The website started surfacing on the social media from December 6, raising many an eyebrow among the devout as well as the TTD circles. With TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy directing the vigilance and IT wings to crack the whip, they got the website blocked the very following day. Based on a complaint by the Vigilance Department, the police registered a case. Meanwhile, the TTD informed the people on Thursday that anyone found circulating such baseless and unfounded messages pertaining to Tirumala or TTD on the social media platforms would have to face legal action.
11 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kaligirikonda temple under TTD’s purview||The ancient temple of Sri Venkateswara at Kaligirikonda in Penumur mandal of Chittoor district was merged into the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Thursday. The process was formalised in the presence of Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy, as the temple is in his Gangadhara Nellore constituency.
11 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Undiagnosed illness: 13 more cases take tally to 600 in Eluru||Thirteen more cases of the undiagnosed illness were reported in Eluru on Thursday pushing the total number to 600, said District Coordinator of Health Services A.V.R. Mohan. Earlier in the day, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney called on the people who fell sick due to the disease, the root cause of which was still not conclusively known, at the Government General Hospital (GGH) in Eluru. Ms. Sawhney interacted with the patients, and also enquired about the outcome of the study being done by medical doctors and other experts from District Coordinator of Health Services A.V.R. Mohan. District Collector R. Mutyala Raju informed Ms. Sawhney about the number of patients being treated in the hospitals and the areas where people fell sick with convulsions and dizziness as the dominant symptoms. Later, Ms. Sawhney held a review meeting with doctors and experts, which was attended by Principal Secretary (health) Anil Kumar Singhal, Joint Collector Himansu Shukla, and District Medical & Health Officer A.K. Sunanda, among others. Meanwhile, doctors and experts from AIIMS, National Centre for Disease Control, and Institute of Preventive Medicine were continuing their investigation into the neurotoxicity symptoms with which the patients were brought to hospitals. Lab reports In Vijayawada, Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas sought to know from officials the treatment being given to the 23 patients at the GGH in the city. He said the results of tests done by all the diagnostic labs were likely to be know by December 11 evening and pointed out that nickel and lead poisoning might have caused the sickness as suggested by preliminary reports. The number of cases had come down considerably, the Minister added.
11 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JAC plans to scale up Amaravati protest into a mass movement||An all-party meeting jointly convened by the Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi Joint Action Committee (JAC) and Rythu Aikya Karyacharana Samithi (United Farmers’ Action Committee) on Thursday resolved to scale up the ongoing agitation in support of Amaravati as the sole capital of the State into a mass movement. Members of the Amaravati JAC, farmers’ organisations, representatives of various political parties, leaders of student, youth and women organisations were unanimous in their view that there was a need to intensify the agitation and spread it to every nook and cranny of the State. The protests launched by the Amaravati farmers and local residents will complete 365 days on December 17. The all-party meeting was organised to chalk out an action plan for intensification of the protest in a manner that not just the organisations but people across the State participated in it. They called for meetings across the 13 districts of the State to educate people at the grassroots on the need to retain Amaravati as the single capital and make them active part of the movement. Samithi convener A. Sivareddy and co-convener Gadde Tirupati Rao said a series of protest programmes would be conducted to mark the completion of one year. ‘Praja padayatra’ A ‘praja padayatra’ would be organised in Guntur on December 12 and in Vijayawada on December 15. On December 17, a public meeting would he organised at the place where the foundation stone was laid for construction of Amaravati. Mr. Sivareddy said the protests would continue till the government dropped its plan to shift the capital to Visakhapatnam and make a public announcement that Amaravati would be retained as the sole capital of the State. Senior CPI(M) leader P. Madhu said his party would support the farmers’ cause. TDP Polit Bureau member Varla Ramaiah said he was confident that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would soon rectify his mistake by withdrawing his proposed three-capital formula. CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said the fact that the government was unable to make any headway on the issue was proof of the strength of the farmers’ agitation. The farmers’ organisation convener Puvvada Sudhakar, former Vijayawada Mayor Jandhyala Shankar, Congress party working president Mastan Vali, and Telugu Rythu president M. Srinivasa Reddy were among others who spoke.
11 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Skill-based courses prove beneficial’||Arja Srikanth, Managing Director and CEO of the AP State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC), on Thursday said the industry-based training courses, designed by the corporation to equip students with skills required by the industry, started yielding positive result. He said that 27 youngsters from the first batch of students who had undergone training imparted as part of the partnership between the APSSDC and the JBM company in Sri City, joined the JBM plant in Chennai. A team headed by Mr. Srikanth visited the JBM plant and L.V. Prasad Film and TV Academy in Chennai on Thursday. He said as part of the collaboration, JBM offered to provide manpower in robotics, industrial automation, auto body repair, automobile technology, quality and training and a few other sectors. Besides, it also agreed to recruit not just students who had completed mechanical engineering course but also those from non-engineering background in the supply chain sectors. At the L.V. Prasad Film and TV Academy, Mr. Srikanth said as part of the agreement signed with it in the past, it offered to impart training to students pursuing courses in the proposed Centre of Excellence proposed to be set up in the media and entertainment sector in Visakhapatnam. He said courses would include 3D Animation, Graphic Design Technology, Film Making and Print Media Technology. APSSDC Executive Director B. Nageswara Rao and others comprised the team.
11 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Concerted effort needed to check rights violation’||Human rights, which the Constitution has guaranteed, continue to be violated long after the country has achieved Independence, and this situation has to change through concerted efforts, Home Minister M. Sucharitha has said. Participating as chief guest at the Human Rights Day celebrations organised by the National Human Rights and Anti-Crime Council (NHRACC) here on Thursday, Ms. Sucharitha said there were many laws such as the Nirbhaya Act, but criminals were having a field day, mainly due to the delay in justice delivery. It was against this backdrop that the State government had brought in the Disha Act for speedy trial of cases involving crime against women and children and handing out punishment within 21 days. To achieve this objective, 18 Disha police stations and three forensic science laboratories were set up, and special courts were on the anvil, she said. Awareness drive The Minister stressed the need to spread awareness on human rights to enable people to seek justice through appropriate avenues. “While the government does its best to ensure that human rights are not violated, civil society organisations and other stakeholders should contribute to the endeavour,” she said.
11 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19: State records lowest single-day toll||The State recorded two new deaths and 538 new COVID infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. The single-day death toll was lowest in several months. The two new deaths were reported from Krishna and Guntur districts. The tally increased to  8,73,995  and the toll went up to 7,047. At 0.83%, the positivity rate of the 64,354 samples tested in the last day was also one of the lowest daily positivity rates in several months. The overall positivity rate stood at 8.21% as the number of samples tested increased to 1.06 crore. The tests per million ratio in the State inched close to two lakh as it reached 1.99 lakh. Meanwhile, 558 patients recovered in the past day taking the total recoveries to 8,61,711 and the recovery rate to 98.59%. Active cases There are only 5,237 active cases in the State as of Thursday morning, and Krishna district has the highest number of active cases at 994. No district has more than 1,000 active cases, and Kurnool has only 89 active cases, the lowest among the districts. Chittoor reported highest single-step tally of 95 infections in the last day. It was followed by Krishna (86), West Godavari (72), Guntur (72), East Godavari (50), Prakasam (35), Visakhapatnam (31), Nellore (24), Srikakulam (21), Kurnool (18), Anantapur (14), Kadapa (13) and Vizianagaram (7). Overall tallies The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,22,841), West Godavari (93,157), Chittoor (84,545), Guntur (73,737), Anantapur (66,943), Nellore (61,723), Prakasam (61,708), Kurnool (60,334), Visakhapatnam (58,561), Kadapa (54,599), Krishna (46,472), Srikakulam (45,660) and Vizianagaram (40,820).
11 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Law & order deteriorating in State: Naidu||The rape and murder of a Dalit woman in Kadapa district reflects the deteriorating law and order in the State, TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has said. In a letter to Director General of Police Gautam Sawang, he alleged that Dalits, tribal people, women and minorities were being increasingly attacked “with the backing of the ruling YSRCP leaders.” ‘Bid to protect accused’ The attack on a Dalit woman in Lingala mandal of Pulivendula constituency in Kadapa district was one of the many such instances in the State that need to be curbed, Mr. Naidu said. Mr. Naidu alleged that attempts were being made to protect the culprits as the case was registered as involving “unknown suspects.” “Such brazen and unabashed violation of law is encouraging the culprits to commit more atrocities. It is high time to uphold the law and order in the State by ensuring that such incidents do not recur,” Mr. Naidu said.
11 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yanamala warns against setting up chemical units in Konaseema||TDP leader Yanamala Ramakrishnudu on Thursday said he was opposed to the establishment of chemical industries, including Divi’s unit, in the Konaseema area. In a statement, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said the proposal was against the interests of the people of the region. Accusing the YSRCP of double standards on the issue, he said the party had opposed it in the past, but gave its nod now. He said the chemical units would pollute the sea water, depriving the fishermen of their livelihood. The soil would lose its fertility, causing losses to the farmers and pollution would destroy the more than 300 hatcheries, inflicting financial sufferings on small traders. The TDP leader called the proposed fishing harbour a sham, saying that fishing was not possible in polluted sea waters. ‘Anti-people policies’ He said the TDP was also opposed to the establishment of bulk drug industry in the region, and alleged that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s “benamis” had already acquired 51% stake in the Kakinada SEZ for Rs. 2,511 crore. He said they were trying to occupy the coastal area and start their industrial estate there. Condemning the “anti-people” policies of the YSRCP government, Mr. Ramakrishnudu demanded that the proposal be dropped.
11 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CID probing complaints against couple in ‘U.S. visa fraud’||Following the allegations against an East Godavari couple in H1-B visa fraud in the United States by aspirants, State’s Crime Investigation Department (CID) officials are reportedly looking into complaints they received from some of the suspected victims through email. According to information, M. Sunil and M. Praneeta have been accused of cheating in the guise of offering H1-B visas to Telugu students in North Carolina of the U.S. recently. Sources say that a case has been booked against the couple and attempts to reach family members were on. When contacted, a senior official of CID said that complaints were received and officials concerned were looking into them. Meanwhile, Sunil recently posted a video online in which he could be seen asking people not to conclude and said he would cooperate with the authorities in North Carolina. He said he had not taken money from anyone and did not cheat anyone as was being alleged.
11 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||College signs MoU with IT firm||To empower students with in-demand skills such as Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Internet of Things, Data Science and Augmented Reality, P.B. Siddhartha College of Arts and Science has inked an MoU with city-based software development and training firm Codegnan IT Solutions Pvt Ltd. College principal M. Ramesh and director V. Baburao, who signed the MoU on Thursday, said as part of this pact, the students would have the privilege of project-based learning, internship, participation in hackathons, faculty development programmes and workshops by experts at Codegnan. Codegnan founder and CEO U. Sairam, college Dean Rajesh Jampala, Head of the Department T. Ravikiran, deputy head K. Sridhar and Chief Operating Officer of Codegnan Solutions Saketh Reddy were present.
11 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Documentary on Amaravati screened||A documentary titled ‘Capital Tragedy: Amaravati’ made by former Communications Adviser to the Andhra Pradesh Government and political commentator Parakala Prabhakar was screened for a small gathering at MB Vignana Kendram here on Thursday. Mr. Prabhakar recently announced the documentary on the social media and released several trailers. The documentary, which is over one hour in duration, showcased the history of Andhra Pradesh and its capitals till date, besides highlighting the plight of the Amaravati farmers, who had given their lands under a pooling scheme of the previous government. The documentary would be released on the Internet soon.
11 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three killed in road accident at Jaggaiahpeta||Three persons, including two women, were killed when the car in which they were travelling collided with a truck on the national highway at Takkellapadu village of Jaggaiahpeta mandal in the district in the early hours of Thursday. Six others were injured. According to police, the accident took place at around 3 a.m. While M. Shyam (60), M. Sarada (55) and M. Syamala (38) died on the spot, six others, including the driver, sustained injuries. The family belongs to Madhira of Khammam district in Telangana and was returning after visiting the temple at Vemulavada in Telangana. The injured were rushed to nearby government hospital. They were later shifted to a hospital in Khammam hospital and are recovering.
11 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brahmin matrimony meet||Kalyana Kalpataruvu, a Hyderbad-based Brahmin association, will be organising 23rd all-India annual Brahmin matrimonial meet ‘Kalyana Samrambham-2020’ on December 25 at Pullareddy College grounds, Mehdipatnam, Hyderabad, according to a press release. Details can be registered on www.kktvivaha.org before Dec. 12. For further details call 9440039510, 9951905259, 9346189944 or 040-23344550.
11 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central Vista: Governor wishes Modi, Om Birla||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has conveyed his wishes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on the occasion of laying the foundation stone for Central Vista, the new Parliament building in the national capital on Thursday. Icon Mr. Harichandran, in separate letters to Mr. Modi and Mr. Birla, said that the new Parliament building would be an icon of Indian democracy and would surely reflect the aspirations of new India and wished for successful completion of construction by 2022 to coincide with the 75th Independence Day celebrations. Mr. Harichandan participated in the ceremony from Raj Bhavan via virtual mode.
11 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccine rollout plan takes shape in dist.||A road map for rolling out the COVID-19 vaccine in the district is rapidly taking shape with committees set up by the District Collector to execute the plan working on a war footing. The District Immunisation Officer, DM&HO and the District COVID Special Officer met on Thursday to chalk out the plan and it will be presented to Collector V. Vinay Chand on Friday. It is learnt that in the first phase, the vaccine will be administered to 60,000 health workers who have been identified and listed. “If things go according to plan and the State government acquires the first batch of vaccines, then by Sankranti festival, we might be in a position to begin the process of vaccinating the frontline health workers,” said District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College Dr. P.V. Sudhakar. As per the vaccination plan, the second phase will focus on other frontline workers such as officers and staff from GVMC, Police and Revenue Departments and civic workers. It is learnt that a list has been prepared and 2 lakh people have been identified. In the third phase, the vaccine will be administered to eight lakh people in the district who are in the 50-plus age group and have co-morbidities. Officials have already prepared a list and eight lakh persons have been identified. It is expected that by March-April, the second and third phase of vaccines will be administered. The district has a population of 47 lakh, and after the first three phases, the remaining 37 lakh will be vaccinated in phases, according to sources. Meanwhile, Dr. Jeevan Rani, District Immunisation Officer, said that work is apace at the 40 cubic metre refrigeration facility and will be completed soon. The district already has a 16.5 cubic metre facility and both together can hold over one lakh vaccines at any given time, she said. Second wave Though cases have been sharply falling in the district since November, officials are not ruling out the possibility of a second wave of the pandemic. From the first week of July to September-end, the district recorded close to 50,000 COVID-19 cases, and from October to till date, the number of cases recorded were only around 8,000. “This month, we have been averaging around 10 to 20 cases per day, which is a significant drop. Even the death rate has come down. As of now, we have 250 active cases, with around 100 in hospitals and the rest in home isolation. Of the 100 in hospitals, around 70 are in KGH’s CSR block,” said Dr. Sudhakar. According to him, a second wave cannot be ruled out. However, he added that it is completely dependent on public behaviour. “If people follow the basic norms of wearing a mask, staying away from public places and regularly sanitising their hands, we can keep the second wave at bay. But unfortunately, we observe that 75% of people in public places have stopped wearing masks, while around 15% wear it around their neck. Only 10% of people are wearing it correctly,” he said.
11 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BSNL, Skylo launch NB-IoT to provide pan-India coverage||BSNL, in partnership with Skylotech India, on Thursday announced today a breakthrough in satellite-based NB-IoT (Narrow Band-Internet of Things), in pursuance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of Digital India — starting with fishermen, farmers, construction, mining and logistics enterprises. With this solution, India will now have access to a ubiquitous fabric of connectivity for millions of yet unconnected machines, sensors and industrial IoT devices. This new ‘Made in India’ solution, which is indigenously developed by Skylo, will connect with BSNL’s satellite ground infrastructure and provide pan-India coverage, including Indian seas. The coverage will be vast enough to not leave any dark patch within the boundary of India, from Kashmir and Ladakh to Kanyakumari, and from Gujarat to the North-east, including the Indian seas. “The solution is in line with BSNL’s vision to leverage technology to provide affordable and innovative telecom services and products across customers segments. Skylo would also help provide critical data for the logistics sector to enable effective distribution of COVID-19 vaccine in 2021 and will be a big contributor in service to the nation,” said P.K. Purwar, CMD, BSNL. “Successful POCs have already been conducted by BSNL and Skylo in India and we will soon approach various user groups before the New Year 2021 begins,” says Vivek Banzal, Director (CFA), BSNL Board. This new technology supports the Department of Telecom and NITI Aayog’s plan of bringing indigenous IoT connectivity to India’s core sectors. Examples of where this technology has already been tested successfully include Indian Railways, fishing vessels, and connected vehicles across India.
11 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Andhra Cricket Association shifts office to Vizag||The Andhra Cricket Association (ACA) has shifted its office from Vijayawada to Visakhapatnam. The new office was inaugurated by the president of ACA Sarat Chandra Reddy at the Dr. YSR ACA-VDCA International Cricket stadium at PM Palem here on Thursday. ACA was earlier operating from Guntur and Vijayawada, since its inception in 1953. Inaugurating the plush office, Mr. Sarat Chandra said that as per the BCCI norms the office should be located at an international cricket stadium and as of now the stadium in Visakhapatnam was the only one in the State that had a test status and had been holding a number of international matches, including in the floodlights. The ACA is probably the only sports body that has shifted its base to Visakhapatnam, ever since the city was declared as the proposed Executive Capital of the State. According to Mr. Sarat Chandra, the idea of shifting had nothing to do with the State government declaring Visakhapatnam as the Executive Capital. “This was necessary and was decided in the first AGM of the association, after the new committee had taken over about a year ago,” he said. The day-to-day administrative work would now be done from Visakhapatnam and a staff of about 14 would be working, said treasurer of ACA Gopinath Reddy. Focus on club cricket Speaking about ACA’s plans, Mr. Sarat Chandra said that focus would be on developing district teams and club cricket. “If we intend to produce good players, we should be paying special attention to district teams and club tournaments. We are planning to have more matches, leagues and tournaments, so that we can have quality cricket all through the year,” he said. Director, cricket operations of ACA and former India international Y. Venugopal said that though ACA was responsible for the overall growth in the State, its shift here would have a positive impact on local cricket. “Visakhapatnam not only has a test approved international stadium, but it is also logistically well-connected to all parts of the country, and has facilities to hold more international matches,” he said. Durga Prasad, secretary of ACA, C.R. Mohan, and office bearers of the VDCA such as K. Parthasarathi, D.S. Varma, T.S.R. Prasad and P.R. Narayanswami were among those present. Felicitated Earlier, three former Andhra Ranji players T. Vijay Kumar, A.G. Pradeep and M. Suresh were felicitated. A number of former Andhra players were present on the occasion.
11 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||UNICEF lauds efforts of NSS volunteers||Young students who helped create awareness on COVID-19 among thousands of daily wagers and slum-dwellers in the city earned the apprecation of UNICEF-Hyderabad for their efforts. The students demonstrated the proper use of hand sanitizer, use of masks, and the need to observe social distancing as part of the project on ‘Engagement of NSS Volunteers for Risk Communication and Community Engagement (RCCE) in Visakhapatnam’. The students also distributed posters and pamphlets among the target groups to spread the message. The NSS Cell of Andhra University entered into an MoU with UNICEF-Hyderabad in July 2020 in this regard. The students were picked from five active NSS units of Dr. VS Krishna Government College, GVP College, Samata College, St. Joseph’s College for Women and St. Ann’s Degree College for Women. Twenty-four best NSS volunteers from each of the five units were engaged in the project.
11 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GST fraud worth Rs. 84 crore unearthed||Director General of GST Intelligence, Visakhapatnam zone unit, busted a major fake input tax credit (ITC) racket being operated from Proddatur, according to a release issued by DGGI Joint Director Mayank Sharma here on Thursday. The accused, who is 38 years old, was involved in issuing fake invoices to the tune of Rs. 84 crore using three fraudulent GST registrations (without the knowledge of the proprietors) and was in turn getting commission from the recipient firms of such fake invoices. Various firms created with fictitious addresses in and around Guntur were identified and simultaneous searches carried out. The searches revealed that the mastermind behind the creation of these firms had passed on ineligible ITC of Rs. 13 crore to various business entities in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The accused was located after sustained field work and was arrested on Thursday. Further investigation is under way. Recently the DGGI intensified its efforts to curb fake ITC rackets which led to a lot of tax evasion. In the last month alone, 11 cases were booked involving detection of 56 dummy and non-existent GST registrations. These detections involved fake transactions to the tune of Rs. 527 crore involving duty evasion of Rs. 50 crore. Four persons were also arrested in these cases.
11 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protest over property tax||Representatives of Visakhapatnam Apartment Residents’ Welfare Association (VARWA) and NIVAS at their meeting here on Thursday decided to launch an agitation to demand withdrawal of the steep hike in property tax, water tax and UGD tax. The meeting discussed the steep hike in property tax, water tax and UGD charges and noted that it would result in an increase in taxes by three to 10 times. The fixing of water meters to the taps would result in a three-fold increase in water charges. This would cause undue burden on the common man, they said, demanding withdrawal of the proposal to hike property tax based on the value of the property, the representatives said.
11 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Human Rights Day marked||The International Association for Religious Freedom (IARF) and BV Foundation for Peace and Harmony, a member group of IARF, jointly celebrated World Human Rights Day at St. Ann's College for Women, at Malkapuram on Thursday. International Council Member of IARF Narava Prakasa Rao said that one should always blow the whistle to protect human rights. He said that children and women were the most vulnerable sections whose rights were violated, and called for improving awareness on human rights.
11 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Hasten Agency road works’||Joint Secretary A.K. Goyal ordered officials to hasten the construction of roads in Agency areas. At a review meeting with District Collectors and Project Officers through video-conference on Thursday, the Joint Secretary said that road construction works were taken up in the tribal areas of the State under various schemes. He said that the works should be completed with the coordination of revenue, forest and Panchayat Raj officials.
11 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No deaths in the last three days||In a positive trend, the district has recorded zero COVID-19 deaths in the last three days. This is for the first time since July 1 that no deaths have been recorded for three days in a row. With no deaths reported, the toll remains at 514, said a senior medical officer from the District COVID-19 team. During the last 24 hours, the district recorded 31 new cases, taking the total tally of COVID-19 infections, since its outbreak in March this year, to 59,073. According to District COVID-19 Special Officer P.V. Sudhakar, the active cases stand at 262 of which only around 100 are being treated at hospitals, while the rest are in home isolation. The number of discharges in the last 24 hours stood at 58, taking the total discharges to 58,297.
11 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Camp conducted for differently-abled||A camp for the differently-abled was organised by Dhan Foundation and Sri Gurudeva Charitable Trust, under the aegis of Vaisakhi Kalanjia Society, at Velampeta here. A number of physically challenged persons attended. Organisers conducted hearing tests and took the length of limbs for providing aids like calipers, crutches, walking sticks, wheelchairs, tricycles and walkers.
11 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Use technology to optimum level, DIG tells staff||Visakhapatnam Range Deputy Inspector General L.K.V. Ranga Rao on Thursday asked the police personnel to utilise technology at optimum level for investigation of cases. He said that constant efforts were needed to develop skills to meet national and international standards in investigation. Along with Vizianagaram District Judge G. Gopi, he formally launched Police Duty Meet here for the police officials of Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, and Srikakulam. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Ranga Rao said that the technology would help in swifter collection of evidences. Mr. Gopi said that courts would also be able to do justice to victims when the Police Department was able to produce proper evidences. Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari, Srikakulam Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar, Visakhapatnam SP B. Kirshna Rao were present.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hard grind||
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hard grind||
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Abused and defiled||
11 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Facility to train disabled CRPF personnel becomes operational||A first of its kind initiative, the National Centre for Divyang Empowerment (NCDE), an exclusive facility for training the CRPF personnel who suffer injuries and become physically challenged in the line of duty in modern technologies, has become operational at the Central Reserve Police Force’s group centre here. The Centre had been set up by the CRPF regional centre envisaging training to the personnel in latest technologies like artificial intelligence, cyber security or warfare, data analytics and others. Machine language, social media monitoring, audio visual effects, advanced animation and block chain management among others would be the focus areas of training. The Centre, according to Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, will also focus on promotion of para sports. According to senior CRPF officials, 189 personnel of the country’s largest armed force lost their limbs or underwent amputation in the last decade while discharging their duties in sensitive areas like Left Wing extremist affected areas and terrorist violence hit areas like Kashmir Valley. In addition, a survey revealed that there were about 500 specially-abled children in the families of the CRPF. Mr. Kishan Reddy who formally inaugurated the NCDE on Thursday said the government was committed to the well-being of the forces that were dedicated to the protection of the country. “The CAPF personnel have shown that injuries can damage their bodies, but not their self-confidence,” he said, adding skills in various disciplines like market oriented skills, data analytics and artificial intelligence would be imparted through the NCDE which was set to become a centre of excellence. CRPF director general A.P. Maheshwari said the centre envisaged skilling and re-skilling “our divyang soldiers” so that they should not feel that there were not relevant anymore. The Centre which initially inducted CRPF troops would be opened for specially abled personnel from all CAPFs and their wards. He said that there were new challenges in the low intensity conflict domain of internal security like cyber warfare. “The war of guns is changing into war of deception. It is also war of perception and artificial intelligence tools play a key role in this new warfare. There is a need to evolve from being internal security warriors to cyber warriors,” he said, adding that the establishment of NCDE was in line with the CRPF culture of not leaving their troops behind either in the battle field or in any aspect of life.
11 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Distribution of breeding buffaloes begins||In order to increase milk production and benefit milk producers, the Karimnagar Milk Producer Company Limited (Karimnagar dairy) has embarked upon the ambitious task of distributing breeding buffaloes to milk societies of the integrated Karimnagar district. Along with artificial insemination of milching animals, the Karimnagar dairy authorities have started distributing the breeding animals in the interior villages where the dairy veterinary assistants are unable to conduct insemination of milching animals. The breeding animals were procured from Haryana and Punjab. The milk societies would select the farmer for rearing the bull and provide maintenance support of the animal and it would be used for crossing to increase milk production. On Thursday, dairy chairman Ch Rajeshwara Rao along with managing director P Shankar Reddy distributed 14 breeding animals to various societies on the dairy premises. The allotment of breeding animals was done through draw of lots in a transparent manner. The dairy was providing breeding bulls on 50% subsidy. They were also helping in the insurance of the animal for three years. The dairy chairman said this was the fourth slot of distribution of breeding animals to societies at the rate of 14 bulls in each slot and distributed 56 murrah buffaloes this year. They had provided insurance to the animals in such a way as to replace with new bull if the animal dies for any reason. The Karimnagar dairy had introduced a total of 32 welfare schemes for milk farmers, he said, adding that the dairy was providing all schemes in a transparent manner free of cost. He said they had set a target of increasing milk procurement to 5 lakh litres per day. Mr P Shankar Reddy said distribution of breeding animals was a continuous process to increase milk production in the district. Presently they were procuring 1.25 lakh litres of milk per day and selling 1.45 lakh litres of milk and 50 lakh litres of curd.
11 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Eight women of old city sold to Arab families as maids||Eight women of old city of Hyderabad were allegedly sold to some Arab families in various parts of United Arab Emirates for Rs. 2 lakh each to work as maids. This was contained in two representations made to External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar by relatives of the victims They pointed out that the women were offered jobs as salespersons in a shopping mall in Dubai by a Hyderabad-based agent Shafi. All of them were flown to Dubai in September and October on a three-month visit visa and handed over to a recruiting agency there which sold them to Arab families. They said their kin were made to work for a minimum of 15 hours daily without proper food and accommodation and tortured badly. They were sometimes sexually assaulted if they failed to heed the advice. They were not paid any salary since landing in Dubai. When their plight was conveyed to kin here, the local agent was asked to arrange their return journey. But, he demanded Rs. 1.5 lakh each which they could not afford. The kin requested the Union Minister to contact the Indian Embassy in Abu Dhabi and Indian Consulate in Dubai to repatriate the victims as soon as possible. Two victims were sisters and allegedly landed with Al-Safeer in Dubai which tied up with Arab families to hand them over as maids. Another woman was asked to undergo quarantine for two weeks and then sent to an Arab family. It was said the local agent Shafi was picked up by the task force and referred to Central Crime Station.
11 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||56 Army officers receive engineering degrees||Engineering degrees to 56 officers of Degree Engineering Course (DE-101) and Technical Entry Scheme Course (TES-34) were conferred by Director General EME and Senior Colonel Commandant of the Corps of EME Lieutenant General Anil Kapoor, in a solemn convocation ceremony adhering to all COVID-19 precautionary protocols at Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering (MCEME), Secunderabad, on Thursday. The future role of these officers will be to absorb the latest technologies and be ready to handle equipment ranging from obsolescence to state-of-the-art. Officers need to be aware of disruption, convergence and digitisation to remain ahead of the curve as far as technology and sustenance are concerned, said Lt. Gen. Kapoor. DGEME trophy and GOC-in-C, ARTRAC book and prizes were awarded to Captain Anurag Singh for best all round student officer of DE course. Captain D.S. Rajawat bagged the DGEME gold medal for standing overall first in order of merit in DE course. GOC-in-C, ARTRAC trophy and book prize and DGEME gold medal were awarded to Lieutenant S.P. Sharma for best all round student officer and overall first in order of merit of TES course. Commandant of MCEME Lieutenant General TSA Narayanan said, “MCEME has well-qualified teaching staff, state-of-the-art labs, integrated classrooms and IT infrastructure. We have linked up with the national knowledge network and have pacts with premier institutions like IIT, BITs, JNU and JNTU Hyderabad.” Best project (developing an intelligent chat-bot system to identify the languages spoken by the user and translate to English) prize was awarded to Captain Amritesh Kumar, Captain Dhanjit Kumar Singh and Captain Pankaj Bhatt of DE Course. Best project (IETM on BMP II - Automotive) prize was awarded to Lieutenant Viwidh Srivastava, Lieutenant Mayank Singh and Lieutenant Vaibhav Nigam of TES Course. MCEME established in 1953 under the aegis of Army Training Command (ARTRAC) Shimla, trains officers, JCOs and others of EME for providing an effective sustainment and engineering support to the complete equipment of Indian Army. Officers from the Corps of EME, Infantry, Armoured Corps, Mechanised Infantry and Corps of Ordnance completed their B Tech engineering and will be joining the field army as young officers, said a press release.  MCEME has well-qualified teaching staff, state-of-the-art labs, integrated classrooms and IT infrastructure. We have linked up with the national knowledge network and have pacts with premier institutions like IIT, BITs, JNU and JNTU Hyderabad. Lieutenant General TSA Narayanan Commandant of MCEME
11 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Air Traffic management officers graduate||The graduation ceremony of 137 Air Traffic Surveillance Services (ATSS) course and 104 Air Traffic Management and Air Laws (Basic) course was conducted at Air Traffic Control Officers Training Establishment (ATCOTE) at Air Force Academy in Hyderabad on Thursday. AFA deputy commandant Air Vice Marshal D.K. Awasthi graced the occasion as the reviewing officer where Flight Lieutenant Kavita Bisht was adjudged first in order of merit in radar controller of 137 ATSS course and flying officer Rishabh Gupta was adjudged first in order of merit aerodrome controller after completing ATM and AL (B) course. ATCOTE undertakes training for officers from the Indian Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) and officers from friendly foreign countries. The six-month long rigorous training programme of the ATM & AL (B) course is aimed at imparting training to the young commissioned officers on surface movement control, aerodrome control and approach control functions, graduating them into qualified air traffic controllers. The three-month long ATSS course is a mid- level course that trains qualified air traffic controllers in the usage of radar for provision of air traffic services. Practical training for both the courses were conducted using computer aided audio visual and radar simulators, a press release said on Thursday.
11 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC permits registration of non-agricultural properties||The Telangana High Court on Thursday gave the green signal to State government to go ahead with registration of non-agricultural properties without insisting for details of Aadhaar card, caste and family members of citizens. The court, however, said the government can ask people to book slots online for registration of properties. Those intending to register properties have to present Property Tax Identification Number (PTIN). If the PTIN is not available for the said property, citizens can apply for the same and the government is bound to issue it within two days, the court said. Passing the order, a division bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy reiterated that the court did not pass any order staying registration of non-agricultural properties. The government was instructed not to collect information like Aadhar card number, caste and details of family members of the citizens intending to register properties. This direction was given while hearing a batch of PIL and writ petitions challenging the government’s instructions to incorporate such details while uploading details of properties in Dharani portal. The government’s persuasion of compelling people to upload details of their properties onto Dharani portal was challenged on multiple grounds, including the contention that it was not backed by any law. Before the bench passed the direction, senior counsel D. Prakash Reddy took objection to Advocate General B.S. Prasad’s proposal that people should book slots online for registration of properties. The senior counsel contended that actually there was no need for the bench to issue any direction or clarification as it “never stayed registration of properties.” However, the CJ bench observed that the clarification consenting to registration of properties was being given since there seemed to be an opinion among some sections of people that High Court had stalled registration of properties. Mr. Prakash Reddy contended that the bench can simply say the government can revert to the old procedures of registration instead of passing a detailed order over an oral request made by the AG. When the hearing began, the AG requested the bench to permit registration of properties through Computer-aided Administration of Registration Department (CARD) procedures. The petitioner’s counsel however raised objection stating that under certain rules of registration, the government had to issue notification. Taking into consideration the technicalities raised by Mr. Prakash Reddy, the bench made it clear that the government should not deviate from the said rules and give an undertaking that it would not insist for details of Aadhaar, caste or family members of the citizens for registration of properties. The petitioner’s counsel argued that even the request of prior booking of online slots for registration of properties should not be accepted. However, the CJ said when the government was ready to give an undertaking not to insist for sensitive information, “such trifles need not be taken seriously.” The bench instructed the AG to file counter affidavits to all interim applications presented by the petitioners in different petitions relating to Dharani portal by Monday. The matters were posted to Wednesday for next hearing.
11 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Innovation is key to solving toughest challenges’||Microsoft founder Bill Gates on Thursday said innovation is the key to solving some of the world’s toughest challenges, whether it is about stopping a pandemic, avoiding climate disaster or raising human productivity. He said this in a recorded message at the TiE Global Summit (TGS) 2020, on being conferred with the TiE’s Lifetime Achievement Award for First Generation Entrepreneur. Noting that it was an honour to receive the prestigious award, he said the work undertaken by TiE in the field of entrepreneurship was important. “I believe innovation is the key to solving the world’s toughest challenges, whether it is stopping a pandemic, avoiding climate disaster or raising human productivity,” he said. Appreciating TiE for supporting entrepreneurs, he said, “Your work is essential to fostering innovation and creating a better world.” TGS 2020 Chair Sridhar Pinnapureddy said, “Bill Gates has won many awards before but at TiE and entrepreneurs around the world, it is our privilege and honour to show our love and respect through this award.” The ceremony also saw the TiE Lifetime Achievement Award being conferred on founder-CEO of TCS F.C. Kohli, for his contribution to the Indian IT industry. Regarded as the father of Indian IT industry, he passed away last month at the age of 96. His wife Swarn said he would have wished TiE all success in its mission.
11 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Rush for COVID-19 vaccines should not be at the cost of safety’||Founder of vaccine manufacturing company Shantha Biotechnics, K.I. Varaprasad Reddy on Wednesday cautioned against rushing through with the regulatory approval processes for COVID-19 vaccine candidates. Speaking at the TiE Global Summit 2020 on ‘COVID-19 Vaccine: How soon is soon? Is there an alternative?’, he said vigorous scientific evaluation is important. While the pace of development of vaccines may be faster, the regulatory aspects have to be examined at every stage. There should be enough scientific data available to give comfort to the people, he said, pointing to the significance of vigorous scientific evaluation of the vaccine candidates. He said the Influenza vaccine came after two decades – of the 1918 Spanish flu – around 1940, while Ebola vaccine took five and a half years and chickenpox vaccine took 22 years. Scientists are under pressure, following the COVID-19 outbreak, to come out with a vaccine, he said, stressing the need for the regulators to still not to rush with the approval processes. “Earlier, we used to wait and study the medicines for a long time, going through different stages of trials and scientific evaluation. There is not enough scientific data to give us comfort. There is no publication of data on clinical trials [of COVID-19 vaccines] in scientific journals and its review. All we know is just [information] coming through news reports,” he said. Noting that there are several questions that remain unanswered about the safety, efficacy, cold storage, distribution, handling, training of personnel who will administer the vaccine, who is going to foot the bill and who gets the vaccine first, Mr.Reddy called for a blueprint, with an emphasis on equitable distribution. Given that almost all vaccine candidates are likely to be two-dose vaccine, India, with a population of 1.3 billion, would required 2.6 billion doses. With 15% wastage normal, this would translate into 3 billion vaccine doses. Thus, in this kind of situation, there would also be need to curb hoarding, black marketing and counterfeiting. Hasty statements by those in authority about the date by which the vaccine would be available are a great disservice to the public, he said, adding the vaccines will come only by the middle of 2021 or the latest by April. The Shantha Sanofi vaccine – Shantha Biotechnics is a Sanofi company – will come by end of 2021, he added. The TiE Summit, on the second day, had a number of sessions lined, including an address by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. He said Delhi NCR has 7,000 active startups, the highest in the country. The valuation of startups is estimated at $50 billion and the city is adding one Unicorn every year since 2013. In the first six months of 2020, 109 startups were founded in Delhi, he said, listing out the plans of the government for hand-holding and aiding growth of startups. Delhi government, he said, is in an advanced stage of coming out with a new startup policy.
11 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IICT coordinating with other labs for new corona drug||There is a new development on the promising Molnupiravir drug discovered by Emory University, and being developed by biotechnology firm, Ridgeback Biotherapeutics, in collaboration with multinational, Merck, said to be working well against COVID-19 within 24 hours of oral intake. The new synthetic process for the drug is being being indigenously developed by the National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST), Thiruvananthapuram, and the Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine (IIIM), Jammu. CSIR-IICT here is coordinating with both the labs on the modalities of scale-up in partnership with interested industries. CSIR-Director General Shekhar C. Mande has been quoted as stating that discussions are on among various stakeholders to consider taking up human trials for Molnupiravir as the virus transmission was found to be blocked in ferrets (mammals) after taking the anti-viral drug. CSIR-IICT Director S. Chandrasekhar said drugs to combat the coronavirus will be needed for treatment of those who get the viral infection, even if the promising vaccines are going to be cleared for approvals in the country in the weeks ahead to vaccinate the vulnerable sections first. Tackling load efficiently Molnupiravir is shown to be tackling the viral load efficiently and the CSIR-IICT will be waiting for the clearance from the CSIR top leadership for taking preparation of the chemical in its ‘Kilo Lab’ before it passes onto the industry for mass production following due regulatory protocols. “If we go by how the drug regulatory authorities have cleared Remdesivir and Favipiravir - repurposed drugs processed by IICT and handed over to the industry earlier this year - the same trend of fast approvals are likely to continue under the current pandemic,” he observed.  “Vaccines are preventative in nature and as we all read, it may give protection to most, but not all. Pfizer and Moderna vaccines based on RNA are new processes and may not be easy to be replicated though the World Health Organisation (WHO) may declare them to be essential to save lives,” the director said.
11 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Padayatras to revive Congress||Political padayatras like the ones that catapulted Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy to the top within the Congress party in 2003 when the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) looked pretty strong are likely to hit Telangana soon. Padayatras across the State is one of the key components in the road map given by several serious aspirants for the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) post during the ongoing exercise being taken up by the AICC incharge Manickam Tagore. On the second day of the opinion seeking exercise almost all the senior leaders who met Mr. Manickam have indicated their willingness to take up the challenge and also their plans on revitalising the party and its cadre. State-wide tour like the one Mr. Reddy took up to challenge the then Chief Minister, N. Chandrababu Naidu was the common point suggested by many aspirants. Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkata Reddy has said he would take up a padayatra like YSR did in mobilising public opinion against the TRS government. Another aspirant, A. Revanth Reddy, though did not openly claimed the PCC post so far, is also said to have submitted a detailed plan to be executed to bring Congress back to power from these troubled times. Padayatra is also one of the political programmes he had also suggested to connect with each worker and expose the misrule of the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS). CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka too met Mr. Tagore at the guest house to share his views on choosing the new chief while apparently claiming the top post for himself as well. Sangareddy MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy has made it several times clear that he was a top contender. Former Minister Marri Shashidhar Reddy too is said to have explained how he can lead the party and how loyalists should be rewarded and not the new entrants. AICC secretary Sampath Kumar is said to have argued that finances will not be an issue and he has the capacity to run the party if given a chance. TPCC working president, Ponnam Prabhakar, who played a key role in the Telangana movement, apparently said he would not stake claim but if the party wants to entrust him with the responsibility he would accept it. He also shared his views on the contenders along with strengths and weaknesses. Former MP Madhu Yashki has already indicated how social engineering was important for a party like the Congress where anyone can claim the top post unlike the regional parties. “We have leadership among the downtrodden and only Congress can provide a platform for such leaders,” he argued indicating he has no qualms about accepting the responsibility and he would bring back the Backward Castes that have over the years moved to the TRS and the BJP in Telangana. All the MLAs and MPs apart from staking claims have also expressed their reservations on handing over reigns to some candidates seriously trying for the top post, according to a senior leader. Sources said they have cautioned the AICC incharge that if a neutral candidate accepted by all is not appointed then the BJP might play havoc with the party further weakening it. “We will accept a leader who is loyal to the party, non-controversial and willing to take everyone along,” a senior MLA said.
11 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Make COVID vaccines accessible to all: Yunus||Nobel laureate and social entrepreneur from Bangladesh Muhammad Yunus, well known for his work in the area of microfinance, on Thursday called for efforts to make COVID vaccines accessible to all. Stating that many developed countries had already booked vaccines more than what is needed to inoculate their population, he said the rush is already creating a world of vaccines haves and have-nots. “I appeal to the world to declare vaccine as a global public good. There should not be any ownership control, commercial control [over the vaccine]… there should not be any patent right,” he said, pointing out that vaccine is life and life is for everybody. Addressing the TiE Global Summit 2020, being conducted on an online platform, on ‘Post-corona reconstitution programme’, Mr. Yunus said as much as the pandemic has revealed the faults and weaknesses of the economic systems of the world, it also provides an opportunity to create a better world. Instead of yearning to go back to the pre-Covid world, effort should be to rethink and redesign life without contributing to global warming, wealth inequality and unemployment. “Focus should be on zero carbon emissions, zero wealth concentration and zero unemployment,” he said, even while telling the summit how Artificial Intelligence will replace humans. “The disaster train on which we were in the pre-COVID world has stopped, we are off it, it is time to start a new train in a new direction,” he said, adding there is tremendous pressure, desperation and eagerness among people, businesses and governments to go back to the pre-COVID situation because they do not like economy stalling.
11 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Violence against Dalit, Adivasi women decried||A round table meeting organised by the NGO, Dalit Sthree Sakti on Thursday, heard and condemned the violence against Dalit and Adivasi women and children. A total of 24 victims from both the sections shared details about the atrocities perpetrated against them and their fight for justice, at the meeting, which was attended online by government functionaries, including Commissioner, Social Welfare, Yogita Rana, Commissioner, Women Development and Child Welfare, Divya Devarajan, and Director of Prosecutions Vyjayanthi. Speaking on the occasion, national convenor of Dalit Sthree Sakti Jhansi Geddam said, “In order to achieve gender equality, an awareness campaign should be launched against the patriarchal belief system that pervades across the spectrum irrespective of castes, religions, class, gender and culture, while influencing the spheres of literature and visual media too.” Babasaheb Ambedkar’s thought alone can lead to an equal society, she averred, and said empowered and autonomous Dalit and Adivasi women can achieve financial independence and emerge out of slavery. Dalit Sthree Sakti has conducted a campaign among Dalit and Adivasi women between November 25 and December 10, responding to the call by the United Nations, she said. Ms. Vyjayanthi said that in cases where the accused have not been arrested, where vindictive cases are slapped against victims and wherever the right sections are not included, the issues can be resolved by public prosecutors.
11 December 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Man gave triple talaq to wife over phone’||A 24-year old woman in Hyderabad has alleged that her husband, a Somalian national, having U.S. citizenship, gave her triple talaq over the phone without any reasons and appealed to the Centre to intervene in the issue. The woman, who lives with her father in Hyderabad, in a letter addressed to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday, requested intervention in the matter and help get justice. The woman stated that she married the Somalian national on January 25, 2015, while he was studying in Hyderabad. According to the woman, since then he had used to visit Hyderabad every six months and he last visited her in February this year. Later, he proceeded to Boston in the U.S. and was in touch with her and used to send money for her needs, she said. “Suddenly on October 7, my husband called on my father’s phone number and pronounced talaq three times without any reason and since then he has not been in touch with me,” the woman said in the letter. “My mother-in-law, who lives in Dubai and my sister-in-law, who stays in London, assured me of justice but later they blocked my number. Hence, I request you to interfere in this matter and help me get justice,” the woman wrote. She requested the External Affairs Ministry to ask the Indian Embassy in the U.S. to speak to her husband and settle the matter asshe could not re-marry without authentic divorce papers.
11 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Stage protest in front of Modi’s residence’||AICC spokesperson Sravan Dasoju wanted Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao to stage protest dharna in front of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s residence in Delhi if he really is serious and sincere about farmer issues. Stating that Mr. Rao and Prime Minister Modi only fight on the streets but are friends in four walls in Delhi, he reminded how Mr. Rao issued a statement supporting Modi on the Central Vista project. “How can one issue a threat of fight and send a friendly signal the very next day. It is yet another example of the TRS and the BJP collusion,” he said in a statement here. Mr. Sravan suspected that Mr. Rao might be meeting Mr. Modi to finalise a secret deal in this regard. He wondered if Mr. Rao would tender apologies to PM Narendra Modi for the dharna against anti-farmer bills. If Mr. Rao is sincere, he should immediate convene the Assembly and enact the farmer-friendly legislation or else he has no moral right to stand in solidarity with the agitating farmers. He said that the Punjab government has timely reacted to the farmer issues and passed the revolutionary pro-farmer bills in the State Assembly to counter the Central government which denied the fundamental right to the farmers across the country through its corporate-friendly policies. In addition to these three agriculture bills, the State government of Punjab has also passed another bill which ensures protection for small and marginal farmers from attaching their lands, if their land holding is only up to 2.5 acres, he informed and said Mr. Rao should take a lesson from it and follow it. The AICC leader claimed that the TRS party's supremo fears being punished by Modi if he challenges the Centre by introducing new agriculture bills.  KCR fears being punished by Mr. Modi if he challenges the Centre by introducing new agriculture bills. Sravan Dasoju, AICC spokesperson
11 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||UoH faculty elected president of LSI||Garapati Umamaheswara Rao of the University of Hyderabad has been elected president of the Linguistic Society of India (LSI). He is the first one from the Telugu states to have been elected for the post. Prof. Rao, who worked as Director of the Centre for Applied Linguistics and Translation Studies at the University of Hyderabad, has over 35 years of experience. He was also a former president of the Dravidian Linguists Association and member of the General Council, Kendra Sahitya Academy. Founded about a hundred years ago, it remains a major contributor to the development of the languages of 130 crore Indians. Under the leadership of Prof. Rao the LSI will focus on conservation of endangered languages, and nearly-extinct languages.
11 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State records 643 COVID cases, two die||Telangana recorded 643 COVID cases on Wednesday taking the total to 2,75,904. While 53,396 samples were tested, results of 318 were awaited. Two more COVID-19 patients died. The new cases include 109 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 84 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 82 from Rangareddy, and 56 from Warangal Urban. The cases spiked in Medchal and Rangareddy. From March 2 to December 9, a total of 59,73,031 samples were tested and 2,75,904 tested positive for coronavirus. Out of the total cases, 7,497 were active cases, 2,66,925 have recovered, and 1,482 have died.
11 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pensioners’ JAC for speedy release of PRC report||The Telangana Government Pensioners Joint Action Committee has urged the State government to direct the Pay Revision Commission headed by retired bureaucrat C.R. Biswal to submit its report at the earliest. The JAC recalled that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao assured the employees and pensioners that their revised pay scales would come into effect from July 1, 2018. He had accordingly announced constitution of a three-member panel in place of the traditional one-member PRC to submit its report. More than two years since the constitution of the PRC, the commission is yet to submit its report and this is putting the employees as well as pensioners to hardships. JAC chairman K. Lakshmaiah and co-chairman P. Krishnamurthy said the government should therefore direct the PRC to submit its report at the earliest. In the meantime, the government should take time to release two instalments of dearness allowance to employees and dearness relief to pensioners as they were facing difficulties due to the COVID-19 pandemic and spiralling costs of the essentials. The government should also positively consider the recommendation on payment of additional quantum to pensioners who crossed 70 years. Though the previous PRC had made the recommendation in its report, no action had been initiated in this direction so far, they said.
11 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Anupama Green India challenge||Film actor Anupama Parameshwaran participated in Green India Challenge, planting a sapling at Bachupally in the city, after accepting the challenge by actor Nikhil. She took inspiration from Rajya Sabha member Joginapally Santosh Kumar, she said in a statement here, adding she would continue the chain by challenging three persons to plant saplings.
11 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||state page - briefly with pic Police distribute blankets||Tiryani police of Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district distributed woollen blankets to senior citizens in Govena village of their jurisdiction on Thursday. Additional SP Y.V. Sudhindra said the police are always ready to help people in all situations and sought their cooperation in maintenance of law and order.
11 December 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Farmers protest at meeting for land acquisition for highway||Protests by some aggrieved farmers from Chintakani mandal marred the award enquiry meeting conducted by the Revenue officials in connection with the land acquisition for the proposed Khammam-Devarapalli four-lane Greenfield highway here on Thursday. Several agitated farmers from Kodumuru and Basavapuram Revenue villages expressed their anguish over the alleged attempts to acquire their fertile lands for the Greenfield highway project. A section of them wanted the authorities to exempt their agricultural lands from the land acquisition process to safeguard their livelihoods, sources said. Some others demanded that the authorities sanction adequate compensation on a par with the compensation disbursed to the land oustees of the proposed new Collectorate building near the town and the recently inaugurated ROB at Dhamsalapuram. Some representatives from the two villages insisted that the authorities sanction farm lands at nearby alternative places and jobs to the SC and ST farmers. Several local body elected representatives urged the authorities to implement the assurances earlier made to the farmers during a survey held in Chintakani mandal in July this year. They called upon the authorities to convene an all-party meeting to discuss the issues raised by the aggrieved farmers.
11 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Woman kills stepdaughters, hangs self||An irate woman allegedly strangulated her two step-daughters to death and later hanged herself at Jubilee Hills locality of the town on Thursday, the police said. The bodies were found in the evening, and the incident was suspected to have occurred between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. The victims were Prasanna Rani, the woman in her 30s, six-year-old Meghana and four-year-old Ruchari. Police said a note, purportedly written by the woman, was retrieved at the site. Prasanna Rani was the first wife of Mekala Pradeep, who had also married another woman Shanti with whom he had two daughters – Meghana and Ruchari. It was suspected that family disputes had led to the extreme step. Investigation was launched.  (Someone is always there to listen at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni: 040-66202000)
11 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Shamirpet to get an airport if required, says CM||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who addressed a public meeting here on Thursday, said an international airport, when it is required in the future, may come up at Shamirpet. Mr. Rao participated in several inaugurations and development programmes in the district headquarters from morning to evening on Thursday. At the public meeting at Government Degree College, the Chief Minister said that division of districts has brought development closer to people and Siddipet is in the forefront with an active leader like Harish Rao. "We have a suffered a lot due to water scarcity and now the situation has changed. There is a lot of water at Ranganaiksagar. It will become an international tourist destination. I am sanctioning Rs. 100 crore for its development,”announced the CM. The development projects announced by Mr Rao include ring road for Bussapur - Timmayipally, lift irrigation (Rs. 80 crore) from Mallannasagar to the villages that were not covered under different irrigation projects, four-lane road from Siddipet to Illendu, Rs. . 25 crore for Komaticheruvu, 1,000 double bedroom houses additionally for Siddipet at the same place where the new houses were inaugurated on Thursday. "This is a golden day for us. About Rs. 1,000 crore worth development works inaugurations and foundation stone laying ceremonies were held today. The medical college which was sanctioned by Mr. Rao was inaugurated by him. Stone was laid for a 960 -bed hospital. The double bedroom houses for the poor, a dream of the Chief Minister, was realised. I feel happy after seeing the smiling faces of beneficiaries,”said Mr. Harish Rao requesting the Chief Minister to sanction another 1000 2BHK houses, basti Dawakhana and three town police station. He said that four companies came forward and signed MoUs in the presence of Chief Minister. He said that these companies expressed willingness to start operations and they will be accommodated in the temporary collectorate buildings, once it was shifted to the new building. He also urged the CM to sanction a four-lane road from Siddipet to Chinnnakodur and funds to complete the pending works of Komaticheruvu. The Cheif Minister who was on an inaguration spree laid the foundation for construction of IT tower at Duddeda on the outskirts of the town. Later, he inaugurated the Telangana Bhavan, the first party office outside Hyderabad, here. He also inaugurated the Rytu Vedika at Mittapally constructed at a cost of Rs. 22 crore. The government medical college constructed at a cost of Rs. 135 crore was inaugurated and it was followed by laying the foundation stone for the proposed 960- bed hospital, estimated to cost of Rs. 225 crore. The Chief Minister who termed Siddipet a dynamic place inaugurated the pylon construted at the 2BHK (double bedroom houses) at Narsapur on the outskirts of the district headquarters. Later, he inaugurated an underground drainage and sewage treatment plant and the guest house constructed at the hill top of Ranganaiksagar at Chandlapur. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao coordinated the entire programme. Ministers E. Rajender, S. Niranjan Reddy, Prashanth Reddy, Lok Sabha member K. Prabhakar Reddy, Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy and others were present.
11 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||2BHK beneficiaries turn emotional as KCR visits them||It was a rare moment in the lives of two families at Narsapur on the outskirts of the district headquarters town as they had a surprise guest. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao visited their 2BHK houses and enquired about their well-being and if they are comfortable in them. Some of the beneficiaries showered flowers on Mr. Rao, some tried to touch his feet, while some others invited him to visit their houses. Mr. Rao inaugurated the pylon at KCR Nagar in Narsapur on Thursday. During his speech Mr. Rao showered praises on Finance Minister T. Harish Rao and Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy stating that because of them, the development of Siddipet is taking place. He said that the double bedroom houses will be a model for the nation. “Siddipet is bodrayi (centre and auspicious place) for Telangana,” said Mr. Rao. Meanwhile, the Chief Minister sanctioned Rs. 50 crore for auditorium and Rs. 25 crore for a integrated market.
11 December 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Six booked for illegal transport of explosives||The Bhongir police arrested two persons, when they were found transporting explosive substances such as gelatin sticks and detonators illegally on Wednesday. Details of the seizure were disclosed to media persons on Thursday. According to the police, a total of 1, 792 gelatin sticks, 1, 600 detonators and the vehicle used to transport the substance were seized. Three other persons linked to the ‘organised illegal transport’ for some time now were absconding. The Bhongir police said Kandadi Venkat Reddy, a civil contractor, who was into levelling and land development works, joined with Yanala Pandu Rangareddy, who owns a construction and explosives magazine in Valigonda. Venkat Reddy, police said, frequently got the explosive materials transported to Hyderabad from Valigonda, and sold them to Srinu and Venkat, venture contractors. They had not followed a legal method or generated bills to transport the substances, police said. Based on a tipoff, the police conducted vehicle check in the town, and two persons were arrested transporting the material red-handed. Another person Y. Bhupal Reddy was arrested at Valigonda. The police booked the six persons for making and possessing explosives under suspicious circumstances under the Explosive Substances Act. An investigation was opened.
11 December 2020||YDERABAD,TELANGANA||Industrial parks to be converted into IT parks||The State government on Thursday issued orders converting 11 industrial parks that are within the Outer Ring Road into Information Technology parks. The industrial parks that will be converted into IT parks are the ones at Kukatpally, Gandhinagar, Balanagar, Mallapur, Moulali and Sanatnagar. The Industrial Development Areas which are nothing but industrial parks at Uppal, Nacharam, Patancheru (partly), Ramachandrapuram and Katedan will also become IT parks. The conversion of the industrial parks into IT parks was contained in guidelines for Hyderabad GRID (Growth in Dispersion) issued by the government in the orders. It said the objective of the GRID policy was to disperse IT around the city and not confine it to western corridor comprising Madhapur, Kondapur, Gachibowli, Kokapet, Ameenpur and Kukatpally only. Hence, industrial parks outside of western part of the city were identified for conversion into IT parks. This will ensure that the western part of the city which is already facing traffic congestion will not be further congested and the strain on infrastructure reduced. The industrial parks which were also inside the ORR or those industrial parks containing core industries or those industrial parks causing pollution were also felt to be better suited for conversion into IT parks. If these industrial parks were converted into IT parks, it will improve the elevation and the quality of living in the city. In addition, an IT tower will be created in northern part of the city in Kompally and an IT park will be created in the north western part of the city in Kollur/Osmansagar as part of dispersing the IT growth in the city. The conversion will be taken up in multiple phases. In the first phase, parks chosen from east (Uppal, Pocharam, Nacharam area), north (Kompally area) and south (Shamshabad/airport) directions will be created as part of promoting IT around the city. Kollur/Osmannagar IT park (north west) and the industrial development area Katedan, Shamshabad and surrounding areas (south) were also planned in the first phase. The remaining industrial parks will be taken up under subsequent phases for conversion and planned development. At present, the following were the existing and new IT clusters in Hyderabad: west : Madhapur, Kondapur, Gachibowli and Kokapetl; south west: Rajendranagar, Badvel and Kismatpur; north : Kompally, Bahadurpally, Patancheru and Bowrampet; north West : Kollur, Osmannagar and Tellapur; south: Adibhatla and Shamshabad (including GMR Aerocity); east: Uppal and Pocharam; CBD: Begumpet, Sanatnagar and Banjara Hills. The guidelines were applicable to entire HMDA region excluding the western cluster which included Gachibowli, Kokapet, Madhapur, Raidurg, Puppalguda, Khajaguda, Narsingi, Nanakramguda, Kondapur, Khanamet, Guttala Begumpet, Manikonda, Nallagandla, Gopanpally, Gowlidoddi etc. The developed and developing areas of IT/ITES in the western part of the city were excluded from GRID incentives. The categories of initiatives proposed in the guidelines were unit, anchor and developer incentives, infrastructural developments, institutional measures and branding and promotional activities.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Festive-ready||
11 December 2020||Mumbai,||Bhima-Koregaon: ‘accused denied human rights’||It has been close to three years since intellectuals, activists and lawyers were arrested in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case. Retired judges, who organised the Elgaar Parishad event, say, “All those accused in the case are not connected with it but they have been implicated because they have spoken against the government. They are denied basic human rights.” On June 6, 2018, advocate Surendra Gadling from Nagpur; Dalit activist and writer Sudhir Dhawale; an Adivasi rights activist in Gadchiroli Mahesh Raut; retired professor Shoma Sen from Nagpur; and activist Rona Wilson, were arrested. On August 28, 2018, poet Varavara Rao from Hyderabad; human rights lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj from Delhi; and activists Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira from Mumbai, were arrested. On April 14, 2020, civil rights campaigner Gautam Navlakha from Delhi; and professor Anand Teltumbde from Mumbai, had to surrender before the National Investigation Agency after the apex court rejected their anticipatory bail pleas. On July 28, professor Hany Babu was arrested from Delhi. Sagar Gorkhe and Ramesh Gaichor were arrested on September 7, and Jyoti Jagtap was arrested on September 8 from Kondhwa, Pune. The three are members of Kabir Kala Manch, a troupe made up of Dalit and working class musicians and poets, who came together after the anti-Muslim Gujarat pogroms of 2002. On October 8, Father Stan Swamy was arrested from Ranchi. They have all been arrested and charged under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act for their alleged links with Communist Party of India-Maoist (CPI-Maoist), a banned organisation. Retired Bombay High Court judge and co-organiser of the event B.G. Kolse Patil told The Hindu , “All those accused in the case are not connected with the event. I am the organiser of Elgaar Parishad and I am telling you I have not seen any one of them, and none of them are involved with the event. The Modi government has arrested intellectuals and implicated them because they criticise the government.” “Denying a straw to an 83-year-old who has Parkinson’s [Father Swamy]; not treating an 81-year-old who has dementia [Varavara Rao]; not giving spectacles to a man who is literally blind without them [Gautam Navlakha] — this is denying them basic human rights,” he exclaimed. Retired Supreme Court judge and co-organiser of the event, P.B. Sawant said, “The BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] government does not tolerate anyone who has a different line of thinking. They have been violating basic fundamentals rights guaranteed under the Constitution and the Preamble. The freedom of an individual is being suppressed and the trend of the government is to suppress any criticism.” Last year, on Human Rights Day, all the accused — men lodged at Taloja Central Jail, and women incarcerated at Byculla Jail — had written a letter to the Chairperson of the Maharashtra Human Rights Commission. It read: “We condemn the environment of fear and criminalisation promoted by the State wherein the human rights of Indian citizens and especially those of human rights defenders who are critical of State policies are under threat.” The letter had also said, “Despite our expectations, our bail applications were recently rejected. The stringent provisions in the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and Sedition Act have made it easier for the prosecution to brush aside important questions on the authenticity, credibility and admissibility of digital evidence, thus prolonging the incarceration. These aspects of any digital technology allow political rivals/adversaries to use fake content as an effective tool to attack, defame, criminalise and silence each other.”
11 December 2020||Mumbai,||Free blood for patients at State-run hospitals from tomorrow: Tope||Blood will be provided free of cost to patients receiving treatment at State-run hospitals from December 12, Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday. Mr. Tope made the announcement after donating blood along with party colleague and NCP MP Supriya Sule. The minister expressed concern over the fast depleting blood stock in Maharashtra and urged people to come forward in large numbers to donate the vital body fluid. “Earlier, processing charges of Rs. 800 used to be imposed on patients needing blood. From Saturday, no such charges will be levied on patients, and blood will be available to them free of cost,” Mr. Tope said. There are 344 active blood banks in the State, which are facing a shortage of blood supply because of people avoiding crowds in view of COVID-19, he said.  The current stock will last only for the next five to six days, the minister said.
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||BJP goons attack Sisodia’s house: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday alleged that “BJP goons” attacked Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia’s residence earlier in the day when he was not present at home. The party claimed that the attack was carried out with the support of Delhi Police which was present at the spot. Six persons have been arrested and a case has been registered, said Delhi Police PRO Eish Singhal. Video shared While the AAP shared a video of the purported attack, the BJP, which had organised a protest outside Mr. Sisodia’s residence for allegedly being part of a plot to “kill” Mayors sitting on a dharna outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence over the last four days, countered the it by stating that the “real” protest was peaceful and the video shared as evidence by the party was “fake.” Mr. Kejriwal soon entered the fray of what snowballed into a political war as he took on Defence Minister Rajnath Singh over the issue of attacks on political leaders in a democracy. Mr. Singh, referring to a purported attack on BJP national president J.P Nadda in Kolkata, tweeted “In a democracy, it is very worrying to target political leaders in this way. Given the seriousness of the attack on the convoy of the BJP national president, it should be thoroughly investigated and the responsibility of this incident should be fixed.” Mr. Kejriwal responded to Mr. Singh’s tweet asking “Rajnath ji, don’t you think that a violent attack on Delhi’s Deputy Chief Minister’s residence in the presence of police is wrong? Why is there so much anger in the BJP over the support of the farmers’ movement by the Aam Aadmi Party and the Delhi government?” Earlier in the day, addressing a press conference, AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said, “When the Deputy Chief Minister was not present at his house, BJP’s workers, who can be called BJP’s goons, attacked his house a while ago, when only women were present.” The party also showed CCTV videos of a group of protesters entering the gate of Mr. Sisodia’s residence. The Delhi police is under the ambit of the Central government and not the AAP-ruled Delhi government. AAP leader Atishi said that the attackers had “police protection”. ‘Police had information’ Mr. Bharadwaj claimed that the police officers who were responsible to protect the residence of Deputy Chief Minister had prior information of the attack and intentionally removed the barricade so that the BJP supporters can enter his house. “Even after entering the premises of his residence, the protesters were not arrested by the police. Other officials who were present there got them out of the premises,” Mr. Bharadwaj told The Hindu . Delhi BJP vice-president Ashok Goel Devraha, who led the protest outside Mr. Sisodia’s residence, alleged the video shared by the AAP is fake. “Our protest was peaceful. As far as the video is concerned, the time stamp on it is from July this year; the AAP has become so desperate that it first stages such incidents and then uses them to seek attention,” he said. Delhi Police, meanwhile, said that they had received request from Delhi BJP regarding organising a protest outside Mr. Sisodia’s residence on Mathura Road which they rejected as no gathering or protest is allowed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. At 11.30 a.m., a group gathered at a barricade installed by Delhi Police near Deputy CM’s house. A group of protesters jumped over the barricades and entered the camp office of Deputy CM located in the house. The police officers on duty acted swiftly and held six persons who trespassed and were taken to Mandir Marg police station. “We have received a complaint into the matter from Deputy CM’s secretary at Tilak Marg police station. An FIR has been registered into the matter under relevant sections of IPC. The CCTV of the incident will be examined,” said Mr. Singhal.
11 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police dept. has 552 active virus cases, records 30 deaths||Delhi Police currently has 552 active COVID-19 cases in the force. Also, 30 personnel had succumbed to the virus so far, said a senior police officer on Thursday. The police are distributing immunity booster drinks among personnel on duty at the farmers’ protest sites to prevent them from getting infected. The officer added that a total of 7,385 personnel have tested positive so far. However, the recovery rate is impressive as 6,803 have recovered and resumed their duty. “It was very unfortunate that 30 men died. Most of them were carrying out their responsibilities during the fight to contain the pandemic. We are taking care of the personnel under treatment at various hospitals and under home quarantine,” said the officer. The officer added that they have ordered all police personnel to follow safety precautions. To boost immunity, we are regularly distributing Ayush Kadha and Vitamin C tablets to personnel deployed for law and order duties in the border areas. A senior police officer has been deployed to take care of food supply to the policemen on duty. They have also distributed face masks and hand sanitisers to the policemen. “To avoid long time exposure, we are deploying policemen at borders in shifts. Apart from following safety guidelines, we keep requesting mediapersons and visitors to Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders to wear mask and keep their hands sanitised. Policemen with health problems have been withdrawn from law and order duties and have been put for back office jobs. They have also arranged COVID-19 test facilities for policemen at police stations and barracks. Concerned over the rise in cases of COVID-19 in the Delhi police department, Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava had on several instances instructed the force to strictly implement necessary guidelines to prevent the spread of virus.
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Funds sanctioned for staff, web licences for district courts’||The AAP government has informed the Delhi High Court that funds have been sanctioned for recruiting staff and purchase of 761 licences from Cisco Webex to continue with virtual court hearings in the district courts of the Capital. The government said it has sanctioned funds for recruiting ministerial and group-C staff in the district courts, state legal services authority (DSLSA) and the Delhi Judicial Academy. It said Rs. 2.52 crore and Rs. 8.54 crore have been sanctioned for recruiting ministerial and group-C staff respectively. The Delhi government’s report came in response to the High Court’s December 3 direction to grant administrative approval and necessary sanctions for releasing Rs. 1.44 crore to purchase 761 licences from Cisco Webex in order to continue with virtual court hearings in the district courts here. The High Court had observed that “the continuing pandemic situation in Delhi requires virtual hearings in the district courts to be continued and the entire proceedings shall come to a grinding halt in the event funds are not released forthwith” for acquiring the licences. The court was hearing a petition seeking to enlarge functioning of the courts, particularly family courts, in the prevalent times. The plea has sought direction to all the family courts to allow recording of evidence through videoconferencing during the restricted functioning of courts owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, either by the presiding judge of the family court or by a commission.
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||L-G chairs meet to oversee redevelopment of New Delhi station||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Thursday chaired the first meeting of an Apex Committee to oversee and facilitate the redevelopment of the New Delhi Railway Station as well as its vicinity here. According to sources, the project will, over the next four years, seek to redesign the largest and second-busiest railway station in the country with a daily footfall of approximately 4.5 lakh passengers along the lines of the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport both from without and within. Signal-free routes for vehicular traffic and pedestrian-friendly improvements are key components of the project to significantly improve access to one of the most infamously congested parts of the Capital. “Chaired the first meeting of the Apex Committee to oversee & facilitate the Redevelopment of New Delhi Railway Station under the National TOD policy [sic.],” Mr. Baijal tweeted. “The ambitious project will certainly transform the urban landscape of Delhi and greatly enhance the aesthetic, living & travelling experience of the citizens. Advised CS, Delhi & VC DDA to notify a nodal officer to ensure seamless coordination [sic.],” he also tweeted. The National Transit Oriented Development policy aims at focusing on development around or along a transit node or corridor to facilitate complete ease of access to the transit facilitates. It was approved by Mr. Baijal in his capacity as Chairman of the Delhi Development Authority in September 2019. Under the policy, residential, commercial, civic or institutional establishments are proposed to be located in close proximity to allow the local community to access facilities like plazas, shared parks and public transport. The policy seeks to enable walking, cycling and the use public transportation over personal modes of transport. While the height of the station will be increased to 70 metres, twin towers of 40 metres height will be constructed in addition to a hangar for trains, the creation of a passengers’ lounge similar to the airport and an underground parking for 2,000 vehicles and 40 buses, sources said. A commercial area will also be developed. According to sources, approaches to the station from Minto Road, Deshbandhu Gupta Road and Ajmeri Gate would be made signal-free which would provide the additional benefit of de-congesting Connaught Place outer circle on the one hand and a pedestrian high street over half-a-km long would connect the station to Connaught Place on the other. On Thursday, the L-G said he had also emphasised on conduct of monthly meetings to facilitate effective project implementation by way of speedy resolution of issues cutting across agencies as the project unfolds.
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 cases cross 6 lakh mark in the Capital||The Capital witnessed 1,575 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,01,150, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. Also, 61 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 9,874. Of the total cases, 5,72,523 people have recovered and there are 18,753 active cases. ‘Third wave declining’ “We can say that the third wave in Delhi is fading away, however, it is not over yet. I sincerely thank all the frontline and health workers who have been rigorously active in the course of this pandemic, putting their lives at stake in order to provide service to the citizens. I applaud Delhi’s citizens for their continued support,” said Mr. Jain. Earlier, the city saw a sudden increase in deaths because of the hazardous pollution levels, the Minister said. “Combined with the virus, a lot of people were indisposed. Still, a lot of people are admitted in the hospitals. This has a lagging effect meaning that we see changes after a gap of 2-3 weeks. Now that cases have decreased, the death rate too will eventually fall,” he said. Talking about vaccination, he said more than 2lakh registrations have come for the vaccination. “The priority is healthcare and frontline workers. After which the focus will be on senior citizens and subsequently moving to the ent”ire population of Delhi,” he said.
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||Men can have breast cancer too: doctors||Aakash Healthcare, a private hospital in the city, on Thursday said that it has successfully treated stage-3 male breast cancer in a 62-year-old man. Doctors of the hospital said that male breast cancer is a “rare disease” and the ratio of male to female breast cancer diagnosis is 1:120. The major symptoms are lumps on one side of the breast and armpits and non-genetic reasons for male breast cancer can be a higher level of estrogen due to liver disease. Because of this, people with liver problems have a higher risk of getting breast cancer, said the doctors.
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi’s air quality improves, enters ‘poor’ category||The air quality of Delhi and Gurugram improved to the ‘poor’ category on Thursday, while Noida’s stayed in the ‘very poor’ category, according to the CPCB. Air quality of the national capital is expected to further improve on Friday due to scattered rainfall. The effect of stubble burning on the city’s air quality was negligible on Thursday. But the local surface-level winds were calm, which does not help in the dispersion of pollutants. Also, the mixing height, which is the height from the ground level up to which pollutants can be dispersed, was also low at night. This also prevents pollutants from getting dispersed easily. “Under the influence of fresh Western Disturbance, isolated to scattered rainfall and better ventilation conditions are expected on Friday and Saturday, and the AQI is likely to improve on to the lower end of the ‘very poor’ to ‘poor’ category by Friday and likely to improve further on Saturday into ‘poor’ category in case of sufficient rain,” said a statement by the government-run monitoring agency SAFAR. The AQI of Delhi was 284 on Thursday, down from 358 on Wednesday, as per the CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 217 and 310 respectively.
11 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||NSUI submits memorandum to HRD on scholarships||The National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) on Thursday submitted a memorandum to the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), urging the Centre to release scholarships to students. The students’ body said that while the government had announced relief packages during the lockdown period and also approved the Central Vista project, it had failed to address concerns of the students. Referring to the death of a Delhi University student, who died by suicide due to financial constraints, the NSUI said that it was “disgraceful” that the government had not concentrated on the educational sector. “We expect the government and the HRD Ministry to release scholarships for students as soon as possible. If not, then we will be bound to come on to the streets and protest for the rights of the students. We do not want to witness another case like that [DU student case],” said Lokesh Chugh, national secretary, NSUI.
11 December 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra sees dip in active cases with 5,000 recoveries||As many as 5,008 COVID-19 patients were discharged across Maharashtra on Thursday, while 3,824 new cases were reported, causing the number of active cases to dip further to 71,910. The total case tally now stands at 18,68,172, while the cumulative recoveries have risen to 17,47,199. The State’s recovery rate rose incrementally to 93.52%. With 70 more deaths, the total toll has surged to 47,972. The case fatality rate has marginally decreased to 2.57%. “Of a total of 1,15,02,427 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,68,172 (case positivity rate of 16.34%) have returned positive, with nearly 55,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. 798 new cases in Mumbai Pune reported nearly 550 new cases to take its tally to 3,60,269, while eight deaths saw its toll reach 7,596. As per the district administration, active cases dipped to 10,099 while the recovery rate rose to 94.71%. Mumbai reported 798 new cases to take its tally to 2,88,696, of which 11,886 are active. Thirteen fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 10,942. Nagpur reported over 400 new cases, taking its tally to 1,18,160, of which 4,599 are active. Three deaths took the total death toll to 3,061. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported five deaths and its toll stands at 1,710. As many as 94 new cases saw the case load rise to 53,729, of which 1,841 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported 39 new cases and four deaths as the district’s tally reached 49,064, of which just 364 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,737.  Just 8 cases in Kolhapur Kolhapur reported a mere eight cases and no deaths as its total case tally reached 49,078, of which 450 are active. The total death toll remained constant at 1,655. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported 268 cases and three deaths as its total case tally reached 109,250, of which 2,239 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,757. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported 35 new cases and two deaths as its tally reached 55,447, of which only 963 are active, while its death toll stood at 1,425. A total of 5,41,059 people across the State are in home quarantine and 5,137 are in institutional quarantine facilities, Dr. Awate said.
11 December 2020||Pune,||NFAI acquires rare half-hour footage on Pune||The city-based National Film Archive of India (NFAI) has acquired a rare half-hour footage which details Pune’s industrial and infrastructural growth in the post-Independence era. Prashant Girbane, director-general, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) handed over the 1,200-foot film reel to Prakash Magdum, the director of NFAI on Thursday. The MCCIA, which was established in 1934 and caters to industries across Maharashtra, is one of the few surviving trade associations from the pre-Independence era. ‘A veritable mirror’ Mr. Magdum said the 35-minute-long film chronicled major events in the MCCIA’s organisational history from the late 1940s to 1960s. “At the beginning of the footage, a title card establishes an event as the ‘Maharashtra Industrial Conference of 1948’. The footage features events till the early 1960s. In effect, the footage acts as a veritable mirror in detailing the rise of Pune as a modern, urban metropolis. Importantly, towering statesman, historian and freedom fighter C. Rajagopalachari is seen participating in a 1948 function,” he said. Speaking on the portion featuring ‘Rajaji’, he said the title card reads: “Visit of His Excellency, C. Rajagopalachari, First Indian Governor General of India”. Mr. Magdum said, “The footage includes his felicitation followed by an address to a packed audience. Unfortunately, the soundtrack is missing from this portion.” Predominantly black and white, the footage also features colour segments. The major highlights of the film are snippets from events such as the MCCIA’s Silver Jubilee ceremony, the inauguration of the MCCIA building at the city’s Tilak Road, the trade association’s monthly magazine, Sampada (started in 1947), and an event featuring the noted Indian business tycoon S.L. Kirloskar. Mr. Magdum said the footage was priceless as it also covered the growth of prominent city establishments such as the Bank of Maharashtra and the Pune Division Productivity Council. While handing over the film to the NFAI, Mr. Girbane said: “We discovered this footage recently in our premises and thought it fit to hand it over to NFAI. We have requested NFAI to digitise this valuable film.” ‘Will digitise film’ “The initial inspection suggests that the footage is in good condition and we will take efforts to digitise it,” said Mr. Magdum. He added that he has requested the MCCIA to facilitate reaching out to old industrial organisations in the city for securing similar films of historical value.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Feather watch||
11 December 2020||London,||Sunday deadline for Brexit talks||Britain on Thursday said talks to secure a post-Brexit trade deal with the European Union (EU) will not go beyond this weekend unless there is “substantial movement” from Brussels in key areas. Prime Minister Boris Johnson and European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen met in Brussels on Wednesday, and gave themselves until Sunday to decide whether to keep talking. Asked if talks could be extended, Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab told BBC television, “I can’t rule it out but I think we are rapidly approaching the point now where we need some finality ... I think it’s unlikely but I can’t categorically exclude it and of course it depends on the progress made between now and then.” Britain left the EU in January and is in a standstill transition period until December 31 while both sides thrash out the terms of their new trading relationship. But months of negotiations have been stuck on the extent of EU access to U.K. fishing grounds and fair competition rules. Mr. Raab, a former Brexit Minister in the government of Mr. Johnson’s predecessor, Theresa May, said there had not been enough “pragmatism and flexibility on the EU side”. “We’re talking about fisheries, level playing field commitment, the EU’s attempt to lock us into their rules. I think we need to see substantial movement.” He later told BBC radio that Sunday’s deadline was a “moment of finality” and said, “The EU has to move significantly on both those points because they’re points of principle ... We’re not going to be treated in a way that no other country would accept or the EU would not accept.” Britain’s chief negotiator, David Frost, and his EU counterpart Michel Barnier resume talks in Brussels on Thursday in what could be a final push in the years-long Brexit process. Failure to secure a deal by the end of December will see Britain revert to World Trade Organization rules, with tariffs and quotas, from January 1. In Parliament, the opposition Labour party’s Brexit spokeswoman, Rachel Reeves, said the failure to strike agreement had caused “huge dismay”. “How has it come to this? Businesses are desperately trying to plan and need to know what on earth is going on,” she said. Senior minister Penny Mordaunt said the government was working “tirelessly” for a deal. “There is hope of that happening, even though things do appear gloomy,” she said.
11 December 2020||Wilmington,||Biden’s son says he is under investigation for tax affairs||Hunter Biden, the son of U.S. President-elect Joe Biden, and a frequent target of Republican attacks, said on Wednesday that he was under federal investigation about his taxes. The revelation about the probe included no details, but it promises to rekindle the Republican rage about the Biden family, including Hunter Biden’s business dealings and the President-elect’s anti-corruption push in Ukraine when he was the Vice-President.  “I learned yesterday for the first time that the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Delaware advised my legal counsel, also yesterday, that they are investigating my tax affairs,” Mr. Hunter Biden said in a statement released by his father’s presidential transition team. “I take this matter very seriously but I am confident that a professional and objective review of these matters will demonstrate that I handled my affairs legally and appropriately, including with the benefit of professional tax advisors.” Mr. Hunter Biden, 50, is a lawyer who has founded consulting and investment firms, worked in private equity, and served on the board of various organisations, including national railroad corporation Amtrak.    The investigation was disclosed just five days before the Electoral College is expected to formally select Joe Biden as the next President. The New York Times , citing unnamed sources, said the probe was opened in late 2018 and included inquiries into “potential criminal violations” of tax laws.  Some Republican lawmakers this week called for current Attorney General Bill Barr to launch an independent investigation of Mr. Hunter Biden — who has acknowledged struggling with addiction — before Mr. Joe Biden takes office on January 20.
11 December 2020||WASHINGTON,||Morocco to normalise ties with Israel||Morocco has become the fourth Arab nation this year to recognise Israel, U.S. President Donald Trump announced Thursday, as he, in turn, fulfilled a decades-old goal of Morocco by backing its sovereignty in disputed Western Sahara. With barely a month left in his presidency, Mr. Trump, a staunch backer of Israel, tweeted: “Israel and the Kingdom of Morocco have agreed to full diplomatic relations - a massive breakthrough for peace in the Middle East!” The White House said Mr. Trump spoke by telephone with Morocco’s King Mohammed VI, who was quoted as also agreeing to expand economic and cultural cooperation with Israel. ‘Minimal delay’ The U.S. president “recognised Moroccan sovereignty over the entire Western Sahara territory,” where the Algerian-backed Polisario Front contests Rabat’s control, the White House said. King Mohammed VI said his country would “resume official contacts .... and diplomatic relations with minimal delay” with Israel, according to a statement by the royal palace. Morocco and Israel had respectively maintained liaison offices in Tel Aviv and Rabat in the 1990s, before closing them in 2000. The King said these “measures do not in any manner affect Morocco’s ongoing and sustained commitment to the just Palestinian cause”, according to the royal statement. After the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Sudan, Morocco is the fourth Arab State since August to commit to establishing diplomatic relations with the Jewish State. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu anticipated direct flights between the two countries soon. In a televised address, he thanked the Moroccan King “for taking this historic decision to bring a historic peace between us”. Mr. Netanyahu said the people of Israel and Morocco have had a “warm relationship in the modern period”. “I've always believed that this historic day would come,” Mr. Netanyahu said, before lighting a candle for the Jewish Festival of Lights, Hanukkah, which began Thursday.
11 December 2020||COLOMBO,||Riot turns spotlight on Sri Lanka’s jails||The riot in Sri Lanka’s Mahara prison on November 29, in which 11 inmates were killed, has turned the spotlight on the alarming conditions in the country’s prisons, only magnified by the COVID-19 pandemic that has not spared even highly guarded prison cells. Eight of the 11 victims were found to be COVID-19 positive. The prison riot less than a fortnight ago is the starkest reflection yet of the anxiety of inmates as COVID-19 raged through their crowded cells. At least 187 inmates at the Mahara prison had tested positive and other prisoners, who were in no position to maintain physical distancing or access tests at their will, feared for their lives. Officials said dozens of inmates agitated that Sunday evening, taking two prison wardens hostage and destroying property, while some tried to escape. In addition to the 11 who died, over 100 prisoners were injured as guards opened fire. If those within the prison walls caused unrest, as officials told the media later, their families outside panicked with little or no information. Six days after the incident, Thilini* stood on top of the narrow lane leading to the entrance of the prison in Mahara town, a 45-minute drive from Colombo. “I have come every day since the news of the riot, because I want to know if my son is alive, injured or has got COVID. They aren’t telling us anything,” she told The Hindu . So far, officials have not released a full list of names of inmates who died or were injured, in public domain. Families have been contacted privately, they said. “Eight of the 11 bodies have been identified by the families,” police spokesman Ajith Rohana told The Hindu . The troubling development has at once raised many questions about the rights of prisoners, as well as their health and safety. “There is a big spread inside the prison. Let alone maintaining one-metre physical distancing, inmates are often in touching distance inside those crammed cells,” said Sudesh Nandimal, secretary, Committee for Protecting the Rights of Prisoners, an activist network. “From the information we got, COVID positive patients were right beside others. The inmates got restless and some even climbed the roof, demanding attention.” Overcrowding The condition of Sri Lankan prisons has dominated Parliament debates in the past week, although civil society activists have been flagging the problem of overcrowding since March, when Sri Lanka experienced its first wave of COVID-19. Sri Lanka has four prisons for convicts, and 18 remand prisons, in addition to training camps. The prisons currently accommodate over 30,000 prisoners, officials said, which is more than thrice their capacity. In July, the Commissioner General of Prisons, Thushara Upuldeniya, said in a televised interview that prisons “in and around Colombo and other major cities” were operating at nearly “400% capacity”. The problem was clear and well known, but little action followed. Earlier this month, Sri Lanka’s Human Rights Commission urged the government to take immediate steps to address the problem of overcrowding. On Thursday, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa instructed relevant authorities to “look humanely” at grievances of prisoners and address them immediately, a statement from his office said. According to officials, a total of 2,643 prisoners and 94 prison staff are COVID-19 positive as of Thursday. “In a week’s time, about 7,000 prisoners are likely to be released on bail. That will help ease the congestion to an extent,” Mr. Rohana said. Meanwhile, prison authorities said about 500 antigen tests were being done every day, and inmates testing positive are immediately transferred to quarantine centres or hospitals for treatment. Narcotics menace “The recent prison riot is a black mark for this government. That is why you see some in the government spreading false information, claiming that the rioting prisoners were drug users,” said Mr. Nandimal, who has himself been a prisoner from 2007 to 2013, after he was detained under the Prevention of Terrorism Act, for engaging in “illegal activities”. He was also a witness to the infamous 2012 Welikada prison riot in Colombo, in which 27 inmates were shot dead by the police. The reference to narcotics in prisons came not only from politicians. Most families who were outside the Mahara prison said their relative was in prison on charges of “kudu” or drug trafficking, though some emphasised they were “false allegations”. For some time now, prison authorities, too, have been preoccupied with the supply of narcotics inside prison compounds. Following the November incident, the paramilitary Special Task Force has been deployed in Sri Lanka’s prisons for heightened safety, according to Prisons Department Commissioner and spokesman Chandana Ekanayake. “Prisons in several countries are faced with this problem of drugs. We have taken a host of measures here, by jamming telecom signals to prevent communication and increasing surveillance by special search teams to ensure there is no chance of narcotics entering the premises,” he told The Hindu . “We will fully stop it.” Sri Lanka’s narcotics problem is not unrelated to overcrowding in prisons, either. According to DIG Rohana, as many as 18,000 suspects were arrested last year alone, on charges of drug trafficking. Addressing the challenge was among President Rajapaksa’s key poll pledges ahead of his election last November. “Of those, 8,000 are in remand, while 10,000 are out on bail,” Mr. Rohana said. The recent prison riot was a reality check. Amid Sri Lanka’s persisting second wave — cases number over 30,000 — the violent incident showed how the triple challenges of the pandemic, a flourishing narcotics trade and poor prison conditions in Sri Lanka converged, eventually resulting in the death of 11 unarmed inmates.  (Names of family members were changed upon request)
11 December 2020||Brussels,||EU chief publishes contingency plan||EU chief Ursula von der Leyen on Thursday published a back-up plan to protect road and air travel and fishing rights if Britain leaves the union without a trade deal. The U.K. left the European Union on January 31, and at the end of this month, it will leave the bloc's single market and customs union.  “Negotiations are still ongoing. However, given that the end of the transition is very near, there is no guarantee that if and when an agreement is found, it can enter into force on time,” Ms. von der Leyen said. “Our responsibility is to be prepared for all eventualities, including not having a deal in place with the U.K. on January 1, 2021. That is why we are coming forward with these measures today,” she said.   Several EU members, notably France, have been pushing for Ms. von der Leyen’s Commission and her negotiator Michel Barnier to take a tougher line, and to publish the contingency plan to show they are ready for “no deal”. The EU Commission described the plan as “a set of targeted contingency measures ensuring basic reciprocal air and road connectivity between the EU and the U.K., as well as allowing for the possibility of reciprocal fishing access by EU and U.K. vessels to each other's waters.”  The measures would go into effect on January 1. Basic air transport will continue for six months provided the U.K. agrees to reciprocate, as will access for road haulage. The interim fisheries regulation would continue until the end of 2021, but it provides for “continued reciprocal access by EU and U.K. vessels to each other’s waters”. Boris Johnson’s government insists it will assume full sovereignty over its waters on January 1, and Number 10 greeted the publication of the plan with extreme caution. “Once we leave the end of the transition period, we will take back control of our waters,” Mr. Johnson's official spokesman told reporters. On transport issues, Number 10 promised to study the EU proposals, adding: “This kind of statement from the EU is expected. We've obviously set out our own plans in the event of an FTA not being reached.”
11 December 2020||Jalalabad,||Female Afghan TV journalist shot dead||A female Afghan news anchor and activist was shot dead by assailants on Thursday, her employer said, the second journalist killed in a month in Afghanistan. Malalai Maiwand, in her 20s, was killed along with her driver Mohammad Tahir in the eastern city of Jalalabad while they were travelling for work, said Enikass TV , the private television channel she worked for. The journalist, whose activist mother was also killed by unknown gunmen five years ago, had previously spoken out about the difficulties of being a female reporter under Afghanistan’s ultra-conservative patriarchal system. Her death comes as targeted killings of prominent figures become increasingly common amid rising violence, despite ongoing peace talks between the government and the Taliban. No group has claimed the attack.
11 December 2020||Herodium (palestinian territories),||Israel set to open up parts of Herod’s palace||Israeli authorities are set to unveil previously off-limits structures within King Herod’s palace-fortress, Herodium, which the tyrannical Roman-era leader interred as his enormous burial plot. Herodium, a popular tourism destination, is near Bethlehem in the occupied West Bank but falls in an area where Israel exercises military and civilian control. Archaeologists say Herod decided towards the end of his life to bury his palace, using ground from below the hill it was perched upon, until the outline of the structure was no longer visible. Israel’s Nature and Parks Authority plans to open the revamped site on Sunday, allowing visitors to see for the first time Herodium’s arched stairway, foyer and private theatre. The Judean desert complex was built by the Roman-appointed king known both for his brutality and the magnificent structures built during his reign over Judea from 37 to 4 BC.
11 December 2020||Herat,||Herat, Afghanistan, Dec 10, 2020 (AFP) -||Iran and Afghanistan marked the opening of their first shared railway network on Thursday. The train route so far links the Iranian city of Khaf with the Afghan town of Rozanak about 150 kilometres away, but is scheduled to be expanded to reach Herat, the third largest city in Afghanistan.AFP
11 December 2020||BEIJING,||China restricts US official travel to Hong Kong||China is imposing restrictions on travel to Hong Kong by some U.S. officials and others, the Foreign Ministry said on Thursday. U.S. diplomatic passport holders visiting Hong Kong and nearby Macao will temporarily no longer receive visa-free entry privileges, said spokesperson Hua Chunying.AP
11 December 2020||Baku,||Baku, Dec 10, 2020 (AFP) -||Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on a visit to Azerbaijan on Thursday that Baku’s struggle with Armenia was not over, as he hailed his ally’s “glorious victory” in a bloody conflict with Yerevan. He arrived in Baku to attend celebrations marking Azerbaijan’s military triumph over Armenia.AFP
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Are IT project managers facing an existential crisis?||Despite the years of experience and expertise that the middle management layer brings to the Indian IT services industry, it has been facing an existential crisis for a while now. Stories abound of clients preferring senior code writers over project managers, and of tech CEOs aiming the axe at this layer first every time a sizeable lay off is planned. The pandemic has not made it any easier. Have enough project managers made the change to agile methodologies that steer clear of the traditional, and sequential, more rigid ‘waterfall’ approach while working with clients? What does the future hold for them? R. Srikrishna and Srini Srinivasan discuss the question in a conversation moderated by K. Bharat Kumar. Edited excerpts: What is the challenge facing project managers who have chosen the ‘management’ path, leaving behind the technical stream very early in their career? R. Srikrishna: There is no role for a project manager in the currently popular agile methodology. The position that comes closest to the project manager is the scrum master, but the scrum master is typically the best coder in the team. In some cases, the same person can transition to the new role from the old framework. For example, in a data centre, a project manager’s job is to manage a team responsible for keeping the data centre up nearly 100% of the time. If something goes wrong, a manager would typically join his team in troubleshooting and finding the root cause of the problem. Today, technology can help point to a potential problem area more rapidly than in the past. So, the manager must be tech-savvy to be able to use technology in troubleshooting. Across the board the role has evolved. Srini Srinivasan:Middle management responsibilities in traditional software development revolved around shepherding the development process through the stage gates. We are now moving towards agile; the traditional role of the middle management is under threat. It probably has not been done away with, but it is certainly under threat. We have not seen mass job losses in this segment. Have project managers reskilled themselves in technology? RS:Apart from reskilling, there’s a big change needed in terms of a cultural and social shift — some of it has been happening. Historically in our industry, the success of a manager has been measured by how many people work for that project manager. In a social setting, the success of your work was measured by, “I have 100 people work for me, or 1,000 work for me.” Now, success is not merely managing a large team but the ability to handle a complex project with relatively fewer people. At a guess, two-thirds of project managers will make the change on both the technology and cultural fronts; and a third will not. The latter may not become all redundant — they will maybe work in traditional roles with customers where their skills are still valuable. If you exclude the BPO (business process outsourcing) headcount, the IT services industry would have project managers accounting for about 5% of the workforce. In Hexaware, we have about 5% of our workforce as project managers. About 70% of those would have made a successful transition into new-age skills. Not just the methodology, but also technology, becoming clued into cloud-native development. The new roles could act as proxy product owners. The product owner is a customer-side role in agile methodology — on behalf of customers and can help drive progress for the team. The expectation is that the vendor is a partner in that journey, to help clients determine the roadmap. Isn’t that what a technical software architect helped with earlier? RS:For sure, substantial tech skills are needed here as opposed to project or people management skills. What is expected of these profiles is also that it would extend into understanding the business context of the product... help the customer think through what the product must do. SS:Middle managers need to evolve very quickly by reskilling. Agile software development turns the focus on key issues: how will the team meet business objectives; how will they create value-stream delivery; and how will they make innovation happen? The benchmark is no more around time and cost alone. Demonstration of agility is key. Here’s what PMI (Project Management Institute) tells project managers who may be working across different methodologies, be it SAFe, Scrum or Kanban: find a way to mix and match the best of different approaches to create a customised way of working that is best for that customer; don’t be constrained by any one methodology or by the conditions. Clients would appreciate that an IT services team working for them has found a way to add more value, more innovation. It becomes important for middle managers to lead that process. Another developing trend is the move from ‘project’ to ‘product’. It’s been happening for a while, but it is now accelerating thanks to COVID-19. If a client’s focus is time-to-market, this is the theme the project manager has to support. When this mindset shift happens, all team members have to learn how to deliver a product versus a project. In the new model, you budget for business results or value delivery, not on length of time. Key performance indicators are on profit mentality, rather than cost mentality. How is PMI helping project managers remain relevant? SS:Starting January 2021, the Project Management Professional (PMP) certification will have an entirely new curriculum revolving around waterfall, hybrid and agile. It would cover a spectrum of skills. We are going beyond PMP and saying that the need of the hour is to make project managers become more ‘agile’. We have created a whole portfolio of Disciplined Agile certifications for project managers to help meet their professional development needs across stages — entry level, senior scrum master, value-stream consultant, or even a consultant that deals with digital transformation. Then we will support project managers in their switch to managing deep science projects: artificial intelligence, machine learning, automation — we just finished a study with Nasscom to look at what the transition model for a traditional project manager to manage deep science projects should be; how do they bring in the right level of business acumen; skills such as design thinking, collaboration and problem solving, as well as a “fit for purpose” project manager framework… What are the top three key result areas in the new world a project manager should be appraised on? RS:The answer would depend on the area: is it a data centre, cost centre, testing programme? Accordingly, the focus changes. Within software development, the top three things I would call out are: be prepared to code, and code cloud-native. That is an attitude change but also a lot of technology relearning. Second, collaboration and communication challenges get even more amplified in a 100% remote working situation. It’s far more difficult to bring teams together to manage a complex project when everyone is working from home. Even with smaller teams in office, soft skills are crucial. Third, stop assuming clients would tell you what to do. You have to force yourself from a culture and knowledge perspective to challenge the customer across knowledge, domain and business objectives. When building a product for an airline, for example, the expectation is that you will be part-product owner; so, you need to know the business. Culturally, most managers in India are used to saying “yes, sir”. That has to change. For managers who do adapt, how do prospects improve? RS:The boundaries of what constitutes IT services have expanded dramatically. If you think of the kinds of players we have, they include Ernst & Young, KPMG, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Deloitte. They are now almost mainstream IT players, as are consulting firms Boston Consulting Group and McKinsey. The biggest strategy they talk about is digital and mobility; they all have the businesses to not only put out the vision but also execute the vision. So in a sense, if you are a rockstar, the kinds of companies you could go to next have changed. You can work in an IT services firm today but join a McKinsey tomorrow. That wasn’t possible earlier. Opportunities for individuals are far more now versus earlier. SS:One of the trends in tech firms across the globe is that these rockstar managers are becoming the key conduit as consultants; they show subject matter and business expertise as also social skills. We see a huge trend where these managers eventually end up forming the core of an agile project management office within these organisations. What traditional roles can managers who are yet to make the cut fill in tech firms? RS:There are always some roles for people who don’t make the cut into learning new technology. Take the example of PeopleSoft; it is a legacy technology. A vast majority of our PeopleSoft engineers get retrained in other technologies such as Workday or Oracle Fusion or some other cloud technology. Some do not. But we still do plenty of work around PeopleSoft every year. So the demand for legacy technologies will not go to zero overnight. There are other areas – the entire talent management lifecycle and supply chain does not require the highest of new technology skills but does require a lot of old-school management skills. Are people reaching out to PMI for certifications more now than earlier? What kind of demand do you see, and specifically for what kinds of certifications, now versus earlier? SS:The PMP count in India, more than 50% of which is from the IT industry, grew about 9.3% to 43,814 last month, compared with about 40,075 at the end of November 2019. This is a bit faster than the global growth of 7.5% to 1,077,327. In India, 25 organisations have signed up to be Disciplined Agile Training Partners over the past three months. The Disciplined Agile product portfolio was launched in 2020. A couple of things are changing. The reach-out to organisations like PMI is not just from individuals, who have historically been our high-engagement audience. Now, it is also from companies themselves. Both organisations and individuals ask for business agility or enterprise agility. The whole objective of most IT services organisations is to become a business partner to clients, as opposed to being a vendor. The client may not always tell you what to do, because they themselves may not know. You, as a business partner, should be able to articulate the road ahead.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||All is now fair in India’s ailing pedagogic spaces||When someone teaching at a reputed nursery said earlier this year that she was taking online classes, I thought she was joking. She is a Montessori specialist and Montessori methods are mostly incompatible with virtual learning. How could she be asked to go online, I wondered. With the passage of days and months, the question has lost its relevance. The novel coronavirus has turned our ailing pedagogic spaces topsy-turvy. All is now fair and there are no fouls. And in any case, there is no referee. Reconciling the new technological environment with child psychology and educational theory has not been easy. Schools have struggled to cope with the pressure to comply with market forces and thoughtless policies. Though there is no worthwhile evidence that smart classes contribute to intellectual development, both private and government schools have installed ‘smart’ infrastructure at great expense. The ethos has been astonishingly charged up for quite some time now. Given the scale of the market that children offer to the information technology (IT)-related industries, school authorities in the private sector and State officials have been equally under pressure to make decisions on the run. The pandemic and pressures The novel coronavirus pandemic has created its own pressure on the education sector. Response to this pressure reflects poor systemic capacity to adapt to unforeseen situations. Spaces available for deliberation and working out details have always been quite limited, and academic advice has had only a marginal role. These systemic weaknesses only intensified under pandemic conditions. The feeling that there is no alternative to going online erased the need to make stage-wise distinctions and age-specific provisions. Nor was there any scope for assessing the situation in rural schools region-wise. Examination agencies slashed the syllabus and teachers were told to adopt a harder duty routine, combining screen time with messaging and responding. For the vast population of children who had no access to laptops, smartphones were hailed as a substitute. They were distributed in some States on the assumption that they would remain useful for a long time. The usual rush to start the new session left no time to consider the implications of children’s unbounded access to the Internet and their increasing facility with the smartphone. It will soon be a year since the switch over to the new arrangement for engaging children started. Instead of getting wiser, the system appears to have got poorer in its ability to benefit from teachers’ experience and advice. Now and then you hear the anguished voice of middle-class parents, but they too are preoccupied with planning the best possible post-pandemic life for their children. Coaching outfits are now offering a lot more than preparation for entrance tests. Parents have no idea how to judge the competing claims made by private companies that their courses will protect children from learning losses incurred due to school closure. Many online courses are advertised with the claim that they will enhance the intellectual growth of children’. No safety net for children Childhood is now fully exposed to the attractions of the virtual world and there is no one to offer a safety net. Young children’s access to the Internet brings them face to face with self-styled video teachers of every subject, manufacturers of video games, fantasy app makers, and coding instructors. These and many others have successfully penetrated the armour that the family and the school used to provide. From entertainment to education and preparation for jobs, the new claimants of children’s attention have no dearth of wares on display in the humungous mall known as the Internet. Merits of the various items on offer are not easy to estimate. Let us consider the claim that courses on coding will enhance the analytical skills and structural awareness of elementary schoolchildren. Vocabulary of this kind attracts educated parents, but it also reaches out to teachers and the children themselves. Not just companies, drafters of policy documents and advisories of international organisations now use terms such as ‘analytical skills’ and ‘critical inquiry’ as brand signs for the so-called ‘21st century skills’. Deceptive vocabulary These terms evoke older, familiar ideas that had similar names but carried a different meaning. To give just one instance, ‘critical inquiry’ implies the ability to place a problem in a wider context. Analytical skill developed in the course of a contextualised enquiry should be transferable to new problems belonging to different spheres of life, including the social sphere which tends to be complex and prone to constant change. This is why social science teachers face greater difficulties than science teachers do in introducing children to basic concepts. Children whose sense of context is confined to a rectangular screen can hardly be expected to transfer their analytical ability to social or human situations. Educational theory recognises this limitation, but that hardly matters to IT-related industries. In the case of early instruction of coding, the curriculum gives precedence to production by small children so that they develop greater interest in the course. Let a seven-year-old experience the joy of designing an app, say the promoters of coding courses; logic can be taught later. Fascination of precocity For quite some time now, the assumption that schools in the West and countries such as Japan are more tech-savvy has served as a populist guide to school policies in India. The assumption is false, but it is often sustained with the help of baseless or highly exaggerated news. For instance, Japan is said to be replacing printed textbooks with digital ones. Nothing of this kind has happened on any scale in reality. Provision of a hands-on experience and the reading of printed material remained undisturbed in primary schools even under pandemic conditions in European countries, Japan and China. Online teaching was perceived only as a supplement, that too for older children. Stage-wise specificity of appropriateness is seldom given serious consideration in our system. The general logic currently applied is that if digital resources are useful for higher classes, why not induct the youngest age group in online learning? Respect for the natural pace of intellectual maturation and the importance of hands-on experience have enjoyed universal currency. Over the recent years, acceleration of learning, outcome-driven teaching and frequent testing emerged as parts of a new ideology in education. These ideas gel nicely with certain culturally entrenched beliefs in our country. Many parents feel happy to be told that their child is precocious. To see a small child working hard or talking like an adult is seen as a sign of genius. This is not a new belief: its roots can be found in folklore and mythology. The modern schooling system has introduced and propagated a culture of competitiveness. Parents want to see their child moving ahead of others. Children internalise this desire early and teachers encourage it despite what they learn during their training about individual differences in pace and style of learning. Facetious advice The competitive culture entrenched in the social ethos fits in well with the new regime of frequent regular testing and the thriving market of ready-made tests. Online teaching facilitates and encourages frequent testing. The sense of achievement boosted through instantly available results is similar to the pleasure that success in coding or winning in a video game brings. Moral criticism of the video game market has failed to discourage the kinds of material that parents might otherwise find objectionable. Fantasy apps are an example. To be told that some of them foster a gambling mindset may not surprise new age parents who argue that it is best to let the child get prepared for the real world. Similar arguments can be advanced about exposure to manipulative advertisements, violent entertainment and pornography. The argument that children cannot be insulated from such things is facetious. Equally facetious is the advice given to parents that they should make children fully aware of the risks they face. Krishna Kumar is a former Director of the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT)
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The right political moves in Telangana||After the formation of the State of Telangana in 2014, as India’s 29th State, many political leaders and prominent social activists believed that the entry of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was not possible for probably the next two decades or so. In support of this, they often cited the glorious history of Telangana, marked by the Telangana armed struggle of 1946, to the collective and democratic spirit demonstrated during the heyday of the struggle for a separate State of Telangana. Demand for a separate State was around the issues of agrarian distress, imposed social and economic backwardness and about taking pride in popular culture, literature and language without turning chauvinistic against those continuing to reside from Andhra. Change in less than a decade Telangana, even as part of the erstwhile undivided State, had witnessed a prolonged period of communal harmony and took pride in its ‘Ganga-Jamuni Tehzeeb’. Further, Telangana had robust Dalit-Bahujan politics that in the past worked in close proximity to the Left politics, including both parliamentary and extra-parliamentary mobilisations, and, more recently, in kick starting the demand for autonomous Dalit-Bahujan articulations. In fact, Dalits and the Other Backward Classes (OBC) were the backbone of the mobilisation for a separate State through the various Joint Action Committees, popularly called JACs, in the struggle for a separate State that was envisioned to be inclusive and democratic. All these factors produced a robust public culture in Telangana and prompted many to believe that the politics of polarisation that the BJP-Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) combine propagated would be repelled against the very spirit that Telangana represented. However, in less than a decade, the BJP began to make inroads as demonstrated by the party’s growing presence during the general election in 2019 where they won a surprise four Lok Sabha seats, including one in Nizamabad defeating the sitting Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) Member of Parliament and Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s daughter, K. Kavitha. A possible trend This momentum by the BJP seems to be continuing with its win in the recent by-poll in Dubbaka, followed by 48 seats in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections (https://bit.ly/3qLj2vy) from an earlier count of four seats. This may not be an aberration, as All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) leader Asaduddin Owaisi would have us believe but could well indicate an emergent trend leading up to the next Assembly elections. The BJP is putting in extra efforts to maintain the swing in its favour, as it is doing so in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. This is significant for the BJP not only for the State Assembly elections in 2023 but also in compensating for a possible loss of seats in the Hindi heartland in the 2024 general election. Process of demobilisation Today, democratic and progressive voices in the State, while taken by surprise by the sudden surge of the BJP, feel that it is necessary ‘punishment’ for the model of governance put in place by the TRS under Mr. K.C. Rao. He offered a highly centralised model that undermined various social mobilisations that were the force behind the formation of Telangana apart from weakening the Congress — 12 Congress MLAs joined the TRS in 2019. This culture of defection marked a realignment, with many known leaders of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) shifting to the BJP. The vacuum caused by the lack of an effective Opposition that is necessary in democracy is today being filled by the BJP. The State government has filed cases under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act on 78 social activists, including a well-known journalist and Section 123 of the Indian Penal Code (Concealing with intent to facilitate design to wage war) in an earlier strike. In a sense, Mr. Rao began to undermine the very spirit of Telangana that he vouched to represent in the days of the struggle for a separate State. Even basic public protests for issues related to Dalits, Adivasis and the youth were routinely denied permission. There was an active process of demobilisation that was sought to be compensated by welfare and doles to different sections of the society, but what this model of governance did over a period of time was to undermine and denigrate the regional spirit of taking pride in the very identity of Telangana on the one hand and creating a political vacuum on the other. A kind of social movement It is this social and political vacuum that the BJP is beginning to fill. Socially, the youth are among the first sections to have walked across and announced their support for the BJP that projects itself as both ‘anti-establishment’ and an ‘outsider’ to the hegemonic political culture. With the additional but silent role of the RSS, the BJP becomes, by default, not just a political party but also a kind of social movement. Youth, who had earlier rallied for social demands of free and quality education, converting contractual jobs to full time government employment, today see the ideology of ‘Hindutva’ as a correction to the hubris of a Chief Minister finding resonance in the BJP’s pitch against the dynasty rule of Mr. Rao and his family. The BJP’s brand of nationalism becomes an ‘empty signifier’ for a moral correction of all that has gone wrong with the legitimate aspirations in a new State. In more tangible political terms, the BJP is succeeding in stoking latent religious prejudices among caste Hindus and upper middle-class professionals, and the landed agrarian sections of society. It is also being aided by the heightened communal pitch of leaders such as Akbaruddin Owaisi. At the other end of the social ladder, with the decline of the TDP that enjoyed a large support base among the OBCs, much of the OBC social base has now moved to the BJP; the visible faces of political leadership of the BJP today Mr. T. Raja Singh Lodh and Bandi Sanjay Kumar belong to the OBC community. This has further established the credentials of the BJP as a bottom up ‘subaltern’ party close to the ground. This is in turn linked to the muscular mode of the functioning of some of these leaders and caste groups that is now taking the shape and content of aggressive Hindutva politics. Notes for the TRS One has to wait and watch to see whether the TRS does course correction, which would mean allowing space for social mobilisation, bringing back issues of education and employment, opening channels of communication with academics, journalists, government employees and social activists raising the concerns of Dalits and tribals. It would also mean extending an olive branch to the youth, creating more employment and continuing with the various welfare schemes that the TRS had successfully put in place. It would above all require Mr. Rao to eschew hubris and return to representing the spirit of Telangana. Ajay Gudavarthy is Associate Professor, Centre for Political Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Iran’s calculated risk||When the P5+1 nations (China, France, Russia, the U.K. and the U.S., plus Germany) reached an agreement with Iran in 2015 to scuttle the country’s nuclear programme, it was expected that the agreement would lead to a new beginning in West Asia. However, this did not happen. The Iran problem The Barack Obama administration’s calculation was that denying Iran a path to the bomb was in the best interest of everyone, including Iran’s rivals in the region. Washington saw Iran’s nuclear programme, which was at an advanced stage in 2015, as a national security problem and tackled it via diplomacy. But Iran’s regional rivals, mainly Israel and Saudi Arabia, who are also America’s allies, saw the Iran problem differently. For them, Iran’s nuclear programme was not the problem but was part of the larger geopolitical challenges Iran posed. The problem was Iran itself: Tehran’s influence across West Asia, its backing for non-state militias, and its ambition to emerge as a dominant pillar in the region based on the political heft of the Shia community. Mr. Obama’s nuclear deal cut off the path to the bomb, but by lifting sanctions, he allowed Iran to move towards claiming its natural economic and political might. This upset the Israelis and the Saudis. The Donald Trump administration took an entirely different line towards Iran. It pulled the U.S. out of the nuclear deal, despite United Nations certification that Iran was compliant with its terms, and reimposed sanctions on Tehran. In practical terms, Mr. Trump’s approach towards Iran had aligned with that of Israel and Saudi Arabia. The Trump years gave Israel a window of opportunity to step up its covert and overt operations. In 2018, Israeli spies carried out a daring mission at a warehouse inside Iran and stole thousands of documents related to Iran’s nuclear programme. Iranian nuclear scientists came under attacks. In Syria, where Iran has deployed militias backing the government of Bashar al-Assad, Israel continued to bomb Iranian targets. But now, in the twilight months of the Trump administration, President-elect Joe Biden has promised to take the U.S. back to the nuclear deal — with more riders. There is a possibility that Mr. Biden, who was the Vice President of the administration that originally signed the deal, could zero in on the nuclear programme, like Mr. Obama did, and leave the regional issues to the regional players to settle. Israel’s motives It was against this background Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, a top Iranian nuclear physicist, was assassinated on November 27 on the outskirts of Tehran. Israel has been blamed for the attack, an allegation that Tel Aviv has not denied. It is not difficult to see Israel’s motives. It wants to set back Iran’s nuclear programme by taking out a prominent scientist and scuttle the possible revival of the nuclear deal. The attack has put Iran in a spot. If it does not retaliate, it shows that Iran’s deterrence is getting weaker, which could trigger more such attacks from its rivals. If it retaliates, it could escalate the conflict, giving the outgoing Trump administration and a crisis-hit Benjamin Netanyahu government reasons to launch heavier strikes on Iran’s nuclear facilities, closing off the diplomatic path. Iran seems to have opted for the less risky option. Instead of walking into the trap of provocation, its Parliament passed a Bill that obliges the government to enrich uranium to a higher level — from less than 5% now to 20%, which is a technical step away from the weapons-grade level of 90% — and stop access for UN inspectors to the country’s top nuclear facilities in two months if sanctions relief is not given. Within two months, Mr. Biden will be in the White House. So, Iran is taking a calculated risk by enhancing its nuclear programme, which can be reversed if talks are revived. But it is leaving the Israel problem unaddressed, for now. Israel wants Iran to be contained, not just Iran’s nuclear programme. This leaves the region vulnerable to a prolonged crisis. stanly. johny@thehindu.co.in
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Grain and chaff||Both sides unrelenting in their contradictory positions, an agreement between the Narendra Modi government and the agitating farmers on the question of three controversial Farm Bills appears elusive. With the farmers’ organisations calling for a blockade of Delhi’s highways to Jaipur and Agra by December 12, tensions may escalate further. A large number of these farmers from the neighbouring States of the national capital are camping at locations around it for two weeks now. After several rounds of talks, the Centre has now offered a written assurance that government procurement at minimum support price would remain, along with proposals to amend the laws to deal with farmers’ concerns regarding parity between State-run and private mandis , registration of traders, and dispute resolution mechanisms. These assurances are in response to the concerns being raised by the farmers, but they find them inadequate and half-hearted. They have decided to intensify the strike, demanding complete repeal of the controversial laws. The government has ruled out their repeal, setting the stage for a showdown. Farmers, howsoever politically empowered they might be in some parts of the country, are at the mercy of market forces and government policy all the time. The Centre appears willing to brazen it out in the face of stiff opposition from the people most affected by the laws. In this battle of unequals, the government should look at a just settlement, not a political compromise. The underlying premise of the Centre that farmers will be better off in an open market needs to be qualified. No country serious about food security can leave farming and marketing of produce entirely to market forces. Even the most free market countries and the WTO acknowledge this. India’s agriculture marketing and its crop pattern both undoubtedly require reforms. And reforms do trigger resistance. The way forward is not by questioning democracy itself as senior government officials and functionaries of the ruling BJP have been doing. The Centre must be more cognisant of the fact that the farmers and the farm sector are both under its protection, and they cannot be free market actors. Thy do not have enough leverage to protect their own interest in negotiations with big corporations. There is no point in replacing existing distortions in the agriculture sector with reforms that do not inspire confidence among the farmers. As a start, the Centre must go ahead and fulfil all the promises it made to the agitating farmers, rather than use those as a negotiating position. It must legislate the guarantee of MSP and reassure farmers on procurement and subsidies.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||True to its name||With a stroke of a pen, the Drugs Controller General of India has put to rest any doubts and concerns that it would rush to grant emergency use approval to COVID-19 vaccines tested and manufactured in India or elsewhere in the absence of sufficient data. The greatly reassuring decision to seek additional safety and immunogenicity data from the Pune-based Serum Institute of India and Hyderabad’s Bharat Biotech underlines the regulator’s priorities even for emergency use approval rather than an early roll-out of vaccines that have not been sufficiently studied. The decision to seek more evidence would mean a slight delay in locally manufactured vaccines becoming available. But it clearly demonstrates that the committee did not misread the announcement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that a vaccine will be available in the next few weeks as a signal to grant approval in haste. By keeping the approval on hold pending more evidence, the expert committee has done much to generate trust in the regulator’s uncompromising approval process even for emergency use in the midst of the pandemic. However, these manufacturers have unfortunately come out as being in a hurry to seek approval without sufficient data to support their case. Bharat Biotech’s rush to seek approval is of concern as the company had not submitted any data from its phase-3 trial but relied entirely on the interim safety and immunogenicity data of the phase-1 and phase-2 trials; the company had begun phase-3 trials only in mid-November. While Serum had submitted interim safety and efficacy data of the Oxford vaccine from the phase-2/3 clinical trials carried out in India and other countries, the safety data of the Indian trial submitted was only till mid-November. The phase-3 trials by Serum began on September 21, and since the second dose is administered 28 days after the first, the median follow-up after the second dose would have been for just a few weeks, far less than at least two months that the U.S. FDA had stipulated. With the published data of the interim phase-3 trial of the Oxford vaccine raising some concerns, the committee has rightly sought immunogenicity data from the U.K. trial. While the U.K. has approved the mRNA vaccine from the U.S.-based Pfizer, no country including the U.K. has approved the Oxford vaccine manufactured by London-based AstraZeneca. In September, nine global vaccine manufacturers had signed a joint pledge that they would not seek premature approval from regulatory authorities and would test COVID-19 vaccines to the highest standards and keep “the safety of vaccinated individuals our top priority”. So Indian manufacturers should strive to carry out the trials to the highest ethical standards and submit comprehensive data such that emergency use approval is a sure shot. Any further haste shown in seeking approval for emergency use may turn detrimental and the companies may even run the risk of losing public trust.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The short shelf life of a news peg||In news reporting, time is everything. That’s one of the first lessons we pick up as cub reporters in any newsroom. Every newsroom would have colleagues and seniors who have covered big news breaks in the evening, in a matter of hours, adding value to the one line they picked up on a phone call. For print journalists, seeing that intense work acknowledged with a coveted front page byline the next day is the best possible morning high. That’s a story that begins and ends well. Then there are stories that you hear of and try to follow, only to realise you were a tad late to the party. Recent social media posts in Sri Lanka, about an information board at a suburban railway station, created some buzz online. The board, a photograph showed, listed destinations in other districts and corresponding train timings, but the names were in English and Mandarin, not Sinhala or Tamil. The controversy reminded me of earlier instances of some opposing Arabic sign boards in the island’s eastern districts, or Chinese language sign boards at a construction site. The reactions to the social media posts ranged from amusement to anger. Soon, the local media reported that the railway authorities and Sri Lanka’s Official Languages Commission would investigate how the board came up, observing it violated the Constitution according to which Sinhala and Tamil are official languages, while English is a link language.  After the infamous, blatantly discriminatory ‘Sinhala Only’ Act of 1956, it was only in 1987 that even Tamil, spoken by about 25% of the country’s population, acquired an “official language” status. Seen against the historical backdrop of the politics of language in Sri Lanka, the recent controversy around Chinese lettering on a public display board was fascinating. Sri Lanka has one of the highest literacy rates in the region (over 90%) but that pertains to the three languages mentioned in the Constitution. Increasingly though, we do hear of Chinese language classes being offered in the country, including one launched by the Chamber of Commerce in the southern Hambantota district recently. It is not hard to appreciate why someone here or anywhere else might want to learn a new language, but most Sri Lankans are still far from reading display boards in a language other than Sinhala, Tamil or English. That is precisely why this board made news. I was hoping to see where exactly the board was in the station and if it was the only one there. I wanted to check who put it up, when and for whom. However, preoccupied with another story I was following, I put my intrigue on the Mandarin display board on hold for two days before I went to the said railway station in Mount-Lavinia, a southern suburb. The masked guard on duty sounded rather upset that the board, apparently put up five years ago by a popular hotel nearby, to help Chinese workers engaged in construction projects and tourists, was removed because of a “mad man” who posted about it on social media. “Where is it?” I eagerly asked, pulling out my phone to take a picture. “It was here,” he said, pointing to an empty wall. “They removed it just yesterday because of this problem.” I was late by a day. I was also reminded of something that a senior Colombo-based journalist once said jokingly: “Remember, too much verification kills a story.”
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Colleges closed again (From an Editorial)||Nobody will be happy about the closure of colleges, following clashes between students and the police in various parts of Madras. It seems that the students were dissatisfied with the Government's language policy in higher education, though one group of students did not agree with the dissatisfied majority. It is unfortunate that the Government’s policy hardened instead of softening. During the recent debate in the Tamil Nadu Assembly, the Chief Minister had said enough to indicate that the Government had no intention of relaxing its policy which now compels students in the Government colleges to use the Tamil medium. These students have been told that they will be given preference for all types of Government employment. This assurance may have reconciled some of the students to the Tamil medium, but as a survey by our staff reporter shows, the scope for Government employment is really very limited. The Tamil Nadu Government provides jobs for only about two hundred graduates by direct recruitment while the number of Tamil medium students who passed out last March was over 3,700. Another 2,000 students using the Tamil medium will graduate in science in March 1972.
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||ADB narrows India’s FY21 GDP contraction projection to 8%||The Asian Development Bank (ADB) on Thursday upgraded its forecast for the Indian economy, projecting 8% contraction in 2020-21 as compared to 9% estimated earlier, on the back of a faster-than-expected recovery. Observing that the economy had begun to normalise, the Asian Development Outlook (ADO) Supplement said the second quarter contraction at 7.5% was better-than-expected. The economy contracted by 23.9% in the June quarter on account of the impact of the COVID-19s pandemic. “The GDP forecast... is upgraded from 9.0% contraction to 8.0%, with GDP in H2 probably restored to its size a year earlier,” the ADB said. It retained its growth projection for the next fiscal at 8%. Highlighting that India was recovering more rapidly than expected, the ADB said the earlier South Asia forecast of 6.8% contraction was upgraded to (-)6.1% in line with an improved projection for India. South Asia to rebound Growth will return in 2021-22, at 7.2% in South Asia, the Asian lender added. Earlier this month, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das had said the economy was recuperating faster than anticipated and that the growth rate was likely to turn positive in the second half of the current financial year. Inflation, the ADB said, was expected to ease in the coming months, and maintained the 4% projection for 2021-22. Supply chain disruptions had taken food inflation to an average of 9.1% in the first 7 months of 2020-21, pushing headline inflation to 6.9% in the same period, the regional lender said. As a result, the ADB raised India’s inflation projection for the current fiscal to 5.8%, from 4.5%.
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||Production, sales volume may drop in Q4 at auto unit: M&M||Mahindra and Mahindra (M&M) is expecting reduction in production and sales volume at its automotive division and in its wholly owned subsidiary in the last quarter of the current fiscal due to a global supply shortage of microprocessors. M&M said it was engaging closely with its auto components supplier Bosch and assessing likely production loss. “The operations of the company in the automotive sector will be affected by the global supply shortage of microprocessors (semiconductors) used in the electronic control unit, (ECU) which is supplied by Bosch,” M&M said in a regulatory filing. The company said this was estimated to result in a reduction in production and sales volume of the company (automotive division) and Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers (MVML), a wholly-owned subsidiary, in the last quarter of FY21. “The company is engaging closely with Bosch and assessing likely production loss for the last quarter of FY 2020-2021 on account of this supply disruption as also steps to be taken to minimise the impact of the same,” M&M said. However, estimation of exact likely reduction in production/sales volume of the company (automotive division) and MVML for the last quarter is not ascertainable at this stage, the company added.
11 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Majority Tata group conduct ‘prejudicial, oppressive,’ reiterates Mistry’s counsel||The decades-old relationship between the Tata group and minority shareholder Shapoorji Pallonji Group was based on trust, but the management of company affairs by the majority Tata Group was conducted in a manner ‘prejudicial’ and ‘oppressive’ to the members, including Cyrus Pallonji Mistry, who was removed as executive chairman, senior advocate C.A. Sundaram, for Cyrus Investments, told the Supreme Court on Thursday. In his counter arguments before a Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, Mr. Sundaram referred to how the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) judgment on December 18 last year restored Mr. Mistry as the executive chairman while concluding the ‘company’s affairs have been or are being conducted in a manner ‘prejudicial’ and ‘oppressive’ to members, including Mr. Cyrus Pallonji Mistry.’ The senior lawyer said the tribunal had invoked Section 242 of the Companies Act 2013 on the ground that though it was ‘just and equitable’ to issue an order to wind up Tata Sons, such a direction would only further prejudice members. Senior advocate Harish Salve had earlier argued the tribunal did not, in its judgment, specify the reasons for arriving at its conclusion that Tata Sons — the holding firm of the Tata group — was a fit case for winding up. Section 242 allows the tribunal to intervene/regulate the affairs of a company managed in a manner prejudicial or oppressive to its members or public interest or even the company’s own interests. “A company being a profit-making company is not a criteria for deciding whether there is oppression or mismanagement,” Mr. Sundaram submitted. Earlier this year, Mr. Mistry had moved the Supreme Court in a cross-appeal, saying the NCLAT judgment did not secure the interests of Shapoorji Pallonji from prejudicial conduct in the future. The apex court by that time had already stayed the NCLAT verdict on the basis of the appeals filed by Tata Sons and its chairman emeritus, Ratan Tata.
11 December 2020||MUMBAI,||‘India’s containerised trade shrank 8% in Q3’||India’s containerised trade contracted by about 8% in Q3 (July-September), integrated shipping company Maersk said in a report. Container shipments, however, rose 31% from the preceding quarter indicating trade is on a path of recovery, it said. Exports rose 14%, buoyed by rising demand for Indian textiles and apparels especially in the North American markets, and surged 47% quarter-on-quarter (Q-o-Q). Imports, however, contracted 28% from a year earlier. Demand shocks “Owing to staggered supply and demand shocks across geographies, combined with challenging economic indicators in Q2 and Q3, Indian containerised trade has been severely impacted,” Maersk said. “Whereas exports have recovered strongly, imports remain subdued,” it added. “Changing patterns in retail behaviours are reshaping supply chain trends to an extraordinary extent, leading to a growing focus on risk mitigation and resilience-building,” said Steve Felder, Managing Director, Maersk South Asia. Most recent trends indicate an overall recovery of trade will begin in the first half of 2021, Maersk said.
11 December 2020||Chennai,||TVS scions plan ‘family arrangement’||Scions of the TVS family on Thursday agreed to subscribe to the terms of a memorandum of family arrangement with the aim of ensuring that “the ownership of shares in various companies/ businesses should align and synchronise with the management of the respective” group companies, the family’s members said in separate filings to the stock exchanges. Group companies including Sundram Fasteners Ltd., TVS Motor Company Ltd., Sundaram Clayton Ltd., TVS Srichakra Ltd. and TVS Electronics Ltd. announced the decision by the TVS family members to enter into the family arrangement. The listed firms added that the arrangement would not affect the management and functioning of the group companies, in any way.
11 December 2020||Chennai,||Small-town sales less hit in pandemic: Tanishq||Tanishq, the jewellery wing of Titan Industries Ltd., has found its move to open retail stores in tier 2 and tier 3 towns rewarding, compared with expanding in metros, said Vijesh Rajan, who heads the wing’s retail unit. “The impact of Covid on businesses, overall, is slightly lower in tier 2 and tier 3 cities than in metros. The strategy to expand our business in these cities, taken earlier, is paying off very well,” told reporters. He also said that despite the volatile swing in gold prices, consumers continued to invest in gold as it was a safe investment and this trend continued during the pandemic as well. After inaugurating the 100th Tanishq store in the south and the tenth in the city, he said the company’s plans to open more stores in the current year had been tempered due to the pandemic. “We will be opening 5-7 retail stores this year. The expansion is delayed a little bit. The expansion will be spread over 15 months, instead of the planned 12 months,” he said. Mr. Rajan said the company was set to post ‘good results’ in the third quarter due to the festive season, but did not give an outlook for fourth-quarter sales.
11 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 21,000 crore of dues paid to MSMEs: FM||More than Rs. 21,000 crore of dues owed to micro, small and medium enterprises’ (MSMEs) by Central government departments and public sector enterprises have been paid in the past seven months, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said after a review meeting on Thursday. Under the Atmanirbhar Bharat package announced in May this year, the government had said that MSMEs’ dues would be paid in 45 days. Ms. Sitharaman appreciated the work of Ministry of MSMEs, that led to the release of payments, through regular follow-ups with the concerned departments and public sector firms. “The highest level of procurement from MSMEs was achieved in October of over Rs. 5,100 crore and payment of over Rs. 4,100 crore,” the Finance Ministry said in a statement, adding this was expected to be surpassed in November which recorded Rs. 4,700 crore of procurement in the first ten days. A report on the first seven months of the initiative suggested public procurement from MSMEs rose by almost 2.5 times since May while pendency of payments had reduced.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,||L&T arm wins $100 mn deal from oil firm||L&T Technology Services Ltd. (LTTS), an engineering services firm, won a five-year engagement, with a potential value of more than $100 million, from a global oil and gas major, said the company. Under the engagement, LTTS would be the primary engineering partner for the client and support two of its integrated refining and chemical manufacturing facilities in the U.S. It would also provide multi-discipline plant engineering activities, including site sustenance, discipline engineering and control automation support.
11 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Wipro buys automation firm PARI||Wipro Infrastructure Engineering’s Industrial Automation Business signed an agreement to acquire Precision Automation and Robotics India (PARI), an industrial automation company based in Pune. Wipro declined to comment on the size of the deal. PARI reported a revenue of Rs. 500 crore for FY20 while Wipro posted a revenue of Rs. 2,500 crore from the industrial automation business last fiscal. The combined capabilities of Wipro Infrastructure Engineering and PARI would help broaden its offering and expand global footprint, Wipro said in a statement.
11 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Mrs. Bectors Food unveils Rs 540.5 crore IPO||Mrs. Bectors Food Specialties Ltd. has announced an initial public offering (IPO) to raise up to Rs. 540.5 crore. The price band has been fixed between Rs. 286 and Rs. 288 per equity share. The IPO will comprise a fresh issue of Rs. 40.5 crore and an offer-for- sale aggregating up to Rs. 500 crore, which includes Rs. 245 crore by Linus Private Ltd., and Rs. 30.5 crore by GW Confectionary PTE. Ltd. The issue will open on December 15 and close on December 17, 2020.
11 December 2020||Sydney,||Vihari and Kuldeep under the lens||Kuldeep Yadav and Hanuma Vihari will be under scrutiny by the India team management during the day-night First Class game against Australia-A from Friday. The warm-up game for the touring Indians will be the dress rehearsal for the Pink-Ball Test in Adelaide, starting on December 17. The three-day game at the floodlit Sydney Cricket Ground will serve as simulation for the opening Test, but the flat batting track may not exactly be what the Indians need for preparation. Grass cover Adelaide Oval curator Damian Hough, according to Ian Chappell, will leave a 10mm grass cover on the strip. The match, which will be streamed live, may not feature skipper Virat Kohli, who has hinted that he wants to go ahead with his own preparation routine. It could also be a tactical move to ensure the Australians do not get a sneak peek at his long-format preparation. Save Ajinkya Rahane and Cheteshwar Pujara in the first essay and Wriddhiman Saha in the second innings, there wasn’t much to write home about for India in the first game. Also, the question of whether India can afford to go into the Test with five specialist bowlers will be addressed. In case of a conservative approach, the four bowlers will be Jasprit Bumrah, Mohammed Shami, Umesh Yadav and R. Ashwin. Vihari would then be expected to chip in with his part time off-breaks before the second new ball is taken. Navdeep Saini was pretty disappointing in the ODIs, but India’s fastest bowler could get a game looking ahead at the remaining matches of the series. For Australia, Cameron Green will get another chance to impress.
11 December 2020||PARIS,||Benzema’s double propels Real Madrid into the last 16||Karim Benzema sent Real Madrid through to the last 16 of the Champions League on Wednesday alongside its rival Atletico, while Neymar scored a hat-trick as Paris Saint-Germain beat Istanbul Basaksehir in a match that had been delayed for 24 hours over a racism row. Real needed to beat Borussia Monchengladbach to be sure of making it through the group stage of the Champions League for a 24th straight year and Benzema eased the pressure on coach Zinedine Zidane with two fine back-post headers in the first half to secure a 2-0 win. It was a result that suited both teams, with a 0-0 draw between Inter Milan and Shakhtar Donetsk allowing Real to top Group B and Gladbach, former European Cup runner-up, to go through as runner-up. Atletico needed to beat Red Bull Salzburg to qualify as runner-up in Group A behind Bayern Munich, and it did so with Mario Hermoso and Yannick Carrasco scoring in a 2-0 victory. Unbeaten Bayern Reigning champion Bayern completed the group stage unbeaten with a 2-0 win over Lokomotiv Moscow. The other team to clinch qualification on Wednesday was Atalanta, whose 1-0 win away to Ajax, thanks to Luis Muriel, secured second place in Group D behind Liverpool. PSG had wrapped up its qualification for the last 16 on Tuesday thanks to Manchester United’s defeat at RB Leipzig, despite its own game being suspended after an unprecedented walkout over a racist remark. With a new set of officials, the game restarted in the 14th minute on Wednesday and an irresistible Neymar scored a hat-trick while also winning a penalty converted by Kylian Mbappe. The draw for the last 16 is on Monday.  The qualifiers: Group winners: Bayern Munich, Real Madrid, Manchester City, Liverpool, Chelsea, Borussia Dortmund, Juventus, and Paris Saint-Germain.   Runners-up: Atletico Madrid, Borussia Monchengladbach, FC Porto, Atalanta, Sevilla, Lazio, Barcelona, and RB Leipzig.   The results:   Group A: Bayern Munich 2 (Suele 63, Choupo-Moting 80) bt Lokomotiv Moscow 0; Salzburg 0 lost to Atletico Madrid 2 (Hermoso 39, Carrasco 86).   Group B: Inter Milan 0 drew with Shakhtar Donetsk 0; Real Madrid 2 (Benzema 9, 32) bt Borussia Monchengladbach 0.   Group C: Olympiakos 0 lost to Porto 2 (Otavio 10-pen, Uribe 77); Manchester City 3 (Torres 48, Aguero 77, Sterling 90) bt Marseille 0.   Group D: Ajax 0 lost to Atalanta 1 (Muriel 85); Midtjylland 1 (Scholz 62-pen) drew with Liverpool 1 (Salah 1).   Group H: Paris Saint-Germain 5 (Neymar 21, 38, 50, Mbappe 42-pen, 62) bt Istanbul Basaksehir 1 (Topal 57) .
11 December 2020||Rome,||Italian legend Rossi passes away||Paolo Rossi, a hero of Italian football who fired the Azzurri to victory in the 1982 World Cup, has died aged 64. The cause of his death was not revealed but Italian media reported that Rossi had been suffering from “an incurable disease”. Tributes were paid to Pablito , the star who was banned for three years for his part in a betting scandal, but returned to win the World Cup in Spain and the Ballon D'Or the same year. Winning hearts Rossi won the hearts of Italian fans during the summer of 1982, when his goals dragged Enzo Bearzot's Azzurri to a third World title. Italy started the tournament with three uninspiring draws before it came to life and marched to the title. But Italy's sporting icon almost missed out on the tournament. He was caught up in a bribery scandal and banned for three years in 1980, but after continually protesting his innocence was cleared to play after two. He exploded onto the stage of the 1982 tournament with a hat-trick in the 3-2 defeat of Brazil. In the semifinals he scored both goals as Italy beat Poland 2-0, and he hit the opener in the 3-1 win over West Germany in the final. Rossi finished top scorer in the tournament with six goals. He was also a member of the Italy side that finished fourth in Argentina in 1978. Along with Christian Vieri and Roberto Baggio, he holds the Italian record for nine goals scored in the World Cup.
11 December 2020||Hyderabad,||HFC ready to take on Bagan’s might||“ATK Mohun Bagan FC is one of the top teams in the ISL and it is not going to be easy. Apart from quality in the foreign contingent, they have good Indian players. At the same time, we also have our plans,” says Hyderabad FC assistant coach Thangboi Singto. Speaking ahead of Friday’s clash, Singto, who will be in charge in the absence of Manolo Marquez (serving one-game suspension), said: “If we can give our best, focus on our strengths and play our own game, we can come out with a good result.” “I think ATKMB has strong players all around the field. They have Roy Krishna up front and the back three is strong as ever. It is not about specific plans for each player but we have to be aware of their attacking threats from all angles,” he said. With some key players injured, Singto said, this was the best chance for the rest of the squad to step up. “Joel isn’t far away, but he is still unavailable. Aridane is also not available for the next match. The medical team is doing what they can. This is the opportunity for other players to come up and say ‘Hey coach, you can count on me,’” he said.  If we can give our best, focus on our strengths and play our own game, we can come out with a good result Thangboi Singto Asst. coach, HFC
11 December 2020||Mumbai,||Motera gets two Tests, including D/N, & T20Is||International cricket is set to return to India after 11 months, with the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) announcing the itinerary of a full home series against England in February-March next year. Restrictions Considering the need to restrict movement due to the pandemic, the four Tests, five T20Is and three ODIs have been scheduled in just three cities — Chennai, Motera (Ahmedabad) and Pune. The four-match Test series is critical for both teams, considering the revised points system of the World Test Championship, and will be held in two cities. It’s the first instance of venues staging successive Tests in a series on Indian soil. While Chennai will host the first two Tests, starting February 5 and 13, respectively, the sides will then move to Motera for over a month to play the last two Tests and a five-match T20I series. The tour will culminate in Pune, with the last of the three ODIs to be played on March 28.  The Hindu understands that the decision to start the tour in Chennai, which could also host a three-day warm-up game, was made for logistical reasons. England will finish its two-Test series in Sri Lanka in January, and arriving in Chennai in a biosecure bubble will be convenient. Ahmedabad, the home city of BCCI secretary Jay Shah, has received a major chunk of the fixtures, including the pink-ball Test starting February 24. It will be interesting to see whether the pitches play true, given the volume of cricket they will have to support (back-to-back Tests and five T20Is). Moreover, the stadium, which last staged an international tie in 2014, is yet to host even a First Class match after it was refurbished. Despite the apprehension over the pitches, the renovated stadium — with a superior clubhouse in the premises — will offer a very safe biosecure environment to deal with the challenges of hosting sport in pandemic-hit times. Domestic season start It is understood that the truncated domestic season is set to start with the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy on January 7. The announcement of six venues for the league stage has been delayed due to unforeseen circumstances.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||We need the fittest eleven on the park, says Kohli||2020 has been an unusual year because of the pandemic. While it resulted in India’s cricketers being out of action for several months, the return has been even more hectic than the usually busy calendar. Following nearly two months of the IPL, India’s players are in the midst of playing three T20Is, three ODIs and six First-Class games, including four Tests, in the span of just eight weeks. No wonder then that the team management has been treading carefully when it comes to managing its pace-bowling stocks Down Under. While Jasprit Bumrah and Navdeep Saini missed the T20I series after playing three and two ODIs respectively, Mohammed Shami played a T20I and two ODIs. Lot of workload India skipper Virat Kohli spelt out the pacers’ workload management process after the third T20I in Sydney. “It is important to understand that you need guys fresh for the first Test. You need to take some calls with playing so many games. The fact that we have played six games in absolutely no time is something that we all need to address and be wary of,” Kohli said on Tuesday. “You do not want guys starting the Test match feeling sore or feeling like their legs have had too many miles in them.” While veteran pacer Ishant Sharma has been ruled out of the Test series, starting in Adelaide on December 17, Bumrah, Shami and Saini have had a heavy workload in the IPL. Saini also has an injury scare, after complaining of a back spasm ahead of the ODI series. Kohli said that fitness more than skill would be the important factor ahead of the first Test and the team’s focus is on ensuring the first-choice eleven are fully fit. “We have a feeling our game is at a certain level but what is more important is that we are physically fresh. In a five-day game, we cannot afford a niggle or muscle strain. We want our key players to be physically fit. To start the series well, we need to have the fittest eleven on the park.”
11 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Satyasagara’s focus is on a strong defence||Chennai City FC’s (CCFC) new head coach Satyasagara is upbeat about the I-League season set to begin on January 9, 2021, and his focus, he insists, is to strengthen the defence and also be clinical upfront. With that in mind, CCFC has recruited three Serbians and a Singaporean striker (Asian quota). CCFC will take on Gokulam Kerala on Jan. 9 in its first match at the Kalyani Municipal Stadium in West Bengal. “My main focus is to strengthen the defence, and finish in the top 5 in the first round of the league. This time, we have three Serbians: a midfielder (Vladimir Molerovic), striker (Demir Avdic) and centre back (Elvedin Skrijelj). They play aerial balls really well and are physically strong,” Satyasagara told The Hindu here on Thursday. “They will be good in set pieces too and I am looking at that. We also have Iqbal Hussain (winger/striker) who played for the Singapore National team.” Satyasagra, who was with CCFC for the last two years assisting Akbar Nawaz, said the team has retained its core from last season. “I came here with Akbar [Nawaz] in 2018-19. We are keeping the core players from Tamil Nadu from last season such as Charles [Anandraj], Sriram, Vijay Thomas and Vijay Nagappan and goalkeeper Kabir Thaufiq will be our first choice,” he said. Pre-season The 56-year-old Singaporean said the pre-season camp, that had started at Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research in the city, will end on December 25. “We are leaving for Kolkata for the I-League on the 26th,” said the head coach. CCFC owner Rohit Ramesh said: “He [Satyasagara] has been with us for two years now. He knows the culture and the pedigree of our club keeping in mind to promote our local talent. We wish him the best.”
11 December 2020||Chennai,||Chennai fully prepared to host back-to-back Test matches||The Tamil Nadu Cricket Association (TNCA) was fully prepared to host the first two Tests against England, said its secretary R.S. Ramasaamy to The Hindu on Thursday. Ramasaamy said he had learnt that the England team would arrive in Chennai tentatively on January 27. Four days of quarantine “Then they would undergo four days of quarantine in their team hotel before beginning their practice sessions at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium,” he said. The TNCA secretary added the England team was not keen on a tour game before the first Test got underway on February 5 since the side would be landing in Chennai after playing in similar conditions in Sri Lanka. The second India-England Test would be played at Chepauk from Feb. 13-17. “We are all excited about back-to-back Tests in Chennai. Both the England and the India teams would be staying in the same hotel,” he said. Ramasaamy was hopeful spectators would be allowed to watch the Tests. “The third and fourth Tests would be played at Motera where the newly built stadium has a capacity of 1.25 lakh spectators. I am sure, they would not want their inaugural Test in such a huge stadium before empty stands.” The TNCA secretary observed, “I feel, around 50% of the stadium could be allowed for the spectators where we could keep adequate gap for social distancing between the spectators. If not that, at least 25% the stadium could be made available to the fans.” Ramasaamy did not foresee any problems in journalists being allowed to cover the Tests. “The press enclosure in Chepauk is a big one and we could keep enough space between the scribes.” However, he saw problems for photographers in shooting pictures from near the arena since that would put them too close to the players. The lensmen could be given permission to take pictures from the stadium, instead.
11 December 2020||Pune:,||Silver Flames for Evatina Plate||Trainer Altaf Hussain’s ward Silver Flames looks better than his four rivals in the Evatina Plate, the feature event of the Mumbai races to be conducted here on Friday (Dec. 11). Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  KEUKENHOF PLATE (1,200m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66, 2.00 p.m.: 1. Castilian (4) Akshay 61, 2. Artful (8) Ajinkya 60.5, 3. Revelator (1) Sandesh 60.5, 4. Majestic Warrior (3) Kaviraj 59.5, 5. Palomar (2) Parmar 54, 6. Dazzling Star (7) Peter 52.5, 7. Arc Shine (5) Malam 51.5 and 8. Belenus (6) Neeraj 50.  1. REVELATOR,   2. MAJESTIC WARRIOR,   3. ARTFUL   KANTHARA PLATE (1,400m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 2.30: 1. Dumas (2) Zervan 60, 2. Alluring Silver (3) Suraj Narredu 59, 3. Dreams (9) T.S. Jodha 57.5, 4. Tasman (11) Shubham 57.5, 5. Power Of Neath (5) S. Joseph 56, 6. Aspiration (8) Neeraj 55, 7. Baku (1) J. Chinoy 54, 8. Multistarrer (7) Sandesh 54, 9. Spanish City (6) C.S. Jodha 54, 10. Gracida (12) S. Amit 52.5, 11. Speculator (10) Nirmal 52.5 and 12. Adonijah (4) Prasad 52.  1. ALLURING SILVER,   2. DREAMS,   3. DUMAS   P D BOLTON TROPHY (1,000m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86, 3.00: 1. Lady Of Luxury (3) Ajinkya 59, 2. Golden Guest (2) C.S. Jodha 56, 3. Headway (4) Sandesh 56, 4. Mystic Bay (1) Trevor 56, 5. Sharareh (6) Parmar 52.5, 6. Impala (5) Kaviraj 49 and 7. Wild Fire (7) Peter 49.  1. MYSTIC BAY,   2. HEADWAY,   3. GOLDEN GUEST   GIRL FROM IPANEMA PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Maiden, 3-y-o only, 3.30: 1. Anointed (11) T.S. Jodha 56, 2. Chancellor (1) Trevor 56, 3. Posse (10) Zervan 56, 4. Rising Sun (3) Parmar 56, 5. The Bawaji (4) Neeraj 56, 6. Waverunner (8) V. Jodha 56, 7. Bodyline (5) Bhawani 54.5, 8. Curfew (6) Dashrath 54.5, 9. Fairmont (2) Chouhan 54.5, 10. One Wish (7) Sandesh 54.5 and 11. Sparkling Glory (9) Nazil 54.5.  1. CHANCELLOR,   2. ONE WISH,   3. POSSE   EVATINA PLATE (1,200m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward, 4.00: 1. Intense Stylist (1) Kuldeep 63, 2. Gazino (2) Chouhan 59, 3. Silver Flames (4) Trevor 55.5, 4. Frivolous (3) Peter 52 and 5. Excellent Gold (5) Kaviraj 49.  1. SILVER FLAMES,   2. GAZINO   GIRL FROM IPANEMA PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Maiden, 3-y-o only, 4.30: 1. Birkin Blower (2) Zervan 56, 2. Decaprio (4) Peter 56, 3. Enlightened (10) T.S. Jodha 56, 4. Major General (7) Parmar 56, 5. Market King (8) Sandesh 56, 6. Gold Charm (6) Shailesh Shinde 54.5, 7. Gusty Girl (3) Prasad 54.5, 8. Magical Journey (1) Bhawani 54.5, 9. Right To Privacy (9) Neeraj 54.5, 10. Seasons Greetings (11) Chouhan 54.5 and 11. Zenith (5) Zeeshan 54.5.  1. MARKET KING,   2. SEASONS GREETINGS,   3. BIRKIN BLOWER   WILD EAGLE PLATE (1,800m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30, 5.00: 1. Peerless (9) T.S. Jodha 59, 2. Resolute (5) C.S. Jodha 59, 3. Historian (7) Trevor 57.5, 4. Martini (3) Chouhan 57.5, 5. Sehmat (4) A. Gaikwad 57, 6. Genau (10) Neeraj 56, 7. Saddle The Wind (6) A. Prakash 55, 8. Walk The Talk (1) Sandesh 55, 9. Silver Storm (8) Santosh G 53.5, 10. Jack Flash (2) Nazil 51 and 11. Zeemo (11) S. Amit 49.  1. PEERLESS,   2. MARTINI,   3. HISTORIAN  Day’s best: ALLURING SILVER  Double: MYSTIC BAY — MARKET KING
11 December 2020||Manchester,||Manchester City aims for progress||Bernardo Silva believes Manchester City's cruise through the group stage of the Champions League with a record number of points is a sign of how far the club have progressed in Europe, but knows it is in the knockout phase that Pep Guardiola's men will be judged. In four previous seasons under Guardiola, City have failed to make it beyond the quarter-finals despite the hundreds of millions invested by the club's Abu Dhabi owners to win the competition for the first time. Despite Guardiola making a number of changes on Wednesday, a comfortable 3-0 victory over Marseille on saw City top Group C with a club record 16 points. “I hope it’s a mark of how far we've progressed,” said Silva on setting that new record. “We always want to do better than in the last seasons, so we're very pleased with our group campaign. “It’s a good start for us — we know it's not enough but it's a very good start. We're into the last 16 and our goal is to do better than we did in the last three seasons and that's what we will try to do.” With City already guaranteed top spot in the group, Guardiola took the chance to hand a number of his key players a rest ahead of Saturday's trip to Manchester United in the Premier League.
11 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Rossi was my first hero: I.M. Vijayan||There was no television at I.M. Vijayan’s home in Thrissur in 1982. But, that didn’t stop him from watching the World Cup in Spain that year; he would visit his neighbour Valsan’s home, which boasted the only television set in the neighbourhood. The goals Paolo Rossi scored in Italy’s successful campaign at that World Cup are still fresh in Vijayan’s memory. “It is the hat-trick he scored against Brazil (in the 3-2 victory) that first comes to the mind when I think of Rossi,” the former India captain told The Hindu.  Rossi, who died on Thursday at the age of 64, was the first hero for Vijayan, widely regarded as one of the finest Indian footballers of all time. “He was the first great player I noticed; it was only later that I discovered the genius of Maradona,” he said. “Rossi wasn’t quite in the class of the Argentine legend, whom we also lost recently, but he had great finishing skills, something every striker should possess.” Vijayan said he admired Rossi’s ability to convert chances that came his way. “He had that knack to be at the right place to score goals, like Gary Lineker,” he said. “Rossi was indeed an inspiration for me during my school days.”
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||East Bengal manages to earn its first point||A 10-man SC East Bengal secured its first point in this edition of the Indian Super League when it held Jamshedpur FC (JFC) to a goalless draw at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Thursday. Two red cards and a host of bookings highlighted the action which failed to rise above mediocrity. East Bengal was put on the back-foot early on when Eugeneson Lyngdoh received marching orders after collecting his second yellow card in the 25th minute. Harsh decision The decision seemed to be a bit harsh as the player had accidentally touched Jamshedpur’s Brazilian midfielder Alexandre De Lima while going for a clearance. Jamshedpur defender Laldinliana Renthlei met with a similar fate in injury time. Jamshedpur dominated the action and made a few good effective inroads but success eluded it in the striking zone. The first chance came its way in the sixth minute when a nice through-pass from William Lalnunfela released Aniket Jadhav unmarked inside the East Bengal box. But the latter’s shoddy finish saw the ball sail over. JFC striker’s Nerijus Valskis spectacular volley on a Laldinliana cross in the 29th minute missed the target by a whisker, while defender Stephen Eze’s header off a Aitor Monroy corner in the 38th minute came off the cross-piece. Still barren East Bengal put up a better show as compared to its previous three matches but the search for a good striker continues as the Kolkata team stayed at the bottom after finishing its fourth outing without a goal.  The result: SC East Bengal 0 drew with Jamshedpur FC 0 .
11 December 2020||Mumbai,||TNCA chief gets conflict of interest notice||The ethics officer of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has issued notice to Tamil Nadu Cricket Association (TNCA) president Rupa Gurunath and the BCCI in response to a complaint alleging conflict of interest in her role with the State association. To respond by Dec. 24 Rupa has been asked to submit a written response by December 24. The development follows ethics officer Justice (Retd.) D.K. Jain receiving a complaint on November 23, which alleged that Rupa’s association with the TNCA and the parent company of IPL franchise Chennai Super Kings (as a director) is in violation of the BCCI rulebook (clause 39 (2) (b)). In a preliminary order passed on December 8, accessed by The Hindu , Justice Jain noted: “Since a prima facie case is made out in the complaint, let notice be issued to Ms. Rupa Gurunath and the BCCI to file their written response to the complaint, on or before December 24.” The notice issued to Rupa and the BCCI by Justice Jain specifies that a failure to respond by December 24 will result in the ethics officer proceeding “in your absence, without giving any further opportunity of filing a response to the Complaint, to you”. The complaint was filed by Sanjeev Gupta, a former life member of the Madhya Pradesh Cricket Association.
11 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Women’s cricket team to tour UAE||Pathbreakers, a women’s cricket team from Thiruvananthapuram, will undertake a 10-day tour of the UAE in the last week of December and play a series of matches against various cricket academies. The tour is organised by Play True, a player-management company based here, and UAE-based G Force Cricket Academy run by former Saurashtra player Gopal Jaspara.  Opportunities Sonia Anirudhan, CEO of Play True, said the tour is being organised with a vision to provide more opportunities to women cricketers under her company’s girls’ empowerment initiative ‘For Her’. Pathbreakers is comprised of players from Kerala, Karnataka and Meghalaya who are trainees of the city- based Epic Cricket Academy. The Thiruvananthapuram District Collector, Navjot Khosa, unveiled the team jersey on Thursday.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Power of Maya||Countless jivatmas pass through various countless births and it is astonishing to note that though beings are pushed towards the end by the powerful and irresistible Time, even as clouds are by the wind, they fail to understand their predicament. To reinforce this truth in a powerful manner the Lord in His incarnation as Kapila describes an extraordinary situation when the full grown foetus in the mother’s womb is shown to be fully aware of its plight ahead of its entry into the world, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. It prays to God to halt its birth and grant moksha. It is a fervent prayer but the force of Maya that can draw a veil over this awareness is also indicated in this situation. All this jnana is bound to disappear once it is born, as it would easily associate with the world of family, bondage and karma. Maybe it is an imaginary situation, but each one can vibe with the anguish and desperate experience of the foetus. Somewhat similar is the incident in the story of Chitraketu wherein crucial Vedanta truths are reinforced with a sense of practicality. Chitraketu is inconsolable when he loses his son whom he had gained with great penance and the grace of sage Narada. The sages Narada and Angiras console him and also make the dead son appear before him. The spiritual maturity in the words spoken by the son is astonishing. Who is the son and who is the father in this endless cycle of birth, he asks. All the souls are tossed into the world and come into contact or get separated as a matter of course. Should not one try to get out of this cycle by seeking the Lord’s feet? Incidentally, Chitraketu is born as Vritrasura and with the jnana gained intact in this birth he finally attains salvation.
11 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fitness initiative gets star backing||World badminton champion P.V. Sindhu, twice Olympic medal-winning wrestler Sushil Kumar, writer Chetan Bhagat and actor Anil Kapoor are among a host of celebrities to extend support to the newly-launched initiative ‘Fitness ka Dose Aadha Ghanta Roz’. Part of the nationwide Fit India Movement, the campaign has attracted among others, doctors, fitness influencers and several sportspersons of repute. In a tweet, Sindhu stated, “Fitness is a huge part of my life and this is the chance for everyone to come together and unite for this great movement.” Among other sportspersons who took to social media to extend support were Apoorvi Chandela, Gagan Narang, Suresh Raina, Mithali Raj and Hima Das.
11 December 2020||CHENNAI:,||Lakshmanan moves up||P.L. Lakshmanan defeated Aasish Kiren 10-12, 14-16, 11-6, 11-8, 11-6 in the youth boys’ pre-quarterfinals of the Shareplay Tamizhaga Table Tennis Association State championship on Thursday. In the youth girls’ section, Selena Deepthi had an easy outing against Bhavana Selvakumar winning 11-6, 11-2, 11-2.  The results:   Youth boys: (pre-quarterfinals): D. Vishwa (KTTC) bt S. Aditiya (Mdx Chandra) 8-11, 11-6, 11-4, 7-11, 11- 2; J. Srisai (KTTC) bt Navayughan (Theni) 8- 11, 9-11, 11-9, 11-4, 11-6; P.L. Lakshmanan (Jawahar) bt Aasish Kiren (Ellis Mdu) 10-12, 14-16, 11-6, 11-8, 11-6; J. Akshay (KTTC) bt Pradeep Siva (KTTC) 11-5, 11-5, 11-5; V. Malesh Kumar (Jawahar) bt D. Livingston (DBAA) 11-9, 11-6, 11-5; Roopan Santhosh (AKG) bt Jeffrey Richard (Mdu) 11-7, 11-7, 12-10; Abinash Prasannaji (Ellis Mdu) bt Triambak (Jawahar) 6-11, 10-12, 11-8, 11-7, 11-9; Sriram Kannan (Ch. Ach) bt Kavin Mohan (MAK) 11-4, 12-10, 11-6.   Youth girls: V. Kowshika (Jawahar) bt U. Harini (LTTA) 11-3, 11-9, 10-12, 11-8; T.R. Shruthi (Ch. Ach) bt Mariya Ancy (DBAA) 11-8, 4-11, 11-9, 11-9; Shreya Sivakumar (Ch. Ach) bt Gladlyn Florra (Jawahar) 11-7, 15-13, 11-7; S. Hrithika (ITTC) bt Kavya Shree (Jawahar) 8-11, 11-9, 11-9, 11-7; M. Nithya Shree (Ch. Ach) bt R.H. Mridhula (Jawahar) 11-7, 11-9, 11-5; Swetha Steffi (ITTC) bt V. Vaishnavi (Jawahar) 11-9, 11-4, 11-6; M. Yazhini (Jawahar) bt V.S. Sathvika (KGI) 19-17, 5-11, 11-6, 11-5; Selena Deepthi (Jawahar) bt Bhavana Selvakumar (MAK) 11-6, 11-2, 11-2 .
11 December 2020||Adelaide,||Smith may be back as skipper||Former Australia captain Steve Smith on Thursday revealed that there have been discussions about him returning to the top job again, almost three years after he had to step down owing to his role in the ball-tampering scandal.
11 December 2020||Mumbai,||Parthiv Patel joins MI as talent scout||A day after he retired from all forms of cricket, Parthiv Patel was unveiled as a Talent Scout for Mumbai Indians, the most successful Indian Premier League franchise. The former India wicketkeeper-batsman was part of two of MI’s five IPL titles during his three-year stint with the franchise from 2015 to 2017. He thus joins a high-profile battery of talent scouts for the franchise, who have unearthed exceptional talent in Indian domestic cricket over the years. “I had enjoyed my cricket playing for Mumbai Indians. It’s time now to turn a new chapter in my life,” Parthiv said in a statement released by MI.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 07:51 IST,||Sudoku - December 11, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||2020 wrapped, on a winning note||This festive season, wheelchair basketball athletes have one more reason to celebrate — the recently concluded national tournament, held online, for the very first time. The Virtually Unstoppable Series Challenge, conducted by the Wheelchair Basketball Federation of India (WBFI) comprised events in four categories: art, quiz, fitness, and sports skills. Preliminary rounds were conducted online across five zones: North, East, West, South and Northeast. With over 185 entries, the competition was keenly contested. The category that invited the most varied and interesting submissions was artistic expression. Bengaluru-based Arun Lakshmi Sriram, a chartered accountant, who moonlights as a stand up-comic, judged the event. “We were looking at art from the heart, where athletes could express themselves in an informal video, which is easier than performances on stage,” says Arun. A five-member team across the West zone clinched that prize with entries across music, art, and jewellery making. The quiz was a mixed bag of technical questions from the world of wheelchair basketball and general sport-related minutiae, while fitness and sports skills categories required specific challenges to be performed, while on a wheelchair. South Zone outperformed the other teams at sports skills and the final quiz event, while the North Zone bagged the fitness gold. South Zone took home cash prizes of Rs. 25,000 for the Overall Championship, followed by Rs. 20,000 for the runners-up, West Zone and North Zone in third place won Rs. 15,000. Founder-president of the WBFI, P. Madhavi Latha was thrilled with the outcome of the event. She says, “Teams from all the zones won prizes at the national challenge. We saw tremendous improvement in players in the Northeast Zone in the online quiz category. In fact, they went from the bottom of the scoreboard to the top three. Our players from Jammu and Kashmir, in the North Zone, despite their sketchy 2G connection, participated in the final quiz event, which was via a live streaming link. I think engaging players through virtual challenges helped them augment their knowledge about the use of multiple digital platforms.” The grand finale quiz event, on November 29, was hosted by Sumanth C. Raman, who holds the distinction of presenting the BSNL Sports Quiz on Doordarshan ’s Podhigai TV channel, India’s longest running quiz programme with over 800 episodes. Hari Prabhu Nammalvar, from Coimbatore, says, “The final was poised like a nail-biting cricket match, and it was such an honour to be in the same frame as Mr. Raman, someone I have admired on TV, for so long. This was my first WBFI event, and despite being virtual, it really helped me understand the technical nuances of the game, since we were coached by national and international mentors. I can’t wait to see the players in person, now that we have struck up a friendship online.” The event that commenced early September, connected players spread across State lines, and the WBFI also reached out to families facing financial difficulties, sponsoring care kits across the country. Mike Frogley, National Academy Director, Wheelchair Basketball Canada, was all praise for the virtual outreach. “I cannot tell you how impressed I am that you have looked for ways to support people in the WBFI family in these difficult times. I have not heard of any other federation helping their members with funding for people who are going through economic hardship. That sends a message that I always tell our athletes, ‘Take care of the team and the team will take care of you’. It is about just refusing to let something fall short, and the sheer force of will, to get something new going.” Wheelchair basketball athletes are currently fanned out across the nation, practising at gymnasiums and homes, as sports facilities slowly limp back to normalcy. The players are looking forward to practising as a team, as soon as the cloud of the pandemic lifts, and it is safe to play in the same court.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandemic-shaped||“Have you heard of T-shirts made of khadi ?” asks Mukesh Lutade. The director of Magan Khadi (Magan Sangrahalaya Samiti), a Wardha-based organisation, believes that khadi , the fabric associated with the country’s Freedom Movement, has morphed from its political straitjacket to don a casual, cool look due to the pandemic. He attributes this innovative twist of the handspun fabric to the current health crisis and its direct impact on the lives of artisans. Had it not been for the emergency that befell them, they would not have ideated on their feet, he says. The pandemic, interestingly, has become a trigger for artisan organisations to reinvent in ways they had never done before. “You cannot stop spinners and weavers from work even for a day, because it means no food for them,” says Mukesh. When the shutters came down on their unit, they were stuck with unwoven yarn worth Rs. 1.25 crore. The organisation immediately brought out a Pay Now Buy Later scheme, and issued ‘buy now’ vouchers. It fetched them Rs. 3.5 lakh to tide over the crisis. They tied up with Kochi-based designer Ashima Bhan to convert their dead stock into a children’s collection in khadi to be out in January 2021. This maiden children’s line is a fallout of the crisis. Though upcycling has been a byword for Hyderabad-based designer Aisha Rao, the disruption this time led her to use, for the first time, sock waste to create a faux velvet look on her lehengas. “The pandemic makes upcycling the need of the hour. We do appliqués and patchwork with leftover cloth and upcycle it,” says Aisha, explaining that bias cut for lehengas leaves ample leftover material that she uses for patchwork. Her collection of lehengas is playful, modern, sustainable, and made from “the sock’s elastic band, to be precise.” She explains: “Sock waste comes in different colours and looks like kids’ rubber bands. The bands are cut into fine bits and placed together with embroidery, and it looks like velvet.” In her first experiment during the pandemic, she made 17 lehengas and some menswear “to see if our customers liked our ideology.” She adds, “We want to make waste cool.” Concurring with her views is Mallika Reddy of another Hyderabad-based company, Cancelled Plans. She speaks about her street wear being completely made from “pre-cycled” products. “We collect industrial waste before it is trashed,” says Mallika, explaining that they have made jackets with condom waste and bags from pharmaceutical packaging material. Her latest collection — Jayanti Reddy Ex Cancelled Plans — uses zardosi waste from designer Jayanthi Reddy’s sweatshirt unit. “The collection is a little bit party, a little bit stay-at-home,” says Mallika, leveraging the uncanny connect of her label’s name with the pandemic that has led to cancellation of plans across the globe. “When I founded the company in September 2019, it was about the idea of cancelling waste that goes into landfills and oceans and making a new plan with that,” explains Mallika. Meanwhile, artiste Sudhir Rajbhar’s latest collection of recycled rubber bags, ‘Mandi’, is “a conversation about surviving the times”. Working with three artisans from their homes in a Mumbai slum and collaborating with designer Camille Bastien in Paris, he has used a recycled material he created from leather after the beef ban displaced leather artisans out of jobs. “These nomadic studios are the new mode of working for us designers; collaborating, thus, is the result of the pandemic,” he says. Delhi-based fashion designer Sonam Dubal created jewellery from leftover fabrics. “One of the important tasks during the pandemic was to find markets for artisans. Necklaces and earrings with handmade fabric beads was an innovation of these times,” says Sonam. Rallying force High fashion, too, was racked by unprecedented disruption during lockdown. Artisans migrated en masse and studios were left with huge quantities of dead stock. A majority of designers responded by upcycling their inventory, engaging artisans who had lost jobs. Many added embellishments that require more handwork, for the sake of generating more employment. “I am not a designer without my artisans. I wanted to do things that would generate a life for another,” says Sonam. The designer engaged the widows of Vrindavan to create his latest Christmas collection ‘Gift That Gives’. The 25 women stitched vintage Ikat panels with merino wool for an international market, for the first time. “The coronavirus period has taught me three things: collaboration, communication and compassion,” says Sonam, adding that he reached out to his team of workers with a stipulated amount of monetary assistance during the lockdown. He also took to hard marketing through social media to get orders. “I asked my clients to not look at the product as personal but as something that will help another in these times,” says Sonam, explaining that many in his industry rallied in this manner. Rahul Mishra’s first collection during the pandemic called Butterfly People, showcased at the Paris Haute Couture Week (online) in July, was created with the aim of employing all his craftsmen. He concludes, “We are a big family — tailors, embroiderers, designers... We have been fortunate to be able to stand by them through this storm and are committed to continue doing so.”
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The silver bottle Fantastical encounters||The story so far: Aniket and Fortune, travelling on a boat steered by Omen, arrive at Lady Laura Lucklina’s golden castle on Destiny Island. In the garden, they meet her pets: the sweet fish, Patience, and the wild scorpion, Anger.  A gnome stood outside the main gate of the castle. Dressed in blue dungarees, he held a long black spear in his right hand. As Aniket and the imp came near, the gnome saluted smartly. All of a sudden, 11 similar-looking gnomes, all holding small black spears, appeared beside him; all with the same shiny skin, pointed long nose, curly black hair and thin scarecrow-like body. All of them smiled, revealing their teeth: molars in front and incisors at the back. These quaint and charming creatures heard through their nostrils and smelt through their ears. Laura Lucklina’s castle had one large gate and eleven smaller gates, each guarded by a gnome. As the 12 gnomes saluted smartly, the huge golden gate opened, as if by magic, allowing Aniket and Fortune entry into Laura Lucklina’s castle. Exotic pets In the exotic garden, they saw Laura Lucklina’s other pets: Mercy the goat, Snob the lion, Timidity the hen, Tell-Tale the rat, and Toughie the ram. Accidentally, Aniket stepped on the grass Mercy had collected for her supper. Before he could apologise, Mercy said in her squeaky voice, “It’s okay. There is no need to feel bad. I’ve forgiven you. You didn’t do it on purpose.” “Thank you, Mercy, for being so understanding,” Aniket petted the goat. Seeing the lion, they stood a little distance away. The haughty lion looked away, as though he hadn’t seen them or heard their greeting. “Arrogant creature,” Aniket muttered. Seeing the visitors, Timidity scuttled to the back of the castle; the shy creature hid from all the visitors. The brown rat lived up to his name — Tell-Tale was a gossiper and spun tall tales. “Look who has come,” he announced. “Two thieves have entered the castle grounds.” “Stop it, Tell-Tale,” Fortune scolded. “You know we aren’t here to steal anything.” In the centre of the garden was a silver fountain, surrounded by small statues of fairies; its clear water gurgling like a happy child. “This is the Fountain of Youth. Laura Lucklina takes a daily dip in the sparkling fountain to preserve her youthful looks and beauty,” Fortune explained. As they walked towards the main door of the castle, Aniket saw a pair of scales hung over the carved oak door. “Why the scales?” “Only when the scales tilt are visitors allowed entry into the castle. For some people, the scales don’t move even in strong winds. These disappointed visitors return without meeting Laura Lucklina. Ultimately, it all depends on your luck,” Fortune said philosophically. The scales stood steady. A few minutes passed and then a few more. It was as though their patience was being tested. Aniket’s agitation slowly increased. He had come so far; would he return home disappointed? He didn’t like the idea of leaving the island without meeting Laura Lucklina. Seeing his face, Fortune pursed his lips and his forehead creased in a frown. The imp looked left, then right, as though searching for someone or something. Then he moved closer to the door and sighed heavily, as though he was tired. Slowly, the scales moved; then one side tilted down. The door burst open, as though by magic. Grinning widely, Fortune high-fived Aniket. “Nothing is impossible, buddy,” he said. The moment they entered the castle, they felt a strange presence, though they couldn’t see anything. “It’s Omen again,” Fortune whispered. They followed Omen’s footsteps to Laura Lucklina’s parlour. Seating them, Omen disappeared. Not that he had ever appeared in the first place, but they knew he had gone away, becacuse the sounds stopped and they couldn’t sense his strange presence. Lucklina’s retinue The parlour was a large and spick-and-span room, painted a creamy white, with antique furniture and beautiful paintings. Four elegant ladies sat on single-seater sofas. Aniket and Fortune sat close together on a sofa. “That lady in the green dress,” the imp gestured with his eyes, “is Miss Stitch, Laura Lucklina’s dress designer.” Beside her were stacked yarns and reams of fabric in varying shades. On Miss Stitch’s lap were books with the latest designs of gowns. “Miss Stitch has come to take Laura Lucklina’s approval before she starts designing her clothes,” Fortune explained. “The lady in pink is Miss Salt ‘n’ Sugar; she is Laura Lucklina’s dietician,” Fortune grinned. Opening her diary, Miss Salt ‘n’ Sugar took out her pocket calculator and busied herself with calculations. “She decides what Laura Lucklina eats, the time at which she eats and even the quantity of food she consumes,” Fortune smiled. “And Miss Cream ‘n’ Powder, the gorgeous lady in purple clothes, is Laura Lucklina’s beautician. The lady she is chatting with is Miss SnipSnap, Laura Lucklina’s hair-stylist. Miss SnipSnap has come to take Laura Lucklina’s final approval for the hair styles,” Fortune said. Aniket stared at Miss SnipSnap. Dressed in orange clothes, her multi-coloured wavy hair was like a rainbow of curls, rippling every time she moved her head.  To be continued...   Grinning widely, Fortune high-fived Aniket. “Nothing is impossible buddy,” he said.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Feline capers||Teachers’ Day was over, but Mrs. Katson had a surprise for her students. “I have a treat for you,” she announced, entering the classroom with a big basket tied with a red satin bow. Mrs. Katson (‘Kat’, as she was known behind her back) placed it carefully on her table. As her students waited in eager expectation of goodies, she took out a big fat cat and placed it before them. “Meet Cleopatra — Cleo for short. Isn’t she beautiful? I knew you’d be delighted to see her. Better still, you can touch her.” Taking the uneasy silence for enthusiastic assent, the teacher urged the children forward, “Cleo will permit you to pat her.” Cleopatra stared coldly at the children, as they moved hesitantly towards her. What Cleo does “Does she scratch?” asked Nisha nervously, wondering if she could escape to the sick room. No need to invent an ailment; she could feel her blood pressure mounting. “Rarely,” replied Mrs. Katson, gazing fondly at Cleo. “She prefers to bite.” “Is Cleopatra Egyptian?” asked Rajesh politely. “Only her name,” said Mrs. Katson. “Notice her cream-coloured fur and blue eyes. Cleo is Siamese; originally from Siam — now, Thailand.” “I didn’t see any...er...Cleos when I was there,” said Veena, wishing she were in Bangkok rather than Bengaluru. “So sorry you missed out, dear,” said Mrs. Katson kindly. “You may have the pleasure of feeding Cleo a tasty sandwich. Cleo loves tuna, and she will nibble your fingers in gratitude.” Veena turned pale. “I’m afraid...” “Of hurting her? Don’t worry, just be gentle,” said Mrs. Katson reassuringly. “Cleo, open your mouth, darling...” Mrs. Katson broke off abruptly, as Cleopatra suddenly leapt off the table and charged across the room. “STOP!” yelled Mrs. Katson, pursuing her pet in undignified haste. “If Cleo hadn’t made that timely exit, Veena might have lost a hand,” said Ashok, when Mrs. Katson was out of hearing. “I wonder why the cat behaved so strangely.” “I sent my small clockwork car scuttling along the floor,” confessed Rajesh, retrieving it from beneath a chair. Shyla, the English expert, summed it up: “A fake mouse at play keeps Kat’s pet away!”  “Does she scratch?” asked Nisha nervously, wondering if she could escape.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Glorious peaks||10 Mountains are found on other planets as well! Mars has one of the tallest peaks in our solar system, called Olympus Mons.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The secret lives of parents||Have you seen the animated movie The Secret Life of Pets ? The one where all these dogs and cats basically have a double life the second their owners are out of the house every morning? It’s like Toy Story but with animals. Well, it’s December, and I think I’m ready to make The Secret Life of Parents . But, unlike the other two movies, I didn’t have to be out of the house to stumble upon my parents’ double life. I was at home the entire time, thanks to the pandemic. You know how we used to leave for school every morning and come back thinking that our parents were hard at work, being normal, serious, boring parents? Have you realised that it’s TOTALLY not like that? That every second of every day, our parents are doing ALL the things they’re telling us not to do? Everything they do Like, screen time. How often have you heard your parents say you’re addicted to the screen? These past eight months have made me realise that my parents are way more addicted to their phones than I am to my PS4. They say they’re reading about the Oxford Vaccine and the Farmer’s Protest but, last week, I saw my mother watching The Crown . WHILE SHE WAS ON A ZOOM CALL! That brings me to the next secret. For all their yelling when we watch Minecraft Inspo videos on YouTube, they’re no better. My parents are always WhatsApping, emailing, Instagramming and online grocery shopping during their work calls. I really want to write to their bosses and tell them what my folks are up to, but I’m pretty sure they’re doing the exact same thing. I also discovered that parents are big snack monsters. That Nutella jar that got over in two days? The last JimJam biscuit in the packet? The ice cream you were saving for the weekend that your parents insist you sleep ate? YOUR PARENTS! After all that lecturing about eating fruits and healthy snacks, your parents love junk as much as you do. Also, my parents keep lecturing me about making every minute of every day count! They even got me a ‘Seize the Moment’ t-shirt for Deepavali. But they nap a lot! They say it’s because they’re old and need more rest than young people do, but I find that hard to believe. The other day, my mother napped for an hour after a ‘strenuous’ yoga class, which was five minutes of yoga and 55 minutes of shavasana . I’m fixing secret cameras in the house this weekends and totally exposing their scam. Parents aren’t responsible mature adults. They’re basically overgrown kids with credit cards, a driver’s licence and the right to make you bend to their will. I can’t wait to be a grown up.  I saw my mother watchingThe Crown. WHILE SHE WAS ON A ZOOM CALL!
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Stargazers’ delight||December13 & 14: .The king of meteor showers, it is known to produce up to 120 multi-coloured meteors per hour at its peak. Caused by the debris left behind by an asteroid in 1982, the shower runs annually from December 7-17. This year, it peaks on the night of December 13 and the wee hours of December 14. The skies will be dark giving you the best view.  December14:New Moon. The Moon will be located on the same side of the Earth and will not be visible in the night sky. This is the best time to observe faint objects such as galaxies and star clusters as there will be no moonlight to interfere.  December 14: Total Solar Eclipse. A total solar eclipse occurs when the Moon completely blocks the Sun, revealing the Sun's beautiful outer atmosphere known as the corona. This phenomenon will be visible in parts of southern Chile and southern Argentina. A partial eclipse will be visible in most parts of southern South America, the southeastern Pacific Ocean and the southern Atlantic Ocean.  December 21:December Solstice. The Earth’s South Pole will be tilted toward the Sun and be directly over the Tropic of Capricorn at 23.44° South latitude. This is the first day of winter (Winter Solstice) in the Northern Hemisphere and the first day of summer (Summer Solstice) in the Southern Hemisphere.  December 21:Rare Conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn. A conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn will take place on the evening of December 21. Known as the great conjunction, it last occurred in 2000. The two bright planets will be so close that they will appear to make a bright double planet.  December 21, 22:Ursids Meteor Shower. A minor meteor shower, producing about 5-10 meteors per hour, it is caused by dust grains left behind by Comet Tuttle discovered in 1790. The shower runs from December 17-25. This year, it peaks on December 21 night and the morning of December 22.  December 30:Full Moon. The Moon will be located on the opposite side of the Earth and will be illuminated. This full moon was known to early Native American tribes as the Cold Moon because this is the time of year when the cold winter air settles in and the nights become long and dark. It is also been called the Long Nights Moon and the Moon Before Yule.  A total solar eclipse occurs when the moon completely blocks the Sun.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Want to climb the Vessel?||I stood staring at the shiny structure that the whole of New York seemed to know about and had turned out to watch, appreciate and mostly to take a selfie. I had been in the American city for a short weekend in March 2019 and had no idea that this major new landmark had been recently inaugurated. Awkwardly called the ‘Vessel’, this was supposed to be an interactive public sculpture that offers the public a 1.61 km (one mile) vertical climbing experience and, of course, views! It rises from a more or less circular base 50 feet in diameter. A climber can clock 2,500 steps via 154 interconnecting flights and 80 landings. It is designed by the British Heatherwick Studio that beat celebrated sculptor artist Anish Kapoor, among others, to win the commission. The Vessel is constructed of a structural steel frame covered by a shiny polished copper-coloured cladding. It was fabricated at an Italian facility and arrived in New York in six shipments that travelled for 15 days at sea followed by a five-hour barge trip upstream the Hudson River. Secret design Built at a cost of $150 Million (about Rs. 1000 crore), the developer Stephan Ross — who owns perhaps this most expensive piece of land not only in New York but also in the world — went to extreme lengths to keep the design a secret. However, as the structure began to be assembled on the site, word spread and was followed by outrage, with citizens questioning the purpose of the structure and the design. Some called it a beehive, others called it a doner kebab... I thought the most appropriate was ‘a rib cage!’. However, for now, the name ‘Vessel’ seems to have stuck. Reading up on the inspiration for this crazy sculpture, I found that the designer had been inspired by the Indian step well and exercise! It must have been a lot of exercise to climb down into the step well and then up with pots of water. At the Vessel, however, with the same amount of exercise all one can fetch is a selfie.  A climber can clock 2,500 steps via 154 interconnecting flights and 80 landings.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Rollercoaster ride of emotions||Movie: The Emoji Movie (2017)  Genre: Adventure/ fantasy/ animation Inside teenager Alex’s phone is a digital city called Textopolis, where several emojis live. One of them is Gene, who can make multiple expressions. Alex receives a text from his crush, Addie, and decides to reply with an emoji and picks Gene. But Gene malfunctions and wrecks the text centre. Smiler, a smiley emoji and the leader of the text centre, concludes that malfunctioning Gene has to be deleted. But Gene escapes, and Smiler sends bots after him. Gene is rescued by Hi-5, a formerly popular emoji, who offers to help find a hacker to fix him. They come across Jailbreak, a hacker emoji, who is on her way to the Cloud to find freedom. The trio embark on an adventure, escaping into the various apps on Alex’s phone, and almost getting caught several times. In the meantime, Alex takes his phone to a store to give it a factory reset. This would mean a complete destruction of Gene’s world. Will Gene be able to stop Alex from resetting the phone? Does Jailbreak escape into the Cloud? Trivia: The idea for the movie was born when director Tony Leondis, a huge fan of Toy Story , received a text message with an emoji, as he was hunting for a new ‘toy’ to base his movie on. When Saudi Arabia lifted a 35-year ban on movie theatres on January 13, 2018, this was the first movie to be publicly shown there. The movie was was screened alongside Puppy!: A Hotel Transylvania Short in the theatres.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||What’s cooking?||Across  1. Seasoning (6) 4. To turn over and cook on other side (4) 7. A dip made with melted cheese (6) 8. Roast in oil (mustard seeds, for example) (6) 9. A beverage (3) 10. You can make an omelette with this (3) 11. Uncooked (3) 14. Appliance that can make fine powder (7) 16. Usually baked on birthdays (4) 17. You can brown bread in this (7) 18. What you do after cooking (3)  Down  1. Large plate of assorted food (7) 2. Mashed fruit (4) 3. To put in cold storage (11) 5. Long handled spoon (5) 6. To remove the skin (4) 9. To water down (4) 12. Chinese cooking pan (3) 13. Cook in hot oil (3) 15. To eat dinner (4) 16. Use a knife to do this (3)
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||How do night vision cameras work?  Have you heard of infrared (IR) light? This is all around us but we can’t see it with our naked eyes. A night vision camera uses the invisible-to-human-eye IR light to see in the dark. A set of LED bulbs situated around the lens emit IR light either at night or when the camera is in night mode. This allows one to see whatever is available in the camera’s field of vision. Infrared light interferes with colour images, so night vision cameras have a filter to block the IR light during the day. Depending on the level of the light, the filter will either allow IR light or block it. This allows you to get colour images during the day and B&W images at night.  How doesgravity work?   An apple falling on his head while sitting under a tree led Sir Isaac Newton to discover gravity. Nice story, isn’t it? Gravity is the invisible force that pulls two objects towards each other. So if you toss a ball into the air, it falls back to the ground. No matter how high you jump, you still come down. That is due to gravity, which keeps the planets rotating around the sun and the moon rotating around the Earth. An object that has more mass has more gravity. Earth’s mass has a combined gravitational pull on your body’s mass. That’s what gives you your weight. Gravitational pull can also work on light. Black holes have so much mass in such a small space that even light cannot escape.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The last twirl||“My dance is a confluence of cultures, though rooted in the dynamics of India’s Kathakali and Kathak. I have combed the world cultures for material and mated them with indigenous traditions to create a unique impact on the senses.” — Astad Deboo, in Contemporary Dance in India , by Ketu Katrak My phone registered a missed call from Astad’s number on November 27 at 12.13 pm. It was followed immediately by a terse text: ‘Please call. Urgent’. At 12. 21, another missed call. This was unlike Astad. He would normally brighten up our dull WhatsApp screens with his astonishing photographs, taken in the most exotic places. The sweep of his flowing dress slicing the air on The Great Wall of China, smiling from The Bean in Chicago, his silhouette shimmering against a lake in Sweden, each image was of a life lived to the fullest. I returned his call. His voice was sombre. ‘I have Stage 4 cancer. But I am staying positive. Am going into the hospital with the best care.’ I was silent throughout the call, unable to speak. But in my mind I knew Astad would dance and find a way through the most dire challenge. After all, this was the imprint of his life — to leapfrog over roadblocks and twirl across continents, to almost stop time with his Zen-like stillness. Astad with the flourish of his signature floor-kissing angarkhas, his dazzling diva-like strut, and his slightly lifted shoulders, always ready to emote. He remained connected with his close friends through the WhatsApp group that he had created. We kept sending our prayers and warm wishes. His sister Gulshan kept us updated about his health until the dreaded three words, ‘He is gone’, appeared on our phone screens at 1.01 a.m. on December 10. Astad’s contemporaries across disciplines and beyond dance were enriched by his mind and heart. He took pride in his Zoroastrian heritage and his private life was held closely with immense dignity. There was hardly any aspect that he did not touch upon or exert his influence on. Dance, theatre, music, design, fashion, photography, special needs, community welfare, all found a seamless expression in his unique oeuvre. Warm with gesture As a classical dancer who segued easily into contemporary territory, Astad was completely supportive of my initiatives. Whenever I visited Mumbai, he would make time to meet for coffee, or sit in on the rehearsal or talk that I was involved in. When he complimented my young team after the NCPA performance of ‘Padme’, it was a genuine gesture of encouragement, one that left an indelible impression on those young minds. When I launched ‘Boxed’ at the height of the pandemic, he made time to watch each episode of the 7-week series and never failed to appreciate the ideas and experiments of the young dancers. The pandemic did not deter this lone warrior. With his scheduled performances across the world postponed to 2022, he plunged into the digital world and requested that his beautiful short films Boundaries, 1.0 and 2.0, be premièred on the Narthaki platform. There are so many moments with Astad Deboo that I remember today. That day in 2019 in Chicago during a day-long rehearsal of ‘Inai - The Connection’ (a collaboration with Hema Rajagopalan), when he was excited like a newcomer since he was collaborating for the first time with a classical dance company. I watched the quiet and diplomatic manner in which he negotiated his place in the large group of dancers and musicians with multiple and often opposing viewpoints, yet always stressing on professionalism and technical preparation. I recall the first time I watched his signature twirling and the many occasions I have had the privilege to present him — at Sri Krishna Gana Sabha during the Margazhi festival, twice at The Other Festival (he even took a flight at a two-hour notice to step in for Ileana Citaristi, who had sprained a muscle), and at ‘Purush’, the dance conference in 2013. The interactions were always warm, professional and never overstated. He meticulously adhered to a daily routine of stretching and breathing. I was envious of his unique method of movement that had aged like fine wine, just like his body and pedagogy. The spirit of dance He spoke sadly, and sometimes with a tinge of bitterness, of how publishers were not interested in his life’s journey or his amazing collection of photographs and travelogues. But nothing could dampen his spirit to dance, even if it was for a small audience. The invitees at a private gathering in Chennai were awe-struck when he created a choreographic piece sitting on the window sill and balancing on the sloping roof. I have, with several others, sat for over an hour in the cold of the Delhi winter, watching Astad’s breathtaking solo under a huge tree accompanied by a Japanese musician. The last time I watched Astad on stage was at Kalakshetra in February this year. It was an Indo-Korean collaboration titled, ‘Same But Different’. The venue and the moment were serendipitous. I imagined the smile on Rukmini Devi’s face as she watched a fellow non-conformist tread the stage at her lovingly created institution. One may think that with their ideology and approach they occupied opposite ends of the dance world, but what they shared was the courage to dream differently. There will be nobody like Astad Deboo. To call him a friend is a privilege, and I am but one of hundreds whose lives he has touched beyond our core disciplines. Smiling and composed in his trademark white kurta and churidar off stage, he can’t be forgotten. He faced hostility in his early years, but refused to be bogged down by the relentless criticism. He danced through the blind spots of many a cynic, and remained steadfastly engaged with dance. Evoking Tagore’s image in ‘Ekla Chalo Re’, I imagine Astad, walking alone — upward and onward. Adieu, my friend.  The writer is a contemporary performer, arts entrepreneur, and founder of Narthaki.com
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The dancing body||Last Sunday, Chandralekha would have been 92. A sense of inadequacy grips me as I sit down to write this. As I struggle to find words, memories of the legendary dancer pour into my mind. I had the privilege of spending some time with Chandralekha in the years before her death. Since then, whenever I’ve heard or read about people who have been moved or inspired by her, I have known exactly what they mean. While my identity as a dancer and a person has undoubtedly been shaped by my training in dance for 15 years under Leela Samson, there is one more person who moulded me — and that is Chandralekha. At a time when I had completed my Bharatanatyam training, she encouraged me to explore other movement vocabularies and broaden my horizons. When I was struggling with my disillusionment with Bharatanatyam’s turbulent history, she urged me to examine the tradition more deeply. If it wasn’t for her, I probably would not have gone down the path of exploring modernities within Bharatanatyam. In 2009, I got a chance to work with art critic and writer Sadanand Menon on ‘The Chandralekha Archives’ that was being set up at ‘Spaces’ in Chennai. While working there for close to a year, I got a deep insight into her work, life and philosophy. I sorted photographs, watched and arranged videos, transcribed interviews, and read and archived articles she had written and that were written about her. It was then that I understood Chandralekha better. Around 1960, at the height of her solo dance career, Chandralekha began to be dissatisfied with many aspects of Bharatanatyam. As she said later, ‘I had many questions, but no answers. So, I stepped away from performance until I could get some clarity.’ Her first break lasted about 12 years, interrupted briefly by the memorable ‘Navagraha’ in 1972. Her second break lasted another 12 years. Then, in 1984, she re-emerged, with a powerful presentation on dance at the East-West Dance Encounter in Bombay. In the 24 intervening years, Chandralekha emerged as a sensitive poet. She also created content for the 1969 Gandhi Centenary Exhibition, ‘The World is My Family’, held in New Delhi. This was a rich period, when she was reading, writing, designing, screen-printing and more. She was also delving into the politics of the time. All of this cumulatively informed her choreography when she finally returned to dance with her seminal work ‘Angika’ in 1985. This, and the nine other works that followed in the next 20 years, shook the Indian dance establishment. What really astonished everyone was not just Chandralekha’s refreshing new approach to dance, but the aesthetics of her work and the fact that she had circumvented the tired binary between ‘Western modernity’ and ‘Indian tradition’. She delved instead into the depths of thus far overlooked Indian movement vocabularies such as Kalaripayattu, Yoga and Chhau, thus striking a distinctively Indian modernistic note. The gaps in history It often happens that curiosity about the more distant past supersedes curiosity for a more recent one. But this has led to Chandralekha’s work existing in what Sadanand describes as a "black hole". In a recent Zoom conversation organised to celebrate her life and work, the critic spoke of a manifest lack of curiosity in young dancers about not just Chandralekha but about setting art within a larger context. Current discourses, he said, focusing on Bharatanatyam’s history before and around 1947, and on the form as it exists today, were of grave importance, but these discourses unwittingly skip the entire period from 1947 onwards, sidestepping an investigation into the many things that have happened to dance since. Crucially, Chandralekha’s life and work fall into this period. Any comprehensive understanding of dance and its history cannot have such gaping holes. To understand the way dance forms evolve, and how the creative processes of dancers change over time, we have to understand dance history as a continuum. It isn’t possible to completely understand the ‘Kalakshetra style’ Alarippu that we see today without attempting to understand how it was performed by hereditary artistes. And one can certainly better understand Chandralekha’s ‘Misra Alarippu’ in ‘Angalamandala’ (1986) with the ‘Kalakshetra style’ Alarippu as a reference point. Understanding Chandralekha’s life and work and her questions about dance is extremely important, especially today when classical dance is struggling with ennui and audience disconnect. She was deeply engaged in the project of modernity. I have earlier argued that Chandralekha embodied an ‘alternative modernity’. I mean this in the sense that I understand Rukmini Devi’s vision as a modernist one, and I see Chandra’s modernity as an alternative to Rukmini Devi’s. I am not sure either of them saw themselves as creators of something modern in dance, but it certainly seems to me that in very distinctive ways they were doing just that. As current practitioners of modern-day versions of what traditional hereditary dancers across the country once practised, it is vital to examine how dancers, choreographers and thinkers in the past grappled with and engaged with modernity. If we study the lives, works and creative processes of hereditary artistes, and then that of Rukmini Devi and her contemporaries in order to inform current understandings of our practice and performance, then why not revolutionary dancer-choreographers such as Chandralekha who came after them? Chandra’s work and philosophy are particularly relevant also because of her areas of interest. She was not only experimenting with form but also with content. She discarded the religious and mythological narratives that were arguably already overworked even in the 1970s and 1980s, opting instead to engage with concepts and ideas that were abstract, thus creating a stunningly contemporary dance idiom. Her concerns were primarily centred around the body, its geometry; about space and time; about the struggles of women and a nascent feminism; about the feminine principle and its power; about sensuality and erotica in the body. These are perennial themes, and it is by continuing to engage with them that one can perhaps arrive at a second modern moment in Indian dance. As a person, Chandra was extraordinary, and not just because she was personally kind and generous. She was acutely sensitive to ideas of justice, equality and freedom and was involved in social struggles — working with many groups across India on issues of caste, gender and rights. Till the end, she remained actively curious, engaging with the world around her fully and with all her senses. Chandralekha often said that she did not believe in leaving a legacy behind, nor did she want to create a ‘school’ of dance. Her contribution, however, is so remarkable and important that any serious student of dance must study her work and ideas to understand what it takes to challenge the old and create anew. She deserves to be remembered and celebrated over and over again.  Resources and material   are available at   The Chandralekha Archives, Spaces, Chennai.   The writer is dancer, choreographer and founder-director of the Bangalore-based Bharatanatyam group ‘Vyuti’.   Her work circumvented the tired binary between ‘Western modernity’ and ‘Indian tradition’, delving instead into Indian movement vocabularies
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Making the virtual come alive||The past few months have seen a surfeit of virtual Carnatic concerts. Despite the initial fears and doubts in singing without being able to connect with the audience, such concerts have been gaining acceptance as both musicians and the rasikas have gradually begun to embrace the digital space. Having listened to many such concerts, one feels that the vocal artistes could do a little more value-addition and innovation to enhance the listening experience of rasikas. The virtual concert is a brand-new format to experience but it will never replace a live concert. The entry barriers have been breached, but can the crisis be converted into an opportunity by musicians who experiment in the way music is presented virtually? Sharing info As the curtain goes up, the vocalist begins with a varnam or a kriti. What if the artiste instead took a few minutes to share what’s in store and then introduce the accompanying artistes? Instead of singing one kriti after another, the vocalist could perhaps talk to the audience through the concert to keep them engaged. Real value is not only about the music, but also about the connection that artistes build with their rasikas. How can the performing artiste give the rasikas a different listening experience by engaging with the audience while performing? By presenting the music in a storytelling mode that talks about the ragam and the emotion behind it, its nuances, the name of the composer, the deity the song addresses, the essence of the composition, the influence of the guru in their journey... there is so much to share. The lyrics or the sahitya of a composition can sometimes make it a transcendental experience for the artiste. And for audiences as well. Tyagaraja wrote his songs in emotive Telugu and they reflect his state of mind, whether grief, yearning or joy. His vast repertoire has diverse lyrical content and context, and they range from simple songs to complex Pancharatna kritis. Not every listener understands Telugu. Can the essence of each song be shared with rasikas thereby making the listening process more enriching? There are also many ways in which the shooting of a virtual concert can be enhanced. There are several engaging moments on stage, but in a live performance, only the front rows can catch it all. These moments become accessible to everyone in digital performances. Given the multiple camera angles and close-up possibilities, the hand and finger movements of accompanying artistes, the facial expressions, the body language, the exchange of a look or smile can be captured as the performers create magic on the virtual stage. The concert format Finally, how about organisers allowing those who register for a concert to ask a question? A little time could be devoted at the end of the concert by the artistes, both lead performer and accompanists, to answer these questions. Music enthusiasts have a lot of interest in knowing the finer details about a talam or the nuances of a rendition. The format, for instance, could be a five-minute introduction, about 10 minutes devoted by the artiste to sharing details about the composition during the concert, the performance itself could be for 100 minutes, and responses to questions could take five minutes, thus making it a two-hour concert. Just as emotive renditions bring lyrics to life in a manner that reinforces the magic of the composition, one believes that information and involvement can enhance the aural appeal of a performance. Can artistes take experiential involvement to the next level? I am in no way suggesting that a concert should be done in a lecdem mode, but some amount of interaction can go a long way. Will the listeners enjoy it? I strongly think they will, given that all of them are not uniformly knowledgeable about the finer aspects of Carnatic music. The pandemic will have a long-lasting impact on how music is produced and consumed. It could be the beginning of an exciting new era of interactivity. Is the digital space going to be a temporary affair or are we going to see a hybrid model emerge where both physical and digital can co-exist? Only time will tell, and we hope that artistes will give us interesting times ahead.  The writer retired as vice-president, CES, Tech Mahindra.   Can the essence of each song be shared with rasikas thereby making the listening process more enriching?
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Under the spell of raag Yaman||Having trained in and performed for years music that is steeped in tehraav (restrain), it isn’t surprising Nityanand Haldipur comes across as a calm and introspective artiste. His responses to questions are detailed and unhurried like the long, lingering phrases that flow from his bansuri. The vast emotional range that his instrument traverses is reflective of his intense engagement with the art. “When you choose your guru, you choose the gharana too. And at that point your art gains a sense of direction. Beyond refining the technique, it’s imbibing the stylistic nuances of the gharana and creative traits of the guru that make the music a cathartic experience,” says Haldipur. A young learner, he feels, should necessarily be initiated into a gharana for a systematic and disciplined learning. “As a student travels deeper into a musical tradition, his understanding develops to such an extent that he gains a better perspective of other influences. Training in a gharana equips the artiste to face challenges and explore avenues to find an individual expression.” When Haldipur began to learn from his idol and the Maihar gharana stalwart, Pannalal Ghosh, who was his father’s guru, he knew he was opting for a music that was serene and replete with spiritual essence. Pannalal Ghosh transformed a humble folk instrument into a 32-inch long bamboo flute and carved a place for it among classical music instruments. He mastered the technique and grammar to play traditional heavy ragas such as Todi, Darbari, Puriya, Shri and Kedar as well the ones he conceived. “Though I couldn’t learn much from him since he insisted I focus on academics, in the time I spent with him I realised why Maihar is my musical comfort zone.” A style of his own The gharana, established in the 19th century, is known for purity of raag, since it believes each raag has a personality that needs to be maintained by musicians. Baba Allauddin Khan, who gave the gharana its identity, learnt from many masters before creating a style of his own. So if jor and alaap have a dhrupad orientation, in the vilambit gat, the vistar and taans have a predominant khayal leaning. This widened the canvas of the raag, making it possible for an artiste with imagination and training to render it for more than an hour without making it sound tedious. “Like Baba, most of the Maihar maestros were interesting personalities. Pannalal Ghosh was a wrestler, archer and freedom fighter before he became an exponent of the bansuri. I particularly recall his teaching of Yaman and the bandish, “Guru bin kaise gun paave, Guru na maane toh gun na aave, Gunijan mein beguni kahave...’ Miyan Achpal, a court musician who belonged to the QawwalBacche tradition, wrote this composition as his guru dakshin to a fakir who had taught him a lesson in humility.” Haldipur learnt many a significant aspect of art and life when he managed to convince the reclusive guru Annapurna Devi to accept him as her disciple. He was then under the tutelage of Pannalal Ghosh’s son-in-law Devendra Murdeshwar. He first met Annapurna Devi when he accompanied Ghosh’s daughter Sudha to her house. “When we came out after meeting her, Sudhaji stopped near the compound wall and told me, ‘As an artiste, whenever you think you are facing a wall, go to Annapurna Devi’. But it wasn’t easy reaching her. Haldipur had to wait for more than a decade before he got to meet her again through Ustad Ali Akbar Khan’s disciple, Rajeev Taranath. “Though she was known as a recluse, she cut herself off from the world for a purpose. She did music tapasya ; spending all her time in passing on her Baba’s (Allauddin Khan) impeccable legacy to a select group of disciples. ‘If you become my sishya, you may not get applause from the audience or acknowledgement from hundreds,’ she warned me. But nothing could dissuade me. The divinity, intensity and bhaav that I experienced in her music is something I will cherish for a lifetime.” Annapurna Devi had heard Haldipur play raag Yaman on the radio and realised it was his forte. “But the day she taught me the raag was when I truly felt I had become a part of the celebrated Maihar lineage,” says the veteran flautist.  When Haldipur began to learn from the Maihar gharana stalwart, Pannalal Ghosh, who was his father’s guru, he knew he was opting for a music that was serene and replete with spiritual essence
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||A crucial musical link||Amidst the many virtual concerts, it felt good to hear about a two-day festival of live music dedicated to the memory of Pt. Jasraj. Held annually in Hyderabad for the past 47 years, the event, titled this year as ‘Jai Ho - Pt. Jasraj presents Pt. Motiram Pt. Maniram Sangeet Samaroh’, has been a long celebration of the late maestro’s link with the city. Organised by Durga Jasraj, supported by the government of Telangana and ITC, it was an effort to continue the tradition established by Panditiji to pay tribute to his father, Pt. Motiram, and brother Pt. Maniram. The event was also streamed live. The festival opened with an invocatory piece sung by two of Pt. Jasraj’s disciples: his nephew Rattan Mohan Sharma, and the much younger Ankita Joshi. What made the festival memorable was the screening of videos that had the late singer speaking about various incidents from his life. The festival’s highlights were concerts by Anup Jalota, and a percussion jugalbandi with Shubhankar Bannerji on the tabla and Patri Satish Kumar on the mridangam. Another splendid jugalbandi was presented by two senior disciples of the maestro, vocalist Sanjeev Abhyankar and flautist Shashank. Sanjeev said, “Though Shashank and I did not train under guruji at the same time, we are good friends.” The duo performed raag Puriya Dhanasri (Carnatic raga Pantuvarali), in which Sanjeev sang alaap and jor. Trained in khayal gayaki, which does not have alaap without percussion accompaniment, the singer explained, “Guruji had taught me dhrupad-style alaap but I don’t know if he ever sang it himself; certainly I never heard him.” The next piece, the bhajan ‘Sumeer Ram’ was in raga Hamsadhwani. Giving an opportunity to young talent at such a major festival is laudable. There was a live presentation by eight musicians (including Rattan Mohan Sharma, Ankita Joshi, sitarist Mehtab Ali Niazi and violinist Yajnesh Raikar), who accompanied a video recording of Pt. Jasraj singing, an interesting concept well presented.  The Delhi-based author writes on music and musicians.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||National seminar on dance||Bharata Ilango Foundation for Asian Culture (BIFAC) and Centre of Excellence - Art and Culture, Shri Shankarlal Sundarbai Shasun Jain College for Women, will jointly present a three-day national symposium ‘Kala Samanvaya 2020’. The seminar, convened by veteran dancer-scholar Padma Subrahmanyam, will be inaugurated today. The topic for the inaugural day’s session is ‘Evidence for Samanvaya in Desi-s beyond Desa-s,’ by Shatavadani Dr. R. Ganesh. Tomorrow’s session, ‘Impact of Natya Sastra on Silappadikaram’ will be presented by archaeologist R. Nagaswamy, and the session on the last day (December 13) titled, ‘Indian Imprints in South East Asia,’ will be presented by documentary film maker S. Krishnaswamy. Registration link: tiny.cc/ ns20rf
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Mudhra concert series||As part of the 26th year Fine Arts Festival, Mudhra will feature the following concerts, both live and from the archives, from today to December 17, at 5 p.m. on www.paalamtv.com. Today: Navaneeth Krishan followed by Injikkudi E.M. Subramanaim. Tomorrow: Nisha Rajagopalan and Sid Sriam. Dec. 13: Dr. Radha Bhaskar and Madurai T.N. Seshagopalan; Dec. 14: Ashwath Narayanan and Shashank; December 15: J.B. Keerthana Bharadwaj and Cuddalore Gopi; December 16: Savita Sriram and Shertalai Renganatha Sarma and December 17: Vishnudev K.S. and R. Suryaprakash.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Musical ode to legends||Sunaad Arts will host ‘Musical Confluence,’ a special concert series dedicated to sitar maestro Pt. Ravi Shankar and legendary violinist Lalgudi Jayaraman. Spread over four days - December 12, 19, 26 and January 2 - the series will feature sitar, piano, veena and violin concerts. The inaugural concert will be by Pt. Shubhendra Rao (sitar) with Ustad Rashid Mustafa Thirakwa (tabla). Pianist Anil Srinivasan teams up with vocalist Sikkil Gurucharan on December 19. Saraswati Rajagopalan and Murad Ali Khan will present the veena-saranga jugalbandi on December 26. The series concludes on January 2 with Panchavadya Sangamam, a music ensemble led by mridangam exponent guru Karaikudi Mani with Lalgudi G.J.R. Krishnan (violin), Injikkudi E.M. Subramaniam (nagaswaram), N. Amrit (kanjira) and V. Suresh (ghatam). The series will be available on the Facebook and YouTube pages of SunaadArts and the Insta handle at 7.30 p.m. each day.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Kapila Vatsyayan dance fest||The ongoing Dr. Kapila Vatsyayan Indian Classical Dance Fest 2020, organised by Kerala’s Bharat Bhavan, will have 80 performers showcasing different performance traditions of India. It will be streamed live on the official site of Kerala’s culture department and on the social media pages of Bharat Bhavan till December 15.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Amjad Ali Khan in VestAid charity concert||The Eagles guitarist, Joe Walsh, is to host his fourth annual charity concert, ‘VetsAid 2020: Home for the Holidays’ virtually on December 12. The livestream will feature archival performances including that of Don Henley, Haim, ZZ Top, Jason Isbell, The Doobie Brothers, James Taylor and Sheryl Crow — as well as new appearances by Jon Bon Jovi, Gwen Stefani, Eddie Vedder, Alice Cooper and more. Joining them from India will be sarod maestro Ustad Amjad Ali Khan and his sons, Ayaan Ali Bangash and Amaan Ali Bangash. The ticketed event is to be streamed live via vetsaid.veeps.com. The proceeds from VetsAid 2020 will go directly to veterans’ services charities, which were chosen through a vetting process in collaboration with the Combined Arms Institute.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||For young talent||Maarga’s annual music festival will be held from December 13 to January 11, 2021. Two live concerts, each spanning an hour, will be streamed every day between 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. This year’s edition will feature many young and up-and-coming artistes. Log on to Maarga’s Facebook page to watch the concerts and for other details.
11 December 2020||December 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Honour for Dhananjayans||Veteran dance gurus and choreographers V.P. Dhananjayan and Shanta Dhananjayan were honoured with the ‘Sangeetha Kala Vibhushan’ title at the annual national eminence award function hosted by Mumbai Shanmukhananda Sangeetha Sabha. The event was conducted recently at Bharatakalanjali, Chennai. The award is in recognition of the couple’s efforts in promoting Bharatanatyam  . The Viswanathans, executive members of the Sabha, conducted the ceremony.
11 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hygiene a concern as farmers get ‘dirty’ toilets at protest site||Farmers camping at the Singhu border might have managed to secure food and shelter for the long haul, but the lack of access to clean toilets remains a major cause of concern. A few metres away from the main stage at the Delhi-Haryana border protest site, public toilets for “gents” and “ladies” are being managed by Haryana authorities. While these are meant for the protesting farmers, they can’t use them. The four toilets, on each side, are “dirty, stinking, and without water — as if they hadn’t been cleaned for days”. “These toilets are dirty and the stench is vomit-inducing. We don’t even think of walking towards that area where they are installed,” said Sukhdev Singh (32) from Ludhiana. Kamaljeet Kaur and Rajbir Kaur from Nawanshahr, who have been protesting at the spot since November 26, said they don’t use the public convenience because factory owners and small shop owners have made their toilets and bathrooms available for them. “Public toilets installed here are unusable. But other people are kind. They don’t even let us thank them,” said Ms. Kamaljeet. A few meters ahead on the stretch, on a barren piece of land, are four mobile public toilets on one side and 10 on the other. None of them is in a condition to be used. “Delhi government has installed toilets on the Delhi-side and at a place where none of us goes. It’s only for show and politics. Most men manage to relieve themselves in the open,” said Khushwinder Singh from Patiala. While unclean public convenience is a major issue, the farmers are also troubled over garbage pile-ups and waterlogging on the roadsides resulting in sludge. All the protesters try to keep their immediate surroundings clean by constantly sweeping the road near their tractors and there are the likes of Simranjeet and Pawanjeet Singh who voluntarily clean the common areas. The two friends came from Tarn Taran on Wednesday night and have been sweeping around the common areas. The garbage mostly includes vegetable waste, plastic bottles, and disposable utensils. Simranjeet, who works as an auto-driver, said that he didn’t have money but wanted to perform “sewa” for the “sangat”. Ragpickers at site He along with his friend Pawanjeet decided to clean the streets. “No one should feel that Punjabis came and made a mess of the place,” he said. Simranjeet also runs a small trust to help accident victims in his village, he said. After the volunteers collect the garbage and push it to a side, the ragpickers take the plastic from the pile. Rafiq and about 20 other ragpickers from Kundli visit every day around 11 a.m. and leave around 6 p.m. after collecting plastic in their sacks, which they further sell for Rs. 10-12 a kg. Kundli Municipal council workers were also spotted collecting garbage; however, they say the manpower isn’t enough. Ramesh (name changed) while pushing a small wooden cart full of garbage said, “Around 20 of us collect garbage, clean toilets, and sweep. It’s not enough. We have lost count of the number of rounds we have made from the stage till the end collecting garbage.” Ramesh and his colleagues begin at 7 a.m. and leave at 5 p.m. “This sludge is a result of leaking water tankers and cooking waste that is dumped on the side. We are not equipped to clean it,” he said.  Public toilets installed here are unusable. But other people are kind. They don’t even let us thank them Kamaljeet Kaur Protester
11 December 2020||Chandigarh,||Will resign if MSP is discontinued: Dushyant||Amid the ongoing agitation, Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday said the Centre had accepted the demand of farmers on written assurance regarding the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and he was hopeful the issue would soon be resolved. Talking to journalists here, in response to a question, Mr. Chautala said as long as MSP was being given, he would stay on his post and if there was any threat to MSP, he would be the first to resign. “The State government has procured unprecedented quantities of ‘bajra’ this season and has already given permission for procurement of additional 55,000 tonnes. The government has also procured cotton, dal [pulses], corn and peanuts on MSP,” he said. Mr. Chautala said he was in touch with the Centre to put forward the demands of farmers. “I had met with those Ministers who are in the committee holding talks with the farmers. Our party [Jannayak Janta Party] and the State government are also giving suggestions to the Centre in this matter. I am hopeful that farmers will soon understand the benefit. The first and foremost demand of farmers was to include MSP in writing,” he said.  ‘Elections on time’ Mr. Chautala said the panchayat elections in the State, due early next year, would be held on time and the government had also written to the Election Commission in this regard.
11 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Couple from Italy defers return to join stir||A newly-wed couple Lovepreet Bainz and Ramandeep Kaur Bainz, who are permanent residents of Italy, deferred their return plans and have joined the farmers’ protest. They were planning to leave the country in January but changed the plan in the wake of the farmers’ agitation that is intensifying by the day. They said they don’t intend to return to Italy unless the issue is resolved. “If we don’t fight for our rights, what will we teach our kids?” asked Ms.Ramandeep, wearing red bangles, a characteristic of Punjabi brides. Her husband Lovepreet (25) said that while his family had moved to Italy about 20 years ago and have been farming there to earn a living, they own farmlands in Patiala too. Explaining the reason for joining the protest, he said they have given their land on lease and currently, the family receives about Rs. 50,000-60,000 as lease amount. But if the new laws are implemented, it would drop to Rs. 15,000-20,000. ‘No guarantee’ “More importantly, we’ll have no guarantee that our land won’t be misused or no loan will be taken on it. If the corporates manage to take the loan on our land, then ultimately the liability of repaying will be with us,” he said. They came to the Capital’s border with mother Ranjeet Kaur (50) and a friend on Wednesday, and they plan to stay till Saturday at least. “We took mattresses from Khalsa Aid volunteers and slept on the road. In the morning, we used the toilet and bathroom in a nearby private hospital,” said Ms. Ramandeep. The family has been in India since early this year as the couple got married in January. “The outbreak of COVID-19 stalled our plans further. Now, when we had planned to return in January and made all arrangements, this happened,” said Mr. Lovepreet, adding that they have no plans to return till the problem is solved.
11 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mosquitoes wreak havoc at Singhu border||Farmers at the Singhu border protest site have yet another problem to worry about — mosquitoes. Every day when the sun goes down, the small insects start to wreak havoc. As a result, mosquito repellents have become among the most sought-after items at the free service stalls near the protest site. The protesting farmers, ready to fight the government regarding the new farm laws, have come up with ways to fight the menace, including net tents, mosquito-repellant creams, coils and liquids. “Mosquitoes have become a huge problem for us these days. Every evening, we apply cream and light the coil and it works for at least two-three hours only,” said Gurpreet Singh from Kapurthala. Every evening from 5 p.m.-7 p.m., Khalsa Aid — an International NGO, which has been providing services at the protest sites — sprays chemicals across the site to repel mosquitoes. “Fogging is done using machines. In the last few days, people have started asking for repellants a lot more,” said Tejinder Pal Singh, a volunteer with the NGO. Mukhtiar Singh Sandhu from Moga — who has been using net camp for the past few days — said at night, he closes the camp completely to save himself from mosquitoes.
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||Sisodia lays foundation stone of centre at Delhi Archives building||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday laid the foundation stone of Kala Kunj, which is an additional facility at the Delhi Archives Annexe & Cultural Hub in the Department of Delhi Archives building. Mr. Sisodia said Kala Kunj will have a state-of-the-art auditorium with a seating capacity for 500 people with excellent audio-visual facilities. Mix of cultural activities It will also host art exhibitions, archives, libraries, a café, and offer a mix of cultural activities. It will also seek to provide south Delhi a cultural centre where Delhiites can come and connect with art, culture, heritage and history. “We are laying the foundation of an important building. This building will keep our future safe and will also make our present dignified. It will be an important and dedicated Centre for cultural and intellectual activities for Delhiites,” he said. “It is necessary to preserve our heritage in the form of records. This will ensure a dedicated space in conserving this country’s rich archival heritage and history so the future generations can stay connected to the culture,” he added. He also inaugurated a short-term skill development training centre on record management and preservation of records, which will seek to open new employment opportunities for the youth. This training centre will be operated by the department in collaboration with Primero Skills And Training. Special training Special training, he said, will be imparted to 60 young professionals every three months at Delhi Archives so government records are available to future generations in a “professional manner.” The work of completion of this project of about Rs. 50 crores has been assigned to Delhi Tourism and Transport Development Corporation and is expected to be completed in 24 months. The Delhi Archives Department was established in 1972 but has been functioning in its current office since 1986. An additional annexation was under consideration since 2013 due to the continued expansion of records. The foundation stone was laid today after administrative approval in 2020.
11 December 2020||Guwahati,||Assam NRC list: status of 10,199 people was sought to be changed||The affidavit submitted by Assam’s National Register of Citizens (NRC) Coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma before the Gauhati High Court on December 3 said officials handling the exercise to update the citizens’ list sought a change in the status of 10,199 applicants. Some 19.06 lakh of a total of 3.3 crore applicants were excluded from the updated NRC released on August 31, 2019. The affidavit, a copy of which was accessed by The Hindu , said the updated NRC was only a supplementary list of inclusion and exclusion of names as the Registrar General of India (RGI) is yet to publish the final one.  Request from DRCRs This was primarily because some of the District Registrars of Citizens Register (DRCRs) had formally requested the NRC authority to change the status of more than 10,000 applicants, citing proper reasons. “Altogether 10,199 numbers of formal requests were received from DRCRs to change the results of NRC. Out of 10,199 persons, a total of 5,404 numbers were for changing the result from ‘reject’ to ‘accept’ and a total of 4,795 were for changing result from ‘accept’ to ‘reject’,” Mr. Sarma said in the affidavit. “It was found that the DRCRs requested to change results of the NRC from ‘accept to reject’ for 1,032 ineligible persons belonging to Declared Foreigner (DF), Doubtful Voter (DV), Person having cases pending at Foreigners Tribunal (PFT), their descendants (DFD, DVD, PFTD) and for 3,763 numbers of person who were found ineligible for other reasons, which are still included in the NRC,” he added.  Wrongly marked One of the cases mentioned in the affidavit was that of Chamaria Circle in central Assam’s Kamrup district. The names of 64,247 out of 1,43,522 applicants under this circle were included in the draft NRC but random verification showed 14,183 had been wrongly marked as original inhabitants. Some of them were found to be “ineligible” for inclusion on the basis of a set of approved documents establishing the domicile of a person in Assam before March 24, 1971, the cut-off date for determining non-citizens according to the Assam Accord of August 1985. Mr. Sarma, who had worked as the executive director of the NRC from May 2014 to February 2017 before replacing Prateek Hajela as the NRC State Coordinator in November 2019, said the RGI was in February told about the anomalies detected in the published NRC. “All the anomalies have been reported to the Registrar General of India, seeking necessary directions for corrective measures in the interest of an error-free NRC which is utmost importance as NRC is directly related to the national security and integrity. But no directions have been communicated by the Registrar General of India on the anomalies reported,” he said in the affidavit. “Rather, instructions have been received for issue of rejection slips and winding up of the operation of updation of NRC. The Registrar General of India is also silent on final publication of the NRC for which it is the only authority to take action and till date, the final NRC is yet to be published by the Registrar General of India,” he noted in the affidavit.  Rejection slips The process of serving rejection slips to each of the 19.06 lakh excluded people is yet to start. After receiving such a notice, an excluded person will have 120 days to file an appeal at the nearest Foreigners’ Tribunal, which in turn will have to dispose of the cases within six months.
11 December 2020||Chandigarh,||‘Centre should accept demands of farmers’||Leader of the Opposition in the Haryana Assembly, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, on Thursday said the BJP-led Union government should not adopt a confrontationist attitude and should accept the demands of agitating farmers surrounding the new farm laws. He said their demand was completely justified and the new agricultural laws could not be in the favour of farmers unless there was a guarantee of minimum support price for crops. ‘Spreading confusion’ “The BJP is trying to spread confusion about the committee formed under my [Hooda] leadership during the UPA government. The BJP is misleading the public by suggesting that the three new laws had been recommended by our committee. Our committee did not make any recommendations that harm the farmers,” said Mr. Hooda. Mr. Hooda said the committee of Chief Ministers, formed under his leadership, had recommended the extension of mandi s.  ‘No monopoly’ “It said that there should not be any monopoly on the mandi s and that the facility should be extended to every farmer. During our government, the mandi s were expanded to ensure that there is a big farm produce market every 8-10 km radius in Haryana. Also, government procurement centres were built in large numbers and agro malls were established,” he added. The former Chief Minister said during the UPA regime, there was an average increase of 12 to 15 per cent in crop rates every year and rates of many crops were increased by more than 20 per cent annually.
11 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan to boost farm supply chain||In its continuing steps for farmers’ welfare, the Congress government in Rajasthan has formulated plans to expand agricultural supply chain infrastructure and take up post-harvest management projects. Loans worth Rs. 9,015 crore will be disbursed to farmers, cooperative societies, self-help groups and agricultural entrepreneurs during the next four years. The decision has been taken in the midst of farmers’ protest against the Centre’s agriculture sector laws. Chief Secretary Niranjan Arya said here on Thursday that 21 banks had been authorised to develop the supply chains by sanctioning loans for different projects, while the agricultural processing and export policy would be linked to them. The State Assembly had passed three Bills last month to stop the applicability of the Centre’s new farm laws through the amendments making the Central Acts ineffective in certain respects. Rajasthan is the second Congress-ruled State, after Punjab, to formally reject the Centre’s farm Acts, which are being opposed in a major agitation on the outskirts of Delhi. Mr. Arya said new warehouses, silos, pack houses, grading and sorting units, cold storages, primary processing centres, fruit ripening chambers and other logistic facilities would be constructed on a large scale across the State. The assets for community farming, organic farming, smart and precision agriculture and farm clusters will also be created.
11 December 2020||Guwahati,||Vaccination drive after anthrax kills elephants||The authorities in eastern Assam’s Dibrugarh district have undertaken a drive to vaccinate livestock around the Joypur rainforest after anthrax was confirmed as the cause of the death of two female elephants a week ago. This is the second case of anthrax in the State after two Asiatic water buffaloes died in the Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary in October 2019. The sanctuary, 48 km east of Guwahati, is often called ‘Mini Kaziranga’ owing to a similar landscape. Anthrax is a disease caused by Bacillus anthracis , a spore-forming bacteria. Wildlife veterinarians said the two elephants — one sub-adult about 10 years old and the other about 20 years — died after ingesting anthrax spores that can remain buried underground for 25-30 years. “The carcasses of the elephants were found on the hilly Soraipung range of the Joypur Reserve Forest. They are likely to have ingested the spores while digging the earth for salt,” elephant veterinarian Kushal Konwar Sarma said. Amit Sahai, Assam’s Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife), said the field staff adhered to standard operating procedures to first burn the carcasses and bury the ashes deep inside the earth besides sanitising the affected areas.  Patrolling launched “While our field workers have been patrolling the rainforest for detecting other animals that could be infected, the veterinary officials have undertaken vaccination of livestock that could be vulnerable,” he told The Hindu . Mr. Sarma said anthrax was an endemic disease in India but was not known to have caused mass animal deaths. “The Assam government makes vaccines to prevent anthrax and these are administered to livestock when any situation arises,” he added.
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||Property dealer, aide nabbed for murder||A property dealer and his associate have been arrested in connection with the killing of two another men over rivalry during a fight between both the parties in north Delhi’s Burari, police said on Thursday. The accused have been identified as Anil Kumar alias Swami and Arman Ali, they said. According to the police, the accused Kumar works as a property dealer. He is involved in 23 criminal cases, including murder, dacoity, robbery, snatching and Arms Act. Arman Ali, Sai Hassan and Saddam are his associates. The incident took place on Wednesday evening in West Kamal Vihar area of Burari. Both the victims Anuj (22) and Anand (20) sustained bullet injuries and collapsed. A case was registered on a complaint by an associate of the deceased. Using technical surveillance, both the accused were arrested from West Kamal Vihar and a countrymade pistol with two live cartridges were recovered from them, the officer said. Police said efforts are being made to arrest the co-accused and recover other weapons of offence.
11 December 2020||New Delhi,||Civic bodies hiked around 11 different taxes, says AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday said the three BJP-ruled municipal corporations have hiked around 11 different taxes. AAP calls move arbitrary It said the party will tell people about this inhuman act of the BJP and organise a mass movement against such “arbitrary” tax hike. “In the last three days, the three civic bodies under the BJP have presented their budgets and hiked different taxes. This will devastate the citizens who are already broken due to the pandemic. From property tax to commercial house tax, residential house tax, charges for a trade license, factory license, health license are among the 11 different taxes hiked by the civic bodies,” said AAP leader and civic body in-charge Durgesh Pathak. He added that on one side the AAP-ruled Delhi government has not increased a single tax in the last six years and doubled the budget and on the other side, the BJP-ruled municipal corporations have betrayed people by “arbitrary” tax hikes. He said the municipal corporations have hiked the professional tax. ‘Pay double amount’ He also said if any person in Delhi wants to open a factory now, then the she will have to pay double amount for license of the factory. “The civic bodies have hiked the rate of trade license along with health license. They have also hiked commercial house tax, residential house tax and charge for cleaning garbage. They have also hiked education tax and tax for vacant land,” he said. “AAP completely opposes all these tax hikes. We will go to the people of Delhi and apprise them regarding these tax hikes,” he added.
11 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||DPCC, EDMC asked to act against mobile tower installation||Following a plea against the installation of a mobile tower by an apartment in Vasundhara Enclave, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) to look into the issue and take appropriate action. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said: “Let the Delhi Pollution Control Committee and the East Delhi Municipal Corporation look into the grievance as per guidelines laid down by the Central Pollution Control Board [CPCB] on the subject,” the Bench said. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a petition moved by petitioner Gufuruddin Ahmed seeking action against the installation of a mobile tower by Abul Fazal Apartments in Vasaundhara Enclave.
11 December 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||All dues paid to Odisha jawan: Army||The Army on Thursday said that jawan Chanduram Majhi has been given all his post-retirement dues and sanctioned pension as per the Central Pay Commission rate. Referring to a report published in The Hindu about Mr. Majhi not getting any pension benefits, an Army spokesperson said Mr. Majhi had undergone disciplinary proceeding under the Army Act for various acts of indiscipline. “One month prior to his scheduled date of retirement August 31, 2012, Mr. Majhi had absented himself from service. He rejoined four years later,” the spokesperson said. After finalisation of disciplinary proceedings, documentation for pension was processed. Mr. Majhi was paid a total Rs. 8.33 lakh including provident fund dues, insurance payments and gratuity. Besides, Rs. 6,650 towards pension per month had been sanctioned, the Army informed.
