11 November 2020||PATNA,||NDA has clear edge in tough Bihar fight||Bihar’s electorate kept the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and theMahagathbandhanparties on tenterhooks with both combinations jostling for a clear majority throughout a long day of counting on Tuesday. Till 10 p.m., results for 146 of the 243 seats had been declared on the EC website. Votes continued to be counted, with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leading in 77 seats and the BJP running close at 72. The Janata Dal (United) was ahead in 43 seats, while the Congress (19 leads) and the Left parties with 17 seats made the competition stiffer. Overall, the NDA was ahead with 122 leads, while theMahagathbandhanwas leading in 113 seats at the time of writing in a tantalisngly close election. The All-India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) was ahead in five seats, the BSP and an Independent in one seat each. According to the Election Commission, a total of 4.11 crore votes were cast in the Assembly poll. At least three ministers in the Nitish Kumar government were facing defeat while the CPI-ML (Liberation), a first-time RJD ally, put in a creditable performance, leading in 12 of the 19 seats that were allocated to it. As counting progressed, “victory celebrations” began at the offices of both the BJP and the JD(U). However, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, RJD chief Tejashwi Yadav, BJP president J.P. Nadda and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi maintained Twitter silence till late in the evening. In districts of central and western Bihar such as Bhojpur, Jehanabad, Aurangabad and Rohtas, the RJD appeared to be doing well, while in Mithilanchal and south-eastern areas such as Darbhanga, Madhubani, Champaran, Jamui and Munger districts, BJP candidates were ahead. BJP confident “People of Bihar have blessed us again and we’re thankful to them for this... NDA under Prime Minister Narendra Modi has done well and we will form the government again in the State,” State BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal told reporters. Later, after a meeting of top Bihar BJP leaders convened at senior State party leader Sushil Kumar Modi’s residence, both Mr. Modi and party’s State in-charge Bhupendra Yadav left to meet Chief Minister Nitish Kumar at his official residence. At the RJD headquarters, party workers remained glued to televisions screens hoping that the number would turn in their favour when the final results on all 243 seats would come. “According to our real-time data, we are ahead on 84 seats. At many places, even postal votes have not been counted. Please don’t lose heart till the last minute,” the official RJD handle tweeted.
11 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Making a house out of waste||Plastics for Change India Foundation, a non-governmental organisation, has constructed a free-of-cost house on a 350-square foot area for Kamala, a retired pourakarmika, using discarded plastic, near the landfill site in Pachchanady here. Chandan M.C., Director (Programs and Development) of the NGO, told reporters here on Tuesday that the NGO has made use of potato chips and other non-recyclable plastic wrappers for the construction of the house for Kamala,whose residence had been damaged during the heavy rain that lashed last year. Mr. Chandan said that the NGO joined with Hyderabad-based Bamboo House for building the house for Kamala. The NGO collected plastic wrappers from rag-pickers and waste collectors and sent them to a firm in Gujarat that compressed the wrappers and used a chemical to remove the odour. Panels with 8 mm to 20 mm thickness were prepared of this material and they were fabricated with iron and placed on a concrete foundation. “This is the first such house we have constructed. This house has a life of 30 years,” Mr. Chandan said and added that the house structure contained 1,500 kg of non-recyclable plastic material. The NGO has planned to provide solar power connection for such houses, he said. “I am happy to live in this new, well-ventilated house,” said Kamala, with a smile. Her house was damaged in the heavy rain last year and the NGO had assured her of building it for her. Two months ago the house was built, said Ms. Kamala, who retired six months ago. She has been living in the area for the last 15 years. Mr. Chandan said that the NGO has been in constant touch with the families of over 100 pourakarmikas and rag-pickers in Panchchanady since last year. The NGO has been helping in meeting their health and other needs that see them lead a honourable life. From February this year, the NGO has been holding online classes for 20 children of pourakarmikas, he said.
11 November 2020||KALABURAGI,||BJP wrests North East Teachers from Congress||In a closely-fought electoral battle for the North East Teachers Constituency of the Legislative Council, Shashil G. Namoshi of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) defeated his nearest rival Sharanappa Mattur of the Indian National Congress, who was seeking re-election to the constituency, with a margin of 3,130 votes. Mr. Namoshi polled 10,212 votes against 7,082 votes secured by Mr. Mattur. Mr. Namoshi maintained lead right from the beginning till the end. When counting of 7,000 first preference votes was completed in the first round by 1.50 p.m., Mr. Namoshi had obtained 3,148 votes to lead by 956 votes over Mr. Mattur who had bagged 2,192 votes. Timmayya Purle of the Janata Dal (Secular) had obtained 983 votes followed by Independent candidates Chandrakant Singe (26) and Vatal Nagaraj (15). When counting of another 7,000 first preference votes was completed in the second round by 4 p.m., Mr. Namoshi added 2,894 votes to his basket to increase his lead to 1,771 over Mr. Mattur who got 2,979 added to his cumulative votes. Mr. Purle added 1,373 votes followed by Mr. Singe (28) and Mr. Nagaraj (24). The number of invalid votes too grew to 1,241 in the second round. Mr. Namoshi increased his margin to 1,771 over his nearest rival Mr. Mattur in the second round which also recorded 605 invalid votes. In the third round of counting of first preference votes that ended by 5.30 p.m. in which 7,000 more votes were counted, Mr. Namoshi added 3,148 votes to his account followed by Mr. Mattur with 1,824, Mr. Purle 1,404, Mr. Singe 37 and Mr. Nagaraj 18. Mr. Namoshi’s margin over Mr. Mattur increased to 3,095 by the end of the third round. When the remaining 437 votes were also counted in the fourth round within a few minutes, Mr. Namoshi added 228 votes followed by Mr. Mattur with 118, Mr. Purle 55 and Mr. Nagaraj two. There were 34 invalid votes in the fourth round. When counting of first preferential votes was completed, Mr. Namoshi had 9,418 votes in his basket, while Mr. Mattur had 6,213 votes, to lead by 3,205 votes. Mr. Purle, Mr. Singe and Mr. Nagaraj had 3,812 votes, 91 and 59 votes, respectively. Regional Commissioner and Returning Officer N.V. Prasad declared the winning formula — obtaining more than half of the valid votes — and fixed the magic figure of 9,797 votes for a win. Of the 21,437 votes polled, 19,593 were valid. Since no candidate in the top of the grid bagged more than half of the valid first preferential votes to win the race, the process of eliminating candidates from the bottom of the grid and distributing the second preferential votes in their ballot papers among the respective candidates began by 6.30 p.m. Mr. Nagaraj, who got the lowest first preference votes, was eliminated and second preference votes in the ballot papers where he got first preference votes were distributed among the respective candidates. Of the 59 ballot papers, 30 were exhausted as they had only first preference votes leaving no room for other preferences. Of the remaining 29 second preference votes, Mr. Namoshi bagged 13 followed by Mr. Mattur with six, Mr. Purle eight and Mr. Singe with two. After the elimination of Mr. Singe, Mr. Namoshi, Mr. Mattur and Mr. Purle got 20, 16 and 28 votes, respectively. There were 29 exhausted votes. As the elimination of the bottom two candidates did not fetch the required number of votes to either of the remaining two candidates for victory, the process of the elimination of the third candidate from the bottom was initiated by 7.20 p.m. Of the 3,812 ballot papers in which Mr. Purle was the first preference, 2,299 votes were exhausted. Mr. Namoshi bagged 761 votes and Mr. Mattur 847 votes.
11 November 2020||MYSURU,||With funds promised, Mysuru airport expansion is set to gain traction||The proposed expansion of the Mysuru airport, which is pending since the last few years, is set to gather fresh traction with the State government’s assurance of releasing funds for the project. This came to the fore at the Mysuru Airport Advisory Committee meeting held on Tuesday. Pratap Simha, MP, said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has assured release of Rs. 50 crore as first tranche to get the work started for land acquisition. He said the financial approval and clearance by the Cabinet committee on economic affairs would be secured within this week, and the Airports Authority of India can fast track the runway extension and airport expansion project.  UDAN scheme Mr. Simha said the Mysuru airport was by and large dysfunctional till the UDAN scheme launched by the NDA government gave wings to all such airports and brought flight travel within the realms of commoners. He said the subsidised fare for short-haul flights had made a difference to the fortunes of cities and expedited development and Mysuru was no exception. The UDAN scheme had underlined the originating air passenger potential of Mysuru and expansion would help achieve that potential, said Mr. Simha. Apart from the airport, the Bengaluru–Mysuru highway was also being expanded and the work was scheduled for completion by September 2022, Mr. Simha added. The expansion of Mysuru airport was beset with problems as there is a railway track on one side and national highway on the other side. Any expansion of the runway entailed diverting the four-lane Mysuru–Nanjangud highway. Hence, an underpass was suggested and it received technical and security clearances from the appropriate authorities. The airport currently has a runway length of 1,740 m and breadth of 30 m, which is suitable for operating ATR-72 type of aircraft. The proposal is to increase the runway length to 2,750 m and breadth to 45 m to cater to operation of Airbus and Boeing aircraft. The AAI requires an additional 182 acres for runway expansion besides 58 acres for a future terminal building complex. R. Manjunath, director, Mysuru airport, said there were only two flight movements till 2015 but it had increased to 12 flight movements after the launch of UDAN scheme. Mysuru is connected to Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Belagavi, Goa, and Kochi and there was potential for operating flights to Mangaluru, Coimbatore, Shirdi, and Tirupati. The Alliance Air was expected to announce its Mangaluru flight schedule and date of operation in due course, he added.
11 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Toyota Kirloskar Motor declares lock-out||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) on Tuesday declared a lock-out until further notice. The company said it was forced to do so to ensure safety of its personnel after its employees’ union resorted to an “illegal” sit-in strike and “unlawfully” camped on the company premises compromising the COVID-19 guidelines. “Due to the current volatile atmosphere and to protect the safety of employees, Toyota Kirloskar Motor is forced to declare a ‘lock-out’ until further notice. Communication and dialogue with relevant stakeholders is ongoing to try and resolve the issue,” said the company responding to a query. A TKM spokesperson said, “Despite our efforts to maintain a cordial and healthy working environment based on active employee participation and maintaining desired level of discipline in the plant, one of the employees who has systematic record of misconducts was again involved in breach of discipline and unacceptable behaviour which is in violation of law and service policy of the company.” Consequently, this employee has been placed under suspension pending enquiry in line with the company rules and applicable laws. As per extant service rules and keeping in mind the principles of natural justice, all possible opportunities will be provided to the employee during the inquiry process, according to the company. Protesting the suspension, on Monday, during the working hours, the union president along with other office-bearers unauthorisedly entered the shop floor, forcefully pulled out team members who were on their jobs and stopped production operations, as per a notice put out on the factory premises of the company. TKM has also obtained an injunction order from the court restraining the union office-bearers and the union members from disturbing the normal operations of the company, said the notice. ‘Harassment’ However, Prasanna Kumar Chakkere, president of TKM Employees’ Union, told The Hindu , “We are facing a lot of harassment at work. At the production unit, employees are made to work very rapidly, a pace they are unable to catch up.” He claimed they were under such pressure that they were unable to take a break.
11 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC refuses to lift stay on Delhi govt.’s order to hospitals||A Special Bench of the Supreme Court on Tuesday declined the Delhi government’s appeal to lift a High Court stay on its directive to private hospitals to reserve 80% of their Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds for COVID-19 patients. The Bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan and B.R. Gavai asked the Delhi government to approach the High Court where the case was scheduled for hearing this month-end. The apex court asked the High Court to take up the case on November 12 as it concerned an urgent public health issue. The Bench sat exclusively for hearing the AAP government’s appeal. The court is closed for Deepavali vacations. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, appearing for the government, said the festival would see crowds. The national capital would require several thousands more beds to meet the health contingency. Justice Bhushan said it would be better to place the facts before the High Court itself, while agreeing that cases were on the rise in Delhi. Rising infections The government argued that it had only instructed 33 hospitals to reserve 80% ICU/HDU (High Dependency Unit) beds for COVID-19 patients owing to the rising graph of infections. “As a result of this proactive intervention, almost 500 patients were able to secure admission in ICU beds of these private nursing homes and hospitals. The rate chargeable for these beds has also been capped by the government in the interest of the public,” the Delhi government petition, filed through advocate Chirag M. Shroff, contended in the top court. A single judge of the High Court on September 22 stayed the government order on a petition filed by the Association of Healthcare Providers (India), which said the order would deprive non-COVID patients of urgent medical care. A Division Bench of the High Court adjourned the case to late November. “The Division Bench has failed to take judicial notice of the COVID-19 pandemic and the steadily rising graph of infections. Delhi has always been the preferred location for seeking medical treatment by patients even from neighbouring and other States,” the government appeal said. The government said the High Court failed to appreciate that the petition filed against the September 12 order was nothing but a “cloaked attempt by certain hospital managements to guard their financial interests”. The petition said out of the 33 hospitals listed, 28 were already functioning as “partial COVID hospitals”. “Out of those 28 hospitals, 22 were allotted land by the government at concessional rates. Five of the 33 hospitals have already been operating as COVID-19 hospitals. Four out of five hospitals have also been allotted land at concessional rates,” the petition contended.
11 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM seeks respect for ‘territorial integrity’||In an indirect reference to the Chinese infrastructure projects in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) to respect “territorial integrity” and “sovereignty”. “To further deepen connectivity network (among the SCO members), it is necessary to respect each other’s sovereignty and territorial integrity,” Mr. Modi said, reminding that India has traditionally supported infrastructure and connectivity development projects in the SCO region. He named the Chabahar port and the North South Corridor among the projects that India has supported. The 20th summit of SCO heads of state is important as it brought President Xi Jinping of China and Mr. Modi together in the virtual format even as both sides are caught in a high tension confrontation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Dialogue important: Xi Mr. Xi also hinted at the difficulties among members and said differences should be resolved through dialogue. “We need to deepen solidarity and mutual trust and resolve disputes and differences through dialogue and consultations,” he said in his remarks which resonated with the backdrop of the LAC confrontation. Addressing the meeting, Mr. Modi said bringing changes in the global governance will be the focus of India as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council next year. “In our civilisation, it is said that parivartanmeva sthiramasti (change is the only constant). From 2021 India will take part in the UN Security Council as a non-permanent member. As a member of UNSC our attention will be on changing the global rules of governance,” he said. Stating that the United Nations had failed to deliver on the vision of the organisation, Mr. Modi said the global body should address the immediate needs of the world that is struggling with the fallout of the pandemic and the economic downturn. “We hope to get support of the SCO members in attaining a reformed multilateralism which will reflect the global realities of the 21st century and which will meet the expectations of all the stakeholders of the world,” he said. Mr. Modi also announced that in 2021, the National Museum of India will hold an exhibition on the Buddhist heritage of the SCO countries and India will host a food festival reflecting the culinary traditions of the SCO region. Ilegal weapons He reiterated India’s aspiration for peace in the region and highlighted the challenges posed by the smuggling of illegal weapons, drugs and money laundering.
11 November 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. bypolls: BJP wins 16 seats, secures govt.||The BJP expanded its footprint across Madhya Pradesh and found the means to retain the government by winning 16 seats and maintaining lead in three others as results for the byelections trickled in on Tuesday. Of the 28 seats, the Congress won just five, while it was leading in four others when results last came in at 10 p.m. In the 2018 Vidhan Sabha election, the Congress had won 27 seats and the BJP one. The BJP’s vote share stood at 49.5% compared with the Congress’s 40.3% . Speaking to reporters in Bhopal, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said: “I have complete faith the BJP will secure a massive victory. Wherever we trail, we are behind only by marginal votes”. Scindia’s popularity Riding on the popularity of Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, who switched over to the BJP from the Congress in March, the BJP has made significant inroads in the Gwalior-Chambal region, his traditional stronghold. In the region’s 16 seats, where Mr. Scindia’s supporters are now contesting as BJP candidates, the BJP won six in the Gwalior region, while it won one seat and led in two in the Chambal region. However, the share for Mr. Scindia’s supporters, who won all the seats in the region in 2018, appeared to be shrinking by seven seats. Congratulating the winners, Mr. Scindia wrote on Twitter, “I have complete faith that you will always be ready for public service and the complete development of their Vidhan Sabha constituencies.” In the Chambal region, the Congress won three seats to deal a blow to Minister Aidal Singh Kansana and MLAs Raghuraj Singh Kansana and Ranveer Jatav, supporters of Mr. Scindia who switched over to the BJP in March. Minister Imarti Devi was trailing behind the Congress’s Suresh Raje from Dabra in the Gwalior region.
11 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Modi seeks respect for ‘territorial integrity’||In an indirect reference to the Chinese infrastructure projects in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) to respect “territorial integrity” and “sovereignty”. “To further deepen connectivity network (among the SCO members), it is necessary to respect each other’s sovereignty and territorial integrity,” Mr. Modi said, reminding that India has traditionally supported infrastructure and connectivity development projects in the SCO region. He named the Chabahar port and the North South Corridor among the projects that India has supported. The 20th summit of SCO heads of state is important as it brought President Xi Jinping of China and Mr. Modi together in the virtual format even as both sides are caught in a high tension confrontation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Dialogue important: Xi Mr. Xi also hinted at the difficulties among members and said differences should be resolved through dialogue. “We need to deepen solidarity and mutual trust and resolve disputes and differences through dialogue and consultations,” he said in his remarks which resonated with the backdrop of the LAC confrontation.
11 November 2020||Kolkata,||Nandigram sees a legacy war; TMC, Suvendu hold separate rallies||Nandigram, in Purba Medinipur, that had become the hotbed of political violence and fight against forcible land acquisition witnessed two rallies on Tuesday — one by Trinamool Congress and the other by TMC minister and party strongman Suvendu Adhikari. The legacy war played on Nandigram Dibas has far reaching implications in the politics of West Bengal. The day is observed by the Trinamool Congress to pay homage to 14 people who were killed in police firing during protests against forcible land acquisition in March 2007. Mr. Adhikari who played a crucial role in the fight against forcible land acquisition at Nandigram has been holding rallies without any party banner, keeping the Trinamool leadership on tenterhooks and guessing about his next move. “Political observers are contemplating what will be my next step. They want to hear me talk about the roadblocks I am facing and the path I am going to take. I will not announce my political programme from this sacred platform. This is not the place,” Mr. Adhikari said addressing the rally. Significantly, while Mr. Adhikari named representatives of civil society who had put their weight behind the movement, he did not name Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Meanwhile, the Trinamool Congress held another rally in Nandigram which saw the participation of a large number of ministers and MPs. “We firmly believe that without Mamata Banerjee there cannot be a Bengal. She fought hard against CPI(M) and today a dangerous party BJP is trying to take control,” said Firhad Hakim, minister and senior party leader. Though Mr. Hakim did not name Suvendu Adhikari, he said, “All those opposing Mamata are strengthening BJP.” In her tributes on Nandigram Dibas, Ms. Banerjee tweeted, “My homage to all those who have lost their lives due to political violence across the world. Peace must always win.”
11 November 2020||Staff Reporter Mumbai,||MSRTC gets Rs. 1000 cr. package, to pay staff before Deepavali||A day after an employee of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) committed suicide over non-payment of salary for three months, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) on Tuesday announced a Rs. 1,000 crore package to pay pending salaries before Deepavali. “We were always of the opinion that salaries of all State transport employees be paid on time. We had been trying for the same from different sources. On Monday, we held a meeting with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and today with Finance Minister Ajit Pawar. The government has agreed to release a package worth Rs. 1,000 crore. All salaries will be paid before Deepavali,” said Transport Minister Anil Parab. “We lost over Rs. 3,000 crore during the lockdown. Our expenses on salaries, maintenance, redevelopment of bus stands continued and therefore our debt too increased,” he added. On Monday, Manoj Chowdhari (30), who was working with the Jalgaon depot of the MSRTC, was found dead. He left a behind a note saying he was ending his life over irregularities at his workplace and salary issues, and also blamed the State government for this. Meanwhile, Prashant Thakur (BJP) MLA from Panvel led a protest on Tuesday demanding resignation of Mr. Thackeray and Mr. Parab for the death of Chowdhari, and another staffer Pandarang Gadde in Ratnagiri on Sunday.  (With inputs from Raina Assainar)
11 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Two Alibaug jail constables suspended||Two constables of Alibaug jail were suspended on Tuesday after it was found that they had reportedly provided their personal mobile phones to inmates to make calls. Jail officials are now investigating whether constables Anant Dere and Sachin Warde had provided the phones to editor-in-chief of Republic TV Arnab Goswami also. “Due to the pandemic, since meeting of relatives with inmates has been stopped, provisions were made for them to speak via smart phones and a record is maintained of the same. Besides the official calls allowed, we found that the our two staffers were also providing their phones. During the enquiry, some of the inmates and our staff confirmed this and hence we suspended the two. It is not yet established if they had provided the phones to Arnab Goswami as well,” Jail Superintendent Abhasaheb Patil said.
11 November 2020||New Delhi,||Hopeful of reaching agreement: Naravane||Army chief General Manoj Naravane on Tuesday said that senior military commanders of India and China were “ironing out the modalities” of how to proceed ahead on the situation in eastern Ladakh and were hopeful that “we will be able to reach an agreement, which is mutually acceptable and mutually beneficial”. “We had the 8th round of talks on November 6 between the highest military-level commanders on both sides. They are ironing out the modalities of how to proceed ahead within the overarching guidelines, which had been communicated post the interactions and meetings between the respective Ministers [Defence and External Affairs],” Gen. Naravane said at the defence attaché conclave organised by news portal Bharat Shakti. “It was discussed by the Defence Ministers that it has to be an overall solution to the entire issue which brought this situation to the fore. Within those guidelines, we are discussing how to actually achieve it on the ground,” he said. On reports that there was shortage of extreme weather clothing for troops deployed in Ladakh, Gen. Naravane said, “There is no shortage whatsoever of any kind. All the troops are equipped with the newest of clothing, equipment and weapons.” Equipment was catered for a certain number of troops at any point of time. The situation that had developed required them to deploy additional troops and it was for these additional troops that they “had to go in for certain emergency procurements”.
11 November 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,||T.N. BJP leaders persist with yatra, court arrest||The BJP’s State president, L. Murugan, courted arrest in Hosur on Tuesday upon reaching the district on his ‘Vetrivel Yatra’, which had been banned by the State government. The party’s former national secretary, H. Raja, courted arrest in Krishnagiri while addressing a similar yatra led by him. Defying the ban, Mr. Murugan, clad in a saffron shirt and green dhoti, with his forehead smeared with ash, made a dramatic entry, wielding a Vel (spear), amid chants of ‘ Vetri Vel - Veera Vel ’ and ‘ Bharat mata ki jai ’. He was accompanied by party vice-president K. Annamalai. Mr. Murugan, who addressed a public meeting, dubbed the yatra a “fitting response to the denigration of our Tamil God and Tamil culture by the DMK and the Karuppar Kootam (referring to the Kanda Sashti Kavacham controversy)”. He claimed that the yatra will “rip the mask off the face of [DMK chief] Stalin”. “This yatra will culminate at Thiruchendur on December 6, and no force can stop it,” he said. “Periyar was falsely projected as having fought for women’s liberation. On the contrary, he enslaved women. He frequented brothels and asked his wife to cook food and send it across for his revelry,” Mr. Raja added. Mr. Raja also dubbed both Periyar and DMK patriarch Annadurai ‘anti-nationals’ and ‘traitors’. He claimed that the country was being “swept by the BJP wave”, and that Tamil Nadu will see this wave in May 2021, referring to the upcoming elections. Later, the BJP leader was arrested and detained along with party cadre.
11 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Assets of Pratyusha directors, Ganta to go under the hammer||The Indian Bank, SAM branch, Hyderabad, has issued an e-auction sale notice for the immovable properties belonging to Pratyusha group of companies. The company, in which TDP MLA Ganta Srinivasa Rao was once a director, owes Rs. 248.03 crore to the bank. As per the public sector bank, Pratyusha Resources and Infra Private Limited had defaulted on payment of a loan to the tune of Rs. 141.68 crore and the bank had issued a demand notice on October 4. 2016. The company had failed to clear the loan and after interest it has accumulated to over Rs. 248.03 crore, as on date. The bank had taken the properties into possession on December 27, 2016 and on February 21, 2017. As per the bank’s notice, the e-tender will close on November 23 by 5 p.m. and the e-auction will be held on November 25, between 12 noon and 3 p.m. The properties to be auctioned include commercial properties belonging to Pratyusha Associates and residential and landed properties belonging to directors Ganta Srinivasa Rao, P.V. Prabhakara Rao, K.B. Subrahmanyam, Narni Amulya and Parachuri Bhaskara Rao. Assets belonging to the companies such as Pratyusha Resources and Infra, Pratyusha Global Trade and Pratyusha Estates had been attached and put on auction. They include an office complex in the Old Town area of Visakhapatnam and properties in Gajuwaka, Chinagadali, Rushikonda, Madhurawada, Anandapuram, Balayya Sastry Layout, East Godavari, Anakapalli, Kakinada and in Tamil Nadu. The auction will be done by MSTC (Metal Scrap Trade Corporation). For details visit:www.mstcecommerce.com
11 November 2020||Kolkata,||‘Involve panchayats in child protection’||On at least two occasions during the COVID-19 pandemic-related lockdown, the Calcutta High Court expressed concerns over child trafficking in West Bengal. In an order on June 10, the court, while hearing a matter on the “Contagion of COVID-19 Virus in Children Protection Homes”, observed that apprehensions had been expressed that on “lifting of lockdown, there was likely to be a spurt in child trafficking for labour and commercial sexual exploitation”. “The State of West Bengal has many porous districts and incidents of child trafficking are not uncommon. We would be failing in our duty if we cannot protect the children from any kind of abuse including their exploitation,” the order states. In the same order, the court directed that the pradhans of all panchayats should be sensitised about child rights and the evils of child marriage. “This order should also reach to all pradhan[s] and it would be duty of the District Magistrates that these issues are addressed and remedial measures are taken ,” the order by Justices Harish Tandon and Soumen Sen said.
11 November 2020||New Delhi,||Hopeful of reaching agreement: Naravane||Army chief General Manoj Naravane on Tuesday said that senior military commanders of India and China were “ironing out the modalities” of how to proceed on the situation in eastern Ladakh and were hopeful that “we will be able to reach an agreement, which is mutually acceptable and beneficial”. “We had the 8th round of talks on November 6 between the highest military-level commanders on both sides. They are ironing out the modalities of how to proceed ahead within the overarching guidelines, which had been communicated post the interactions and meetings between the respective Ministers [Defence and External Affairs],” Gen. Naravane said at the defence attaché conclave organised by news portal Bharat Shakti. “It was discussed by the Defence Ministers that it has to be an overall solution to the entire issue which brought this situation to the fore,” he said.
11 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Severe’ air pollution for 6th day in city||The air quality of Delhi and Noida continued to be in the ‘severe’ category for the sixth consecutive day and that of Gurugram for the fourth day on Tuesday, according to Central Pollution Control Board data. The newly formed Commission on Air Quality Management, as an interim measure, has given the CPCB powers to operationalise measures under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) on air pollution. The GRAP is a set of emergency measures to be implemented to control air pollution depending upon the air quality. Currently, measures under the ‘severe’ category of GRAP are in place, including a ban on operation of diesel generators.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||A burning issue||
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||A day after chaos||
11 November 2020||BENGALURU,||PM Modi says ‘extremely special’||In a tweet, Prime Minister Narendra Modi termed the bypoll victories “extremely special”. “It reaffirms the people’s unwavering faith in the reform agenda of the Centre and State Government under @BSYBJP Ji,” he said.
11 November 2020||Bengaluru,||BJP ahead in Council elections too||The biennial elections held for four seats of the Legislative Council also saw the BJP triumphant. It won three out of the four seats, while the results of one seat was still awaited till late on Tuesday. Elections were held to four constituencies on October 28. The BJP emerged victorious in both the teachers’ constituencies and one of the two graduates’ constituencies for which the results were declared.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Smiles all round||
11 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM seeks respect for ‘territorial integrity’||In an indirect reference to the Chinese infrastructure projects in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) to respect “territorial integrity” and “sovereignty”. “To further deepen connectivity network (among the SCO members), it is necessary to respect each other’s sovereignty and territorial integrity,” Mr. Modi said. He reminded that India has traditionally supported infrastructure and connectivity projects in the SCO region and cited examples of the Chabahar port and the North South Corridor. The 20th summit of SCO heads of state is important as it brought President Xi Jinping of China and Mr. Modi together in the virtual format even as both sides are caught in a stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.
11 November 2020||Kalaburagi,||Man dies, his parents washed away in NLBC||A 31-year-old man died and his parents are said to have been washed away in heavy current of the Narayanpur Left Bank Canal in Yadgir on Tuesday.
11 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Severe’ air pollution for sixth day in Delhi||The air quality of Delhi and Noida continued to be in the “severe” category for the sixth consecutive day and that of Gurugram for the fourth day on Tuesday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board data. Delhi recorded a 24-hour average AQI of 476.
11 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Seven workers die in roof collapse in Rajasthan||Seven labourers working at an under-construction factory in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur city died and nine others were injured when the roof of the building collapsed on Tuesday. The workers rescued from the site were in a serious condition, while some more were feared trapped in the debris till late in the night. The factory was being constructed in Basni industrial area phase-II.
11 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Deepavali: KSRTC to run 1,000 additional buses||KSRTC has decided to operate 1,000 additional buses this festive season. From Bengaluru, buses will be operated to Shivamogga, Hassan, Mangaluru, Belagavi, Vijayapura, Hubballi, and other destinations.
11 November 2020||Bengaluru,||HC: Govt. admits to not supplying food to students||The State government has “candidly” admitted that it did not supply midday meals or foodgrains between June 1 and October 31 to eligible students studying in government and aided schools who are covered under the midday meal scheme of the National Food Security Act, 2013, the High Court of Karnataka observed on Tuesday.
11 November 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 deaths: City’s share remains same||Although the number of COVID-19 deaths in the State is declining, the percentage of deaths in Bengaluru Urban in comparison to rest of Karnataka has almost remained the same since September.
11 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi sees biggest COVID spike with 7,830 cases||Delhi on Tuesday witnessed the biggest single-day spike in new COVID-19 cases with 7,830 fresh infections reported in 24 hours. The death toll rose to 7,143 with 83 more fatalities reported in a single day. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the city stands at 4,51,382.
11 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Seven workers die in roof collapse in Rajasthan||Seven labourers working at an under-construction factory in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur city died and nine others were injured when the roof of the building collapsed on Tuesday. The workers rescued from the site were in a serious condition, while some more were feared trapped in the debris till late in the night. The factory was being constructed in Basni industrial area phase-II.
11 November 2020||MANGALURU,||MAHE decides to offer new courses||Pro-Chancellor of MAHE H.S. Ballal said on Tuesday that MAHE is planning to open new institutions and departments and offer new courses in the coming days. He said that it has recently signed a MoU with the Union Ministry of Education for being formally declared as an Institution of Eminence.
11 November 2020||MYSURU,||15% rise in spice exports during April to August||Large shipments of chilli, cumin, and turmeric contributed to the spice export growing by 15% between April and August this year compared to the same period last fiscal. The total exports rose to 5,70,000 tonnes in this period, according to a statement by Spices Board.
11 November 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19: Deaths dip in State||Although the number of COVID-19 deaths in the State is declining, the percentage of deaths in Bengaluru Urban in comparison to rest of Karnataka has almost remained the same since September.
11 November 2020||Mysuru,||Series of programmes to promote cycling||Trin Trin, Mysuru’s Public Bicycle Sharing initiative, will take up a series of programmes during November to promote cycling as a “safer” and “healthier” commuting option in the city in the backdrop of COVID-19.
11 November 2020||Mumbai,||3,791 new coronavirus cases in Maha, 46 deaths||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 case tally on Tuesday reached 17,26,926 as it recorded 3,791 fresh cases of the viral infection, a health official said. The State also reported 46 fatalities during the day, taking its death toll to 44,435, he said. A total of 10,769 patients were discharged from hospitals, pushing the tally of the recovered people to 15,88,091. There are 92,461 active cases in the state now. Mumbai city reported 535 positive cases, which pushed its case count to 2,65,679, while its death toll rose to 10,484 with 19 fatalities being reported. The State has so far conducted 95,36,182 tests. The Mumbai division, which consists of Mumbai city and the surrounding satellite towns, reported 1,101 new cases, raising the region’s case count to 5,98,718.PTI
11 November 2020||Kolkata,||covid-19 wrap||West Bengal on Tuesday reported a record 4,415 recoveries from COVID-19 in the past 24 hours taking the recoveries to 90.11%. The active cases in the State also dropped to 33,444. The State also registered 3,891 new COVID-19 infections taking the total infections to 4,13,112. With 53 deaths the fatalities have touched 7,403. The State tested 44,117 samples in the past 24 hours. The total samples tested have increased to 50.03 lakh. Meanwhile, the Railways will run 696 suburban trains in three divisions from Wednesday. The services in Kolkata and adjoining districts will start after more than seven months across Howrah, Sealdah and Kharagpur. Eastern Railway will run 413 suburban trains in Sealdah division and 202 in Howrah division. The remaining 81 trains will be run by the Kharagpur division of the South Eastern Railway. The Eastern Railway said in a press statement that about 84% of the total services will resume during peak hours. “For implementation of physical distancing, one seat in between passengers is cross marked (X). Passengers are urged to maintain the sitting discipline and avail alternate seats observing the indication on seats for implementation of physical distancing during the journey,” the press statement said.
11 November 2020||Mumbai,||Second nearby||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday allowed two Jain temples to remain open for five days — from November 13 to 17 — during Deepavali between Dhanteras and Bhau Beej, with conditions. A Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and Abhay Ahuja was hearing a petition filed by the two Jain temple trusts. The plea sought that Jain temples should be open for five days during Deepavali as that time was auspicious and important for Jains.
11 November 2020||ERODE,||Decision on schools on November 12||Around 45% of the parents of school students have given their feedback on whether schools should be reopened for Classes 9 to 12, and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will announce the government’s decision on November 12, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said on Tuesday.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. records 2,146 new cases and 25 deaths||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday recorded 2,146 new COVID-19 infections, pushing the tally to 7,48,225, while the death toll mounted to 11,387 with 25 more fatalities. Active cases in the State stood at 18,709. Chennai reported 577 new infections.
11 November 2020||NAGERCOIL,||COVID-19 watch raised along Kerala border||As Kerala is witnessing a surge in COVID-19 cases, the Kanniyakumari district’s border with the neighbouring State will be monitored round the clock to check the entry of infected persons, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Tuesday.
11 November 2020||Bengaluru,||BJP wrests 2 seats in Karnataka||The ruling BJP wrested Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituencies from Opposition Janata Dal (Secular) and Congress, respectively, in the byelections that were held on November 3. Though the elections had little consequences on the stability of the BJP government, the results, declared on Tuesday, further consolidated the party with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa at the helm. Personal prestige of several party leaders coming into play in the bypolls had made the fight look tight, but in the end, the BJP romped home with comfortable margins. The two-time legislator from the Congress whose resignation had necessitated the byelection in R.R. Nagar, Munirathna, polled 1,25,734 votes as the BJP candidate to win by a margin of nearly 58,000 against Congress candidate and first-timer Kusuma H., who ended up with 67,798 votes. JD(S) candidate V. Krishnamurthy finished a distant third with 10,251 votes. The margin of victory for Mr. Munirathna is higher than that in the 2018 Assembly elections, when he (then in the Congress) had defeated the BJP candidate by about 26,000 votes. The JD(S) put up a poor show when compared with the 2018 elections when it had polled 60,000 votes. In Sira, considered part of the Vokkaliga heartland, the BJP opened its account. C.M. Rajesh Gowda, a doctor, political debutant and son of three-time Chitradurga MP C.P. Moodalgiriyappa, defeated six-time legislator and former Congress Minister T.B. Jayachandra by a comfortable margin of nearly 13,000 votes. While Dr. Gowda polled 74,522 votes, Mr. Jayachandra garnered 61,573 votes. The JD(S) candidate, Ammajamma, whose husband B. Sathyanarayana’s death had necessitated the byelection, could get only 35,982 votes. The swing in Sira in favour of the BJP has been massive, while the JD(S) has lost heavily. The Congress vote share has remained intact here. The run-up to the elections had seen leaders of the Opposition trading charges of use of money and muscle power, and misuse of government machinery that had been vehemently denied by ruling party leaders. The poll arena had become tense as KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, facing his first elections after his elevation, was eyeing for consolidation of Vokkaliga votes, which had been resented by JD(S) leaders H.D. Deve Gowda and H.D. Kumaraswamy, who were trying to retain their hold on the community leadership. The Sira election had become intense with Chief Minister B.S. Yeddyurappa’s son and BJP vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra camping there and attempting to repeat the feat achieved in K.R. Pet bypolls nearly a year ago.
11 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Quiet satisfaction in BJP over Bihar win||As BJP and its ally in Bihar, the Janata Dal(U), watched the results through a slow counting day for the Assembly election, there was a quiet air of satisfaction that the NDA had managed to keep together its support base and was on track to form the government in the State. Mindful of the fact that the BJP had celebrated too early in 2015 on result day, only to be disappointed later, party leaders were subdued though workers thronged the national headquarters in Delhi. Senior leaders of the BJP told The Hindu that the NDA’s preservation of the social coalition that had repeatedly brought it to power was a matter of satisfaction to the party, and justified the decision not to go it alone in the polls, though Prime Minister Narendra Modi remained the most popular leader in the State. “The point to note is that the NDA voter more or less remained with us, and to win, Tejashwi Yadav needed not just his Muslim-Yadav combine but a chunk of NDA vote too, which he didn’t get,” said a senior Bihar BJP leader. “Much of our score is attributed to Prime Minister Modi who is now both the enabler and provider model of leader,” a senior BJP leader said. “The enabler leader is one who empowers marginal communities to get a voice within a system and with non-Yadav OBCs and non-Jatav Dalits voting for the BJP repeatedly in U.P. and in Bihar, Prime Minister Modi has proved that he is an enabler. In terms of the provider model, there too, through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) on welfare schemes for the poor, and emphasis on infrastructure like roads and electricity, he has become the provider of development and welfare,” said the source, adding that the welfare programmes helped mitigate some of the hardships of the reverse migration in the State during the COVID-19 lockdown. Modi factor There was a strong feeling that the much bigger strike rate of the BJP compared with Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s party was a reflection of the popularity of Prime Minister Modi which far outstripped that of Mr. Kumar. The one question that every BJP leader did answer with alacrity was that Chief Minister Nitish Kumar will continue in his post if the NDA secures a victory. “Our senior leader Amit Shahji and others have said that Nitish Kumar will be the Chief Minister of an NDA-led government whatever the seat situation,” said State unit chief Sanjay Jaiswal, a decision that will be a hardsell to party cadre. There was, however, also a feeling that the JD(U) was hard done by due to the strategy of Chirag Paswan of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) who put up 137 candidates mainly against the JD(U). “Of these, 70 candidates were upper caste and eroded some of the NDA votes from being cast in favour of the JD(U). There will have to be a reckoning on the number of seats lost by the JD(U) because of this,” said a source. The caste arithmetic and support base, always a delicate structure in a politically charged State like Bihar, has remained more or less intact for the NDA. As counting went into late night, that was a thought that the alliance held on to.
11 November 2020||New Delhi,||CPI(ML) on song in Bihar fight||The Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) on Tuesday registered a big victory in Bihar, with the party being on course to win 12 of the 19 seats it contested, its highest tally in over 30 years. CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya said that this result was a victory for the people of Bihar, while he rued that the Left was under-represented in the grand alliance led by the Rashtriya Janata Dal. “The credit entirely goes to the people of Bihar. It is their struggle and we are just the medium,” Mr. Bhattacharya said. The electoral fortunes of the party changed with the lockdown. “At a time when both the Centre and the State government abandoned and humiliated the people, our comrades were standing with them every day,” he said. Swing in fortunes In the 2005 February Assembly election, the CPI(ML) won seven seats. Within a few months when the Assembly was dissolved since there was no clear mandate for any party and election was held in October, the party’s tally came down to five. In the 2010 election, it drew a blank. In the 2015 election, the party fought independently and won three seats. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, the RJD, despite several rounds of talks, kept the Left out of the Opposition alliance. This time around, however, they decided to join hands with it. Mr. Bhattacharya said the alliance also provided the necessary boost to the CPI(ML) but essentially, he said, it was the situation with an upsurge of youth that contributed to its electoral fortunes. Asked if the grand alliance could have had an easy win if the Left were given more seats, Mr. Bhattacharya said, “It is a reasonable question to ask and we will have to find an answer. People feel that the Left was under-represented in the alliance. But for the RJD, from exclusion of 2019 to modest inclusion, it was a long road.” He said while the Congress had underperformed pulling the alliance down with it, the Janata Dal(U) performed better than expected considering it was besieged from all sides, the anti-incumbency factor and the tussle within the alliance.
11 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Test positivity rate in Karnataka stays flat||Kerala reported 6,010 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, with a testing level of 54,751 samples. The test positivity rate, which was 18.16% on October 13 came down and stabilised between 12-14% after October 25. The rate had dropped to 10.98%, indicating plateauing of transmission. However, low level of disease transmission was likely to continue before a perceptible dip. Public health experts cautioned that physical distancing and universal masking were essential to avoid a flare-up. On Tuesday also, more recoveries than new cases were reported in the State, with 6,698 COVID-19 patients leaving hospitals. The active case pool in the State, which registered the maximum number of patients at 97,417 on October 24, has been declining steadily as the recovery rate seemed to pick up pace. On Tuesday, the number of patients in the active case pool has come down to 78,694 . The cumulative recoveries till date has been 4, 15,158. The Health department, on Tuesday, added 28 more deaths from between October 27 and November 8 to the official list. Of the 28 deaths reported on Tuesday, Thiruvananthapuram accounted for six, Kottayam four, Kozhikode, Kannnur, Palakkad, Thrissur and Kollam three each and Pathanamthitta, Ernakulam and Malappuram, one each. Kozhikode district reported 807 cases, Thrissur 711, Malappuram 685, Alapuzha 641, Ernakulam 583, Thiruvananthapuram 567, Kollam 431, Kottayam 426, Palakkad 342, Kannur 301, Pathanamthitta 234, Wayanad 112, Idukki 89 and Kasaragod 81 cases. Telangana added 1,267 cases on Monday after testing 42,490 people. The new cases included 201 from Greater Hyderabad, 109 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 104 from Rangareddy, 89 from Nalgonda and 85 from Bhadradri-Kothagudem. Narayanpet (3), Jogulamba-Gadwal (5) and Adilabad (6) recorded the lowest cases. From March 2 to November 9, a total of 46,84,766 samples were tested. Andhra Pradesh’s case tally inched closer to 8.5 lakh with 1,886 new infections on Tuesday. Twelve more deaths were reported. The overall positivity rate of 87.85 lakh samples tested so far was 9.63% while that of the 67,910 samples tested in the past day was 2.78%. Chittoor and Krishna reported three deaths each. Anantapur, East Godavari, Guntur, Prakasam, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari reported one death each. The new cases were: Chittoor (291), West Godavari (282), Guntur (275), Krishna (269), East Godavari (227), Prakasam (111), Visakhapatnam (97), Nellore (79), Kadapa (67), Vizianagaram (62), Anantapur (60), Kurnool (33) and Srikakulam (33). Vizianagaram, the only district in the State with fewer than 40,000 infections till Monday, too crossed the mark in the past day.Karnataka on Tuesday reported 2,362 new cases and 20 deaths. The day’s positivity rate stood at 2.15%. Testing was done on 1,09,508 samples, including 78,594 RT-PCR tests.  (With inputs from   Hyderabad, Vijayawada   and Bengaluru bureaus)
11 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||EC denies RJD charge, says trends in public domain||Election Commission officials said on Tuesday that the counting of votes in the Bihar Assembly election, the first general election to be held during the COVID-19 pandemic, was not slow but was taking longer because of the increase in number of electronic voting machines (EVMs) and postal ballots. Briefing presspersons at 10 p.m., EC officials said the counting process was in the last stages. EC Secretary-General Umesh Sinha said he wanted to make it clear that the EC had never been under any pressure from anyone. On the allegation by the RJD that its candidates were congratulated by the returning officers in 119 seats but were not given the certificates, Mr. Kumar said the results and trends were in the public domain. Responding to the demand for a recount, which the CPI(ML) raised in three seats, Mr. Kumar said wherever the margin of victory was lower than the number of rejected postal ballots, the re-verification was mandatory as per a May 2019 direction of the EC. Addressing presspersons at 6 p.m., Chandra Bhushan Kumar, Deputy Election Commissioner (DEC) in charge of Bihar, said 2.7 crore of the 4.11 crore ballots cast had been counted till 5.30 p.m. At an earlier press briefing at 1.30 p.m., DEC Ashish Kundra said just over 1 crore votes had been counted and that there was “significant ground to be covered”. He said the process had been going smoothly and no issues had been reported since counting began at 8 a.m. Mr. Kumar said the number of polling stations had increased by 63% after the EC decided to cap the number of electors per location to 1,000 instead of 1,500 to maintain social distancing. The number of polling booths and EVMs had increased from 65,000 to 1.06 lakh, he said. He said the EC had limited counting tables to seven per hall, from the earlier 14, but increased the counting locations from 38 to 55.
11 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||BJP staves off U.P. challenge, wins six seats||Despite facing questions over his handling of the law and order situation and sensitive caste equations in Uttar Pradesh, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and the BJP on Tuesday retained all the six seats it won in 2017. The Samajwadi Party won the seventh seat, Malhani in Jaunpur, which it won in 2017, in the byelections in which the Opposition parties failed to make a mark. The BSP and the Congress failed to open their account despite securing a respectable share of votes in some seats. Mr. Adityanath had campaigned in all seven constituencies. The bypolls were held at a time when he was facing heat over the mishandling of the Hathras rape case, the aftermath of the Bikru shootout case and killing of wanted criminal Vikas Dubey in Kanpur. As per the Election Commission, the BJP won in Deoria Sadar and Bangermau (Unnao), Bulandshahr, Ghatampur (Kanpur), Tundla (Firozabad) and Nauwagan Sadat (Amroha). In Malhani, Lucky Yadav of the SP saw off a strong challenge by former MP and alleged “Bahubali” (strongman) politician Dhananjay Singh, who contested as an Independent, defeating him by 4,632 votes. In Deoria, where all the four top parties fielded Brahmins, Satyaprakash Mani Tripathi of the BJP defeated Brahma Shankar Tripathi of the SP by over 20,000 votes. Addressing the media as the trends indicated a positive result for the BJP, Mr. Adityanath said the party had repeated its performance of 2017 and 2019. Through the bypolls, the BJP had sent a “message” that it would perform strongly in the Assembly election in 2022, Mr. Adityanath said. ‘People’s faith’ The result in U.P. as well as in other States indicated the “common people’s faith” in Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his schemes and programmes of public welfare, poor welfare and national security and bringing prestige to the country at the global stage, the CM said. In Bangermau, Arti Bajpai of the Congress fought hard to secure a second place against Shrikant Katiyar of the BJP, losing by over 31,000 votes. The seat was vacated in controversial circumstances for the BJP after its MLA, Kuldeep Singh Sengar, was convicted in a rape case. In Bulandshar, RLD candidate Praveen Kumar Singh, supported by the SP, lagged with only around 7,000 votes as Mohammad Yunus of the BSP unsuccessfully challenged Usha Sirohi of the BJP in a polarised two-way contest. In Ghatampur, Upendra Nath Paswan of the BJP eased past his opponents by over 23,000 votes while the SP, whose leader Akhilesh Yadav has projected himself to be the main challenger to the BJP in 2022, was left embarrassed with a fourth spot position. In Naugawa Sadat, Sangeeta Chauhan of the BJP, widow of deceased cabinet minister and former cricketer Chetan Chauhan, defeated Javed Abbas of the SP. In Tundla, Prempal Singh Dhangar of the BJP saw off a spirited fight from Maharaj Singh Dhangar of the SP by a margin of over 15,000 votes. With a score of six and one for the BJP and SP respectively, and a nil for the Congress and BSP, the Opposition parties failed to apply pressure on Mr. Adityanath at a time he was facing criticism over a spate of crimes, alleged perceived discontent among the powerful Brahmin community and anger among a section of Dalits over the Hathras rape and forced cremation incident. The bypoll in seven seats, though only a tiny fraction of the 403-member Assembly, was not only a test of anti-incumbency against and personal brand of Mr. Adityanath but also a stage for the SP, BSP and Congress to battle out to claim the post of the main challenger to the BJP in 2022 Assembly polls, and to provide a psychological boost to their cadre and supporters. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s overtures in U.P. over the past year and the party’s wooing of Brahmins failed to materialise into poll results. By putting up a poor fight in Bulandshahr, the RLD-SP alliance has also put itself under scrutiny. In Deoria, the Congress candidate secured just over 3,600 votes.
11 November 2020||YADAGIRIGUTTA,||Yadadri to be world-class temple tourist site||As work on the main temple complex of the Yadadri Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Temple are nearing completion, the State government has started work on setting up bus stations and depots here to connect devotees to different parts of the State. Minister for Roads and Building V. Prashant Reddy and Minister for Transport P. Ajay Kumar were here on Tuesday inspecting sites for setting up the proposed facility. Along with District Collector Anita Ramachandran and local legislator G. Sunitha, the Ministers visited the bus stop near Gandi Cheruvu and the bus depot at Saidapur. Mr. Ajay Kumar said there would be two separate terminals — one for bus terminal for the devotees coming from different parts of the State and outside and the other for the services to transport pilgrims within the temple city — and they were shortlisting locations for the two terminus, he said. “The proposed designs for devotee amenities at bus stations would be built considering the likely footfalls of lakhs of devotee in the next 50 years. The depot will have a capacity for night halt of up to 150 buses,” he said. All the bus stations and depots will be designed by the serving temple architects to ensure that they follow a temple theme to blend with spiritual ambience. Minister for R&B and Housing Mr. Prashant Reddy said officials were directed to take up works pertaining to the ring road, construction of cottages and cloak rooms for devotees. Alair Legislator G. Sunitha said the temple city will be developed as a world-class temple tourist site. Through its various wings, employment opportunities would be generated for the locals. Bhongir legislator P. Sekhar Reddy, Yadadri Temple Development Authority vice-chairman Kishan Rao, temple executive officer N. Geetha and officials from various departments were present.  The proposed designs for devotee amenities at the bus stations would be built considering the likely footfalls of lakhs of devotee in the next 50 years. P. Ajay Kumar, Transport Minister
11 November 2020||New Delhi,||Congress finds no hope, remains the ‘weakest link’||The Congress on Tuesday lived up to the tag of being the “weakest link” in the Mahagathbandhan (“grand alliance”), with the party losing most of the 70 seats it contested as part of this alliance. With the Congress’s “non-performance” rather than its performance becoming the point of debate, a senior leader claimed that the party had “contested” seats where the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) had a 95% strike rate. But the party’s poor performance will certainly bring its leadership question to the fore again. Open revolt Bihar was the first State that went to the polls after an open revolt by a group of 23 leaders, who questioned the party’s functioning under the Gandhis. Questions will not only be raised about the party’s strategy, but may also delay the return of Rahul Gandhi as party president, something that is being pushed by a younger group of leaders. A complete washout in Uttar Pradesh and a near wipe-out in Madhya Pradesh will also put a question mark on the party’s ability to be a player in the Hindi heartland States. Going forward, the disappointment in Bihar will demoralise party workers in States such as Kerala and Assam, where the Congress is keen on returning to power.  In the red Until the filing of this report, the party was holding on to 20 of the 70 seats it contested as part of the grand alliance, and had clearly failed to capitalise on any anti-incumbency factor against the Nitish Kumar government. In 2015, when the Janata Dal(U) was part of the alliance, the party won 27 of the 41 seats it was allotted. “Whenever the JD(U) and the BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] come together, they become a deadly combination based on their caste and social composition. For example, in 2010, when the BJP and the JD(U) fought the election together, they won 65 out of 70 seats. These 70 seats are traditionally non-UPA (United Progressive Alliance)/non-Congress seats, where the strike rate of our opponents (NDA) is more than 95%,” a senior Congress leader said. But even before the elections started, when the party announced its first list of 21 candidates, there were allegations of impropriety and of ticket being given to candidates for considerations other than winnability. “We were totally depending on Tejashwi Yadav and the Muslim-Yadav combination to see us through. Neither did we have a strong local leader nor a powerful narrative of our own,” Kishore Jha, senior Congress leader from Bihar, told The Hindu .
11 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP makes big gains in Assembly bypolls in 11 States||The BJP was on course to win 40 of the 59 Assembly byelections held in 11 States last week, according to the Election Commission’s portal for results and trends at 8 p.m. on Tuesday. The ruling party has won or was leading in 19 out of the 28 seats for the Madhya Pradesh Assembly, while the Congress was ahead in the remaining nine seats. In Chhattisgarh, the Congress candidate for the Marwahi seat, Dr. K.K Dhruw, led with a margin of over 38,000 votes over BJP candidate Dr. Gambheer Singh. The BJP won all eight seats in Gujarat, with 55.06% of the votes cast compared against the34.34% of the Congress, according to the EC. The winners are Jadeja Pradhyumansinh Mahipatsinh from Abdasa, Patel Vijaybai Rameshbhai from Dangs, Kakadiya J.V. from Dhari, Atmaram Makanbhai from Gadhada, Jitubhai Harjibhai Chaudhari from Kaprada, Akshaykumar Iswarbhai Patel from Karjan, Kirtisinh Jitubha Rana from Limbdi and Brijesh Merja from Morbi. The Congress won the Baroda seat in Haryana with Indu Raj defeating the BJP candidate, former wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt, by 10,566 votes. The Congress and the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha won one seat each in Jharkhand, with Kumar Jaimangal winning Bermo and Basant Soren winning Dumka. In Manipur, the BJP won or was leading in four seats, while an independent candidate was ahead in one seat. In Nagaland, Independent candidate T. Yangseo Sangtam got 31.85% of votes to win the Pungro Kiphire seat and Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party candidate Medo Yhokha won Southern Angami-I seat with 41.11% of votes. In Odisha, the Biju Janata Dal candidates Swarup Kumar Das and Bijaya Shankar Das won from Balasore and Tirtol respectively.
11 November 2020||New Delhi,||Naravane hopeful of reaching ‘mutually beneficial’ agreement||Army chief General Manoj Naravane on Tuesday said that senior military commanders of India and China were “ironing out the modalities” of how to proceed ahead on the situation in eastern Ladakh and were hopeful that “we will be able to reach an agreement, which is mutually acceptable and mutually beneficial”. He also asserted that there was no shortage of extreme weather clothing or equipment for troops deployed on the front line. “We had the 8th round of talks on November 6 between the highest military-level commanders on both sides. They are ironing out the modalities of how to proceed ahead within the overarching guidelines, which had been communicated post the interactions and meetings between the respective Ministers [Defence and External Affairs],” Gen. Naravane said at the defence attaché conclave organised by news portal Bharat Shakti. “It was discussed by the Defence Ministers that it has to be an overall solution to the entire issue which brought this situation to the fore. Within those guidelines, we are discussing how to actually achieve it on the ground,” he said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held talks with his Chinese counterpart, Gen. Wei Fenghe, on September 4 in Moscow on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Defence Ministers meeting. On September 10, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar met his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, in Moscow, where they agreed on a five-point plan for disengagement and de-escalation along the disputed boundary in Ladakh where the stand-off has been on since early May. On reports that there was shortage of extreme weather clothing for troops deployed in Ladakh, Gen. Naravane said, “There is no shortage whatsoever of any kind. All the troops are equipped with the newest of clothing, equipment and weapons.” He said equipment was catered for a certain number of troops at any point of time. The situation that had developed required them to deploy additional troops and it was for these additional troops that they “had to go in for certain emergency procurements”. Indigenous suppliers Gen. Naravane said that over the years they have been going for indigenous suppliers for extreme weather clothing and equipment. Of some 10 to 12 items, six were done by local suppliers and contract for another four was being done by Indian suppliers. The contract had been signed in July and the first supplies would start by January or February. On the Army’s advanced winter stocking, he said that during the summer months, a fair deal of stocking always took place keeping in mind the road-closure period from November to May. “This is a process we do year on year and it is a quite a well-established procedure. We just had to ramp it up to cater to the additional numbers which were there,” he added.
11 November 2020||Kozhikode,||ED quizzes Shaji in Plus Two case||Officials of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) quizzed Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) legislator K.M. Shaji in connection with the Plus Two bribery case for more than 12 hours on Tuesday. It is learnt that he also presented some documents pertaining to his financial transactions and status during the past decade. Mr. Shaji arrived at the ED sub-zonal office at Kallai at 9 a.m. The ED had served notice on him for questioning. The ED is probing the case registered based on the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The case was that Plus Two courses were sanctioned after collecting a bribe of Rs. 25 lakh from the school management at Azhikode in 2014. Wife’s statement On Monday, the sleuths had recorded the statement of K.M. Asha, wife of Mr. Shaji, who is the owner of the house in Vengeri in the limits of the city. The ED wanted to extract details about the source of income in connection with construction of the 5,500 sq ft house. The Kozhikode Corporation, which has already submitted a report to the ED, found violations in the construction of the house. The civic authorities had granted permission to construct the house for a space of 3,200 sq ft in 2013. The ED has already issued notices to 30 persons for either recording their statements or questioning. The statement of IUML leaders including State general secretary K.P.A.Majeed and Kannur district general secretary Abdul Kareem Cheleri. were taken last month.
11 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Health Ministry taking stock of cold chain for vaccine supply||The Union Health Ministry has said its expert committee on vaccine administration is looking at the status of vaccine development worldwide, its regulatory approvals, logistic requirements and dose requirement. “Priority population groups, identified by the government, no matter where they are stationed [in urban or rural areas] would be given COVID-vaccine. India, however, will need many more cold storage facilities, equipment etc. We are now taking stock of the storage facilities and are well equipped to augment our capacity,’’ said Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, at a press conference on Tuesday. He said 62% of COVID-19 deaths reported in the last 24 hours are from Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala and Punjab. Indian Council of Medical Research Director General Balram Bhargava said the spike in the number of cases in Delhi can be attributed to rise in pollution, cold weather, crowds due to festival season and laxity in COVID-appropriate behaviour. The Health Ministry on Tuesday said India has registered less than 40,000 daily new cases after six days. “The number of daily new COVID-cases in the last 24 hours is 38,073. For the third day in a row, daily new cases have been sustained below the 50,000-mark. The active case load has shrunk to 5,05,265. The recovery rate has also, as a consequence, increased to 92.64%.Total recoveries as of today are 79,59,406. The gap between recovered cases and active cases has widened to 74,54,141.’’ The Ministry said 78% of the new recovered cases are concentrated in 10 States/UTs. “Delhi continues to report the highest daily new cases, 5,983, which is less than its previous day tally of 7,745. Delhi is followed by West Bengal with 3,907 new cases. Kerala’s daily case has declined to 3,593 while Maharashtra’s new cases have declined to 3,277 cases,’’ it said. India has also reported 448 case fatalities in the past 24 hours with the Ministry saying they have continued to decrease with less than 500 fatalities reported for the second day. “Ten States/UTs account for nearly 78%. Although Maharashtra saw the most casualties (85), its contribution to daily deaths has decreased to 18.97%..’’
11 November 2020||SIDDIPET,||BJP beats TRS in Dubbak bypoll||BJP candidate M. Raghunandan Rao won the by-election to Dubbak Assembly constituency by a margin of 1,079 votes against TRS candidate S. Sujatha, wife of late MLA S. Ramalinga Reddy who passed away about three months ago thereby necessitating the by-election on November 3. Mr. Rao polled 63,352 votes against 62,273 of S. Sujatha and 22,196 of Congress candidate Ch Srinivas Reddy, son of late minister Ch. Muthyam Reddy. NOTA got 554 votes. The Congress forfeited its deposit. From the beginning of counting of votes at an engineering college here on Tuesday, it was a see-saw battle between BJP and TRS with Congress remaining a poor third though the party was expected to offer a tough fight. Except in five rounds of counting, Congress could not cross three-figure mark. Before the announcement of results, EVMs pertaining to Pothareddypeet of Dubbak mandal (413) votes, Etigaddakishtapur of Toguta mandal (583), Surampally (314 votes) and Arepally of Dultabad mandal (339) could not be opened due to snag, leading to tension among supporters of political parties. Finally, officials counted votes based on Voter- Verified Paper Audit Trail (VVPATs). This resulted in increasing the number of rounds from the earlier stated 23 to 25. “This is a judgment by the people of Dubbak against the dictatorial rule of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. I will serve the people of Dubbak till my last breath,” said Mr Raghunandan Rao. It was weeks of planning and execution by the activists of BJP which made the victory possible.
11 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Health measures to keep Sabarimala free of COVID-19||As the annual Mandalam-Makaravilakku season at Sabarimala begins next week, an unprecedented challenge awaits the State authorities in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Though the number of attendees has been limited to just 1,000 a day, the health authorities regard any loopholes in the proposed health measures for the two-month season may put the State's health-care system in jeopardy. Hence, an elaborate plan has been drawn up to offer the pilgrims a range of health services. According to officials, since the devotees have been permitted to move only through the Swami Ayyappan Road, four causality units – one each at Nilackal, Pampa, Charalmedu and the Sannidhanam -- will be opened. Additionally, five emergency centres comprising oxygen parlours and ECG units will be set up Each of the casualty units, except the one at Charlmedu, will be led by a team of doctors while the emergency centres will be manned by para-medical staff along with volunteers of the Akhila Bharatha Ayyappa Seva Sanghom. Separate teams of doctors comprising cardiologists, orthopaedics and anaesthetists will be stationed at the Sannidhanam and in the valley. Doctors to take turns “The doctors will work on a weekly turn of two shifts a day while the paramedical staff will be stationed for two weeks. The whole system will run with the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, which currently serves as a COVID treatment centre, as the baseline hospital. ,” said A.L. Sheeja, District Medical Officer, Pathanamthitta, on Tuesday. Besides the testing kiosks to be opened at all railway stations, markets places and bus stations, COVID testing centres will be opened at Pampa and Nilackal for the examination of various department staff.
11 November 2020||New Delhi,||No kingmaker, but LJP dented JD(U)||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) president Chirag Paswan wanted to play the role of kingmaker, but won just one seat in the Bihar Assembly election — Matihani by 333 votes. The party secured the second spot in eight of the 243 constituencies. Mr. Paswan, who had claimed during the campaign that he was the ‘Hanuman’ of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has hurt the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). There are at least 27 seats where the margin by which the JD(U) lost to the grand alliance is same as the number of votes polled in favour of the LJP. He roped in 25 former BJP leaders who could not manage to get the ticket. In Dinara, he fielded senior leader Rajendra Singh, an old RSS hand. Mr. Singh lost by nearly 3,000 votes. In Bhagalpur, the LJP got Deputy Mayor Rajesh Verma to contest against the Congress but he too lost. It is telling that in Hasanpur, Lalu Prasad’s son and Tejashwi Yadav’s brother Tej Pratap Yadav could win only because the LJP polled nearly 10,000 votes, which is his victory margin against the JD(U). Even in the face of his sustained campaign against Nitish Kumar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not explicitly rebuke Mr. Paswan, giving the impression that the BJP was on board with his move. Till the eve of the results, the LJP was confident of spoiling the JD(U)’s chances in 60 seats and winning at least 10 for itself. The results were shocking for the party. Mr. Paswan has maintained silence since morning. Third solo show This is the third instance that the LJP, since its formation in 2000, has gone solo. In February 2005, it won 29 seats out of the 178 it fought, cornering nearly 18% of the vote share. Within a few months, in October, they were on a decline, winning only 10 out of the 203 seats they contested, getting 11.10% vote share. Tuesday’s results are starkly different from these two elections. This time around, their vote share marginally increased from 4.83% in 2015 to 5.63%. The results raise many questions, on what will be the LJP’s position if Mr. Nitish Kumar returns as Chief Minister.
11 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear Arnab’s appeal today||A Vacation Bench of the Supreme Court is convening on Wednesday to hear an appeal by Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami against the Bombay High Court’s decision refusing him immediate relief in a case of abetment to suicide. A Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud is scheduled to hear the case at 10.30 a.m. On November 7, the High Court refused to order Mr. Goswami’s release under its extraordinary writ jurisdiction. It asked him to seek regular bail from the trial court and directed the trial court to decide his bail plea within four days. It also did not stay the investigation. The Division Bench of the High Court, in a 57-page detailed order, explained that investigation of a case was “exclusively within the domain of the investigation agencies over which the courts cannot have control and have no power to stifle or impinge”. On the plea to quash the FIR registered in the case in May 2018, it said this power should only be used with great restraint in “rare and appropriate cases” to prevent abuse of law. Case concocted: Salve Senior advocate Harish Salve, for Mr. Goswami, had called the case “concocted” and prima facie an act of revenge for his news coverage, which questioned those in power in the State of Maharashtra”. Mr. Goswami argued that the case was a “brazen attempt of vendetta politics against him and his channel”.
11 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||ED subjects Swapna to marathon questioning||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday subjected Swapna Suresh, second accused in the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case, to marathon questioning at the Attakulangara Women’s Prison here. Officials were unwilling to comment on the exact track of the interrogation. However, they indicated that there was a good chance that the examination might also be focussed on Khaled Mohamed Ali Shoukry, an Egyptian national and the head of the finance department at the UAE consulate here when the gold smuggling operation ran undetected. Swapna and her co-defendant P. Sarith were employed at the consulate during the same period and were reportedly well-acquainted with Mr. Shoukry. No immunity The Union Ministry of External Affairs had recently clarified that Mr. Shoukry had no diplomatic immunity. The declaration had effectively rendered the Egyptian national vulnerable to prosecution. It could also result in the promulgation of an Interpol warrant for his arrest. Officials said multiple depositions of the gold case accused had spotlighted the “oversize role” Mr. Shoukry had allegedly played in the racket. Shoukry’s role By one account, Mr. Shoukry had allegedly attempted to return the “diplomatic cargo” containing 30 kg of contraband gold to its port of origin in Dubai in July after Swapna and others sensed that the Customs was intent on examining the contents of the air freight addressed to a UAE consulate official here. The Customs are also investigating whether M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, had any role in the botched cover-up attempt. The ED has verified travel records and found that Mr. Shoukry had travelled to Dubai with other accused in the case. The agency suspected that the group had used the trips to spirit away the proceeds from gold smuggling in foreign currency to Dubai. Multiple inquiries Swapna, a COFEPOSA (Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act) detainee at the Attakulangara Women's Prison here, is the target of multiple inquiries by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), Customs and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The CBI is probing the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act violation aspect of the controversial LIFE Mission-UAE Red Crescent deal to build 144 dwellings for the poor at Wadakkanchey in Thrissur. The builder had stated that he had paid Rs. 4 crore as bribe to bag the contract and that Swapna and Shoukry were among the beneficiaries. The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau is also investigating the contract and has named Mr. Sivasankar and Swapna as accused in the case.
11 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Jaleel flays bid to tarnish his academic integrity||Higher Education and Minority Welfare Minister K.T. Jaleel has said that the attempts being made to cast aspersions on his academic integrity were fuelled by long-running animosity and prejudice. Reacting to a petition submitted by the Save University Campaign Committee to the Governor demanding a revaluation of his 15-year-old doctoral thesis, Dr. Jaleel rubbished the claims raised by the complainant to besmirch his research work. On Malabar Rebellion The forum had called for a scrutiny of the thesis ‘Kunhahammed Haji and Ali Musliar – Their Role in the Malabar Rebellion’ that studied the role of Variamkunnath Kunjahamed Haji during the 1921 Malabar Rebellion. Referring to the allegations of irregularities in registering the research work, Dr. Jaleel pointed out the thesis had been evaluated by subject experts 15 years ago (in 2005) when a United Democratic Front (UDF) government was in power and a Vice Chancellor nominated by them was at the helm of the university. Lashing out at the claims of bias in approaching the topic, the Minister said that he had sought to deconstruct the sequence of events pertaining to the rebellion with scientific backing and by formulating research hypothesis. Sign of intolerance He also viewed the allegations as a sign of intolerance towards any attempt to defy the purported narrative propagated by the Congress and Sangh Parivar on the Malabar Rebellion. The Minister said a few spelling and grammatical errors were natural, considering the length of the thesis.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Hopeful of agreement’||“It was discussed by the Defence Ministers that it has to be an overall solution to the entire issue which brought this situation to the fore. Within those guidelines, we are discussing how to actually achieve it on the ground,” he said. On reports that there was shortage of extreme weather clothing for troops deployed in Ladakh, Gen. Naravane said, “There is no shortage whatsoever of any kind. All the troops are equipped with the newest of clothing, equipment and weapons.” He said equipment was catered for a certain number of troops at any point of time. The situation that had developed required them to deploy additional troops.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||NDA has clear edge in tough Bihar fight||At the RJD headquarters, party workers remained glued to televisions screens hoping that the number would turn in their favour. Late in the evening, the RJD alleged that the Chief Minister and others were putting pressure on district officials to contain the Mahagatbandhan at “105-110 seats”. “A change of government is certain. I am convinced that you will see [a] change of government [in Bihar],” RJD leader and spokesperson Manoj Jha told reporters in Patna. In the RJD-led UPA coalition, Left party candidates seemed to be performing well. Political fortunes see-sawed through the day. BJP leader and minister in the Nitish Kumar Cabinet, Suresh Kumar Sharma, lost the poll from Muzaffarpur. JD(U) leader Chandrika Rai, who is the estranged father-in-law of Tej Pratap Yadav, elder son of Lalu Prasad, lost from Parsa in Saran district while Tej Pratap Yadav won from Hasanpur in Samastipur district defeating his nearest rival of the JD(U) Rajkumar Rai by over 20,000 votes. Senior RJD leader Abdul Bari Siddiqui, however, could not win his seat from Keoti. Former MP and Jan Adhikar Party chief Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, too, lost the poll from Madhepura. Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) president Jitan Ram Manjhi, an NDA ally, defeated his rival and former State Assembly Speaker Uday Narayan Chaudhury from Imamganj in Gaya district. Imprisoned bahubali (strongman), Anant Singh, who contested on an RJD ticket this time, won from the Mokama. Among other smaller parties who had fought the polls, the AIMIM was leading in five seats in the seemanchal, or border, constituencies in Kishanganj, Purnia, Araria and Katihar districts. The Plurals Party chief Pushpam Priya lost from Bankipore which was retained by sitting BJP MLA Nitin Navin. Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP), and another 11 political parties, who had made their debut in the State Assembly polls, failed to win even a single seat.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||PM seeks respect for ‘territorial integrity’||He reminded that India has traditionally supported infrastructure and connectivity development projects in the SCO region. He named the Chabahar port and the North South Corridor among the projects that India has supported. The 20th summit of SCO heads of state is important as it brought President Xi Jinping of China and Mr. Modi together in the virtual format even as both sides are caught in a high tension confrontation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Dialogue important: Xi Mr. Xi also hinted at the difficulties among members and said differences should be resolved through dialogue. “We need to deepen solidarity and mutual trust and resolve disputes and differences through dialogue and consultations,” he said in his remarks which resonated with the backdrop of the LAC confrontation. Addressing the meeting, Mr. Modi said bringing changes in the global governance will be the focus of India as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council next year. “In our civilisation, it is said that parivartanmeva sthiramasti (change is the only constant). From 2021 India will take part in the UN Security Council as a non-permanent member. As a member of UNSC our attention will be on changing the global rules of governance,” he said. Stating that the United Nations had failed to deliver on the vision of the organisation, Mr. Modi said the global body should address the immediate needs of the world that is struggling with the fallout of the pandemic and the economic downturn. “We hope to get support of the SCO members in attaining a reformed multilateralism, which will reflect the global realities of the 21st century and which will meet the expectations of all the stakeholders of the world,” he said. Mr. Modi also announced that in 2021, the National Museum of India will hold an exhibition on the Buddhist heritage of the SCO countries and India will host a food festival reflecting the culinary traditions of the SCO region. He reiterated India’s aspiration for peace in the regio. and highlighted the challenges posed by the smuggling of illegal weapons, drugs and money laundering.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||M.P. bypolls: BJP wins 16 seats; secures govt.||Speaking to reporters in Bhopal, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said: the State’s people and he had a relation of affinity. “I have complete faith the BJP will secure a massive victory. Wherever we trail, we are behind only by marginal votes”. Taking to Twitter, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, “Powered by the progressive agenda of the government under Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and the hardwork of the Madhya Pradesh BJP, our party has emerged as the unparalleled choice of the people. I thank the people of MP for blessing BJP in the bypolls held across the State. Their affection is invaluable.” Riding on the popularity of Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, who switched over to the BJP from the Congress in March, the BJP has made significant inroads in the Gwalior-Chambal region, his traditional stronghold. Of the 16 seats in the region, where Mr. Scindia’s supporters contested as BJP candidates, the party won six in the Gwalior region, while it won one seat and led in two in the Chambal region. Congratulating the winners, Mr. Scindia wrote on Twitter, “I have complete faith that you will always be ready for public service and the complete development of their Vidhan Sabha constituencies.” In the Chambal region, the Congress won three seats to deal a blow to Minister Aidal Singh Kansana and MLAs Raghuraj Singh Kansana and Ranveer Jatav, supporters of Mr. Scindia who switched over to the BJP in March. Minister Imarti Devi lost from Dabra in the Gwalior region by a margin of 7,633 votes. State Congress president and former Chief Minister Kamal Nath said he would respect the mandate and thank the voters. “While accepting the mandate, we will play the role of the Opposition, always stand for the interest of the State and the public,” Mr. Nath wrote on Twitter. “...I hope the BJP government will take care of farmers’ interest, provide employment to the youth and ensure respect and safety of women. We will analyse these results.” Rajya Sabha member Digvijaya Singh said ‘notetantra’ (rule of money) had won over democracy. “I ask only one thing: why doesn’t any developed country use the electronic voting machine (EVM)? It has a chip which is not tamper-proof.” Hitting back at Mr. Singh, the Chief Minister said, “There was no issue with the EVMs when they won 114 seats earlier? He never accepts the truth, but makes only excuses for the defeat.”
11 November 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Police-Maoists ‘exchange fire’, no casualties||An “exchange of fire” took place between Maoists and a police combing party at Peddampeta forest area in Mahadevpur mandal of Jayashankar Bhupalpally district on Tuesday. No one was injured in the incident, police said. The incident occurred when a police party came under fire from a group of armed ultras while conducting a combing operation at Peddampeta based on specific information about the movement of Maoist rebels in Mahadevpur forest fringe areas, police sources added. When the police returned the fire in self-defence, the rebels fled the spot leaving eight kits bags, one .303 rifle, utensils, medical kits and a solar light at the site of “exchange of fire.”
11 November 2020||Kozhikode,||AMAI seeks quashing of govt. order||The Ayurveda Medical Association of India (AMAI) has approached the Kerala High Court seeking quashing of a State government circular that prevents practitioners of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy (AYUSH) from prescribing medicines to treat COVID-19. The association has urged the Chief Minister to remove the AYUSH Secretary, who issued the circular, from her post. It was on October 20 that the State AYUSH secretary issued the circular in line with a Kerala High Court judgment on August 21, which said AYUSH medicines could be used only as “immunity boosters” and that they could not be prescribed as a cure for the infection. The petition filed by Raju Thomas, AMAI functionary, claimed that the circular was “illegal, unconstitutional and liable to be quashed”. Dr. Thomas claimed that Rajesh Cotecha, Union AYUSH Secretary, had issued an order on October 9 highlighting the enforcement of a National Clinical Management Protocol based on Ayurveda and Yoga for “management” of mild COVID-19 infections. The official advised States and Union Territories to “avail themselves of this opportunity” to manage the pandemic situation “as per the guidelines mentioned in the protocol”. The order also advised States and UTs to take steps to make “the medicines mentioned in the guidelines available at all COVID health centres”. The petitioner pointed out that “Article 256(1) of the Constitution imposes a duty on the State executive not to impede or prejudice the exercise of the executive power of the Union in respect of such directions as may be issued by the Government of India for a particular purpose”. ‘Comply with directive’ The State official was duty bound to comply with the directions issued by the Centre. The circular thus obstructed and interfered with “the right object sought to be achieved under the notification issued by the Centre”, Dr. Thomas said.
11 November 2020||AHMEDABAD,||BJP sweeps Gujarat bypolls||In a clean sweep, the BJP has won all the eight Assembly seats in Guajarat where byelections were held. All these seats had been won by the Congress in 2017. The byelections were necessitated by resignations of legislators during the Rajya Sabha polls. Five out of eight legislators won again but from the BJP, which fielded the turncoats. “The results of the byelections prove that the people of Gujarat don’t trust Congress,” Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said, describing the bypolls results as trailer before the Assembly polls in 2022. Gujarat BJP President C.R. Paatil said the results showed that people reposed faith in the politics of development initiated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The seats where byelections were held are Dangs, Kaprada, Gadhada, Dhari, Morbi, Abdasa, Karjan and Limbadi.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Playing with fire||
11 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Modi lauds women for ‘blessing’ NDA||Prime Minister Narendra Modi acknowledged his coalition’s victory in the Bihar Assembly election close to midnight after a long day of counting. He said the people of Bihar, a State he termed the birthplace of democracy, had declared that their only priority was development. In a series of tweets, Mr. Modi mentioned women voters in Bihar who exercised their franchise in large numbers (5% more than male voters this time) for “blessing” the NDA and the Centre’s “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” (self-reliant India) campaign. He also thanked the youth of Bihar for the same. “Bihar’s villages, poor, youth, elderly, workers, shopkeepers have all kept faith with the NDA’s ‘ sabka saath, sabka vishwas ’ mantra,” he tweeted. Mr. Modi’s comments came even as the Opposition alliance demanded a recount in certain seats.
11 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||India’s m-RNA vaccine may be ready in March||Were everything to go to plan, India’s very own m-RNA (messenger-RNA) vaccine could be ready by March. The novel m-RNA vaccine candidate of the Pune-based Gennova Biopharmaceuticals was approved for funding as early as July by the Department of Biotechnology (DBT). However, being a biological product that requires genetic manipulation, it needs to be cleared by the Review Committee on Genetic Manipulation (RCGM), a DBT body, before it can approach the Drug Controller General of India for human trials. Sanjay Singh, CEO, Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, said he was unperturbed. “Very soon, we will have news to share on our progress. The world needs a billion doses and encouraging as the Pfizer results are, they have only committed to 60 million doses,” he told The Hindu . He said that were everything go to plan, India could be ready with efficacy results from its own m-RNA vaccine by March. On Monday, Pfizer-BioNTECH, announced in a news release that their m-RNA vaccine candidate had shown “90% protection” in a sample of volunteers who were part of an ongoing Phase-3 trial. India’s regulatory agencies were treating m-RNA vaccine candidates with “caution”, said a person involved in evaluating India’s COVID-19 vaccine candidates, who declined to be , “The preclinical data has already been evaluated and it looks promising. But because the m-RNA platform is novel, there are no approved commercial vaccines of the type anywhere, there have been concerns over its stability, and there is more caution on this technology. But Pfizer’s announcement could give a significant boost [to the m-RNA platform].” An m-RNA or simply “RNA vaccine” uses the genetic sequence of a portion of the virus that can be injected into the body. Once taken in by the body’s cells, the hope is that it makes an antigen to which the immunity machinery can manufacture antibodies. In this way, the adverse reactions that can result from the traditional approach of introducing an actual virus, or a piece of it, can be avoided. Though Pfizer’s early results have been regarded as promising by experts, it also signals confidence in the m-RNA approach by other vaccine candidates such as Moderna.
11 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Independent, BJP ally win in Nagaland||The Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP), part of Nagaland’s ruling coalition, retained the Southern Angami-I Assembly constituency in Nagaland but the Opposition Naga People’s Front (NPF) lost the Pungro Kiphire seat on Tuesday. Byelections were held on November 3 to the two seats following the death of Vikho-o Yhoshu of the NDPP and T. Torechu of the NPF. According to the State election officials, Medo Yhokha of the NDPP defeated his nearest Independent rival Seyievilie Peter Zashümo by 598 votes to win the Southern Angami-I constituency. For the Pungro Kiphire seat, Independent candidate T. Yangseo Sangtam defeated another Independent, S. Kiusumew Yimchunger, by 1,527 votes. Prior to Tuesday’s results, the NDPP had 19 legislators in the 60-member Nagaland House. The NPF had 25 MLAs. The NDPP rules in alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party.
11 November 2020||Srinagar,||2 militants killed in Shopian||Two local Al-Badr militants were killed in a pre-dawn operation in south Kashmir’s Shopian on Tuesday. “On a specific input regarding the presence of terrorists in Kutpora area of Shopian, a joint cordon and search operation was launched. They were given the opportunity to surrender. However, they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party leading to an encounter,” a police spokesman said. The slain terrorists were identified as Irfan Ahmad Thoker from Kutpora, Shopian, and Umer Ahmad Lone from Naidgam Lone Mohallah. “Both were affiliated with the Al-Badr outfit. They were involved in many terror crime cases, including the looting of Rs. 60 lakh from a team of the J&K Bank,” the police said. The police said incriminating materials, including arms and ammunition, were recovered from the encounter site. bodies shall be sent to Baramulla for burial and last rites.
11 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Why urgent listing, asks SCBA chief||The president of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), senior advocate Dushyant Dave, shot off a letter to the Supreme Court about the “extraordinary urgent listing” of a petition filed by Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami. The petition was filed at 10.23 a.m. on Tuesday. By evening, the case was listed. The court is closed otherwise for the week for Deepavali vacation. Mr. Dave said Mr. Goswami seemed to be getting “special treatment” and his petitions were listed “instantly”. “The likes of Shri Goswami get special treatment while ordinary Indians are made to suffer, including imprisonment, which are many times illegal and unauthorised,” Mr. Dave wrote in the letter, the contents of which he shared with The Hindu . He accused the Supreme Court Registry of indulging in selective listing for the eight months of the pandemic.
11 November 2020||B. Tilak ChandarMADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai court has jurisdiction to try Sattankulam case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday ruled that the Principal District Judge (PDJ), Madurai, had the jurisdiction to try the Sattankulam custodial deaths case. The court was answering the criminal reference preferred by the PDJ, Thoothukudi, who sought a clarification on the jurisdiction to try the case. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and V. Bharathidasan made the observation while dealing with the communication sent to the court in August by the Thoothukudi PDJ, who had sought a clarification referring to Section 177 of the Cr.P.C. (every offence shall ordinarily be inquired into and tried by a court within whose local jurisdiction the offence was committed). In the communication, Thoothukudi PDJ N. Logeswaran submitted that while he had dismissed the bail petitions of two accused in the case, another accused had filed a bail petition before the Madurai PDJ, which too was dismissed. He pointed out that in the bail petitions filed before the Thoothukudi court, the Public Prosecutor for the CBI had raised objections and said that the Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM), Madurai, was designated to try cases investigated by the CBI, as per a court notification. According to the Public Prosecutor, the CJM, Madurai, would commit the case to the Madurai PDJ after a final report was filed in the case.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Air traffic picking up pace as govt. allows more flights||The State government on Monday announced its decision to allow 150 more flights to land in Chennai every day. If implemented, this will take the number of flights handled at the airport to over 300 a day. For passengers, this is significant because there will be more flights to key destinations and to more cities across the country. But what happened in the past six months when the State government gave such similar announcements? Rewind to May. When the government allowed flight operations during the COVID-19, it came at a price, only a select number of flights could land in the city on a daily basis to ensure that the State did not witness a flurry of cases. Initially, the government allowed 25 arrival flights from other States. The number of flights gradually grew to 50 and then touched 100 in October. What impact the airport had when the State government increased the cap in the number of arrival flights to 100 a day? A month after this development, while there has been a steady increase every week, the number of flights is yet to touch that figure. At present, Chennai airport handles around 90 arrival flights a day. Sources in Airports Authority of India (AAI) said while they were ready to give slots to airlines, there was no demand to operate over 200-250 flights a day. “There have been more passengers taking flights in the past few weeks, but not to an extent where airlines want to make an optimum use of the permitted number of flights. So far, we witness that many passengers travel from Chennai to Jodhpur, Delhi, Hyderabad and Bengaluru,” an official said. Once, there were only 11 passengers to a flight in Delhi and a mere seven on a flight to Tiruchi. “Hence, they may think there is no point in adding more flights without the demand as they may end up making losses,” the official said. Positive trend But one positive trend through these months is that the number of people travelling has been constantly growing. While August saw 2.32 lakh domestic passengers, it was 3.5 lakh in September, recording a 54% increase. Till October 25, 3.72 lakh passengers travelled through Chennai airport. There were only about 2,000-3,000 passengers travelling a day when flight services were resumed. Now, there are 13,000-14,000 passengers a day and on some days, it touches 17,000 too. “Of course, this is only half of what we used to handle before COVID-19, nearly 33,000-35,000 passengers a day. But we are hopeful because the number of people taking flights is only going up every day. This could be much more if we didn’t have the quarantine rules. Even now, there are some people who refrain from taking flights because of the quarantine. And to avoid quarantine, they leave within 72 hours. So, there are a lot of business travellers and senior citizens have begun taking flights for essential trips,” another official added.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2,146 persons test positive in State||A total of 2,146 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, taking the tally to 7,48,225. The number of deaths reported daily, which fell below 20 on Monday after a gap of almost five months, went up marginally on Tuesday, to 25. The total number of recoveries stood at 7,18,129, with 2,237 people having been discharged on Tuesday. The State currently has 18,709 active cases. Only four districts reported more than 100 cases on Tuesday, compared to six districts on Monday. Chennai reported 577 cases, followed by Coimbatore (196), Tiruvallur (107) and Chengalpattu (104). Six districts, including Tiruppur (98), Salem (97), and Kancheepuram (91), reported more than 50 cases. Three of the twenty-five people whose deaths were recorded on Tuesday did not have any co-morbidities, the bulletin released by the Health and Family Welfare Department said. They included a 55-year-old man from Coimbatore, a 45-year-old woman from Tiruppur and a 44-year-old man from Tiruvannamalai district. Among the remaining 22, the oldest was an 80-year-old woman who had diabetes, systemic hypertension and coronary artery disease. She was admitted to Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on Sunday afternoon and died 12 hours later. The youngest was a 38-year-old man from Chengalpattu district who was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Friday. He had diabetes and systemic hypertension. He died on Monday. As many as 16 of the 25 deaths reported on Tuesday took place in government institutions while the remaining 9 took place in private hospitals. The number of persons tested came down by around 3,000 from the previous day to 71,511 on Tuesday. However, the test positivity rate remained roughly the same, at 3%.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin’s fiat on sweets makes dairy farmers feel bitter||Farmers supplying milk to cooperative societies in the State have been casked to buy boxes of Deepavali sweets made by Aavin. “They have placed orders with the respective societies for boxes and the payment will be adjusted against the milk payment meant for farmers. Even if we don’t want, we will have to buy these packs. If they are given for free then that is a different matter,” said a farmer from Erode. Saravanan, a farmer from Dharmapuri, recalled that many societies had been forced to take orders for selling fire crackers a couple of years ago in a similar fashion. “Luckily that was not continued. There have been occasions when we were asked to buy milk powder too,” he added. Sources in Aavin confirmed that orders had been taken from farmer-members for sweet boxes. “The sweets are made from the milk they supply and we thought we will provide them an opportunity to taste the sweets. We are not forcing them and the amount is not Rs. 1,000 per person as being portrayed. We cannot supply for free to 4.5 lakh farmers,” the official added. Funds crunch Meanwhile, farmers are worried as to when their milk dues would be settled. “Already, the district unions have been directed to take loans from public sector banks and disburse what is due to us. This means the dues to the banks with interest would only be repaid by the unions from the farmers’ money, which is not fair,” said Ramachandran, a farmer. A former Aavin official said that the State government can bear the interest amount at least. “The State government can also give a revolving fund to Aavin that can be repaid by the dairy major without interest,” the former official said.  Sweets are made from the milk they supply and we thought we will provide them an opportunity to taste the sweets Aavin official
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CCIW merged with Economic Offences Wing-II||In a major reform in the Tamil Nadu police, the State government has issued orders to merge the Commercial Crime Investigation Wing (CCIW) Criminal Investigation Department with the Economic Offences Wing-II (Financial Institutions) into a single composite Economic Offences Wing. While the CCIW was formed in 1971 to exclusively deal with investigations relating to frauds, falsification of records and misappropriation of funds of co-operative societies, the EOW-II was formed in 1999 as a special wing to deal with cases relating to default in repayment of deposits after maturity by non-banking financial companies and unincorporated financial institutions. In his proposal recommending the merger of the two units, Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy said the CCIW had establishments in 29 districts and three cities whereas the EOW-II had units in 15 districts and the city. Effective investigations He said the merger would pave the way for a single composite EOW with more manpower and infrastructure. This would help in more effective handling of investigation/prosecution of cases and go a long way in improving the functional efficiency of the EOW. In the present scenario, the nature and substance of cases being reported at the EOW was totally different from the traditional cases of frauds and misappropriation, and hence the agency needed total “re-engineering and restructuring”. Besides the fact that the investigators had to interact with other State and Central agencies, the number of investigations had increased manifold in the era of e-commerce and market economy, facilitated through various digital platforms.  Mr. Tripathy said premier investigation agencies like the CBI had separate wings for economic offences. “Similarly, a strengthened, composite EOW will be efficient in dealing with cases involving complicated financial transactions... A tech-savvy EOW with professionally trained investigators will not only route to the depositors but act as a deterrent for fraudsters,” he said. The DGP said the composite EOW would investigate cases relating to co-operative society frauds, all cases against financial institutions/chit funds/cheating in violation of the Prize Chits & Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act 1978, offences (other than civil in nature) relating to traders and involving fraud/cheating of value more than Rs. 1 crore and above (other then Chennai City Police) etc. The new composite wing will be headed by the Additional Director-General of Police, EOW, Chennai. In the existing set-up, the EOW has two units EOW-I and EOW-II, headed by ADGP Abash Kumar. With the merger of the CCIW with the EOW-II, it would become a composite unit and would be referred to as the Economic Offences Wing.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||On day one of reopening, theatres witness low turnout||Theatres across the city that threw open their doors on Tuesday, nearly eight months after they were asked to close in the State due to the COVID-19 pandemic, saw a low turnout. Kamini Rajah, who caught a show of the film Kannum Kannum Kollaiyadithaal , said there were hardly 20 people in the hall. “There were several safety precautions in place and seats that shouldn’t be occupied by patrons were clearly marked,” she said. Moviegoers like her are hopeful that the new films releasing for Deepavali would bring back crowds to the theatres. Anuj Vignesh, a Chennai resident, said there were several measures in place to ensure that physical distancing and other safety norms were followed. “Having been used to the hustle and bustle of crowded theatres, it was an eerie experience today at an almost quiet and empty multiplex,” he said. Fans of the South Korean boy band BTS were thrilled to catch the documentary Break The Silence: The Movie , which released on Wednesday in the city. Yashoswathi, a Chennai resident, said there were around 50 people who caught the show at the same time as her. “Many fans were eager to watch the film. We were sitting in alternate seats in the theatre and before the show, the theatre manager spoke to the audience about physical distancing and the measures implemented to keep us safe,” she said Udeep B., managing director of the theatre Mayajaal, said there was 10% occupancy for their scheduled shows of films which had been rereleased. “This is not bad at all. We will, however, know the real trend only by Saturday, once we have new releases on Deepavali,” he said.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Duraimurugan urges PM to save boats of Tamil fishermen||DMK general secretary Duraimurugan on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take steps to prevent the reported move to destroy 121 boats seized from Indian fishermen by Sri Lankan Navy. Expressing shock over what he termed an order of Sri Lankan courts for destroying the boats, Mr. Duraimurugan said it would deprive the fishermen of their livelihood. “On the one hand, the Sri Lankan government has promised that it would not attack Indian fishermen and, on the other, it has decided to destroy the boats captured from the fishermen of Rameswaram, Pudukottai, Nagapattinam and other places,” he said. Calling upon the Prime Minister to prevail upon the Sri Lankan government to save the boats through the Ministry of External Affairs, he said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami also should bring pressure on the Centre. In Colombo, responding to Sri Lanka police’s note seeking the Attorney General’s opinion on possibly destroying the seized trawlers, the latter recently said Sri Lankan laws did not permit that. The vessels could only be disinfected, in the wake of COVID-19, the prosecutor said, according to an official statement. Many trawlers had already corroded. (With inputs from Meera Srinivasan in Colombo)
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NAAC chief asks graduates to think through problems||Graduands should know their responsibility and step into the world with confidence and faith. As trained graduates, they should value ethics and think through problems critically, said Virander Singh Chauhan, executive chairman of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council. Mr. Chauhan, who delivered the 10th convocation address at Vels Institute of Science, Technology and Advanced Studies (VISTAS) on Monday, said access to higher education brought with it a moral responsibility to improve society. “Nobody is forced to produce a fraud, plagiarised paper. Education is training the mind to ask questions; a tool to think through problems. Systems can nudge people but not force them to do their job,” he said. COVID-19 would go away but it was time to be humble and live with nature in harmony. Since the 1960s, the world had been subjected to bouts of epidemics regularly, he said. The HIV scare shook the world for several decades. Ishari K. Ganesh, Chancellor of VISTAS, presided over the convocation in which nearly 2,800 students were awarded degrees virtually.  Nobody is forced to produce a fraud, plagiarised paper. Education is training the mind to ask questions Virander Singh Chauhan NAAC executive chairman
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vijayabaskar warns Stalin||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Tuesday said legal action would be initiated against Leader of the Opposition and DMK president M. K. Stalin for making a “false statement” regarding the recent death of former Agriculture Minister R. Doraikkannu. Mr. Vijayabaskar, in a statement, accused Mr. Stalin of indulging in “cheap politics” by issuing “false statements”. Doraikkannu, who was admitted to a private hospital for COVID-19 treatment,died on October 31. Mr. Vijayabaskar said the former Minister was given the best medical treatment. “Neither the hospital, which treated him, nor the government is hiding anything about his health or the treatment provided to him.” the Minister’s statement said. Associates’ arrest Mr. Stalin had recently questioned the arrest of some associates of the former Minister before his death was declared on October 31. He claimed that Doraikkannu’s family members were under pressure to return several crores of rupees. “Only after a guarantee for returning the money was given, was his death was declared,” Mr. Stalin had claimed. Septic shock According to the death summary issued by Kauvery Hospital in Chennai which was made public by the State government, the cause of Doraikkannu’s death was “septic shock” and “COVID pneumonia.” The summary said that Doraikkannu’s condition worsened and he suffered an asystolic arrest at 10.15 p.m. and he was eventually declared dead at 11.15 p.m. on October 31.
11 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Retailers set hopes on commercial activity returning to normal by April||Some of the large retailers in the apparel sector are hopeful that the industry will bounce back to normal by April, leaving behind the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. With lockdown norms easing since August, people have been coming out in large numbers to shop for Deepavali, they said. They were participating in a webinar on the topic ‘Are consumers back with a vengeance?’, being held as part of Conversations, a series organised by The Hindu Group’s ‘Tamil Nadu Smiling’ campaign, which began on Sunday. It aims to bring together various stakeholders, including traders, retail organisations and government authorities, to find ways to emerge from the impact of the pandemic.  “COVID-19 crash-landed on all of us. But the apparel industry has been growing and it is a very positive sign. It is not possible for the industry to get back to normal immediately from the pandemic, and it cannot be expected either. However, it is an extremely positive environment now... Our growth is looking better than a lot of other industries. As a sign of recovery, the apparel industry is a great bellwether,” said Suhail Sattar, chairman, Chennai chapter, Retailers Association of India, and the co-founder and director of Hasbro Clothing. Charath Narasimhan, managing director, Indian Terrain, said some States will bounce back faster. “Tamil Nadu is a high consumption-driven State. This year, Deepavali has come in November while it is usually in October. This will be followed by Pongal in January. Weddings that were supposed to be held earlier this year have been postponed to after Deepavali and from February. There are a series of potential triggers right through the next five months. By April, we should be able to touch pre-COVID levels,” he said. According to Mr. Narasimhan, Tamil Nadu has rebounded a bit faster. Traditionally, Deepavali is an important festival in the State and people save for this occasion. “People are coming back and better than I initially expected,” he said, adding that e-shopping has brought in a lot of new customers. E-commerce is here to stay, he said. Before the pandemic, almost 10% of the sales was through e-commerce. In the last six months, it has increased to 35-40%. As stores open up, it will settle down at around 20% by the end of the year, and in the next year or two, it will be a quarter of a company’s business, he said. Jeyasree Ravi, founder of Palam Silks, said, “From April, we should be able to do well. I would say that sales have been around 50-60% of last year. This is commendable as this has happened within a very short span of time”.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vandalur Zoo to re-open today||Arignar Anna Zoological Park will reopen for public from November 11. According to a release, visitors are encouraged to book their tickets online or through Zoo Mobile App. Most of the zoo will be open to visitors but closed exhibits, crowding points will remain closed to avoid the congregation of visitors. Visitors should undergo body temperature check while entering; provision for foot-operated hand sanitiser and automated sanitizer dispensers has been made at various points. Vehicles entering the zoo shall pass through the disinfectant tyre bath at the entry point. All visitors shall compulsorily wear masks, maintain social distancing of two meters and are advised to avoid touching barricades to minimize the chances of spread and contamination. In case of violation of government guidelines, a penalty will be imposed. The zoo was closed on March 17 due to COVID-19 pandemic.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EOW strengthened with more manpower, infrastructure||In a major reform in the Tamil Nadu police, the State government has issued orders merging the Commercial Crime Investigation Wing (CCIW) Criminal Investigation Department with the Economic Offences Wing-II (Financial Institutions) into a single composite Economic Offences Wing. While the CCIW was formed in 1971 to exclusively deal with investigations relating to frauds, falsification of records and misappropriation of funds of co-operative societies, the EOW-II was formed in 1999 as a special wing to deal with cases relating to default in repayment of deposits after maturity by non-banking financial companies and unincorporated financial institutions. In his proposal recommending the merger of the two units, Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy said the CCIW had establishments in 29 districts and three cities whereas the EOW-II had units in 15 districts and Chennai city. He said the merger would pave the way for a single composite EOW with more manpower and infrastructure. This would help in more effective handling of investigation/prosecution of cases. In the present scenario, the nature and substance of cases being reported at the EOW were totally different from the traditional cases of frauds, misappropriation, etc., and hence the agency needed total “re-engineering and restructuring”. Besides the fact that the investigators had to interact with other State and Central agencies, the number of investigation had increased manifold in the era of e-commerce and market economy facilitated through various digital platforms. Mr. Tripathy said premier investigation agencies like the CBI had separate wings for economic offences. “Similarly, a strengthened, composite EOW will bring in efficiency in dealing with the cases involving complicated financial transactions... A tech-savvy EOW with professionally trained investigators will not only route to the depositors but act as deterrent for fraudsters,” he said. The DGP said the composite EOW would investigate cases relating to co-operative society frauds, all cases against financial institutions/chit funds/cheating in violation of Prize Chits & Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act-1978, offences (other than civil in nature) relating to traders and involving fraud/cheating of value more than Rs. 1 crorec (other then Chennai city police), etc. The new composite wing would be headed by the Additional Director-General of Police, EOW, Chennai. In the existing set-up, the EOW has two units EOW-I, and EOW-II headed by ADGP Abash Kumar. Now with the merger of the CCIW with the EOW-II, the whole unit would become a composite unit and called as Economic Offences Wing.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Collectors test positive||AIADMK MLA from Kallakurichi (Reserved) Assembly constituency A. Prabhu, 39, has tested positive for COVID-19. He has been admitted to the Kallakurichi Government General Hospital. Mr. Prabhu said he got himself tested since he had a fever and cough for the past few days. “I volunteered to test myself on Monday and the test results returned positive around 9 p.m. that night. The swab samples of my wife were also taken, and she tested negative. She is under home quarantine as a precautionary measure,” he said. The Collectors of Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram districts also tested positive for COVID-19. While the Chengalpattu Collector, John Louis, was admitted to the King Institute of Preventive Medicine in Guindy on Tuesday, Kancheepuram Collector Maheshwari Ravikumar was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. A senior official in Chengalpattu district said the Collector had been involved in inspecting the monsoon preparedness work being carried out in several areas, including Medavakkam, Chitlapakkam and Irumbulichery, for the past one week, and obtaining feedback from residents about local issues. The Collector had avoided going on inspection from Sunday after he developed a high temperature. As the fever continued, he got himself tested for COVID-19, and on testing positive, was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday. An official at the Kancheepuram Collector’s office said the Collector suddenly experienced high fever on Monday and a swab test was taken. The Collector, on testing positive, initially went into isolation, but was later admitted to the hospital in Chennai on Tuesday. An office assistant, Saravanan, working at the district supply office of the Collectorate, died due to COVID-19 on Monday.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Automatic rain gauges to be set up in four places in Chennai city||As a step to expand its weather observation network in the city, the Meteorological Department has identified four places to install more automatic rain gauges (ARG). The department has identified sites in Sairam Engineering College, West Tambaram; Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University, Guindy; Young Men’s Christian Association, Nandanam; and a school in Villivakkam. Officials said the project to install ARGs in the chosen sites was under process. More sites were being identified to develop a denser network for accurate predictions and flood forecasting in the city. These would facilitate monitoring of temperature levels and rainfall patterns, which vary in different areas. At present, there are 40 automatic weather stations and 73 ARGs across the State. The department recently installed high speed wind recorders in four places across the State. These weather instruments with sensors to record wind speed and pressure would help get data in cyclone-prone areas and disseminate information to specific sectors, such as fisheries. Besides Cuddalore, the instruments were set up in Kanniyakumari, Pamban and Adiramapattinam. Second weather radar S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said civil work had almost been completed for a second weather radar at the National Institute of Ocean Technology, Pallikaranai. The instrument would help in gathering information on various aspe-cts, including rainfall intensity and also detect cyclones approaching the region. On the weather forecast for the next few days, he said the State would experience largely dry weather, except for isolated light to moderate rainfall till November 11. An increase in rainfall was likely later this week owing to the presence of a trough over the Bay of Bengal. The city may experience warm weather with the day temperature expected to be around 32 degree Celsius till Wednesday. The city has a chance of light rain in some areas on Wednesday, according to the Meteorological department.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Air bubble’ boosts international passenger traffic||More passengers travelling to visit their families, for health reasons, for business and some even for a casual visit has resulted in a spike in the number of people taking international flights through the “air bubble” arrangement. “Air bubble” is an arrangement between two countries to allow passengers to travel, in the absence of regular international flights. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) say from about 90 flights in September, the number has risen to 190 and from 10,000 passengers in September, the number ballooned to 21,000 last month by the “air bubble” flights alone. There are a number of flights from Chennai to Dubai, Qatar, Kuwait and London and Maldives, the officials said. “Most of them are travelling to the West Asia. Earlier, people would travel only if there was a death in the family or they wanted to return home. Now, we see people heading to spend time with their daughter or son abroad or the children coming down here to visit their parents,” an official said. Apart from the ‘air bubble’ flights, there are Vande Bharat flights, chartered flights and many non-scheduled flights to and from several destinations.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sri Lankan man undergoes transplant||Doctors at Dr. Rela Institute and Medical Centre (RIMC) here have performed a liver transplant for a 44-year-old Sri Lankan professor. A statement issued by the hospital said that the transplant happened amidst challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the prospective donor turning out to be medically unfit to donate her organ. According to the hospital, Prasanga Namal Karunarathne, the patient, working with the Government of Sri Lanka, was diagnosed with a rare auto-immune liver disease and was undergoing treatment in his country. Mohamed Rela, Chairman and Managing Director, RIMC, said that a routine CT scan conducted ahead of the transplant, however, revealed that his wife had features of a low-grade tumour arising from the small intestine, making her unable to donate. Mr. Karunarathne’s brother-in-law, who had also travelled to Chennai, came forward to donate and the transplant was done in the last week of September, the statement said. His wife’s condition was also treated at the hospital.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP took out Vetrivel Yatra despite rejection of nod, DGP complains to HC||The Director General of Police on Tuesday complained to the Madras High Court that the Tamil Nadu unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had made multiple attempts to take out the ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ despite refusal of permission by the police and a case pending in the court. Omnibus order Appearing before a Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha, Advocate General Vijay Narayan said it was not fair on the part of a State unit of a political party, ruling in the Centre, to take law into its hands and violate the canons of law. The A-G said the DGP had made it very clear to the party that he could not grant an omnibus order permitting it to go on a month-long Statewide Yatra. The officer had also instructed the party leaders to approach individual Superintendents or Commissioners of Police seeking permission. On November 2, BJP State general secretary K. Nagarajan made an application to the Greater Chennai Commissioner of Police seeking permission for the Yatra. The Commissioner rejected permission on November 5. Yet, BJP State president L. Murugan took out the Yatra from his residence at Koyambedu. About 250 cadres followed him in 100 vehicles. The participants were holding party flags and not maintaining physical distance. They travelled ahead despite warnings issued by the police asking them to disperse. The city police had no option but to register a case against Mr. Murugan, the party's national general secretary H. Raja and others. The participants were intercepted again at Nazarathpet and 19 of them were arrested. Flouted rules The sequence of events would show that the BJP cadres violated the Police Commissioner's orders and acted in a manner prejudicial to public health when the whole world was facing the threat of COVID-19, the AG said. He said the partymen indulged in similar violations in Tiruttani despite rejection orders passed by Tiruvallur Superintendent of Police. Mr. Narayan said a majority of the participants did not wear masks and some of them prevented the police from discharging their duties. “This was not just a temple visit. The cars moved in 10 km speed and the BJP president was waving to the crowd. Your Lordships will be totally shocked to see the videos," the A-G told the court and opposed grant of interim orders. He pointed out that after Mr. Nagarajan had moved an urgent writ petition in the court on Saturday seeking permission for the Yatra, the Krishnagiri Superintendent of Police too had passed orders on Monday rejecting permission for it in Hosur. “The rejection order has been served on them today,” he said and pointed out that cases had been booked against former Union Minister Pon. Radhakrishnan and former Member of Parliament C.P. Radhakrishnan too. After hearing him at length, the judges desisted from granting any interim relief to the petitioner but for liberty to challenge the rejection orders. They also observed that the police were duty bound to apply the COVID-19 protocols to all events irrespective of the organisers. They further granted time for the DGP to file a counter affidavit to the writ petition and adjourned it to December 2.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sriperumbudur airport project figures in NIP||The Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry has added the Sriperumbudur Airport Development Project to the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP). Adding this project to the NIP will help in attracting global investors and investments. The State government had come up with the Sriperumbudur Airport Development Project with an outlay of Rs. 15,000 crore. This project involves aviation infrastructure development and the current status of the project is “idea stage” and is being developed through the EPC route. As per the details provided on the website, the estimated start date of this project is March 2021 and will be wrapped up by April 2023. A source said the Centre is very keen on the project and was helping in scouting for investors. Feasibility study Ten years ago, the Airports Authority of India conducted a feasibility study at the location and submitted a report to the State government. But later the site was changed and the State government began looking for other sites such as Parandur and Cheyyur too. AAI had also done a feasibility study for one of the sites last year. “The state government did not move this [Sriperumbudur] fast at that time and started considering other places for the airport project. But things seem to be moving towards Sriperumbudur at a fast pace now,” said another source in the aviation industry.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Child undergoes bilateral cochlear implant||Doctors at MGM Healthcare hospital have performed a bilateral cochlear implant for a child with auditory neuropathy spectrum disorder (ANSD) using cutting-edge implant with advanced wireless processor. With this implant surgery, the hospital has announced the launch of MGM Cochlear Implant Programme. According to a statement, the child was diagnosed with ANSD that causes hearing loss due to problems in transmission of sound from inner ear to the brain. The statement said that there was not much improvement in speaking ability despite support from parents, caregivers and stimulation with audiological inputs by using programmable hearing aids. After the family approached MGM Healthcare, the doctors decided that a cochlear implant could help and a team headed by Sanjeev Mohanty, senior consultant and head, Department of ENT, Head and Neck Surgery, performed the implant surgery. The surgery was successful despite the abnormal cochlear anatomy of the child posing a challenge for the team, the statement said. “This is an interesting case and the child is lucky as she is implanted with the most advanced device available in the world at present,” Dr. Mohanty said.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3.5 kg gold seized at airport||About 3.5 kg gold, estimated at Rs. 1.85 crore, was seized at Chennai airport and five passengers were arrested. On Monday, four passengers who had come from Dubai were detained. The officials found that one of them had been hiding 114 g of gold paste stitched inside the face mask and a 50 g gold chain. Three others had 16 bundles of gold paste (1.84 kg) in their rectum and they were arrested, according to a press release. Seven passengers who arrived from Dubai were held at the exit. One passenger had concealed gold paste in plastic pouches stitched inside his jeans. Another passenger had hid gold bits in his pant pocket. Five other passengers admitted to carrying 12 bundles of gold paste in their rectum and six strips in their jeans and five gold bits in their pant pockets. About 1.65 kg was recovered from them and two passengers were arrested.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin slams change in Maduravoyal-Port project||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday said the proposed conversion of the Maduravoyal-Port Expressway into a two-tier project would undermine its foundation and further delay its construction. Addressing a demonstration organised by his party against its conversion, Mr. Stalin said the foundation stone for the expressway was laid during the erstwhile DMK regime with an allocation of Rs. 1,815 crore to facilitate the free flow of heavy vehicles to the Chennai port. Mr. Stalin said even though former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa put on hold the project, subsequent studies clearly found the reasons cited by her had no basis. Recalling reports that the expressway would be converted into a two-tier project with an estimate of Rs. 5,000 crore after Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s meeting with Union Minister Nitin Gadkari, Mr. Stalin said the decision would reach nowhere. “Pillars have already been erected for the expressway and any change in the plan will delay the project and pave the way for corruption during the tender process,” he alleged. The demonstration was led by DMK’s South Chennai district secretary Ma. Subramanian. ‘Vanniyars benefitted’ Meanwhile, Mr. Stalin said the 20% reservation for the Most Backward Classes (MBCs) introduced by the Karunanidhi government uplifted the children of the communities including the Vanniyars. “In the last 30 years, the reservation gave a lift in education and employment to the children of these communities,” he told the party’s Villupuram district unit during a virtual meeting. He recalled that the DMK government had sanctioned compensation and monthly pension for the families of 25 persons killed in the Vanniyar agitation.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen want better lighting at Kasimedu||Fishermen have been complaining that the entry/exit point to the Kasimedu Fishing Harbour from the sea has remained unlit for nearly a month. Two signal lights placed atop rooms at the end of the breakwaters have not been functioning, making it difficult for fishermen to enter or leave the harbour, especially at night. “Most boats leave late at night and return before noon. At night, when there is not enough light, the risk of collisions which could result in damage to the boats and even a loss of lives is high,” said M.D. Dayalan of the Indian Fishermen Association, who has submitted petitions to the Fisheries Department to fix the lights. Nanjil Ravi of the Akhila Indiya Meenavar Sangam said boats that returned after long trips sometimes mistake the entry of the Chennai Port and go there.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai’s 5th reservoir to be inaugurated next month||After several years of delay and struggles, the fifth reservoir at Thervoy Kandigai Kannankottai, which was created to meet the city’s growing drinking water needs, is likely to be inaugurated by December first week. The Water Resources Department is carrying out final work on the reservoir, which is spread over nearly 1,485 acres, at Tiruvallur district and plans to complete it by the month-end. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will inaugurate the Rs. 380-crore project. The reservoir has a storage of 100 million cubic feet (mcft) due to inflow from catchment areas during the recent rain. Two tanks were merged to form the reservoir with an annual storage capacity of 1,000 mcft when filled twice. Officials of the WRD said work was in progress to provide an inlet to allow surplus water from Karadiputhur tank to flow into the reservoir. Tenders were postponed thrice for the work because of pandemic as a result of which the project was delayed. In the 7.1-km bund, the inlet with shutters was being built at the 5.6th km of the bund to allow an inflow of about 500 cusecs. “We need to raise the full tank level by 5 metres in this site. Nearly 75% of the work had been completed so far and the rest would be over in a fortnight,” said an official. The foundation stone for the project was laid in 2013. However, the project met several hurdles in acquiring lands and providing compensation to landowners. The reservoir gets inflow from the tank at Karadiputhur and three water bodies at Balakrishnapuram in Andhra Pradesh. An 8.6-km-long channel has been laid to draw Krishna water from the Kandaleru Poondi (KP) canal. “We are prepared with infrastructure to store Krishna water in this reservoir if the other four waterbodies get filled up during northeast monsoon. The fifth reservoir will help irrigate the surrounding villages and has an ayacut area of 700 acres,” the official added. A new road has been formed for a distance of 3.5 km to link Karadiputhur and Kannankottai along with a bridge. Meanwhile, Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board has laid a 16-km-long pipeline linking the reservoir with the KP canal.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Godown catches fire||Electrical spare parts of home appliances stored at a godown in Puliampedu village near Thiruverkadu were gutted in a fire on Tuesday. According to the Fire and Rescue Services Department, the fire started around 6.30 a.m. and was brought under control after two hours.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Can’t take risk with BJP yatra’||AIADMK Minister Ma Foi K. Pandiarajan on Tuesday justified the State government’s decision not to give permission for the BJP’s Vetrivel Yatra and asked who would be held responsible if some terrorist targets the yatra and causes a bomb blast. “If a terrorist keeps a bomb during the yatra....it happened in Coimbatore [in 1998]. Who will you hold responsible? Everyone will only blame the State government. The Centre will only also ask us,” Mr. Pandiarajan told reporters. Mr. Pandiarajan said the government also would be held responsible if the yatra contributed to the spread of COVID-19. “Who will get a bad name? You will ask us only, no?,” the Minister said. He said the government had decided not to give permission for the rally taking all these issues into consideration.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Varsity staff shortage shocks HC||The Madras High Court was on Monday shocked to know that Anna University, a premier institution with 13 constituent colleges and three regional campuses, is functioning with just 556 regular teaching staff. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh was taken aback to learn that the university had been recruiting faculty only on a temporary basis since 2011, and as many as 310 faculty were serving the institution on consolidated pay. While disposing of a batch of cases filed by temporary employees, the judge said information obtained under the RTI Act showed that 25,680 students were admitted in various departments of the university, its constituent colleges and regional campuses in 2018-19.  AICTE regulations AICTE regulations require engineering colleges to maintain a faculty-student ratio of 1:15 for undergraduate courses and 1:20 for postgraduate courses. The university ought to have had 1,284 faculty members for undergraduate courses and 120 for postgraduate courses.
11 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||112 sovereigns gold stolen from jewellery unit||Over 112 sovereigns of gold jewellery were allegedly stolen from a jewellery-making unit in Guindy. The police suspect that four migrant labourers working there had escaped with the jewellery. The complainant, Kamaleshkumar, a native of Rajasthan, runs a shop in Sowcarpet and the jewellery-making unit at the Guindy Industrial Estate. Over 68 workers hailing from the northern States have been staying on the premises and working at the unit. The police said on October 17, Sheik, Redeo Kamarkar, Sarbundh Sardar and Sarbundh Mondal, all aged between 20 and 21, from West Bengal, joined the Guindy unit. At the time of joining, they said they had been working at jewellery-making units in Kerala and had lost their jobs due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Police suspect the four stole the jewellery and escaped from the building. On a complaint from the owner, the Guindy Police began an investigation. The police have alerted railway stations and the airport to prevent the suspects from escaping. Efforts are on to trace them through their mobile phone signals.
11 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Theatre owners pin hopes on Deepavali||With the State government allowing cinemas to reopen, only some theatres opened in Coimbatore and surrounding districts on Tuesday as theatre owners await the Deepavali festival for opening in a full-fledged manner. President of Tamil Nadu Theatre and Multiplex Owners’ Association ‘Tiruppur’ M. Subramaniam said that of the 169 theatres in Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode districts, only around 50 theatres reopened on Tuesday. As new movies are expected to have a theatrical release on Friday to mark Deepavali, many theatres will reopen only then, he said. As cinema theatres remained closed for nearly eight months due to the COVID-19 pandemic, many Tamil movies were released on online Over-The-Top (OTT) platforms. However, Mr. Subramaniam said that this will not affect the number of people coming to theatres. “Those who want to watch in OTT platforms will watch it there, but those who want to watch movies in theatres will keep coming,” he said. The footfall in most of the theatres on Tuesday was only around “10 to 15 %,” according to Mr. Subramaniam. President of Coimbatore Film Distributors’ Association K. Rajamannar said that many theatres in Coimbatore did not opt to open on Tuesday as it is considered inauspicious and that these theatres will reopen from Wednesday. Those theatres in small towns and in interior parts of the district are likely to open only on Saturday for Deepavali, he said. Special screening One of the prominent multiplexes to reopen in Coimbatore on Tuesday was PVR Cinemas in Brookefields Mall. K. Srinath, General Manager (Coimbatore) of PVR Cinemas, said a special screening of the Tamil movie Kannum Kannum Kollaiyadithaal was screened for COVID-19 frontline workers at 11 a.m. Around 80 nurses and hospital workers from private hospitals who were invited attended the screening, he said. Safety initiatives such as pasting of anti-microbial films on surfaces and sterilising of all food packaging have been carried out in addition to the usual COVID-19 precautionary measures in the cinema halls, Mr. Srinath said. “After January, people will return to normal lives and will come back to theatres,” he remarked. Collector’s warning Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani on Tuesday warned that action will be initiated against cinema theatres and multiplexes that do not follow the standard operating procedures.The public must be allowed inside the theatres only if they wear masks and physical distancing norms must be maintained at all times inside the theatres, he said in a release. Theatres still closed in Ooty Neither of the two major movie theatres in Udhagamandalam were reopened on Tuesday, with officials in-charge of running the theatres stating that they are taking their time to ensure that precautions are in place to ensure that the Standard Operating Procedures announced by the government are implemented.
11 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Forest Department cites multiple reasons behind elephant deaths||Elephants in Coimbatore Forest Division died of multiple reasons such as gastrointestinal problems, fight among elephants, accidental fall from slopes and ageing, the Forest Department said in reply to a petition sent by a Coimbatore-based nature enthusiast to the Chief Minister’s Special Cell. The reply from District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh also mentions that female elephants died of abuse by male elephants during pregnancy. However, the Department has not included shooting, as in the case of an elephant killed near Mettupalayam this year, and mouth injuries suffered by some elephants, purportedly due to the explosion of country made bombs, among the causes of deaths, alleged petitioner Umesh Marudhachalam. “The causes listed by the Department do not mention human interventions that lead to conflict and deaths. The Department should also take efforts to find root causes of diseases due to which elephants die. Samples of water from places including Sirumugai, where several elephants died this year, should be tested in appropriate laboratories,” he said. So far, 20 elephants died of various reasons in the forest division this year. The DFO’s reply said there was no officially or legally declared elephant corridor in Coimbatore Forest Division, but two corridors namely Anaikatti north-Anaikatti south corridor and Jaccanaire Slope - Hulikal Durgam were identified in the book Right of Passage released by the Government of India. The Department said there was no regulation or restriction on cattle grazing inside reserve forests in Coimbatore Forest Division as it was not a protected area with core and buffer zones. Apart from the forest squad, the vigilance wing monitored wildlife offences in the division, said the Department. Mr. Marudhachalam wanted the Department to form an apex committee with the participation of local people for the conservation activities.
11 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Building on 100 Feet Road sealed||Coimbatore Corporation officials on Tuesday sealed a building on 100 Feet Road on charges that the owner had constructed it in violation of building rules. A release from the civic body said the building owner had constructed more area than what it had permitted, allowed the functioning of a hospital on the premises while it should have been used only for residential and commercial purpose and used the parking space for commercial activity. The release said the though the civic body had issued notice on September 28 giving a 30-day period to rectify the mistakes and on expiry, gave another three days. Thereafter, again the civic body gave a 24-hour extension but the owner took no step to correct the violation.
11 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two men arrested under POCSO Act||Police arrested two men in two different cases on charges of abducting and sexually assaulting two minor girls. The West All Women Police on Tuesday arrested a 26-year-old man on charges of abducting and sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl the previous week. The police said the accused allegedly married the victim and he was arrested when the couple returned to the city. In another incident, the Central All Women Police arrested a 25-year-old man on charges of abducting a 16-year-old girl in 2019, the sources said. Both the accused were booked under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.
11 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Hanuman Sena functionary booked||The Pollachi Taluk police on Monday registered a case against Hanuman Sena functionary Sridhar for his remarks on Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi leader Thol. Thirumavalavan. The police said they registered a case based on a complaint from a VCK functionary. Mr. Sridhar was booked under six sections of the Indian Penal Code including 294(b) (uttering obscenities), 505 (1) (c) (Making statements with intent to incite, or which is likely to incite, any class or community of persons) and 506(2) (Criminal intimidation), the police said.
11 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Hanuman Sena functionary booked||The Pollachi Taluk police on Monday registered a case against Hanuman Sena functionary Sridhar for his remarks on Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi leader and Chidambaram MP Thol. Thirumavalavan. The police said that they registered a case based on a complaint from a VCK functionary.
11 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Foundation to observe a minute’s silence||Universal Peace Foundation, a spiritual organisation based in Thirumoorthy Hills in Tiruppur district, called for the observation of silence for one minute on Wednesday. The organisation requested the public to observe silence from 11.11 a.m. to 11.12 a.m. from their respective locations. This exercise is an attempt to spread positive vibrations to speed up the recovery process from the COVID-19 pandemic, according to a press release.
11 November 2020||COLOMBO,TAMIL NADU||Two Indian vessels washed ashore on Sri Lankan coast||The Sri Lankan Navy found two Indian vessels washed ashore north of Mullaitivu district in the island’s Northern Province on Monday night. Arrangements are underway for the 18 fishermen on board, from Nagapattinam and Karaikal, to be repatriated, authorities said. “One was a dhow, and another was a bottom trawler. We suspect the fishermen on board were fishing in Sri Lankan waters when their vessels drifted to our coast, due to an apparent engine failure. The winds were also very strong,” Sri Lankan Navy spokesman Captain Indika de Silva told The Hindu . “Sri Lankan authorities, along with the Indian mission here, will work out their repatriation,” he said. Over the last decade, northern Tamil fishermen of Sri Lanka have been voicing concern about Indian trawlers fishing along their coast, while severely impacting the marine resources that the war-hit community relies on to build their destroyed livelihoods. Sensitive issue The Palk Bay fisheries issue has remained a sensitive one in Indo-Lanka bilateral ties, with the Lankan Navy apprehending hundreds of fishermen and boats on charges of trespassing. However, the number of Indian fishermen arrested by the Sri Lankan navy and trawlers seized have gone down in recent years, especially after Sri Lanka toughened its laws and introduced huge fines for trespassing foreign vessels. This year, 34 fishermen were arrested, and six trawlers seized. While all arrested fishermen have been released, the six trawlers remain in Sri Lankan custody, as per official records.
11 November 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat president ends life||Indira, 37, wife of Praveen Kumar and a resident of Chattrapatti near Oddanchatram, committed suicide here on Tuesday. She contested in the rural local body polls held last year and was elected as panchayat president of Chatrapatti. She was a member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist). Her husband was running a coir unit at Chennama Naickenpatti near Thadicombu. So, she shifted her residence from Chatrapatti to Thadicombu. As she could not concentrate on the business and discharge her duties as the panchayat president, she ended her life when her husband was away, the police said. The police have registered a case and sent the body to the Government Hospital for post mortem. Those in distress and to overcome suicidal thoughts can call the state's toll free number for assistance at 104 or Sneha's helpline at 044-24640050.
11 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||No films screened in Erode theatres||Though a few theatres and multiplexes were reopened across the district after eight months on Tuesday, no films were screened. After the government gave permission, all the 35 theatres and multiplexes in the district, including 11 in the Corporation limits, were scheduled to be opened on Tuesday. Cleaning and disinfectant works were carried out and many theatres installed thermal scanners and altered seating arrangements to ensure personal distancing. But, in the absence of any new film releases, theatre owners refused to screen old movies on the opening day. Members of the district theatre owners association said they were waiting for new film releases on Deepavali until which they would not screen films. They said their business, the livelihood of workers in the theatres and canteens were affected completely in the past eight months and expected a positive outcome in the ongoing talks between associations in Chennai. Many theatre managers felt that Deepavali film releases would be their only opportunity to regain business as operating with 50% seating capacity would not give them profit, but would help run the theatres continuously. “If no new films are released, we may think of screening the already released films,” they said.  Salem In Salem, theatre owners are taking cautious steps regarding reopening screens. Members of the Tamil Nadu Theatre and Multiplex Owners Association said they had decided to open only 30% screens to begin with and increase the number depending upon the patronage from people. T.N.C. Elangovan, president, Salem Theatre Owners Association, said only 40 screens resumed operations on Tuesday. “There are 140 screens in Salem, Namakkal, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri and only 30% of them, about 40 screens, have decided to resume operations,” he said. Mr. Elangovan said they would run only three shows a day. “All safety measures are being followed and we have decided to provide gloves to the audience. We are hoping that new films will be released for Deepavali and it will increase footfall to theatres,” he said.
11 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Slum dwellers demand allotment of tenements||Urging the district administration to allot the 1,072 houses constructed for slum dwellers one-and-a-half years ago, residents submitted a petition to the Collector here. The petition said the Tamil Nadu Housing Board constructed 464 houses at Perumpallam Canal, 336 houses at Periyar Nagar and 272 houses and Karungalpalayam in which they lived for 30 years. Since the buildings lost its stability, the residents were asked to vacate the tenements and the houses were demolished in 2014. Later, the board constructed 1,072 slum tenements at these areas and works were completed in May 2019. But, they said that tenements were yet to be allotted to them and they continued to live in rented houses. They said they were urged to pay Rs. 1.25 lakh for receiving the key which they were unable to pay. Due to COVID-19, they lost their livelihood and hence the government should reduce the beneficiaries’ contribution and allot the houses, the residents said. Members of Slum Tenements Residents’ Welfare Association said that the tenements were constructed at Rs. 125.89 crore. Though the works were completed, no steps were taken to hand over the keys to the beneficiaries, they added. The members said since the tenements were lying idle, pipelines were stolen while the doors and windows were broken by miscreants. They wanted the tenements allotted to the beneficiaries at the earliest.
11 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Decision on reopening of schools on Nov. 12’||Around 45% of the parents of school students have given their feedback on whether schools should be reopened for Classes 9 to 12, and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will announce the State government’s decision on November 12, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said in Gobichettipalayam taluk on Tuesday. Addressing presspersons after distributing Deepavali bonuses to members of milk cooperative societies at Siruvalur and Vettaikarankovil villages, the Minister said only 45% of the parents participated in the consultations held at schools across the State on Monday. “A final decision on reopening the schools on November 16 will be taken by the Chief Minister and he will make an announcement,” the Minister said. The Minister said around 16,300 students had registered for free online coaching classes for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and classes began for them on Monday. The State government has provided 7.5% horizontal reservation for NEET-qualified State government school students in undergraduate medical courses. Nearly 5.18 lakh students were admitted to government schools in the current academic year. “School uniforms, shoes and socks are ready and will be distributed to them soon,” he added.  Nearly 5.18 lakh students have been admitted to government schools in the current academic year
11 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||VAO held on graft charge||Sleuths of Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) arrested the Village Administrative Officer of Elandakadu in Gobichettipalayam Taluk for demanding and accepting Rs. 5,000 for issuing heir certificate here on Tuesday. A. Muthusamy (60) of Elandakadu village approached the VAO, G. Kandasamy (46), seeking the certificate who demanded Rs. 10,000. Muthusamy agreed to pay Rs. 5,000 on Tuesday and alerted the DVAC sleuths. Caught  On Tuesday, when Muthusamy handed over the money to the VAO, a team led by DVAC Deputy Superintendent of Police Dhivya caught him red-handed. The VAO was taken to the DVAC office and an inquiry is on.
11 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Villagers seek drinking water supply||Stating that drinking water was not supplied to them in the past 10 days, people from Indira Nagar in Sankarapalayam Panchayat in Anthiyur Taluk blocked Anthiyur – Bargur Road here. They said their only source of drinking water was the pipelines of the panchayat. Since water was not supplied, they were forced to depend on wells in private lands. But the owners of the wells had also denied permission to fetch water every day and they were left with no water source. The residents said most of them were daily wagers and spending time fetching water was affecting their livelihood. Though the issue was taken with panchayat officials many times, no action was taken, they added. Later, the Vellithiruppur police held talks with the protesters and assured them to take up the issue with officials for action, after which they dispersed. Traffic resumed on the road after an hour.
11 November 2020||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Kallakurichi AIADMK MLA tests positive||AIADMK MLA from Kallakurichi (Reserved) Assembly constituency A. Prabhu, 39, has tested positive for COVID-19. He has been admitted to the Kallakurichi Government General Hospital. Mr. Prabhu said he got himself tested since he had a fever and cough for the past few days. “I volunteered to test myself on Monday and the test results returned positive around 9 p.m. on Monday night. The swab samples of my wife were also taken and she tested negative. She is under home quarantine as a precautionary measure,” he said. Mr. Prabhu asked all those who had come in contact with him to undergo COVID-19 tests as a precautionary measure.
11 November 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited from girl children for bravery award||Applications are invited from girl children for State award for acts of bravery in the district. A release said the social welfare and noon meal programme department invited applications from girls, who helped prevent a crime against a girl, enabled education of a girl child, scuttled a child marriage, rescued a child from child labour or performed other acts of bravery. Each year, the winners are felicitated on the occasion of National Girl Child Day on January 24, with a shield and a cash award of Rs. 1 lakh. The applicant shall be under 18 years of age. The applications with the endorsement of school principal/chief education officer/district police department/NGO/district child protection officer should be handed over to the social welfare department. The applications shall be perused by a district level team headed by the Collector and forwarded to the State level committee.
11 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Display clearly rights of complainants in all police stations, says High Court||Taking into account the large number of custodial death cases being reported in Tamil Nadu, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday observed that corrective and reformative measures had to be introduced in government departments and custodial deaths should be eradicated. Dismissing the bail petition filed by suspended Inspector of Police S. Sridhar, the main accused in the case of custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks in Sattankulam, Justice S.M. Subramaniam observed that people were afraid to enter police stations. An ordinary citizen was not being treated properly . The court observed that registering of false cases had to be looked into seriously, and serious action must be taken against filing of false cases, the judge said. The court suo motu impleaded the Director General of Police (DGP) in the case and directed him to issue a consolidated circular in this regard. The rights of the complainant had to be displayed at all police stations in a visible and legible manner, both in Tamil and English, and CCTV cameras installed had to cover the entire area, the judge said. Further, the court said the CCTV cameras should always be in a working condition. During the course of the hearing, Assistant Solicitor General L. Victoria Gowri opposed the grant of bail to Sridhar. She submitted that the petitioner had failed to cooperate with the investigation and tried to flee following the incident. However, this was denied by the counsel appearing for the accused. The ASG further submitted that the CBI had filed a chargesheet before the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Madurai, and the investigating agency was continuing the probe in order to find out if there was a larger conspiracy in the case. Taking cognisance of the submissions, the court observed that two people were tortured in a brutal manner in the police station. The petitioner was a policeman and an influential person and the eyewitnesses in the case were his subordinates. There was a possibility of the accused influencing witnesses if he was enlarged on bail. The gravity of the offence was severe in nature and there was a danger of the accused fleeing, if out on bail. Also, there was another case against him. Prima facie, a case had been established against him, the court observed and dismissed the bail petition.
11 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Train service resumes on Pamban bridge||Train operation on old Pamban rail bridge that was suspended on Monday night would resume as usual on Tuesday night after fitness for operation on the century-old sea bridge was given. Sethu Express that was stopped at Pamban railway station on Monday night had to be cancelled late in the night after a pontoon hit the rail bridge. It was one of the several pontoons deployed by Rail Vikas Nigam Limited for construction of new Pamban rail bridge near the old Pamban rail bridge. A local railway engineer declared the bridge “unfit” for train operation as strong current in the sea forced the crane mounted on the pantoon to dash against the bridge. Consequently, Rameswaram-bound Sethu Express was not run on the sea bridge but terminated at Mandapam railway station in the mainland on Tuesday morning. Over 100 rail passengers were taken to the Rameswaram island by road. Meanwhile, an empty rake was run on the bridge in the wee hours of Tuesday after it was declared fit even as RVNL officials were trying hard to salvage the pontoon that was stuck under the bridge. “The high tide has been a big challenge,” he added. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Railway Safety, South Central Circle, Ram Kripal, would inspect Pamban rail bridge on November 20 and 21. However, an official said that his inspection was scheduled much before the pontoon hitting the Pamban bridge on Monday night. Owing to inclement weather, the pontoons that have been used to mount transit concrete mixers and cranes were getting drifted towards the old rail bridge. Due to rough sea conditions, smaller vessels have been cleared from the work spot to the shore and anchored safely. Piling rigs are mounted on jack-up platforms, which are safely secured. Crane pontoons could not be moved due to rough sea conditions and hence they are anchored near the piling rig locations safely. For additional safety, they were tied to each other. Besides, casing piles (fender piles) were available adjacent to the working machinery between the machinery and the existing bridge to prevent the movement of any vessel towards the existing bridge. Though the officials had planned to move the crane pontoons to the shore after the weather condition improved, strong current led to the accident. Construction of the new sea bridge remains suspended.
11 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||300 kg of ganja seized, two arrested||Madurai City Police on Tuesday seized 300 kg of ganja and arrested two persons. Acting on a tip-off, a special team of police and local police personnel kept vigil on movement of cargo vehicles. Then they intercepted a container truck and seized the ganja packed in several parcels, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) R. Shiva Prasad said. The contraband is said to have been bought in Vishakhapatnam. The police also arrested two persons – Malaichamy and Prabhu.
11 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||No option to study Tamil at CBSE schools in Oman: MP||Su. Venkatesan, Madurai MP, has appealed to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to allow students of CBSE schools in Oman to opt for Tamil as their second language. Parents in Oman have complained that their children were denied the right to choose Tamil as their second language. Mr. Venkatesan said 22 schools run by the Embassy of India in Oman were refusing to allow the children to learn Tamil right from primary classes. “It is surprising as similar schools in other Gulf countries offer Tamil as one of their language subjects. Why are the Indian schools in Oman alone are refusing to respect the right of the child to learn his/her mother tongue as declared by United Nations and in the Constitution of India,” he said. Tamil is the mother tongue for around 10% of the 46,000 Indian students studying in Oman. Representatives of the parents of children there have taken several measures to convince the school managements to offer Tamil as one of the language subjects in Classes 1 to 10.  The MP said that since the Indian community in Oman was facing job uncertainty due to the pandemic situation, the parents feel that if the students got an opportunity to learn Tamil in Oman, it would be easier for them to adapt when they return home.
11 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Railway staff oppose move to scrap night duty allowance||Railway employees are protesting against Railway Board’s decision to scrap night duty allowance (NDA) for non-gazetted railway employees with a basic pay of Rs. 43,600 and above. “What started as providing tea and bun as incentives for the employees discharging duty at night during the British rule became part of the salary as night duty allowance in 1961,” said Southern Railway Mazdoor Union assistant divisional secretary V. Ramkumar. Stating that keeping awake at night was against natural rhythm of human body, he said employees who gave up their sleep were vulnerable to various diseases. The allowance was only to compensate for it and encourage employees to come forward to work at night. “It is one of the quintessential allowances in the railway in order to compensate for the hardship faced by essential train passing staff members on night duty,” said divisional secretary of Dakshin Railway Employees Union (DREU) R. Sankaranarayanan. He said night duty caused mental as well as physical exhaustion and hence the allowance was meant only for the eight hours of duty between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. The unions feel that the new order will create great resentment among the staff and hamper smooth and safe train operations. “Two staff members – loco pilot and assistant loco pilot – have to be vigilant every second to run the trains carrying hundreds of passengers. The order would jeopardise the safe running of trains,” Mr. Ramkumar said. The DREU said the order would adversely affect station masters, loco pilots, guards, ticket checking staff and commercial clerks, whose duty involved train operations, safety, monitoring, coordination and traffic management. They had a vital role to play in running goods and parcel trains even at the time of COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Sankaranarayanan said.
11 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Railway employees protest order on scrapping of night duty allowance||Railway employees are protesting the Railway Board’s decision to scrap night duty allowance (NDA) for non-gazetted railway employees with a basic pay of Rs. 43,600 and above. “What started as providing tea and bun as incentives during the British rule for employees discharging duty at night has gradually become part of the salary as night duty allowance since 1961,” said Southern Railway Mazdoor Union assistant divisional secretary V. Ramkumar. Stating that keeping awake during nights is against the natural rhythm of the human body, he said that employees who give up their sleep were vulnerable to various diseases. The night duty allowance is only to compensate and encourage employees to come forward to work at night. “It is one of the most quintessential allowances for the railways, in order to pay for the hardship during night duty for essential train-passing staff members,” said divisional secretary of Dakshin Railway Employees Union (DREU) R. Sankaranarayanan. He said that night duty causes mental as well as physical exhaustion and hence the allowance was meant only for the eight hours of duty between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. The unions feel that the new order will create great resentment among the railway staff and this will hamper smooth and safe train operations. “When trains are run round the clock, two staff members — the loco pilot and assistant loco pilot — have to be vigilant every second to run the trains carrying hundreds of passengers. The order would jeopardise the safe running of trains,” Mr. Ramkumar said. The DREU said that the order would adversely affect the station masters, loco-pilots, guards, ticket-checking staff and commercial clerks, whose duty revolved around train operations, safety, monitoring, coordination and management of traffic. The unions have termed the new order retrograde, and asked the Railway Board to withdraw it.
11 November 2020||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||24 cases in Thoothukudi||Madurai reported 41 fresh COVID-19 cases, with which the district’s tally of cases rose to 19,136 on Tuesday. There were 27 discharges from hospitals. The district had registered 46 cases on Monday. Thirty people tested positive in Kanniyakumari, which saw its total case count go up to 15,288. After 22 patients were discharged from hospitals, the district has 257 active cases. With 24 new cases, Thoothukudi’s tally moved up to 15,375, with 357 active cases. The district marked 30 discharges. The number of active cases in Tirunelveli went up to 255 as the district reported 21 fresh cases on Tuesday. Consequently, the district’s infection tally rose to 14,475. With one more fatality, the district’s death toll reached 210. Virudhunagar recorded 19 new cases, which took the total number of positive cases in the district up to 15,601. With five more patients having been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 93. The death toll remains at 222. With the addition of 18 cases, Dindigul’s case count moved up to 9,964. Hospitals in the district discharged nine people. Sivaganga too registered 18 new cases, which pushed its tally up to 6,072. There were 12 discharges in the district. Theni reported 16 fresh cases to have a total case count of 16,385. The district marked the discharge of eight people. Tenkasi’s infection tally rose to 7,901, with 69 active cases, as eight people tested positive and six others were discharged from hospitals. Ramanathapuram added three fresh cases to its tally, which now stands at 6,092. Nine people were discharged from hospitals after their complete recovery.
11 November 2020||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Fewer theatres open in southern districts||On the first day after Tamil Nadu Government permitted theatres to open, only around 30% of the cinema houses opened in six southern districts on Tuesday. However, only lower patronage was reported in all the theatres in Madurai, Virudhunagar, Theni, Dindigul, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga districts. “It is a big relief for all of us as our cinemas remained locked for over seven months,” said M. Rathnakumar of Virudhunagar, secretary of Theatre Owners’ Association. However, the lower turnout is said to be due lack of publicity and absence of new releases. “Besides, Tuesday has always been a day with the lowest patronage,” Mr. Rathnakumar said. In Madurai, two theatres screened movies on Tuesday. Kallanai theatre in Vandiyur here was one of them. “As a matter of sentiment, we released MGR-starrer ‘Ninaithathai Mudippavan’ just to reflect our thoughts to win over the present crisis,” said its owner M. Balaji Kannan (39). Though there were only two persons for the first show at 12 noon, the show went on as scheduled. In the other two shows, only a handful of fans had turned up. President of Theatre Owners’ Association R. Kannan of Madurai said the new releases would attract more fans. He said theatre owners would meet on Wednesday to discuss the opening of all theatres. However, Mr. Rathnakumar hoped that all theatres in the State would open with new movies are promised to be released on Deepavali day. But, he was quick to add saying that only films of big stars will help the cinema halls to break even. “No other platform will be able to give the feel and joy of movie watching like that of a theatre. It’s not only because of the big screens and better audio system, but also due to the sheer presence of huge number of fans,” he added.
11 November 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Coconut value-addition centre to be set up||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said that a coconut value-addition centre at a cost of Rs. 16 crore will be set up at Shenbagaramanpudhur shortly as the district is one of the prime producers of coconuts in the State. On the fishermen’s demand for construction of groynes to protect all coastal hamlets in the district from sea erosion, he said construction of the granite structures was going on in a good number of villages and would be created in places wherever these structures were required. “Groynes will shortly come up at Poothurai, Kovalam, Azhikkaal, Melmidaalam, Enayam and Agastheeswaram while anti-sea erosion walls will be constructed at 30 places in the district,” Mr. Palaniswami said. The lift irrigation project, costing about Rs. 160 crore, to pump surplus water of the Pazhaiyaar river from Thaamraikulam to Radhapuram region in Tirunelveli district, was under the government’s active consideration, he said. He named the Manakkudi Bridge after late Minister Lourdammal Simon from the fishermen community, who served in the Cabinet headed by late Chief Minister K. Kamaraj and the Kottar – Idalaakudi Road after Seihuthambi Paavalar. Collector M. Arvind, Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju, Tamil Nadu Government’s Special Representative for Delhi N. Thalavai Sundaram and senior government officials participated in the review meeting.
11 November 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||‘Kanniyakumari-Kerala border under watch’||As Kerala is witnessing a sudden surge in COVID-19 cases after a lull, the Kanniyakumari district’s border with the neighbouring State will be monitored round-the-clock to check the entry of infected persons, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Tuesday. Addressing a COVID-19 review meeting at the Kanniyakumari Collectorate, Mr. Palaniswami said the district officials had been directed to organise 35 fever clinics every day at people’s doorstep to detect cases. Thus far, 43,410 persons have been screened through fever clinics for ensuring timely isolation of patients and appropriate treatment. “To make these efforts more effective and to ensure better results, stringent surveillance has been put in place on the Kanniyakumari–Kerala border. Inter-State travellers from the district should be very cautious and take all precautionary measures to shield themselves from the infection,” he said. “The district administration has been asked to ensure rigorous surveillance on the border round-the-clock, as any lapse would pose a serious threat to the efforts made to control the spread,” the CM said. The Chief Minister said adequate beds, medicines, RT-PCR kits and personal protective equipment had been made available in the district to handle any situation arising out of COVID-19. Thanks to the lockdown relaxations announced by the State government, industries were functioning smoothly, ensuring continued employment for their workers, he added. The Chief Minister laid the foundation for 36 new projects, to be implemented by the Public Works, Rural Development, Municipal Administration, Transport and TWAD Board Departments at a cost of Rs. 60.44 crore. He also dedicated 21 completed projects, implemented at a cost of Rs. 153.92 crore by the Municipal Administration, TWAD Board, Highways and Minor Ports, Public Health, Police, Fisheries, Rural Development, School Education, Social Welfare and Cooperation Departments and Tangedco. He disbursed Rs. 54.22 crore-worth welfare measures to 2,736 beneficiaries. After the review meeting, Mr. Palaniswami met representatives of farmers, fishermen, promoters of small and tiny industries and women’s self-help groups to discuss the problems they were facing and solicit suggestions for the improvement of their domains. The Chief Minister said adequate beds, medicines, RT-PCR kits and personal protective equipment had been made available in the district to handle any situation arising out of COVID-19. Thanks to the lockdown relaxations announced by the State government, industries were functioning smoothly, ensuring continued employment for their workers, he added.Rs. The Chief Minister laid the foundation for 36 new projects, to be implemented by the Public Works, Rural Development, Municipal Administration, Transport and TWAD Board Departments at a cost of Rs. 60.44 crore. He also dedicated 21 completed projects, implemented at a cost of Rs. 153.92 crore by the Municipal Administration, TWAD Board, Highways and Minor Ports, Public Health, Police, Fisheries, Rural Development, School Education, Social Welfare and Cooperation Departments and Tangedco. He disbursed Rs. 54.22 crore-worth welfare measures to 2,736 beneficiaries. After the review meeting, Mr. Palaniswami met representatives of farmers, fishermen, promoters of small and tiny industries and women’s self-help groups to discuss the problems they were facing and solicit suggestions for the improvement of their domains.  Adequate beds, medicines, RT-PCR kits and personal protective equipment have been made available
11 November 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Funds sought to restructure fishing harbour||Fishermen have urged the Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to sanction sufficient funds to restructure the “faultily designed” fishing harbour and permanently keep machineries to remove sand getting accumulated in the harbour by the nearby Tamirabharani estuary in the wake of five fatal accidents at the entry / exit point of the Thaengaaipattinam fishing harbour during the last three months, . They submitted a petition to Mr. Palaniswami when he met their representatives even while chairing a review meeting here on Tuesday to examine the ongoing anti-COVID-19 operations and the progress in execution of other development work. Since sea erosion has become a menace threatening the existence of the coastal hamlets throughout the year, groynes with huge boulders should be constructed in all the coastal hamlets on the entire stretch between Rajakkalmangalam and Neerodi. As the entire road connecting the coastal villages is in the worst shape due to inferior quality and sea erosion, this road, which is paramount for free movement of fishermen and materials required for the industry, should be re-laid afresh while ensuring superior quality. Coming down heavily on beach minerals being mined by the Manavaalakurichi-based Indian Rare Earths Limited, the fishermen said the quarrying of sand on the beach by this public sector undertaking was the prime reason for the sea erosion in the coast. So, the government should take steps to permanently stop quarrying beach minerals in the district. Since this region has more than 1,000 mechanised boats mostly involved in multi-day deep sea stay fishing, a control room should be set up at Irayumanthurai to transmit and receive satellite phone signals for alerting fishermen fishing 600 nautical miles away from the coast. The check-dam being constructed at Parakkaani across the Tamirabharani should be relocated to some other place and the AVM Channel, passing through the coastal hamlets, should be desilted, the petitioners said.
11 November 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Ferry service to resume in Kanniyakumari||Traders, tourists and those in hospitality industry are happy as Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has announced that tourists will be allowed to visit the southernmost point of the country’s mainland that had been beyond the reach of visitors in the wake of COVID-19 since March last. While addressing the reporters here on Tuesday after chairing a review meeting at the Collectorate to assess the ongoing anti-COVID-19 operations, Mr. Palaniswami said the positivity of the pandemic was on the declining trend, thanks to measures being taken by the State Government. “As the number of fresh COVID-19 cases was coming down, the tourists are most welcome to Kanniyakumari with all safety protocols,” he said. The Chief Minister announced that Poompuhar Corporation’s ferry service to Vivekananda Rock Memorial and Thiruvalluvar Statue would be resumed. “A suspension bridge will be erected between Vivekananda Rock Memorial and Thiruvalluvar Statue at a cost of Rs. 35 crore to add more colour to this international tourism destination,” Mr. Palaniswami said. Mr. Palaniswami said a coconut value-addition centre at a cost of Rs. 16 crore would be set up at Shenbagaramanpudhur shortly as the district was one of the prime producers of coconuts in the State. On the fishermen’s demand for construction of groynes to protect all coastal hamlets in the district from sea erosion, he said construction of the granite structures was going on in a good number of villages.
11 November 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||‘Can’t release Rajiv case convicts unilaterally’||The State government cannot take any decision on its own on the release of the seven life convicts in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case as there are legal complications, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Tuesday. Interacting with journalists in Kanniayakumari after chairing a COVID-19 review meeting, he said the State due to legal complications cannot take the executive order route to release the convicts as it had done to grant 7.5% horizontal reservation for NEET-qualified government school students in medical admissions when the issue was pending before the Governor. Court order Reacting to a Sri Lankan court’s direction to the island nation authorities on either auction or destroy the impounded Tamil fishermen’s mechanised boats, which were “unsalvagable”, the Chief Minister said the boats which were in sail-worthy conditions had already been retrieved, thanks to the efforts taken by his government. “The court’s direction pertains to boats that cannot be operated and brought back,” he explained. When asked about the Tamil Nadu government’s decision following the consultation it had with parents over reopening schools, Mr. Palaniswami said the School Education Department was reviewing the suggestions it had received on Monday. Based on this, a final decision would be taken very soon, he said.
11 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry imposes curbs on sale, use of firecrackers this Deepavali||The Collector has banned some varieties of firecrackers and placed restrictions on when bursting of crackers is permissible. The order by Collector T. Arun stated that on the basis of the Supreme Court judgement on degradation of air and aggravation of health conditions from indiscriminate use of firecrackers, the manufacture, sale and use of joined firecrackers (series crackers or laris) is hereby banned. The sale shall only be through licensed traders. During Deepavali festival, bursting of firecrackers should strictly be from 6 a.m. to 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. in respect of Puducherry, Mahe and Yanam regions on Saturday. The use of compounds of antimony, lithium, mercury, arsenic and lead in the manufacture of fireworks is prohibited. In addition, the use of strontium chromate in the manufacture of fireworks is also not permitted. The concerned authorities, particularly the police, shall ensure that fireworks are lit only during the designated time as mentioned above. They shall also ensure that there is no sale of banned firecrackers, the Collector said. No e-commerce websites, including Flipkart, Amazon, etc., shall accept any online orders and effect online sales. Any such e-commerce companies found selling crackers online will be hauled up for contempt of court. Barium salts in the fireworks is also hereby banned. Fireworks with permitted chemicals only can be purchased/possessed/sold/used during Deepavali and all other religious festivals, of any religion whatsoever, and other occasions like marriages, etc. The licenses of manufacturers of such banned fireworks items would be suspended, the order said. Only those crackers whose decibel (sound) level are within the limits are allowed in the market and the licenses of manufacturers on account of such violations will be suspended. The concerned police authorities and the sub-district magistrates will ensure that fireworks are not burst in silence zones that is, an area at least 100 metres away from hospitals, nursing homes, primary and district health care centres, educational institutions, courts, religious places or any other area that may be declared as a silence zone by the concerned authorities, the Collector stated.
11 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Case count in Puducherry crosses 36,000-mark||The overall COVID-19 case tally touched the 36,000 mark on Tuesday with the detection of 102 new cases across the UT while two more deaths raised the toll to 604. A 67-year-old woman died in Puducherry while the virus claimed the life of a 75-year-old women in Karaikal. The toll in Puducherry is 496 followed by Karaikal (57), Yanam (44) and Mahe (seven). The new cases were identified during the testing of 3,721 samples in the last 24 hours. In all, 113 patients were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 34,325. Puducherry region accounted for 57 fresh cases followed by Mahe (33), Karaikal (10) and Yanam (two). The test positivity rate is 2.7%, case fatality rate 1.68% and recovery rate 95.35%. The U.T. currently has 1,071 active cases — 343 in hospitals and 728 in home isolation. Of the 3.44 lakh samples tested so far, 3.02 lakh returned negative results. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao appealed to the public to adhere to COVID-19 safety principles while celebrating Diwali. “The next few days are crucial for keeping the spread of coronavirus in check,” he said. He launched an awareness campaign on safety measures to prevent COVID-19 in the festival season at the Beach. As many as 32 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Tuesday. Cuddalore tally With this, the total number of cases in the district touched 23,609. The Health Department said 188 patients were under care at different treatment centres. With 14 persons getting discharged on Tuesday, the number of recoveries touched 23,100. The district reported one more death, taking the official toll to 273. Villupuram district reported 35 fresh cases, taking the total to 14,157. The district did not report any death due to the disease on Tuesday. In Kallakurichi district, 15 persons tested positive. The total number of confirmed cases stood at 10,441.
11 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘L-G referring Cabinet proposal on quota to Centre unfortunate’||Former MP M. Ramadass has termed as “unfortunate and unacceptable” the decision of Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi to refer, without assigning any reason, the proposal of the Cabinet to earmark 10% of government medical seats to the students of government schools who have qualified in NEET to the Union Home Ministry. “There is no palpable cause for any disagreement on this issue. She could have called for clarification, if any, from the government or suggested an alternative course of action to achieve the objective of reservation or reasoned her reference to the Home Ministry,” Mr. Ramadass said in a press statement. The former MP said the Lt. Governor owes an explanation to the people of Puducherry on her reference to the Centre. “If she has rejected the proposal and sent it to the Home Ministry, the action of the L-G is inexplicably irrational and goes contrary to the constitutionally cherished canon of social justice and social welfare,” he said. The Cabinet decision reflected the sentiments of the people of Puducherry as empirical evidences abound to illustrate how the NEET-based selection process creates an unequal competition between the students of two streams of schools and how the poor, backward and rural students of government schools are marginalised and edged out of the race. The reservation of 10% of seats is well within the ambit of constitutional scheme. Moreover, it will attract more admission to government schools and create healthy academic competition among all schools in Puducherry producing better human resource. Further, this horizontal reservation does not violate the existing 50% reservation meant for OC, OBC, MBC, EBC, and SC in MBBS admission as 10% of each reserved category seats will be given to the best government school students belonging to the same community chosen on the basis of the inter se NEET marks. The existing intra and inter-community parity will be maintained. The number and the percentage of reservation earmarked now to various classes will remain the same even after the implementation of the new policy of reservation, Mr. Ramadass said. The Union Territory Act of 1963 and Business Rules confer powers on the L-G not to create obstacles in the path of social progress but to promote it. The L-G is for the people though not by the people. Raj Nivas stands for humanism and not for archaic bureaucratic rules sans human face. The Tamil Nadu Government, under whose Secondary School Board syllabus, 90% per cent of Plus Two students of the Union Territory have studied, has also implemented this policy of reservation after deep deliberations. When the Governor dilly dallied on his assent to the Bill, the government courageously took the recourse to article 162 of the Constitution to issue a Government Order implementing reservation, he pointed out.
11 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP wants 10% quota for govt. school students||Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday sought implementation of special category reservation for government school students in medical colleges. In a memorandum to Lt Governor Kiran Bedi, nominated legislator and party president V. Saminathan said the reservation will help in enrolment of a greater number of students in government schools. It will also encourage more students to take up medical entrance. The party said the government could allot 7-10 % seats for government school students. The Tamil Nadu government had already passed a legislation to provide horizontal reservation. “We may also provide and help government school students in Puducherry,” the memorandum said.
11 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Breakfast to be served in govt. schools||The Union Territory will launch a breakfast scheme in government schools on Thursday. “Earlier we were planning to launch the programme on November 14 (Children’s Day) but later decided to advance the inauguration as people will be busy with Deepavali celebrations,” Director of School Education T. Rudra Goud told The Hindu.  The government has tentatively included idli, pongal and kitchdi on the menu, and to begin with, food will be distributed among high school students now visiting their schools to clear academic doubts, he said, adding that once normalcy returned, the scheme would be expanded. The government had allowed students in Puducherry and Karaikal regions studying in Classes IX to XII in all schools to visit their institutes on a voluntary basis for guidance from their teachers. Around 8,000 students visit government schools, Mr. Goud said.Once restrictions to contain COVID-19 are lifted and full academic activity resumes, around 80,000 students would benefit from the breakfast scheme. The government has set aside Rs. 6 crore as an additional amount in the current fiscal to implement the breakfast scheme. The amount is in addition to Rs. 8 to Rs. 9 crore earmarked for providing milk to students at government schools. The scheme has been named after former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy will inaugurate the scheme at Jeevandam Government Higher Secondary School.
11 November 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Sub-Registrar held on bribery charge||Officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC) arrested a Sub-Registrar (incharge) and a document writer on Monday here on bribery charge. The action was taken on a complaint that the Sub-Registrar (incharge) D. Saravanan (38) serving in the Joint Sub-Registrar Office -(II) at Pudukottai had demanded Rs. 12,000 as bribe for registration of document. DVAC sources said they received a complaint from one Subramanian stating that the Sub-Registrar (in-charge) had demanded bribe for registration of a document for his friend Selvam. An advance of Rs. 5,000 was allegedly paid as bribe to Saravanan who registered the document and was awaiting the remaining amount to hand over the document.
11 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stage protest||Farmers under the Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam and various other organisations here protested in front of the Collectorate here demanding authorities to carry water through natural channels for Mettur dam surplus water scheme. Close to 100 farmers and their family members took part in the protest and raised slogans demanding the authorities to explain why water was being carried through pipelines and land was being acquired while water could be carried through natural channels. The protesters alleged that majority of land benefited through the scheme was located in Edappadi and Konganapuram areas and it was being done in favour of few individuals. Sources said that about 300 acres of private land were to be acquired for the project. The farmers demanded that the surplus water from Mettur dam should be carried through natural water channels to the water bodies identified under the scheme and steps should be taken on this regard.
11 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects Selathampatti lake||Collector S.A. Raman on Tuesday inspected Selathampatti lake along with senior officials and reviewed the possibilities of constructing canals to carry surplus water from the lake. Mr. Raman along with District Revenue Officer R. Divakar, Salem West MLA G. Venkatachalam and Salem Corporation Chief Engineer A. Ashokan visited the lake near Shivadhapuram and discussed measures to prevent the surplus water from the lake entering residences in the vicinity. Officials said the public in the area had been complaining about water inundating residential areas during rain and demanded steps to prevent it. The authorities were planning to construct a canal outside the residential areas and take it along roadsides through areas under the Salem Corporation and Highways Department here and drain the surplus water in Thirumanimutharu River. The officials said that the canal was expected to cover a distance of about 1.5 km. The DIstrict Collector advised the authorities to expedite proposals for the purpose.
11 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Children’s park opened at police quarters||A children’s park located inside the police quarters in Sooramangalam was opened on Monday. City Police Commissioner T. Senthil Kumar and Deputy Police Commissioner (Law and Order) M. Chandrashekaran inaugurated the park. Salem West Assistant Commissioner J. Nagarajan, and AC (Crime) C.R. Boopathirajan took part. Until recently, the park was covered with bushes and it was renovated with the support of the public. Mr. Senthil Kumar handed over mementos topersons who contributed for the renovation.
11 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Quack arrested||The Salem City police on Tuesday arrested a quack here. The police said the 60-year-old accused had been selling medicines and treating persons with various illnesses at Nanjampatti here. Based on a tip off, officials from district health department, city health and police inspected the premises and arrested him. The Ammapet police are investigating.
11 November 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat president decides not to quit||Woman panchayat president Rajeswari Pandi has agreed to withdraw her decision to quit from the post here on Tuesday following a meeting held at the office of the Revenue Divisional Officer Muthu Kazhuvan, in which Block Development Officers Alagu Meena and Sundara Mahalingam, vice-president of the panchayat Nagarajan, ward members and other staff were present. Meeting It was decided to conduct all meetings as mandated in the Panchayat Raj Act. The meeting decided to cooperate with the president and ensure that the duties were discharged as per the laws. The members agreed not to give any room for allegations which were against the laws. The panchayat president on Monday expressed concern over non-cooperation from other members and claimed that they even victimised her by pointing out her caste name since she hailed from the Scheduled Caste community.
11 November 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Life term awarded||A Sessions Court here has awarded life sentence to a man. Lakshmanan, 30, of Indira Nagar was a tailor in Tirupur. His daughter, 8, a differently abled, went out of her house on July 4, 2013 to attend nature’s call. She never returned, and her mother lodged a complaint. Amalraj, 30, of Pandugudi, neighbour, killed her as she was defecating in the open.
11 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||247 fresh cases in central districts||The central districts on Tuesday recorded 247 fresh cases of COVID-19. The region recorded three deaths- two in Thanjavur and one in Karur districts. A 75-year-old woman and a 46-year-old man both suffering from chronic kidney disease in Thanjavur and a 50-year-old man who had been diagnosed with decompensated chronic liver disease in Karur succumbed to the viral infection. Thanjavur recorded the highest number of cases in the region, a spike over the last few days. A total of 67 patients tested positive for the infection. Nagapattinam too, reported a spike with 43 fresh cases on Tuesday. Tiruchi recorded 39 new cases, while in Tiruvarur, 31 patients tested positive for the infection. Patients in Tiruchi were from existing containment zones and were primary contacts, interdistrict travellers and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. Meanwhile, 16 patients were discharged from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Tuesday after recovering from the viral infection. In Karur, 39 patients, including residents of, Vengamedu, Kavundampalayam and Thanthonrimalai tested positive for the viral infection. In Pudukottai, 23 fresh cases were reported. Among them were local index cases and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. In Ariyalur, a total of 10 patients tested positive amount which two each hailed from Ariyalur and Thirumanur block, one each from Sendhurai, T. Palur, Andimadam and Jayankondam. Two interdistrict travellers also tested positive. Meanwhile in Perambalur, among the five patients who tested positive, two each hailed from the Veppur block and one each from Veppanthattai, Perambalur and Veppur. Meanwhile, a total of 535 throat swabs were lifted at the government hospitals and primary healthcare centres in the district and sent for processing.
11 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Stray cattle menace haunts road users||The menace of stray cattle wandering on city roads posing serious risks has returned, with the public raising an alarm yet again. The issue, reccuring for over many years sees no end, they rued. Cattle wandering especially in the Srirangam, Gandhi Market and Woraiyur areas is a common sight. While the cattle usually mean no harm, their loitering on arterial roads poses several dangers, including accidents. “I have had to stop my vehicle in a haste to avoid accidents. If at all I hit the cow, it will cause grave injuries to my life and to the cow’s,” said a resident in Woraiyur. M. Sekaran, Chairman, Citizens’ Forum said that the cattle hinder smooth flow of traffic on arterial roads, including Salai Road and Bharathidasan Salai Road. City police, in September came down heavily on 15 cattle owners and booked them on charges of causing obstruction to public roads and posing danger to the public. The police had found more than 30 cows wandering following which they took the initiative. “The city corporation must take charge, impound the cattle and levy a fine. Otherwise, there will be no changes,” Mr. Sekaran said. Unless a heavy fine is announced, the owners will continue to leave their cattle lose and pose dangers to the public, he added. Cattle destroy the plants on centre medians and ruin the work of the civic body to beautify the city. The civic body alleged that they do not have the man power or the necessary space to construct a pound, claimed Mr. Sekaran. However, S. Sivasubramanian, City Corporation Commissioner, said that they had undertaken the work to enumerate the number of cattle, and cattle owners in the city. “We will organise a record of the total number of cattle, after which meetings will be organised with registered owners to understand their grievances and discuss these issues,” he said.
11 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BBA programme in aviation launched||The Bishop Heber College here and the Madras Flying Club Aviation Academy have joined hands to offer a full-time BBA programme in Aviation and Ground Handling. The three-year undergraduate programme was launched on Tuesday at the college premises during which a copy of the syllabus was unveiled by the Bishop, CSI Tiruchi- Thanjavur Diocese and the chairman, secretary of the College Governing Board Rt. Rev. D. Chandrasekaran in the presence of the college principal D. Paul Dhayabaran, Captain Jacob Selvaraj, honorary secretary, Madras Flying Club, Tiruchi Airport among others. In addition to this programme, six-month diploma courses on Cabin Crew and Hospitality Management, Airport Ground Handling Management and Flight Operation Management were also launched on the occasion. The syllabus for the BBA Aviation programme has been prepared jointly by the College and the Madras Flying Club Aviation Academy. The college has provided the necessary infrastructure for the conduct of the UG programme and diploma courses. The language papers and management subjects would be handled by the College, while the aviation-related courses would be handled by a team of well-trained instructors of the Madras Flying Club Aviation Academy. The intake for the BBA programme would be 60 students per year and the programme would comprise theory and practical sessions. Under the BBA Aviation programme, 70 % of the courses would be handled by the faculty members of the Department of Management and the remaining 30 % by the Aviation Academy, says Dr. Michael David Premkumar, Head, Department of Management, Bishop Heber College. This is the first of its kind programme that is being offered in Tiruchi, says Michael David Premkumar. Provisional admissions for the programme is expected to start from Wednesday at the College through online mode, he added. The degree for BBA Aviation programme would be awarded by the Bharathidasan University, while the diploma certificates would be awarded by the college. The 91-year-old Madras Flying Club which runs the Aviation Academy shifted its operations from the Chennai International Airport to Tiruchi Airport last year. The Flying Club has been provided with a room at the Tiruchi airport where theory and practical sessions for the students would be held. Some of the aviation-related subjects during the three-year programme include familiarisation of airport and aircraft, introduction to cabin crew profession, air regulation, aviation security and general navigation, Captain Jacob Selvaraj told The Hindu . The Madras Flying Club and the college had signed an Memorandum of Understanding in February this year to offer aviation courses at the institution. This Madras Flying Club would establish an Aero Lab at the college during next academic year for the students to know about the crucial parts of aircraft in its possession and its functioning. Capt Selvaraj said the Flying Club had in its possession six single engine Cessna and Hansa aircraft, adding that plans were afoot to buy a new two-engine aircraft. The administrative office of the Flying Club had already been shifted to the Tiruchi airport and the aircrafts in its possession would be moved once the hangar was ready at the airport. Capt. Jacob Selvaraj said the BBA Aviation programme would be beneficial to students as it would make them familiar with aviation related aspects coupled with management subjects.
11 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||App launched to build interaction between public and police||'Virtual Cop' - a mobile App aimed at providing a communication platform between the general public and the police department was introduced here on Tuesday. The app has initially been launched for the Tiruchi Range encompassing Tiruchi, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Pudukottai and Karur districts. Inspector General of Police, Central Zone H.M. Jayaram inaugurated the App in the presence of the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range Z. Annie Vijaya, Superintendent of Police (in-charge) Tiruchi T. Senthilkumar, Additional Superintendents of Police, Deputy Superintendents of Police and Inspectors of Tiruchi Range. The Virtual Cop app which could be downloaded from the playstore provides for two-way communication and interactions between the general public and the police department, say police sources. Public could register their complaints without having to visit a nearby police station making use of the app. The complaints could pertain to traffic violation, crimes, child abuse and women abuse for speedier action. Public could also convey information relating to any illegal activity taking place in their respective places through the app, the sources said. Public could also register the complaint along with a photo of the incident. The status of the complaint could be viewed in the app. The sources said the social media team of the police in the respective districts would forward the complaint or information to their higher ups and the jurisdictional officer of the police station concerned for quicker action. Plans were afoot to include more features in the App including 'Watch My House', finding the nearest police station, finding the nearest hospital and request for police verification certificate.
11 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Most theatre owners prefer to wait for a few more days to screen films||Despite the State government’s nod for reopening the cinema halls, except for a few, most of theatre owners in Tiruchi preferred to wait for a few more days to screen films. The State government nod had raised eagerness among the movie lovers as they could not go for movies for so long due the spread of COVID-19 virus. Though the pandemic is yet to be brought under control, a section of them were showing eagerness to watch movies, and they widely expected that the theatre would reopen on Tuesday. But, the main stream cinema halls in the city did not open for shows mainly due to the non-release of new films. The cinema halls on Fort Station Road, Mela Chinthamani, Cantonment and Woraiyur continued to remain closed. Only a few theatres on Madras Trunk Road in Thiruvanaikoil and East Boulevard Road were reopened after a gap of about eight months. Adhering to the conditions imposed by the State government, only 50% of the tickets seats were sold so as to occupy 50% of the seats. The movie watchers were screened for fever at the entrance. Arrangements were made for using hand sanitizers. They were asked to wear masks and maintain social distancing norms as much as possible. Since no new films were released, the theatres that reopened on Tuesday chose to screen old popular movies. There were takers for M.G. Ramachandran starred “Ayirathil Oruvan” in Venkateswara theatre in Thiruvanaikoil. “There are many issues to be solved. The conditions are tough. But, we chose to screen an old film as we do not want to dampen the spirit of the movie lovers, who were lounging for the reopening,” said R. Manoharan, proprietor of the Venkateswara theatre. There are views among the theatre owners that the condition imposed by the State government to function the theatres with only 50% occupancy is not financially viable for the stakeholders. They also felt that operating the theatres by screening old movies was not financially viable as they would not get more than 10% to 20% of the seats filled up. “We have made all arrangements to reopen the movie halls. But, the present condition is not condusive to screen movies. We need to take many aspects into considerations before reopening,” says a managing partner of a movie hall in the city. He said that if new films were released in view of Deepavali, a few more theatres might be reopened on the day of Deepavali.
11 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Residents allege illegal water connections in Samalapuram||Residents of Samalapuram Town Panchayat in Tiruppur district alleged that many houses received illegal water connections while no water supply was ensured to those residents who had been living there for over a decade. One of the residents, S. Ramya from Ward No. 13 in Karugampalayam at Samalapuram, alleged that around 13 houses, which were constructed over 15 years ago in the area, had not received water connections yet. “Houses that were constructed only two years ago have received water connections,” she claimed. Many houses in the locality had multiple illegal water connections, she alleged, adding that no action was taken despite multiple representations to the Town Panchayat Office. However, Executive Officer of Samalapuram Town Panchayat K. Geetha denied these allegations. Only one house in Karugampalayam was found to have had two water connections three days ago, she said. “After checking the records, we have cut one of the water connections of the house,” she said. Any complaints received will be investigated and necessary action will be initiated, Ms. Geetha said.
11 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Residents living in tiger reserve asked not to burst crackers||The forest department has instructed residents living in villages and habitations in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) to not celebrate Deepavali by lighting fireworks. In a notice to all residents living in homes in both the core and buffer zones of the tiger reserve, as well as to the villages of Moyar, Masinagudi, Singara, Vazhaithottam, Bokkapuram, Anaikatty, Siriyur and Thengumarahada, the forest department has advised residents to not use fireworks. They have made the appeal to residents citing disturbance to wildlife and also potential threat to human safety caused by the fireworks angering wild animals such as elephants, which are known to become more aggressive when they get startled by loud noises from fireworks. Tourists potentially visiting the tiger reserve have also been warned of action, and have been told to not stray into reserve forests or get close to wildlife. The forest department has stated that severe penalties would be imposed against those persons found breaking the law. TNPCB appeal The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board has urged the public to burst crackers only during the permitted hours on Deepavali day. The Board said in a press release that it will monitor air quality level here for 14 days - seven days before Deepavali and seven days after the festival. The public should burst only fireworks that are environment-friendly and are not loud. The public should get permission from the respective local bodies to gather at a particular place to burst crackers. They should not burst crackers near hospitals or in places that have thatched roof houses.
11 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. reworks strategies to prevent human-elephant conflicts||Following the recent deaths of two persons due to accidental encounters with elephants in Gudalur, the Forest Department has revamped and redoubled its “human-elephant conflict mitigation” strategies. A man and a woman were killed within a span of 48 hours in separate incidents after crossing paths with wild elephants in Gudalur and O-Valley forest ranges over the last week. Prior to the incidents, the number of human-elephant conflicts had seen a steady decline over the last few years. However, the recent incidents have forced the department to revamp their conflict-mitigation strategies and prevent such encounters from taking place. Forest Department staff said both recent incidents could have been prevented if residents had followed a few precautions. They said they were now individually visiting each village that had been identified as being prone to human-elephant encounters to brief the residents about the measures need to be followed to ensure their safety. Such sensitisation campaigns were also being carried out in tea estates where estate workers reported for work during the early hours of the morning when elephants moved between forest patches. District Forest Officer (Gudalur division), Sumesh Soman, said that following the recent deaths, a special push was being given towards anti-depredation activities and awareness creation in the Gudalur division. Forest guards, who were in the field throughout the day and for a few hours at night, were told to interact with at least five villagers daily and sensitise them to the movement of elephants, and the precautions they need to follow. Moreover, Forest Range Officers had been told to be present in the field from 5 a.m. to 7 a.m and also after dusk, when elephant movement was high. The division was also to begin profiling the elephants that inhabited the region, their movement patterns and other behavioural patterns.
11 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Government museum reopens||The Government museum at the Connemara Cottage here was reopened after seven months on Tuesday. The museum, which is popular with visiting tourists, was closed following the announcement of the ban on visiting tourists in March of this year following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. K.A. Murugavel, Curator of the museum, said that the museum has been opened on Tuesday, with more than 20 visitors to the museum being recorded on the day or reopening. “We have issued strict guidelines to visitors to enter only once they have been subject to thermal scans and once they have thoroughly washed their hands and wear masks,” said Mr. Murugavel. Other preventative measures include mandatory personal distancing, as well as a board with instructions asking visitors to not touch any artefacts kept inside the museum and to also keep away from door handles and other surfaces. “The ticketing system too has been changed, with swiping machines introduced where visitors can use their debit or credit cards to pay for the tickets or scan a QR code at the entrance and pay electronically,” said Mr. Murugavel.  Special Correspondent adds from Coimbatore  The government museum at Nehru Stadium opened to visitors on Tuesday after nearly eight months. According to C. Sivakumar, curator, visitors should wear masks and clean their hands before entering the museum. They will be screened with thermal scanner and maximum only 20 people will be present inside the museum at any point of time. The museum will continue to celebrate events that it organises throughout the year. But, online participation will be encouraged,
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports one death, 196 cases||Salem district reported 97 positive cases on Tuesday. According to health officials, 77 cases were indigenous and 20 patients returned from Erode, Namakkal, Krishnagiri, Karur and Dharmapuri. In Namakkal, 56 cases were reported. Close to 10 patients returned from Chennai, Erode, Salem and Kerala. As per bulletin, a 49-year-old woman from Namakkal died at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. Erode district reported 77 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 11,274. While 90 persons were discharged, 800 persons continue to be under treatment. Krishnagiri reported 33 cases and 32 persons were discharged on Tuesday. The total number of active cases stood at 312 and the total number of infections 6,894. Dharmapuri reported 13 new cases and 14 persons were discharged. The number of active cases in the district stood at 209 and the total number of infections 5,800. Coimbatore district reported one COVID-19 death and 196 cases on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 45,492 cases. A 55-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital, died on Monday, the media bulletin said. Of the 45,492 cases, 1,018 were active cases. Coimbatore district reported 577 deaths in total. On Tuesday, 186 patients from the district were discharged. Tiruppur district reported two deaths and 98 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 13,886 cases. A 78-year-old woman died at a private hospital in Coimbatore, and a 45-year-old woman from the district died at a private hospital in Vellore on Monday. Out of the 13,886 cases, 987 were active cases. Tiruppur district reported a total of 199 deaths. As many as 150 patients from the district were discharged on Tuesday, according to the bulletin. In the Nilgiris, 29 people tested positive. The total number of confirmed cases stands at 7,000. The toll in the district stands at 40.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||BJP leaders persist with ‘Vetrivel Yatra’, court arrest||Mr. Raja also dubbed both Periyar and DMK patriarch Annadurai ‘anti-nationals’ and ‘traitors’. He claimed that the country was being “swept by the BJP wave”, and that Tamil Nadu will see this wave in May 2021, referring to the upcoming elections. Later, the BJP leader was arrested and detained along with party cadre.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Back in business||
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Velalar College of Engineering and Technology: Online inauguration of the 20th batch of B.E./B.Tech. programmes by S.D. Chandrasekar, secretary and correspondent, Vellalar Educational Trust, 10 a.m.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||cinema arts events||MISCELLANEOUS C.P. Art Centre, 1, Eldams Road, Alwarpet, Chennai - 600018. Exhibition of Handloom and Handicrafts, Textiles, Jewellery, Organic products, Home made food items, Handmade soaps. Tomorrow last day, from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. All are welcome.
11 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC to run 1,000 additional buses to handle Deepavali rush||The COVID-19 pandemic dashed the hopes of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) to generate more revenue during festivals, including Ganesh Chaturti and Dasara. With people either staying at home or using private vehicles to travel, ridership during what would otherwise have been peak season remained low. But the tide seems to be turning as Deepavali approaches, with the transport corporation recording an increase in demand for tickets. KSRTC has decided to operate 1,000 additional buses this festive season. From Bengaluru, buses will be operated to Shivamogga, Hassan, Mangaluru, Belagavi, Vijayapura, Hubballi and other destinations. The additional services will help passengers travelling on November 13 and 14. “After the outbreak of the pandemic, the number of people travelling in buses has come down drastically even during festivals. However, this time for Deepavali, we are seeing some demand, especially for intra-State travel. Around 150 buses are booked from Bengaluru to Mangaluru, Belagavi, Shivamogga and other destinations,” said a KSRTC official. However, people are wary of travelling in air-conditioned buses. “There is more demand for non-AC sleeper coach buses while ridership for AC buses remains low,” the official added. Goa and Vijayawada seem to be popular destinations with a few buses from Bengaluru already booked.  After the outbreak of the pandemic, the number of people travelling in buses has come down drastically even during festivals A KSRTC official
11 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Celebrating love outside shackles of faith, caste, gender||At a time when social media is inundated with communally divisive narratives around inter-faith marriages, when politicians are talking about “love jihad laws”, and when a jewellery brand pulled back an advertisement depicting such a union after public outrage, three journalists are showcasing examples of unions that are not constrained by traditional boundaries. The ‘India Love Project’ (ILP) features stories of love and marriage outside the shackles of faith, caste, ethnicity and gender. Founded by Priya Ramani, Samar Halarnkar and Niloufer Venkatraman and launched around a fortnight ago, it comprises 150-word stories and pictures of couples on its Instagram and Facebook handles. Couples share the struggles, fights and prejudice they faced to get married. The vignettes depict how beautifully binaries co-exist in relationships and homes. One of the stories is of Daniela Menichella and Raj Awatramani, which was written by their daughter. It begins by how a cross tucked by the front door of the house faces a painting of Krishna on the west wall. Explaining how the project started, Ms. Ramani says that while they had been tossing the idea for a while, they started discussing it actively last year after politicians started spreading hate on interfaith marriage. But they did not launch it given the amount of effort and time a website would take to set up. “After we saw the bullying that Tanishq was subjected to because of an inter-faith advertisement, and feeling disheartened at the way the company immediately withdrew its ad, we decided we had to launch ILP as soon as possible. We adopted a millennial entrepreneur strategy and launched it on the fly without thinking of all the details,” she said. Ms. Ramani says, through their project, they are hoping to change the toxic conversation around love and marriage, and bring back that warm, fuzzy feeling associated with love. Although the government had last year stated in Parliament that love jihad was not a legally recognised term and does not exist, Mr. Halarnkar says it has been weaponised and normalised to the point that people believe it is a legitimate national concern. “We believe this fake narrative must be countered. What better way to combat something that is fake with something that is real. Nothing could be more real than the lovely, inspiring stories landing on our page,” he said. The response The team now wants to release one love story on their social media pages each day and is also thinking of joining hands with organisations that are already working to help such couples overcome obstacles. Their project has received an overwhelming response, and they are now in the midst of organising the flood of responses they have received. They also want to get more stories from the hinterland and feature more intercaste and LGBTQ love stories. Talking about whether the struggles of young couples are different or easier when compared to the older generation, Ms. Ramani said, “I think older couples find it easier to share their stories. Younger couples probably worry about bigoted landlords, or maintaining a “low profile” at their workplaces. But there are enough stories across all age categories to keep us going for a long time. As far as their struggles go, some things don’t change, but yes, younger couples do talk about how difficult it is to keep the narrative focused on love in a time of great hate.” A few inter-faith couples, who are yet to formalise their relationship, have written telling them that the project and the stories are deeply inspiring. One of the messages they have received says: “... These stories are like rays of hope in these times when there is a growing hatred towards minorities.” Summing up Mr. Halarnkar added, “More inter-faith relationships just make a lot of sense in a country where dating is frowned upon and young people find it so hard to meet someone. Widening the pool, so to say, simply allows more to jump in. And that is a good thing. Love makes you calmer and gentler, and calmness and gentleness are things this country desperately requires.”  We believe this fake narrative must be countered. What better way to combat something that is fake with something that is real Samar Halarnkar
11 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Deaths dip in State, but Bengaluru Urban’s share almost the same||Although the number of COVID-19 deaths in the State are declining, the percentage of deaths in Bengaluru Urban in comparison to rest of Karnataka has almost remained the same since September. As on November 9, 34.7% of the total 11,410 deaths were from Bengaluru Urban. On October 9, the district contributed 33.6% of the total 9,789 deaths. This is almost the same as on September 9, 33.8% of the total 6,808 deaths in the State. At 1.1%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) in Bengaluru Urban is lower than the State average of 1.3%. Dharwad has the highest CFR at 2.7% followed by Bidar (2.4%) which has the highest Test Positivity Rate (TPR). At least 15 districts have a CFR higher than the State average. Chitradurga has the lowest CFR at 0.5%, followed by Yadgir (0.6%) and Bengaluru Rural, Mandya, and Udupi where the CFR has reduced to 0.8%, according to the data from the State COVID war room. K.V. Trilok Chandra, who heads the State’s Critical Care Support Unit (CCSU), said Bengaluru’s share is almost the same as the overall caseload is also proportionately high here. Attributing the decline in overall deaths in the State to early reporting, identification and treatment of critical patients, the official said clinical management has also improved vastly compared to the initial months. In Bengaluru, the highest number of deaths have been reported from private hospitals. According to data compiled by BBMP that was submitted to Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, the highest CFR till November 9 was reported from HBS hospital in Shivajinagar. Of the 865 COVID-19 admissions in this hospital, 162 patients died recording a CFR of 18.73%, according to the data. According to the BBMP data that compiled the total COVID-19 admissions, deaths, and CFR in the top 20 COVID-19 hospitals in Bengaluru till November 9, Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) has the second highest CFR at 14.71%. While Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital has a CFR of 12.57%, K.C. General, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, and Bhagwan Mahaveer Jain Hospital have a CFR of 10.84%, 10.73% and 10.10% respectively. Victoria Hospital that treated the highest number of COVID-19 patients (6,310) so far, 597 patients died translating into a CFR of 9.46%. However, Taha Mateen, Managing Trustee of HBS Hospital, said only 54 COVID-19 deaths occured in his hospital. “When we gave the number of deaths to BBMP, we gave the total number, including non-COVID deaths too. From July 6, when we started COVID-19 admissions, till date we had 54 deaths and all of them were on ventilator in the ICU,” he said. Stating that his hospital never refused any COVID-19 patient, Dr. Mateen said: “All the 865 COVID-19 patients that have been admitted here so far were ICU grade patients who were brought in a critical condition. None of them required less than 10 litres of oxygen.” In terms of active cases too, Bengaluru Urban’s share has remained the same since October. While 55.8% of the total 32,936 cases in the State as on November 9 were from Bengaluru Urban, this district contributed 52.5% of the total 1,18,851 as on October 9. This percentage was 42.4% of the total 99,470 active cases as on September 9.
11 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. admits to not supplying food to students as per food security law: HC||The State government has “candidly” admitted that it did not supply midday meals or foodgrains between June 1 and October 31 to eligible students studying in government and aided schools who are covered under the midday meal scheme of the National Food Security Act, 2013, the High Court of Karnataka observed on Tuesday. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar made the observations during the hearing of the petitions related to issues cropped up owing to COVID-19 restrictions. While observing that non-supply of midday meals or foodgrains or providing food security allowance to students as per the NFS Act amounts to denial of the fundamental right guaranteed under the Article 21, the Bench directed the government to elaborate about in what manner and within what period the eligible students covered under the scheme would be compensated. ‘Bound to implement’ The State government is bound to implement the NFS Act and the Midday Meal Rules, 2015 despite closure of schools, the Bench observed. The government, in response to the court’s earlier query, said foodgrains were supplied to students only till May 31 in lieu of midday meal. The government also submitted the copies of the decisions taken on November 3 of releasing Rs. 44 crore for purchase of foodgrains for supplying to students for June to October period. However, the government made it clear that foodgrains have been supplied to the eligible children in lieu of the meals till October, including during the lockdown period. Bench direction Meanwhile, the Bench also directed the Secretary, Department of Primary and Secondary Education, to explain how the provisions of the Midday Meal Rules, 2015, framed under the NFS Act, would be implemented in view of COVID-19 situation owing to which schools have remained closed. The Bench also noted that as per Section 5 of the NFS Act, the government would have to provide appropriate free meals to children aged between six months and six years through the local anganwadi, and one free midday meal to children up to Class VIII every day, except on school holidays, in all schools that were run by the government, local bodies, and government-aided schools. Meanwhile, the People’s Union for Civil Liberties contended that the State government, as per the NFS Act, would have to pay food security allowance to each eligible person in case of non-supply of the entitled quantities of foodgrains or meals.
11 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fire in godown: ‘The heat was unbearable’||The 1st main, A street at Kuvempunagar in Bapuji Nagar was a scene straight out of a nightmare when a godown filled with barrels containing chemicals caught fire on Tuesday morning. Thick black smoke engulfed the area while blasts of hundreds of barrels exploding could be heard at regular intervals. Overhead water tanks on adjacent buildings began melting in the heat, window panes cracked, and cars parked outside the godown were gutted. Residents in adjacent buildings were evacuated while 200 fire personnel tried to control the blaze. At least four buildings in the vicinity were affected. Rajender J., whose house is located on the road opposite the godown, said they saw the smoke around 11 a.m. and immediately started helping people leave their homes. “Even before the fire engines arrived, the heat was unbearable. That’s how intense the fire was. We were 100 metres from the spot,” he said. ‘Removed vehicles’ “As people were being evacuated, we made sure no vehicle was parked near the spot. We had to push some of the cars to safer spots. We didn't want the vehicles to catch fire, as the fire would have spread faster,” he added. The owner of a fabrication factory near the godown spotted workers coming out in panic screaming about a fire. “We immediately alerted people and asked everyone to leave,” said the owner. Two vacant sites, filled with bushes, on either side of the godown, helped prevent the fire from spreading. “However, buildings behind the site were damaged,” a senior official on the spot said. Pavan K., a resident, said that as soon as the site caught fire, the power was cut. “There was smoke. We couldn’t see or breathe properly, which added to the panic,” he said. As the blaze continued through the day, people living in the neighbourhood started to worry. “We heard a massive sound around 6.15 p.m. Then the godown, which was burning, collapsed. We all ran out of our houses. We did not know what was happening,” said one resident. Ravishankar, Deputy Director, Fire and Emergency Services, who was one of those in charge of the operation, said there were hundreds of barrels, many of them filled with petrochemicals. “We knew they would all burn. Hence, we were prepared for a long operation,” he said. Narrow approach roads The operation was hindered by a narrow road leading to the site. “The road is narrow. To reach the spot, our huge fire tenders had to make 3-4 turns. Managing incoming tenders as well as those leaving on time without causing a jam was a huge task,” a fire department personnel said.  There was smoke. We couldn’t see or breathe properly, which added to the panic Pavan K., a resident   We spotted workers coming out in panic screaming about a fire. We immediately alerted people nearby and asked everyone to leave Owner of a fabrication factory near the godown
11 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||LED light project nearing completion in four government buildings||By the end of November, four important government buildings in the heart of the city will be more energy efficient. The conventional tubelights and fluorescent lights in Vidhana Soudha, Vikasa Soudha, Visvesvaraya Towers and M.S. Building are being replaced with energy-efficient LED lights. The project is being funded by the Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. and was taken up following directions from the high powered steering committee, headed by the Chief Secretary. According to sources, more than 11,000 lights will be replaced at a cost of Rs. 1.94 crore. The project has been taken up in coordination with the Public Works Department (PWD) and Urban Development Department (UDD), and a tripartite agreement was signed by the Bengaluru Smart City Ltd., PWD and the contractor. Sources said that the main objective of the project is to reduce dependency on conventional lights by moving to energy efficient lighting, illuminate the premises of all four buildings, especially the basement areas. A senior official in Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. told The Hindu that the PWD was the executing authority for the project and already Rs. 1.25 crore has been released to the department. Nearly 80% of the work had been completed. “There are certain technical difficulties that have cropped up. We are trying to sort them out to ensure that the project is completed by November-end,” the official said. Once all the lights are replaced, there will be a minimum of 50% energy saving. This will be due to decrease in power consumption, given that LED lights are touted as being most energy efficient. A PWD official involved in the project execution said that the extent of energy savings can be determined only after all the lights have been replaced and power bills compared. “The power bills are cleared and paid by the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms, which is the parent department and owner of the four government buildings,” he said.  There are certain technical difficulties that have cropped up. We are trying to sort them out to ensure that the project is completed by November-end Official, Bengaluru Smart City Ltd.
11 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tamil Nadu government won’t budge||With demand for inter-State travel picking up, Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) officials are unhappy with Tamil Nadu’s decision to ban services to the State. In mid-June, the KSRTC had resumed services to neighbouring States beginning with Andhra Pradesh. However, the Tamil Nadu government is yet to give the green signal for resumption of services. “We are currently operating 70 to 80 bus services from Bengaluru to Attibele check post where people have been asked to alight. Passengers take the TN bus to reach Hosur from where they catch another bus to reach their destination. This is inconveniencing passengers. At least 3,000 people travel every day from Bengaluru to Attibele,” said a KSRTC official. People have vented their ire on social media. “We are dropped off at the border and are allowed to travel further in Tamil Nadu buses. When movement of people is allowed, why can’t inter-State services be permitted? There is no logic to this,” said one passenger.  Prior to lockdown Prior to the outbreak of COVID-19, KSRTC used to operate around 400 buses to Tamil Nadu every day, and during the festive season at least 200 additional buses to meet the demand. “We do not know why the neighbouring State is delaying approval. While issuing unlock guidelines, the Central government had at least on three occasions asked States to facilitate passenger transportation, but Tamil Nadu is not agreeing. Even the Deputy Chief Minister has written to the neighbouring State, but we are yet to receive a positive response,” the official added. ‘No restriction on private operators’ Tamil Nadu has agreed for special train services from Bengaluru to Chennai, and, according to KSRTC officials, some private operators have received permission to operate services. KSRTC is currently operating buses to Puducherry and several destinations in Kerala via Tamil Nadu. “However, we have been prohibited from allowing passengers to get off en route,” he added.  While issuing unlock guidelines, the Central government had at least on three occasions asked States to facilitate passenger transportation, but Tamil Nadu is not agreeing A KSRTC official
11 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Owner did not have permit to store inflammable material’||The police are on the lookout for Sajjan Raj, owner of the godown, who is on the run. “We have detained one of the employees for questioning. Over 1,800 cans of highly inflammable chemicals were stored without any safety measures,” a senior police officer said. The police are yet to ascertain the reason for the fire, but suspect that the workers were transferring the barrels when one of them fell. “On Tuesday, the accused brought 210 barrels of chemicals to the godown. They were transferring the chemicals when one barrel fell. The fire may have broken out due to a static charge,” said a senior police official, after questioning an employee, Biju Kumar, who was in the godown. Employee detained The police have detained Biju for further questioning. Preliminary investigations have revealed that Raj did not have the required permission to store chemicals on the premises. “He was storing over a thousand barrels of solvents and sanitisers, and also selling them in retail, but did not have any documents,” said Sanjeev Patil (DCP West). His wife, Kamala, owns two factories in Bommasandra Industrial Area in Anekal named Rekha Chemical Corporation and Rekha Chemical Industry. But she had no place to store the barrels of chemicals. Hence, Raj was keeping them at the Bapuji Nagar unit. The accused was reportedly selling the chemicals to other companies as well as to retail stores in and around Mysuru Road. The police have booked Kamala and Sajjan Raj under the Explosives Act. Sunil Agarwal, ADGP (Fire and Emergency Services) said a probe has been ordered to ascertain how the godown was allowed to function for three decades and handle highly inflammable chemicals in a residential area.  He was storing over a thousand barrels of solvents and sanitisers, and also selling them in retail, but did not have any documents Sanjeev Patil, DCP West
11 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police bust hawala racket||Central Crime Branch officials on Tuesday busted a hawala racket and arrested a man who had been operating from Cubbonpet. Acting on a tip-off from one of their sources, a team of officials raided the offices of Pankaj Patel and recovered Rs. 28 lakh unaccounted cash and two mobile phones from him. The police suspect that Pankaj is part of an inter-State hawala racket and is a pointsman who receives and sends money to clients in the city. “A majority of the clients are businessmen who authorise transactions through hawala to avoid taxes. “Investigations are ongoing, and efforts are on to identify the clients,” said a CCB official.
11 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2,362 new cases reported||The State on Tuesday reported 2,362 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 8,51,212. With 20 deaths, the toll rose to 11,430. As many as 4,215 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the recoveries to 8,08,700. Of the remaining 31,063 active patients, 869 patients were being monitored in the ICU. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 2.15%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 0.84%.
11 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bidar shivers at 7.6 degrees Celsius||Though winter is yet to officially set in, minimum temperatures in a few places in the State have recorded a significant drop. According to the India Meteorological Department, Bidar recorded a minimum temperature of 7.6 degrees Celsius on Tuesday and 8.8 degrees Celsius on Monday, while Vijayapura recorded a minimum temperature of 11 degrees Celsius. The temperature in Bidar is said to be the lowest in November. C.S. Patil, Director (Weather Forecast), IMD, Bengaluru, attributed this to week-long dry weather conditions in north-interior Karnataka. In comparison, the minimum temperature in south-interior Karnataka has been normal. This, he said, was because of wet weather conditions over many places.
11 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Talks on re-opening schools||The Department of Public Instructions has been told by the State government to hold larger consultation about reopening schools. Following this, the Commissioner of Public Instruction (CPI) has called a meeting of parents’ associations. Representatives of the RTE Students Parents Association have been invited to discuss the issue on Wednesday with senior officials of the department. Commissioner of Public Instruction V. Anbu Kumar had submitted a report recommending reopening schools and PU college for classes 10 and 12. Sources in the department said that the discussions of Wednesday's meeting will be added to the report.
11 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panel calls for a bandh on Nov. 26||The State committee of the All-India Kisan Sangarsh Coordination Committee (All-India Farmers’ Struggle Coordination Committee) has called for a rural ‘Karnataka bandh’ on November 26 to urge the Union government to fulfil various demands of farmers and agricultural labourers. It is also opposing the anti-farmer policies of the Union government. According to a release, protests, road blocks, and public meetings will be held at over 1,000 centres across the State. The committee has appealed to all workers, farmers, and agricultural labourers to collectively fight and bring success to the protest.
11 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||BJP celebrates in Hassan||BJP workers in Hassan, on Tuesday, celebrated the party’s victory in the byelections at Sira and R.R. Nagar. Under the leadership of the party’s Hassan city mandal unit president S.K. Venugopal, they celebrated by distributing sweets at Hemavati Statue Circle. A team of BJP workers led by Preetham Gowda, Hassan MLA, did campaign for the party’s candidate in Sira. A couple of videos, purportedly showing BJP workers from Hassan distributing cash to lure voters in Sira had gone viral on social media during the campaign. Mr. Venugopal said the strategies and techniques adopted by BJP State vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra and Mr. Gowda played a major role in the party’s victory in Sira. BJP leaders of Hassan, who were confident of victory in both seats, had informed the media on Monday about the celebrations.
11 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||BJP’s S.V. Sankanur gets a second term||Belying expectations of a close fight, the election to the Karnataka West Graduates Constituency turned out to be a one-sided affair with BJP candidate S.V. Sankanur registering an easy win to gain entry to the Legislative Council for the second time. With the win, the BJP has won the seat for the third time now. After the fourth round of counting of votes at University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Dharwad concluded on Tuesday night, Returning Officer and Regional Commissioner Amlan Aditya Biswas declared Prof. Sankanur, who secured 23,857 first preference votes, as elected. His nearest rival R.M. Kuberappa of the Congress secured 12,448 first preference votes and Independent candidate Basavaraj Gurikar, who was supported by Janata Dal(Secular), secured 6,188 votes. Although Janata Dal(S) candidate Shivashankar Kallur had withdrawn from the contest in support of Mr. Gurikar, 102 voters cast their votes for him. What was shocking was that 8,772 votes were declared as rejected out of the total 52,041 leaving 43,269 as valid votes. Despite being graduates, many voters did not know how to cast preferential votes. Not following the guidelines, many voters had cast their votes writing down the “right” and “cross” marks, by drawing circles and even writing the candidates serial number in front of their names in the ballot papers, thus making their votes invalid. Election officials and even poll agents expressed dismay over the development. As per the guidelines, the winner had to secure 21,636 votes for his election and Prof. Sankanur polled 23,857 votes. However, his winning margin was less than that of the 2014 election’s. While Prof. Sankanur had won against the former Minister Basavaraj Horatti’s son Vasant Horatti in 2014 with a margin of 14,000 votes, this time it got reduced to 11,409. For the record, there were 11 candidates in the fray. Barring the first three candidates, the votes polled by the other candidates did not cross four digits. In fact, four candidates polled less than 100 votes. Addressing presspersons after his win, Prof. Sankanur thanked the voters for reimposing their faith in him and thanked all the BJP leaders and workers for their efforts and cooperation. However, Prof. Kuberappa said that he was not happy with the decision of the graduate voters, who, he said, had voted for a candidate who neither worked for them nor met them to hear their grievances. “But, as a Congressman, I would continue to work for the graduates and teachers, as I have been doing for the past four decades,” he said. Mr. Basavaraj Gurikar said that he would accept the decision of the voters but would continue to work for the cause of teachers and graduates. Earlier, as per the direction of the Election Commission, the strongroom where the ballot boxes were kept, was opened at 7.55 a.m. in the presence of the candidates and authorised agents, Election Observer and Additional Chief Secretary Shalini Rajneesh and Returning Officer and Regional Commissioner Amlan Aditya Biswas and other officials.
11 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Man dies, his parents washed away in NLBC||A 31-year-old man died and his parents are said to have been washed away in heavy current of the Narayanpur Left Bank Canal (NLBC) of the Upper Krishna Project near Malnoor village in Hunasagi taluk in Yadgir on Tuesday when the car in which they were travelling tumbled into the canal while taking a reverse turn. The deceased has been identified as Pavan Biradar. His parents, who were washed away in the canal, are Sharanagouda Biradar (61) and Janaki Biradar (55). Pavan Biradar’s wife, Prema, rescued their three-year-old daughter Kritika and they both reached the banks of the river. Police personnel have reached the spot. Expert swimmers from the Fire and Emergency Services have launched search operations. A case has been registered in the Hunasagi Police Station.  The car in which they were travelling tumbled into the canal while taking a reverse turn
11 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Modified traffic plan eases movement of vehicles||After motorists expressed their anguish, the city police made some changes to traffic movement that eased traffic issues in the central business district area here on Tuesday. With Mangalore Smart City Limited (MSCL) taking up the underground drainage and road development works at the busy Hampankatta Junction, the city police had banned movement of vehicles across the junction and announced alternative vehicle movement plans that drew the ire of people. While netizens said that the city needs to introduce helicopter service and posted images showing the way motorists were made to move in a circular way, others made calls to Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath to express their anguish over the way traffic was diverted. This led Mr. Kamath for call for an emergency meeting of the city police, MSCL and other officials on Monday evening where he directed them to take steps to smoothen traffic flow. On Tuesday morning, a ramp was placed to connect the Old Service Bus Stand with the Mulky Sundaram Shetty (Light House Hill) Road. Vehicles going to Ambedkar (Jyothi) Circle from the Clock Tower were made to take a left turn at the Hampankatta Junction and then take a right turn towards the Old Service Bus Stand and reach the Light House Hill Road. Vehicles from K.S. Rao Road to State Bank of India bus terminus were diverted towards Sharavu Mahaganapati Temple and Ganapathi High School Road to reach the terminus via the Clock Tower. The earlier entry from K.S. Rao Road to Panje Mangeshrao Road was closed. “I used this modified route this morning and traffic is moving smoothly,” Mr. Kamath said. “People who had called me yesterday expressing their anguish are calling back to appreciate the modified traffic movement plan,” he added. There will be normal traffic movement on the Sharada School Road and the Vittoba Temple Road from Wednesday, he added. Mr. Kamath regretted the inconvenience caused to motorists.
11 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mithun Rai, Kamath trade charges||District Youth Congress president Mithun Rai on Tuesday accused Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath and the BJP-ruled Mangaluru City Corporation Council of being a “Tughlaq darbar” by taking up a host of road development works all at the same time creating traffic chaos in the central business district area in the city. Reacting to it, Mr. Kamath hit back and said that it was the Congress government that was a “Tughlaq darbar”. Talking to reporters here on Tuesday, Mr. Rai said that under Smart City Mission, a host of road works have been taken up all at the same time. Roads have been dug up in several areas, including the busy Hampankatta Junction, which caused hardship to people on Monday. “I do not know whether the ruling council and Mr. Kamath lack administrative experience or are mindlessly spending money available under the mission. It is a ‘Tuglaqh darbar’,” he said. Hitting back at Mr. Rai without taking his name, Mr. Kamath accused the Congress of being “Tughlaq darbar” in the city in its 70-year rule. He said that with maladministration by the Congress government, several development works have been a non-starter. Mr. Kamath said that the Congress government laid the foundation stone for building an apartment complex for 930 houses for poor people in Shaktinagar. This project has been a non-starter as the land on which this was proposed to come up was a deemed forest land. He said that the Congress government laid foundation stones for building markets in Kadri and Kankanady without ensuring finance for the two projects. A large number of people in Bengre were issued title deeds without carrying out survey of land. “These are some of the instances of ‘Tughlaq darbar’ by the Congress government,” he said. The MLA said that the BJP government has taken up development works across the city and these are bound to create some problems for citizens. “We are ensuring that people are put to least inconvenience,” he said and added that the work taken up at Hampankatta Junction has been pending for over 20 years. “We had to take up the work of replacing the old water line and drainage network. This work will be completed in a record period,” he said. The road work taken up on Car Street will be completed in a month’s time, he added.
11 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Farmers’ coop. floats unique loan waiver scheme||In a unique loan waiver scheme introduced for farmers, Sirsi-based Totagars’ Cooperative Sale Society Ltd. (TSS) has established ‘runa mukta nidhi’, a reserve fund to waive the loans availed of by its farmer-members. Initially, loans up to Rs. 5 lakh will be waived in case the loanee farmer dies. The scheme is not applicable in case the farmer commits suicide. The annual general body meeting of the society, held recently, approved the scheme, general manager of the society Raveesh A. Hegde, who is also one of is directors, told The Hindu . He said the society would collect Rs. 500 per Rs. 50,000 minimum loan amount as the contribution of the farmer towards the reserve fund. The society will contribute an equal amount to the fund. The upper limit of the contribution amount to be deducted from a farmer has been fixed at Rs. 5,000. It means that if a member avails of Rs. 6 lakh and more as loan, the contribution which will be deducted towards the fund will be only Rs. 5,000 and not more than that. “We are planning to extend the loan waiver limit from Rs. 5 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh after some months,” he said. “Such a loan waiver scheme is being implemented in a cooperative society in Karnataka for the first time,” Mr. Hegde said. The 97-year-old society in Uttara Kannada has 30,000 farmers as members. In another major initiative, the society will procure tender and raw arecanut from farmers from the doorstep and process, dry, grade them, and return (to farmers). In case the farmers want to deposit or store their produce in the warehouse of the society, they can do so. The initiative will help many farmers who are facing acute shortage of labourers required for the post-harvest processing, which is crucial for maintaining the quality of the produce, Mr. Hegde said.  Medical reimbursement Henceforth, the society will extend 100% medical expenses’ reimbursement scheme to all farmer-members’ families. So far, it was restricted to only farmer-members and farm labourers, he said.
11 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MAHE to offer new courses, open new institutions||Pro-Chancellor of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) H.S. Ballal said on Tuesday that MAHE is planning to open new institutions and departments and offer new courses in the coming days. Addressing a virtual press conference from Manipal, he said that it has recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Union Ministry of Education for being formally declared as an Institution of Eminence. Under the new Nationial Education Policy 2020, it has plans to introduce new programmes in the undergraduate and post-graduate levels in the future. “MAHE will also look at opening new campuses which will help in employment generation. Research, innovation, entrepreneurship and collaborations will be the renewed focus area,” he said.   Vice-Chancellor M.D. Venkatesh said that aligning with NEP-2020, MAHE is heading towards more skill-based learning. He said that research is one of the strongest pillars of the institutions. MAHE will align its curriculum in accordance with the guidelines of the NEP. “The NEP is truly a well structured, progressive plan and it lays emphasis on flexible undergraduate education that also takes into account technical and vocational disciplines. MAHE is committed to mobilising students towards a more cohesive and holistic education,” Mr. Venkatesh said. As per the government and UGC guidelines, MAHE is planning to invite students to campuses in a phased manner with the consent of their parents, he said. Registrar Narayana Sabhahit said that this year, the convocation will be held on November 20, 21 and 22 in the virtual mode. About 3,500 graduates have already registered for the convocation.
11 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Only green firecrackers will go on sale’||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra has said that only green firecrackers will be allowed to be sold during this Deepavali. He has asked people to follow the COVID-19 guidelines issued by the government while celebrating the festival. In a statement issued here on Tuesday, the Deputy Commissioner said that traders should sell green firecrackers only in designated places on given dates with due licence. No shops should be set up in residential areas. A copy of the licence should be clearly displayed in the shops. Each shop should maintain a minimum distance of six metres. The surroundings of such shops should be sanitised daily. Customers should be asked to sanitise their hands and they should be checked for fever.
11 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Drive to remove encroachments||Mangaluru City Corporation has initiated encroachment removal drive to make footpaths free for pedestrian movement. A tweet from the corporation said that the drive is also to make parking space available for vehicles by removing encroachment on roads and footpaths. A revenue official in the civic body said that roof projections from some buildings at Mankey Stand and near Cascia High School in Jeppu were removed on Tuesday.
11 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Facilities inaugurated at airport||A slew of new passenger amenities were inaugurated at the Mysuru airport while an Airfield Crash Fire Tender (ACFT) vehicle was also deployed on Tuesday. The facilities include a mini canteen outside the terminal building, a new selfie point, and a public toilet, all of which were inaugurated by Pratap Simha, Mysuru MP. The ACFT vehicle is a state-of-the-art rapid intervention vehicle that can be pressed into service in case of any emergency involving the aircraft and has been procured from Austria at a cost of Rs. 5.45 crore. The vehicle can reach a top speed of 120 kmph and accelerate from 0 to 80 kmph within 22 seconds. The foam capacity is 800 liters and water tank capacity is 6,000 litres. The vehicle has two front nozzles and four under-truck nozzles and its extinguishing prowess was demonstrated before the authorities ahead of the airport advisory committee meeting. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri and Mysuru airport director R. Manjunath were present.
11 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Trin Trin programmes to promote cycling as safer, healthier commuting option in Mysuru||Trin Trin, Mysuru’s Public Bicycle Sharing (PBS) initiative, will take up a series of programmes during November to promote cycling as a “safer” and “healthier” commuting option in the city in the backdrop of COVID-19. Trin Trin, which has scheduled a cycle rally on November 14 in the city, will be organising more such events throughout November, including a cycle ride to the Chamundi Hill top. Mysuru is not only among the few cities in the country to have a PBS system, the city has also registered itself to participate in the India Cycles4Change to implement cycling-friendly initiatives that are part of “COVID-19 safe” strategy. A perceptible increase in popularity of cycling was noticed during the lockdown when fitness-conscious people took to cycling at a time when parks and gyms were closed. Even as cycle dealers in the city reported a sharp increase in demand for new cycles during lockdown, Asha, manager of Green Wheel Ride, which is implementing Trin Trin, said the PBS was also recording about 8 to 10 new registrations every day, mostly by people who are using it for early morning exercise as a fitness option. Ever since Trin Trin operations, which had been suspended due to COVID-19 and restored in June, the number of registrations saw a gradual rise, unexpectedly. “We did not expect it, but we are receiving about 8 to 10 registrations every day since mid-June and the trend is still continuing,” she said, adding that the total registrations now stand at 14,406. Trin Trin, which has around 450 cycles available at 48 docking stations across the city, is anticipating an increase in its ridership soon after colleges reopen. Presently, the daily ridership ranges between 300 and 500 against the more 1,000 rides recorded prior to COVID-19. “The ridership is expected to go beyond the pre-COVID-19 days,” she said, adding students comprised a significant number of Trin Trin users.  Cycle rally The cycle rally organised on November 14 will start at 7 a.m. from the office of Green Wheel Ride on MCC Zone 2 premises situated near Jayanagar Railway Gate. The organisers, who have sent SMSes to registered users asking them to call 0821-2330999 to register for the event by November 11, will be sharing the route map only with the users interested in participating in the rally. “We don’t want people to crowd by joining without registrations,” Ms. Asha said. However, children below the age of 15 are requested to be accompanied by parents or guardians.
11 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||No reopening of Kodagu schools until vaccine: ZP||The Kodagu Zilla Panchayat has decided against reopening schools in the district until the COVID-19 vaccine was available. The decision was taken at the meeting in Madikeri on Tuesday and the zilla panchayat unanimously resolved to communicate its resolution to the State government. Even though the State government has not taken any decision in this regard and it is in no hurry to reopen schools though the cases are on the decline, the zilla panchayat members, however, resolved in one voice to oppose the resumption of schools until the vaccine was made available for the safety of children. At the meeting, member C.K. Bopanna alleged that some private schools had been collecting more fee despite the government’s order in view of the pandemic and the private schools’ act needs to be tackled seriously. He also took exception to parents being allegedly “pressurising” paying the second and third instalments of the school fees. Other members also sought action against schools that are collecting fees much against the government rules. “If found violating the rules, the recognition of such schools should be withdrawn,” members Viju Subramani and Bananda Prabhu demanded. Speaking in support of the schools, member Shivu Madappa said the schools can pay their teachers only if the fees are paid. He, however, opposed resumption of schools before the development of vaccine. P.S. Machado, DDPI, said some private schools don’t come under the control of the Department of Public Instruction and such schools can be controlled only the committee headed by the Deputy Commissioner. A report would be prepared and submitted to the committee. The zilla panchayat members complimented the untiring contributions and services of the district administration and the Department of Health and Family Welfare for successfully combating COVID-19.
11 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||15% rise in spice exports during April to August||Large shipments of chilli, cumin, and turmeric contributed to the spice export growing by 15% between April and August this year compared to the same period last fiscal. The total export of spices rose to 5,70,000 tonnes this April to August compared to 4,94,120 tonnes during the same period last year, according to a statement by Spices Board. The value of exports also increased to Rs. 10,001.61 crore during the period as against the Rs. 8,858.06 crore during the same period last year. “Chilli continues to be the most exported spice with a shipment of 2,10,500 tonnes, fetching Rs. 2,876 crore. Cumin is next with a shipment of 1,33,000 tonnes valued at Rs. 1,873.70 crore, a 30% and 19% increase in quantitative and value terms respectively,” the statement said. The spice with the maximum growth in quantity and value was small cardamom, rising 298% in value and 225% in quantity. “During the current year, 1,300 tonnes of that spice valued at Rs. 221.5 crore was exported, as against the 400 tonnes valued at Rs. 55.69 crore during the same period last year,” the statement said. A rise in the demand for immunity boosting spices saw ginger registering a growth of 107% with 19,700 tonnes shipped globally. Also, 79,000 tonnes of turmeric valued at Rs. 704.1 crore were exported. The export of fenugreek grew by 46% in quantitative and 43% in value with a shipment of 13,200 tonnes. Coriander saw an increase of 14% in quantity and 23% in value with a shipment of 22,750 tonnes fetching Rs. 192.12 crore. Nutmeg and mace recorded 41% increase in quantity and 33% increase in value with an export of 1,275 tonnes, valued at Rs. 56.37 crore. Spices oils and oleoresins along with spices such as celery, tamarind, saffron, and others also shared a significant part, the press statement said.
11 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tipu Jayanti celebrated on premises of Apna Ghar||Tipu Jayanti celebrations were held on Apna Ghar premises in Bannimantap in Mysuru on Tuesday under the leadership of former Minister Tanveer Sait. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Sait accused the BJP government of cancelling Tipu Jayanti because of the hatred the ruling party nurtured towards Muslims. Instead of practising hate politics, the BJP government in the State should impose a ban on liquor and gambling, which had ruined the lives of thousands of people, he said. He sought to remind the people of Tipu’s contributions to Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangapatna and Srikanteshwara Temple in Nanjangud. Ramanahalli Basava Mutt seer Basavalinga Swamy, Deputy Mayor C. Sridhar, former Mayor Pushpalatha Jagannath, former Deputy Mayor Shanthakumar, Congress leader M. Shivanna, Maulana Zakaulla, and others were present.
11 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Driver dies as tractor overturns||A driver of a tractor was killed on the spot in a road accident near Kavadimatti village in Surpur taluk of Yadgir district on Tuesday. He was identified as Ningappa Kongandi (24). He died after getting caught between the engine and the trailer when the tractor overturned.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Examine possibility of taking action against BDA Commissioner: HC||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to examine whether action can be initiated against Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) and its Commissioner for asking its staff not to hand over records or participate, without prior permission from the Commissioner, in the investigations conducted by agencies like Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) and the Bangalore Metropolitan Task Force (BMTF). A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreenivas Oka and Justice S. Vishvajith Shetty issued the direction after noticing contradictions in the affidavit filed by BDA Commissioner H.R. Mahadev and the copy of an official translation of the office note in English, dated July 8, 2020 furnished by the Commissioner himself. The bench observed that the Commissioner, in his affidavit, had claimed that there was no need to take his permission prior to participating in an investigation, but the copy of the English translation of the note, which was originally issued in Kannada, states that staff require his permission. Though the advocate for the BDA contended that the English translation, produced by the petitioner, does not give the essence of the note in Kannada, the bench pointed out to the advocate that the translated copy produced along with Commissioner’s affidavit clearly spells out that Commissioner’s permission is required to participate in a probe. The bench observed that the note issued by the Commissioner attempts to interfere in investigations. The court on October 8 had stayed operation of the note and asked the Commissioner to explain his power to issue such a note that amounts to interference in criminal investigations.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||In the absence of blockbusters, indie films set to rule the big screen||A string of independent Kannada films that would have struggled for space in a business-as-usual market is set to hit the big screens to cash in on the lean times at theatres. Though theatres reopened after a break of seven months due to the COVID-19 pandemic, no new films have been released. Fearing low footfalls, the release of most of the films headlined by marquee names of the industry have been postponed till the new year. However, this lull has worked out well for independent filmmakers. Award-winning filmmaker Mansore’s directorial Act-1978 , all set to release on November 20, will probably be the first new film to hit screens in south India since the COVID-19 pandemic. Another indie film Arishadvarga is slated to follow in a week or two, sources said. “Several other low-budget films are in the pipeline,” said an industry source. D.R. Jairaj, chairman, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce, said that while multiplexes were running shows, many single-screen theatres are yet to open as the low patronage does not make it financially viable for them to operate. “Unless films starring marquee names are released, audiences are unlikely to go to theatres. However, no one is ready for a release till the new year,” he said. That said, reports from multiplexes have been fairly encouraging, say independent filmmakers. “Even for reruns of old films, theatres are seeing 50% occupancy, which is essentially a full house in accordance with the new guidelines. That indicates a hunger for the theatre experience and new films,” said Mansore, director of Act-1978 , a hostage drama starring Yajna Shetty. He recalled that his previous film Nathicharami, which was released in 2018, was removed from theatres just as it started garnering word-of-mouth publicity. “In the current situation, both theatres and audiences are looking for new films, but there are none. We hope to get an undisturbed run for three to four weeks in theatres,” he added, explaining why the team has taken the risk to release the film now. Harish Mallya, executive producer of Arishadvarga , an indie crime thriller, which is set for a theatre release, concurs with Mansore. “We had planned to release the film in February this year, but it was pushed to April to accommodate other big films. Then the country went into a lockdown because of COVID-19. Ours is an indie crime thriller with no stars, that even streaming platforms were not keen on buying before a theatrical release. But we are confident that a film-hungry audience will lap it up. We are taking a risk, but hope it will work in our favour,” he said.  Ours is an indie crime thriller with no stars. But we are confident that a film hungry audience will lap it up. We are also taking a risk, but hope it will work in our favour: Harish Mallya, executive producer of Arishadvarga In the current situation, both theatres and audiences are looking for new films, but there are none. We hope we will get an undisturbed run for three to four weeks in the theatres: Mansore, director of Act-1978
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Habitual offender held||The R.T. Nagar police on Tuesday arrested a man for allegedly breaking into at least four houses over the last few weeks. Around 350 grams of gold valuables worth Rs. 14 lakh were recovered from him. According to the police, the accused, Santosh, hails from Kolar. He had been arrested for breaking in by the Vidyaranyapura police in 2019. “He came out on bail recently and continued breaking into empty houses to steal valuables. He scouted for potential houses during the day,” said a police officer. The police zeroed in on him while investigating a house break-in case at R.T. Nagar recently. “Footage from CCTV cameras in the area and other technical evidence helped us identify Santosh,” the officer added.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Fire at godown filled with inflammable chemicals||Though the cause of the accident is not clear yet, a preliminary investigation revealed that one of the barrels containing the chemical fell down and caught fire. It started to spread to other barrels which began to explode, said fire officials. They admitted that the outcome would have been much worse as there were a few cylinders in the godown, but they were removed before the fire spread. Panic gripped residents of adjacent buildings who were evacuated by the police. LPG cylinders were also removed from their houses and power supply was disconnected to prevent further damage. “The major challenge before the fire fighters team was to safeguard adjacent buildings. Many overhead tanks melted due to heat and one building developed cracks,” said a senior official. Two houses adjacent to the factory caught fire, and furniture on their terraces were destroyed.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CCB busts online drug racket||The Anti Narcotics Wing of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) uncovered an online drug racket and arrested a 27-year-old man for allegedly smuggling LSD strips from the Netherlands by placing orders via the dark net. “The accused, identified as Arun Kumar, hails from Coimbatore. He works for a private firm in Bengaluru. He had given a primary health care centre in Ramamurthy Nagar as the delivery address for the parcels,” said a police official. The CCB team probing the case discovered that his friend’s aunt worked at the health care centre. “His friend Madan Kumar has an aunt who lives in Ramamurthy Nagar and works as a lab technician at the primary health centre. The accused had given that address in an attempt to cover his tracks,” the official added. Customs officials at the airport found the drugs while checking parcels and alerted the CCB. “Madan and his aunt were questioned about the consignment. But we soon realised that they had no clue about the content of the parcels. They said that Arun had asked for their help to get the parcel delivered,” said the police. Following their statement, Arun Kumar was detained and questioned. He allegedly claimed to have ordered LSD tablets from the Netherlands, and that he had placed several orders in the past. According to the police, he would collect the parcels from the health care centre, supply LSD to college students and private firm employees in the city and in Tamil Nadu.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Hassan reports 107 cases||As many as 107 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Hassan on Tuesday. With that, the total number of confirmed cases rose to 26,032. Among them, 24,754 have recovered and 841 are under treatment. Including a person on Tuesday, 437 people have died of the infection. Among the fresh cases reported on the day, four are from Alur, 12 from Arkalgud, 17 from Arsikere, 12 from Belur, 18 from Channarayapatna, 28 from Hassan, 12 from Holenarsipur, and four are from Sakaleshpur taluk.
11 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||LDF hopes to continue its winning run||The Alappuzha district panchayat is one of the local bodies the Left Democratic Front (LDF) hopes to consolidate its stranglehold in the coming local body polls. That said, the United Democratic Front (UDF) sees the election as an opportunity to make inroads into the red bastions and the rise of the BJP, as evident in recent elections, makes it an exciting electoral battle. Back in 2015, it was easy sailing for the LDF, which bagged 16 out of the 23 seats in the district panchayat. The UDF had to settle for seven seats, while the BJP drew a blank. Ever since the Alappuzha district panchayat came into being, the LDF has remained in power winning election after election. The left front, which is hoping to continue its winning run, is banking on the development and good works in the last five years. District panchayat president G. Venugopal, who is not in the fray this time, exudes confidence of a comfortable victory for the LDF. “We have implemented several projects in the agriculture, health and education sectors with the aim of improving people’s lives. In the agriculture sector, projects worth Rs. 20 crore have been implemented. Among them are expanding the area of rice cultivation, developing infrastructure for the farm sector, promoting organic farming and so on. A sum of Rs. 12.34 crore was spent on improving academic quality. “When the COVID-19 pandemic started to wreak havoc in the district, we provided financial assistance for buying 75,000 antigen kits and setting up 23 COVID-19 sample collection kiosks in different parts of the district. Funds have also been spent for the development of Chengannur and Mavelikara district hospitals and Ayurveda and homoeo hospitals,” Mr. Venugopal said. Among other things, the LDF plans to highlight the construction of 16,000 houses under the Livelihood Inclusion and Financial Empowerment (LIFE) Mission, for which the local body provided Rs. 45.8 crore and improvement in governance. Meanwhile, the UDF termed the five years of the LDF rule as a wasted opportunity with no development. John Thomas, UDF leader in the district panchayat, said the LDF rule had brought misery to the farmers in Upper Kuttanad, Onattukara and other places. “The district panchayat failed to utilise the funds in full. They even failed to complete the drinking water projects envisaged more than five years ago. Despite the demands made by the Opposition, no measures were taken to improve facilities at the Government Ayurveda Hospital. Apart from a project, it has done nothing for the welfare of fishermen communities. Only those close to the ruling front were benefited in the last five years,” Mr. Thomas said. Good show The BJP, although failed to win a seat last time, is hoping for a good show at least in a handful of seats, including Mannar and Venmony.
11 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||641 positive cases in Alappuzha||The district logged 641 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. As many as 628 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of another five people remains undetected. Five people who came from other States, one from abroad and two health staff were also diagnosed with the disease. The 641 cases include 74 reported from Alappuzha, 61 from Aroor, 49 from Ezhupunna, 38 from Punnapra North and 34 from Pulinkunnu. Meanwhile, 559 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 8,699 The police have registered 40 cases and arrested 20 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was taken against 418 people for not wearing face masks and 764 for not maintaining physical distance. One case was registered for violating prohibitory orders imposed in the district under section 144 of the Cr.PC. Action was taken against five people in connection with the case.
11 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||LDF announces candidates’ list||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) on Tuesday announced all 23 candidates for the Alappuzha district panchayat. The CPI(M) will contest 15 seats and the CPI five seatsin the polls. The Kerala Congress (M), Janata Dal (Secular) and Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) will contest in one seat each. Daleema Jojo, CPI(M) leader and incumbent district panchayat vice president, will contest from Aroor. Other CPI(M) candidates in the fray are Binitha Pramod (Poochakkal), P.S. Shaji (Pallippuram), V. Uthaman (Kanjikuzhy), K.J. Rajeshwari (Mararikulam), R. Riyas (Aryad), Geetha Babu (Punnapra), T.S. Taha (Karuvatta), Bipin C. Babu (Krishnapuram), Nikesh Thampi (Bharanikavu), K. Thushara (Nooranad), Manju Sreekumar (Venmony), Hemalatha (Mulakuzha), Valsala Mohan (Mannar) and M.V. Priya Teacher (Veliayanad). CPI candidates include N.S. Sivaprasad (Vayalar), Anju P. (Amabalappuzha), Isabella Shine (Manakodam), A. Shobha (Pallippad) and K.G. Santhosh (Pathiyoor). Binu Issac Raju of the KC(M) will contest from Champakulam. Athira G. of the Janata Dal (Secular) will be fielded from Chettikulangara and Shamsad Rahim of the LJD will seek mandate from Muthukulam. In the outgoing 23-member Alappuzha district panchayat, the LDF has 16 seats (CPI(M) 13, CPI two, and JD(S) one) and the UDF seven (Congress six). The lone Kerala Congress (M) member shifted allegiance to the LDF after the party joined the left front recently.
11 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Indian Navy craft to be given for port museum||The Indian Navy has allotted a craft to the Alappuzha port museum being set up as part of the Heritage Project, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. “Vice Admiral G. Ashok Kumar, Vice Chief of the Naval Staff, informed that the Indian Naval Fast Attack Craft T 81 has been allotted to the Alappuzha port museum. The ship is in Mumbai. It will be handed over to the Southern Naval Command soon. From Kochi, we will have to bring it to Alappuzha and installed on the seashore in front of the museum. The Navy has offered full support,” Dr. Isaac said in a social media post. The Fast Attack Craft T 81 was commissioned into the Indian Navy in June 1999. The ship has a displacement of 60 tonnes, a length of 25 metres and a beam of five metres and is capable of speed in excess of 40 knots. It is capable of being put to sea in the shortest possible time and can perform a wide variety of roles including surveillance, reconnaissance, coordinated search and rescue operations and high-speed interception of small craft. Dedicated section Dr. Isaac said that the museum, being set up by renovating godowns close to the old port office, near the Alappuzha beach, would have a dedicated section for the Indian Navy. Recently, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the port museum building. The museum will showcase the State’s rich maritime history, especially the story of the Alappuzha port.
11 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||1,750 litres of spirit seized in Alappuzha||In one of the biggest hauls in recent time, Excise sleuths seized 1,750 litres of spirit from a minibus near Cherthala railway station on Tuesday. The spirit was seized by a team led by Excise Enforcement and Anti Narcotic Special Squad Circle Inspector R. Biju Kumar in a check conducted on National Highway 66 based on a tip-off in the morning. Officials said that 50 cans each with a capacity of 35 litres were found in the bus. “After seeing the inspection, the bus stopped a few meters away from the excise party. Before officials reached the bus, the driver escaped from the scene. To mislead authorities, a board carrying the name of a chendamelam group was placed in front of the vehicle. Percussion instruments were also found on the top of the bus”, said an official. Officials said that an investigation was launched to identify those behind the smuggling of spirit.
11 November 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Magisterial inquiry into encounter death||The government has ordered a magisterial inquiry into a police-Maoist encounter on November 3 in Wayanad in which a suspected Maoist, identified as Velmurugan, was killed. A directive issued by T.K. Jose, Additional Chief Secretary (Home), on Tuesday asked Wayanad Collector Adeela Abdulla to submit a report in three months.
11 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Vayalkilikal intends to make a statement||Vayalkilikal, a collective of villagers at Keezhattur in Taliparamba municipality, has decided to field a candidate for the local body elections in Ward 30 in the wake of the State and the Central governments deciding to go ahead with the proposed stretch of the National Highway bypass from Karivellur to Pappinissery over the paddy fields there. The group had gained attention two years ago with its protest against the move to acquire the paddy fields. The protest brought together activists from across the State, who pressed the need for protecting the wetlands and hills that are being destroyed for the sake of development. Speaking to The Hindu, Vayalkilikal leader Suresh Keezhattur said political parties encouraged corporates at all levels and people were joining hands to raise their issues at many places. The decision of the Vayalkilikal to stand in the election was to show its resentment against the decision of the government to destroy the agricultural fields and hills in the name of development. Mr. Keezhattur said none of the farmers here had agreed or signed to give their land and there were no answers to many questions raised by them. Suppressing voice He said there was an attempt to suppress the voice of the people by the parties and the government, by releasing false statements, misguiding people, and even attacking protesters. In this election, irrespective of a win or defeat, the object of nominating a candidate was to show the resentment and send the message that they were against the destruction of wetlands and hills. The candidate would be announced in a few days, Mr. Keezhattur said. The simmering discontentment against the State government at Keezhattur, a CPI(M) bastion, may pose problems for the party in the election. With the Vayalkilikal deciding to field a candidate, political parties, especially the CPI(M), have several questions to answer.
11 November 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Collector warns against sectarian poll campaign||District Collector D. Sajith Babu, who is also the District Election Officer, said that votes should not be sought in the name of caste or community in the local body elections. He was speaking at a meeting of political party representatives at the collectorate ahead of the local body elections, on Tuesday. Mosques, temples, churches, other places of worship and religious institutions should not be used as election campaign venues, he said. He warned that political parties and candidates should not engage in any activity that may cause religious or linguistic tensions between different castes and communities, accelerate existing divisions or incite mutual animosity. Those who engaged in such activities could face up to three years in prison, a fine of up to Rs. 10,000 or both, the Collector said. When criticizing other political parties, it should be confined to their policies, programmes, antecedents, history, and activities. Criticism of other parties and their activists should be avoided by making baseless or distorted allegations. Mr. Babu said the right of a person to lead a peaceful private life should be respected, no matter how much he opposed the political views and actions of other parties and candidates.
11 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||UDF, LDF in final stage of candidate selection||After completing the seat-sharing process with their front partners, Congress and CPI(M) leaderships in the district have begun addressing their biggest political challenge, the candidate selection. The CPI(M) team for the Kochi Corporation will be led by N. Anilkumar, district committee member of the party, who had been elected to the council thrice. While he won the Puthukkalavattom division twice consecutively, he also represented Elamakkara North. This time too, he will be fielded from Elamakkara North. He will lead a young team of candidates to wrest back the Kochi Corporation from the Congress. While identifying candidates, the CPI(M) has ensured that no one holding higher organisational responsibilities except Mr. Anilkumar will be in the fray. At the same time, the Congress has not named anyone to lead candidates though a few senior Congress leaders are already in the fray. The KPCC leadership will decide on the Mayor after the election, according to Congress leaders. Formal discussions “Senior leaders of the Congress formally initiated discussions for picking candidates to contest polls to the Kochi Corporation and the Ernakulam District Panchayat, on Tuesday evening,” said Dominic Presentation, district chairman of the United Democratic Front (UDF). On its part, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) too concluded its seat-sharing exercise by the day. While the CPI(M), which leads the Left alliance, will have its candidates in 60-plus seats, the Congress will contest in 61 or 62 seats in the corporation polls. “The Congress will have its candidates contesting in its official election symbol in 21 seats of the district panchayat, leaving six seats to the front partners. While the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and the Kerala Congress will contest in two seats each, the RSP and the Kerala Congress (Jacob) will field their candidates in one seat each,” Mr. Presentation said. In the LDF, CPI(M) candidates will seek mandate in 16 seats whereas the CPI will contest five seats, the Kerala Congress (M) in two and the Congress (S) in one. The Congress has left seven seats for the IUML in Kochi Corporation and accommodated the RSP and the CMP in one seat each. “Though the Kerala Congress has demanded three seats, it may have to settle for two,” he said. Mayor not in fray Kochi Mayor Soumini Jain will not be in the fray this time though there were reports that she might contest from Ravipuram division, which she had represented earlier. The final list of candidates would be ready by November 12, he said. The CPI(M) list for the Kochi Corporation and the district panchayat would be ready by Wednesday evening, said C.N. Mohanan, district secretary of the party. The LDF would meet on November 13 to give final approval for the list, which would be announced the next day, said Mr. Mohanan. The BJP had announced its candidates for the Kochi Corporation on Monday.
11 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. taking court for a ride in church case: HC||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday orally observed that the State government was taking the court for a ride by not implementing its directive issued a year ago to take over the Kothamangalam Marthoman church, its precincts, and all its movable properties, and hand them over to the vicar of the Orthodox faction of the Malankara Church. Contempt petition When a contempt of court petition filed against the State government and the Ernakulam District Collector came up for hearing, Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar further observed that the District Collector was unfit to hold the office if the Collector could not comply with the court's directive. The court reminded the State Attorney that it had waited for a year to implement the directive. However, the Collector had failed to implement its order even after one year. The Collector was refusing to comply with the order, presumably at the instance of certain political leaders, the court said. Attorney’s submission The State Attorney submitted that the church would soon be closed, taken over and its keys would be produced before the court. The court then said that in any case it would pass an order in the case in a day or two. The State government could do whatever it wanted. Central forces The court on Monday had asked the Central government to inform it about its view on deployment of Central forces to implement the court directive. Assistant Solicitor General P. Vijayakumar, who appeared for the Centre, furnished the name and address of the competent officer of the Central Reserve Police Force, Thiruvananthapuram. The court reserved its order in the case.  Collector has been refusing to comply with the order, presumably at the instance of certain political leaders
11 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Seat-sharing talks for Aluva Municipality gather pace||Differences over seat allocation among rival factions and alliance partners seem to have delayed the finalisation of candidates of the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) for the election to the Aluva Municipality. Seat-sharing talks have crossed the midway mark for the Congress in Aluva but the rival ‘A’ and ‘I’ factions have not withdrawn their claims for a hike in the number of seats in the 26-ward municipal council. The party had won 14 seats in the previous election while the LDF could manage to bag only nine wards. “We have reached an understanding in half of the total wards. The ‘I’ faction had asked for 13 seats while the ‘A’ group is not ready to relent as they have already stated that they will field candidates in 16 wards. The District Congress Committee is likely to announce the final decision,” according to leaders of the ‘I’ faction in Aluva. Stakes high For the LDF, stakes remain high as it has not yet succeeded in making dents in the traditional stronghold of the Congress for long. Seat-sharing discussions between the CPI(M) and the CPI have reached the final lap. The CPI(M) had contested 20 wards last time while the CPI had fielded candidates in six wards. While the CPI(M) could win only five wards, the CPI had won four of the six wards. LDF partners, including the Janata Dal, the Nationalist Congress Party and the Kerala Congress (M), have presented their claims, but CPI leaders said that they would like to retain the six wards the party had won in the previous election. A final decision on the seat-sharing formula was expected in a day or two, said a representative of the CPI. BJP hopeful The Bharatiya Janata Party announced the first list of 10 candidates for the municipality on Tuesday evening. “The next list will be announced soon. The party, which was successful in entering the council with a victory in ward 21 in the last election, is hopeful of increasing its vote share this time,” said leaders of the party’s Aluva mandalam committee.
11 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Mixed baggage in the State tourism sector||The inflow of visitors to tourism locales in Ernakulam is less than expected, despite relaxation of pandemic-related curbs from November 1. However, destinations in Idukki, especially Munnar, are witnessing more footfall. Water theme parks such as Silver Storm on the Athirappilly route have shut down temporarily after reopening earlier this month, as the number of visitors was negligible. “This is because the Forest Department has not yet reopened the Athirappilly waterfalls and nearby locales. This has affected resorts and hotels in the vicinity,” says K. Ramachandran, general manager of the park. In Ernakulam, beach locales and those alongside waterbodies are drawing a reasonable number of visitors, including tourists from neighbouring States, during weekends and public holidays. Visitor inflow is less than expected on working days, despite stakeholders hoping that tourists from northern India will turn up in groups during the festive season, says S. Vijayakumar, secretary of the Ernakulam District Tourism Promotion Council. The DTPC and Kerala Tourism had put in place an SOP (standard operating procedure) at all locales, adhering to COVID-19 protocol. “The low visitor turnout has affected the prospects of auto drivers, traders, and food kiosk operators. Enquiries of tour packages are coming, but few are getting converted to visits,” says Mr. Vijayakumar. For the past two weeks, visitors are coming to Munnar in large numbers, says C. Saravanan, a taxi driver. “Almost all tourism properties in the area have reopened, since tourists are using the e-pass facility and opting for less than seven days’ tour, covering high ranges in Kerala.” Tour guide Shyam Kumar says visitors to the high ranges are mostly city dwellers from neighbouring districts, who prefer to return home by evening.
11 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Filming plans go for a toss, thanks to COVID curbs||The continuing pandemic restrictions have forced the Malayalam film industry to redraw its plans to shoot crowd scenes in outdoor locales. Many ongoing film production units are awaiting further relaxations from the government to film scenes in which more than 50 persons are required. At present, the government has restricted the maximum headcount in a shooting location to 50. Production controllers continue to be on the alert while ensuring that all safety protocols are adhered to in shooting locations. “The filming of three outdoor scenes involving crowds has been put on hold till November 25 in view of the ongoing restrictions. We are hopeful that the situation may improve by then and the authorities would permit us to go ahead with the outdoor shoot,” says Dixon Poduthas, production controller of the movie Nizhal starring Kunchako Boban and Nayanthara. On the hurdles being faced in shooting in locales permitted by the authorities, Mr. Dixon recalls their experience of filming on the Cherai beach recently. “People started turning up in good numbers to watch the shooting. We are helpless on such occasions.” B. Rakesh, treasurer, Kerala Film Producers' Association, says stringent protocols are in place at various shooting locations to check the spread of COVID-19. “The shoot of movies like Drishyam 2 was done by sticking to the stringent protocols. It’s really difficult to film with the maximum permitted number of 50 persons at a location. But most of the units are managing it without much disruptions.” Sectoral magistrates appointed by the government are keeping a close watch on film shooting sites. “We get updates on such events mainly from social media. Any violation on the maximum number of persons as suggested by the government would invite fine under the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act,” says Jayapradeep V.M., sectoral magistrate for the Edappally South region, who slapped a penalty of Rs. 1,000 on a film unit at the switch-on ceremony held at the Anchumana temple on November 5. The production wing had ensured all protocols, but it all went wrong after people started turning up at the venue to watch the event.
11 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi firm to make new tech COVID-19 test kits||Agappe Diagnostics, a Kochi-based company, will soon make 10 lakh RT-LAMP (Reverse Transcription Loop-mediated Isothermal Amplification) based test kits of reagents and supportive equipment available for COVID-19 confirmatory testing. A release from the company said that it would be the first to roll out RT-LAMP technology-based tests in the country. Commercial production of the equipment and reagent was launched on Tuesday. The tests can give results within 10 minutes and kits are compact and easy to handle, the release said.
11 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||1,078 recoveries, 583 new cases in Ernakulam||The district registered more recoveries than new cases on Tuesday with 1,078 people recovering and 583 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. For testing, 4792 samples were collected. While 375 people contracted the infection through local contact, the source of infection of 192 people remains unknown. Eight health workers have tested positive. Cases of the infection were reported from areas including Thrikkakara, Kalamassery, Fort Kochi, Thripunithura, Maradu, and Eloor. A total of 30,603 people are in quarantine. The district’s active caseload stands at 10,316. While 207 patients are at the Government Medical College Hospital, 19 are at Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital and 46 patients are at PVS Hospital. As many as 7,683 people are recovering at home, and 647 people are admitted at private hospitals. At FLTCs, 952 people are being monitored and 115 patients are at SLTCs.
11 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Israeli diplomats visit Kochi||Consul General of Israel in Bengaluru, Jonathan Zadka, and deputy chief of the mission, Ariel Seidman, visited Kochi on Tuesday. They were briefed on the newly-renovated Kadavumbhagam synagogue on Market Road by Elias Josephai, its caretaker and the driving force behind the restoration of the 820-year-old place of worship. Eminent citizens and people from various walks of life, including Bonny Thomas, one of the founding members of the Kochi Biennale Foundation, and Thaha Ibrahim, who has a keen interest in Jewish history and had taken care of a senior member of the Jewish community, Sarah Cohen, until her death last year, were in attendance. “Swami Hariprasad of Vishnu Mohan Foundation, who supported the synagogue restoration, drove down all the way from Chennai to be with us for the visit,” said Mr. Josephai. The Israeli mission officials also visited Mayor Soumini Jain and discussed areas where there could be collaboration between Israel and Kochi.
11 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Upholding queer politics||Sherin Antony, a 21-year-old transwoman from Nazreth in West Kochi, has announced that she will contest the election to the Kochi Corporation independently. Ms. Sherin is the first transperson to announce her candidature for the local body polls in the district. Another transwoman would contest in Kannur, Ms. Sherin said. “We had requested both the LDF and the UDF to set one seat aside for a transperson in all districts. But they paid no heed to us. They seemed to think that we are incapable of doing anything,” she said. “If we walk into a police station today, justice is hard to come by. Rights are also often denied to us and safety is a serious issue for transpeople,” Ms. Sherin said, adding that this was what prompted her to stand as an Independent candidate. “If I stand as a transwoman, people will know of our troubles. Standing for the changes and rights that transpeople seek would be easier from within the corporation council. The way a transperson lives is markedly different from another person,” she said. “Campaigning as a transwoman would also be a way to make people aware of a transperson’s issues and change public perception,” she added. Ms. Sherin was part of the housekeeping staff at Kochi Metro Rail Limited for two years, but quit citing low salary. She has studied up to class eight and dropped out when she faced difficulties as a transperson in school, she said. She lives in Nazreth with her family. The division itself had persistent issues of waterlogging that she hoped to address, she said. She is set to file her nomination in the next few days and will begin campaigning soon. “I’m confident that people in the area and the transgender community itself will stand by me,” she said.
11 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||2 held for attack on driver||The Kunnathunadu police on Tuesday arrested two of a four-member gang accused of attacking a private bus driver with a sword and creating a terrorising scene on the road at Manaykkappadi near Perumbavoor on Monday evening. The arrested were identified as Ranjith, 25, of Pallikkara, and Praveen aka Kichu, 21, of West Morakkola. The two other accused are absconding.   The driver was injured his palm in the attack.
11 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Corpn. council conducts final meet||The Kochi Corporation Council had a final meeting on Tuesday, with its term coming to an end. The ruling and opposition fronts, usually at loggerheads, had an friendsly meeting this time around. The meeting, held outdoors at Subhas Bose Park, prompted opposition leader K. J. Antony to joke that this time, the opposition could not stage a walk-out in protest. Mayor Soumini Jain noted that the council had endured some problems but had also ensured progress for the city. The opposition had been proactive and took several matters forward through their interventions, she said.  Councillors, including A. B. Sabu and education standing committee chairperson Poornima Narayan, remarked that the Mayor stood largely unscathed despite the resistance mounted against her during her term.
11 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CBI registers case against Port Trust Dy. Chairman||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against Cyril C. George, Deputy Chairman of the Cochin Port Trust, on the allegations of amassing wealth disproportionate to his known sources of income. It was alleged, according to a CBI communication, that Mr. George, while working as Secretary of the Cochin Port Trust, had amassed assets disproportionate to his known sources of income to the tune of Rs. 90.73 lakh between January 1, 2004, and December 31, 2013, in his name and in the name of his family members. The searches conducted at the office and residential premises of the accused resulted in the recovery of incriminating documents including sale deeds, various bank account details, share certificates, statement of immovable property and mutual fund receipts. The agency registered a First Information Report before the CBI Special Judge 1 in this connection.
11 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Start-up raises $1 million||Making use of the monthly Investor Café programme by the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM), Kozhikode-based Officekit HR raised $1 million in a seed funding round from Expert DOJO Venture Fund II LLC of the U.S. A press release here said that the scheme helped raise funds and scale up businesses at monthly meetings that facilitate one-on-one meetings between startups and angel investors/venture capitalists.
11 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Child’s death: DMO asked to set up panel||State Human Rights Commission Chairman Antony Dominic has asked the District Medical Officer (DMO) to immediately constitute an expert medical panel to look into the matter of a three-year-old who died after having swallowed a coin in August. The family had raised allegations of medical negligence when the child died. The SHRC has asked the District Police Chief, Ernakulam Rural, to ensure that the investigation by the Binanipuram police in the case is completed soon. The police chief had informed the commission that the cause of the child’s death could be ascertained only by a panel of medical experts.
11 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||One held on robbery charge||The North police arrested the key member of a gang that roamed around in a car in the city and allegedly waylaid and robbed people of their money and mobile phones during nights. The arrested was identified as Maheendran, 22, of Gandhi Nagar. He was the prime accused in robbing a youngster from Kannur of his money and mobile phone in the early morning hours of Monday. The victim was resting at the waiting shed before the Kaloor bus stand when he was targeted by the gang. When he declined the gang’s demand to part with his money and valuables, they allegedly robbed him of Rs. 1,000 and his mobile phone.
11 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||City to host national urban mobility meet||Kochi will host the 14th Urban Mobility India (UMI) conference, organised by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) in October 2021. MoHUA Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra made the announcement at the 13th UMI conference held online on Tuesday. The theme selected for the Kochi UMI conference is “Mobility for All”. Kochi was selected considering the city’s achievements in the past few years, especially transport-related initiatives started by Kochi Metro. “Kochi is the first city in the country to bring in an integrated water and land transport model. The impending Water Metro is a unique project and other States in the country should emulate it,” he said.
11 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||236 new cases in Kollam||The district reported 236 new COVID-19 cases, 454 recoveries and three deaths on Monday. Those who tested positive for SARS-C0V-2 include 230 contact cases, three persons with no known source and three health workers. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 13-year-old Perinad resident, 79-year-old Kottarakara resident and 77-year-old Chavara resident are due to COVID-19. Cases with no known source have been reported from Kottarakara, Thrikkovilvattam and Pathaapuram. The district currently has 18,089 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 3,79,282.
11 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Gun fires accidentally||The police here on Tuesday launched a probe into the incident in which a pistol went off accidentally on the premises of the Kottayam tahsildar’s office.The incident took place around 12.30 p.m when the person, identified as Boban Thomas, was waiting outside the tahsildar's office to produce his pistol for inspection as part of renewing its licence. “The gun fired as the person forcefully attempted to remove its magazine prior to producing it for examination. The bullet, however, hit nowhere,” said P.G. Rajendra Babu, Kottayam tahsildar.
11 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Entries for teacher award||St. Berchmans College, Changanassery, has invited nominations/ applications for the Berchmans Best Teacher Award. Teachers serving in colleges affiliated to universities in Kerala with 16 years of experience are eligible to apply. The award, which carries a purse of Rs. 25,001, citation and memento, has been instituted by the Kuwait chapter of the college alumni. For details, contact; 9447249214 or berchmansaward@sbcollege.ac.in
11 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||426 cases in Kottayam||As many as 426 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Tuesday. According to official statistics, 420 people were infected through contact, while six persons had come back from other States. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 9.4 per cent. The fresh cases also included 66 people aged above 60 years and 49 children. With 361 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,455 active cases. So far, a total of 27,823 people have been affected by COVID-19, of which 23,320 people were cured. With 48 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases.
11 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rival fronts gear up for electoral battle||As the battle lines are being drawn for the three-tier local body polls next month, the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) is facing an uphill task while the CPI(M)- led Left Democratic Front (LDF) is hoping to repeat its performance in Kozhikode district. For U. Rajeevan, the newly appointed district Congress committee (DCC) president, it will be a litmus test of his efforts to revive the party and prepare for the Assembly elections next year. He is the leader of the Opposition in the Koyilandy municipality. In the previous local body elections, the LDF edged out the UDF by clearly emerging victorious in the Kozhikode Corporation and the Kozhikode district panchayat. Except the Koduvally municipality, the Left coalition dominated the civic bodies of Feroke, Koyilandy, Mukkom, Payyoli, Ramanattukara and Vadakara. The LDF also won 10 out of the 12 block panchayats and 48 out of the 70 grama panchayats. It has been maintaining its winning streak in the district panchayat for quite some time. Last time, it won 18 seats while the UDF managed to win eight seats. A peek into the electoral history of the district shows that Left parties have been dominating the local polls, including the Kozhikode Corporation, since 1975. ‘Referendum on govt.’  However, the CPI(M) leaders feel that, even with the well-oiled machinery, the party may have to face strong anti-incumbency sentiments. The party’s poll managers fear that the elections could be a referendum on the State government as well. So the leadership has been treading a cautious path in choosing candidates, especially for civic bodies. The Congress party leadership believes that the local body polls are going to be quite different this year, following the politically favourable atmosphere. Incidentally, the UDF put up its best performance in 2000. But now it will mostly be a Congress-Indian Union Muslim League combine after the Janata Dal (United) [JD(U)], which later metamorphosed into Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), walked out of the alliance. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) too has a new district president, V.K. Sajeevan, in Kozhikode. Last time, the party won just 27 wards. Surprisingly, it made its presence felt in the Kozhikode Corporation by winning seven divisions. The party is now focusing on increasing its tally in the civic body.
11 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Political turmoil marks poll battle this time||With the declaration of the local body polls in the State, a different kind of battle will take place this time in an atmosphere of political turbulence. The elections to be held in three phases are in close proximity to the Assembly polls in April/May where both fronts eye a victory. Unlike in the past, all main players in the three coalitions are facing some sort of a crisis mired in fierce contention and acrimony. Incidentally, the COVID-19 pandemic has injected some uncertainty into the campaigning process, making it risky for all fronts. The ruling CPI(M), leading the Left Democratic Front, finds itself in ignominy with its State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan coming under a cloud of suspicion in several ongoing cases framed by Central agencies. The party leadership is struggling to make convincing clarification to the cadre after the arrest of Bineesh Kodiyeri, son Mr. Balakrishnan, in connection with Bengaluru-based celebrity drug racket and the arrest of M. Sivasankar, suspended Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, in the gold smuggling case. An unknown separatism seems to have seeped into the grass-roots level. At the same time, the Congress party, which is leading the United Democratic Front (UDF) without its two constituents -- Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) and the Janata Dal (United)-turned-Socialist Janata Dal-turned Loktantrik Janata Dal, is fighting a battle within itself. The arrest of Manjeswaram MLA M.C. Kamaruddin of the IUML in a gold jewellery scam is also likely to impact local body polls and cast a shadow on the Assembly elections in Kasaragod district. Against this fraught political background, the BJP, another contender attempting to make inroads into the State bipolity, is deep in trouble with over-ridden factionalism. Several senior and middle-rung leaders of the party are disillusioned with the State leadership. Whatever be the outcome of the local body polls, it will have a huge bearing on the Assembly polls.
11 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||807 new cases, 798 recoveries in Kozhikode||As many as 807 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Tuesday. The test positivity rate was 12.21% when 6,608 samples were tested, said a release from the District Medical Officer. There were 771 cases of locally acquired infections and the source was unknown in 28 cases. With 798 people recovering from the infection, the number of active cases from the district stands at 8,802. There were 295 case of local transmission of the infection from within the Kozhikode Corporation. In Wayanad As many as 112 people, including two health workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Tuesday. Of the new cases, 106 patients were infected through local contacts and six persons came from other States. The total number of active cases is 903 and 10,137 persons are under observation. In Malappuram As many as 685 people tested positive in Malappuram district on Tuesday. While 645 of them contracted the virus through direct contact with infected people, the source of infection could not be ascertained in 26 cases. There were nine health workers among the new cases. Two new patients came from other States and three from abroad. As many as 6,719 infected persons are currently under treatment across the district. A total of 545 infected persons recovered from the disease on Tuesday. Nearly 72,000 people are quarantined across the district.
11 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||As pandemic shadow hangs over polls, it’s digital tools for virtual campaigning||Conventional electioneering tactics and tools are passe in the times of COVID-19. So, candidates for local body elections have started creating their own social media war rooms with technical support from professional digital media strategists in different parts of Kozhikode. One such leading professional team manages 10 candidates who are seeking to improve their social media presence with quality promotional content, photographs, and video presentations. Most of them are from Mavoor, Mukkom, and Thiruvambadi. Live interactions The war room operators are primarily tasked with arranging the maximum number of live interactions with voters through Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp. Photo shoots have been scheduled for most of these candidates to create quality online promotional materials. The agencies hire professional photographers, videographers, and editors to dish out the best possible digital content. Up to Rs. 1 lakh “We have social media campaign packages exclusively for local body candidates from Rs. 10,000. Based on additional requirements, the cost can go up to Rs. 1 lakh,” says Nijin Navas, head of a specialised agency in the digital promotion campaign. The firm’s client list has all political fronts. With outdoor options ruled out, the candidates feel that the digital route is the best bet. Interestingly, the firms are offering the candidates some gifts too. Free song The winners will get a free song composed by professional musicians to celebrate their victory. A video profile to thank the voters is another inducement. Since the firms target only their clients’ victory, they have not as yet come up with a consolation package for the losers. The digital war room ‘warriors’ have a hectic schedule now, creating and managing social media groups. The main task, they say, is to add maximum number of voters to the digital platforms for interactive sessions and moderate it in a healthy way. The support of a number of professionals has been ensured in different areas to ensure a trouble-free virtual electioneering.
11 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Nod to use football turfs, public grounds||The Kozhikode district administration has given permission to use football turfs and public grounds that do not fall within containment zones, subject to restrictions. Spas, swimming pools, and units offering steam baths will continue to remain closed. A release on Tuesday said that this was in view of the fall in the test positivity rate of COVID-19 infections in the district. Adherence to break-the-chain protocol and the use of soap, sanitizers, and face masks was a must while using the football turfs and public grounds. Only those without symptoms may enter the grounds.
11 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Spices outlet to tie up with Milma to expand reach||SPIISRY, the sales outlet of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research-Indian Institute of Spices Research (ICAR-IISR) on its Chelavoor campus here, is planning to tie up with the Malabar Regional Co-operative Milk Producers Union Ltd (Malabar Milma) to expand its reach. The collaboration would be for commercialisation and marketing of spice-based products developed by ICAR-IISR, development of novel health and wellness products through collaborative research, and promotion of hand-holding entrepreneurs and start-up ventures for the marketing of the above products, scientists at the institute said. A release said that a Memorandum of Understanding would be signed on Wednesday. SPIISRY serves as a single point outlet for dispensing the services and products of ICAR-IISR, said Santhosh J. Eapen, Director, ICAR-IISR. The SPIISRY works as a linkage point for farmers, start-ups and customers to ensure mutual benefits to the stakeholders. The team behind SPIISRY connects farmers with start-ups, who deliver quality end products to customers. The farmer-buyer link in the trade ensures good price to the farmers as well as quality spices to the start-ups. This initiative also ensures the supply of adulterant-free quality products at reasonable prices to the customers. According to the figures available with ICAR-IISR, more than 25 start-ups are now associated with SPIISRY marketing various products through the outlet. The SPIISRY offers over 100 products including health and wellness products, spice-infused cosmetic products, spice powders and other products through the outlet.
11 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||College asked to release stipend to doctor||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has asked the Kozhikode Government Medical College authorities to release stipend to a senior resident doctor, who has been denied the benefit after he went abroad for the cancer treatment of his wife. In an order issued on Tuesday, commission judicial member P. Mohanadas said the stipend was denied to the postgraduate medical student bypassing a government order to release it. The resident doctor took leave for 144 days and went to the United States after getting permission from the Director of Medical Education, on condition that he would work for an equal number of days after return. The superintendent of the medical college, however, said in a report to the commission that stipend could not be released if the number of leaves exceeded 45 days.
11 November 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Man found dead||A man was found dead when his wife was found with serious hack injuries at Moothedam near Nilambur on Tuesday. Binoy alias Thomas Kutty, 46, was suspected to have hanged himself after hacking his wife Sobhi. His body was found hanging from a rubber tree near his house. The police said a quarrel between the couple might have led to the incident. Assistance for overcoming suicidal and murderous thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104, Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline of Maithri (0484-2540530), Thanal Suicide Prevention Centre (0495-2760000) and Direction Interventions System for Health Awareness (DISHA 1056).
11 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Walayar forum wants policeman dismissed||The Walayar Action Forum, seeking justice for the minor sisters who died under mysterious circumstances, has demanded the expulsion of investigating officer M.J. Sojan from the service. Mr. Sojan was widely accused of deliberately weakening the case, and thus scuttling it, to save the culprits. All the accused in the case were exonerated by a POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ) court here last year after the prosecution failed to prove them guilty. Extending solidarity The forum, registering solidarity with the victims’ parents, said that even the prosecutors had admitted to grave failures in the investigation of the case. Forum chairman Vilayodi Venugopal, convener V.M. Marsen and activist C.R. Neelakandan said here on Tuesday that the role of the investigation officer in scuttling the case was evident from the fact that he insisted on suicide in spite of the post-mortem report hinting at the possibility of murder. “Therefore, we demand that he should not be allowed to continue in service,” they said. The forum and the parents started a march to meet Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Tribes A.K. Balan at his house here. The three-day march upholding bloodied white frocks of children will reach the Minister’s house on Thursday. Mr. Balan, meanwhile, said that the victims’ parents did not have to take out a three-day march to meet him. “They can meet me any time,” he said. The Minister said that going and meeting the parents at their house while they were staging an agitation would be improper. He said the case was still in the High Court. Minister’s stand He said that the government would make sure that the victims got justice. “The government is bound by the assurance given by the Chief Minister to the girls’ parents,” he said.  The victims’ parents do not have to take out a three-day march to meet me. A.K. Balan Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Tribes
11 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||342 test positive in Palakkad||Palakkad district registered more recoveries from COVID-19 than fresh infections on Tuesday. When 413 people recovered, 342 people tested positive for the virus in the district. District officials said that 182 of the new cases had contracted the virus through direct contact with the infected people. However, there were 151 cases whose source of infection could not be established. Seven cases had come from across the border. There were two health workers among the newly confirmed cases in Palakkad. Officials said that 6,302 infected people were currently under treatment across the district. However, 206 people from Palakkad were being treated in other parts of the State for COVID-19. When 114 of them were in neighbouring Malappuram district, 35 were in Thrissur, 26 in Ernakulam, 23 in Kozhikode, five in Kannur and one person each in Thiruvananthapuram, Alapuzha and Wayanad districts.
11 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||234 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 234 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Tuesday Of the fresh cases, 218 contracted the disease through local contact. Among these, the contact source of 56 people were yet to be ascertained. With 32 cases, Pandalam municipality reported the highest number of cases among the local bodies. With 173 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 1,817 active cases
11 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Sabarimala temple to open tomorrow||The Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala will open for the Chithira Aattatirunal festival on Thursday. Melsanthi A.K. Sudheer Namboodiri, accompanied by Tantri Kandararu Rajeevaru, will open the sanctum sanctorum at 5 p.m. The rituals will begin at 5 a.m. the next day and the temple will close after Athazhapuja on Friday. No devotee will be permitted to the temple during these two days. The temple will reopen for the Mandalam-Makaravilakku pilgrimage season on November 15 . The newly selected Melsanthis for the Ayyappa temple and the Malikappuram Devi temple – V.K. Jayaraj Potti and Raji Kumar M.N. Namboothiri – will take charge on the occasion. The devotees who have booked for darshan through the virtual queue system will be permitted entry to the hill shrine from November 16.
11 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Test positivity rate drops to 10.98%||The State on Tuesday reported 6,010 new cases of COVID-19 when 54,751 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden till date to 4,95,712 cases. The test positivity rate (TPR) which had shot up to 18.16% on October 13 had slumped and reached between 12% and 14 % after October 25. After nearly two weeks, the TPR dropped to 10.98%, indicating disease transmission plateauing to manageable levels. However, low levels of disease transmission are likely to continue across the State for a while before a perceptible dip happens. Public health experts have cautioned the public to maintain physical distancing and universal masking and not to let-up on the safety protocols so that the transmission does not flare up again. On Tuesday also, more recoveries than new cases were reported, with 6,698 patients leaving hospitals. Active case pool The active case pool, which registered the maximum number of patients at 97,417 on October 24, has been declining steadily as the recovery rate seemed to pick up pace. The number of patients in the active case pool has come down to 78,694. The cumulative recoveries till date has been 4,15,158. The Health Department added 28 more deaths which occurred between October 27 and November 8 to its official death list, taking the cumulative toll to 1,742. Health experts put the unofficial toll to be at least 1,500 deaths more. The current case fatality rate of 0.35% would still be between 0.6% and 0.7% and way below the death rate in the rest of the country or other nations, if the State acknowledged these deaths too, they said. 28 more deaths Of the 28 deaths, Thiruvananthapuram accounted for six, Kottayam four, Kozhikode, Kannur, Palakkad, Thrissur and Kollam three each and Pathanamthitta, Ernakulam and Malappuram, one each. Official estimates put the number of critically ill patients in various ICUs at 822, with 227 requiring ventilator support. Of the new cases, 5,910 cases (98.3%) are locally acquired infections, with 653 cases remaining untraced to a known source of infection. The number of health-care workers who contracted the infection is 69.
11 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||First phase inspection of EVMs over||The first-phase inspection of electronic voting machines (EVMs) which will be used for the local body elections in the district is over, the district administration said on Tuesday. The inspection covered the control units of the EVMs, the ballot units, cables and connectors and the cabinets in which they are stored. The EVMs will be placed under tight security until the counting of votes is over. Multi-post EVMs having one control unit and three ballot units each will be used for the polls in the three-tier panchayats. In the municipalities and the Corporation, the EVMs will have one ballot unit attached to the control unit. In all, 2,859 control units and 8,651 ballot units will be used in the district. 1,727 wards On December 8, elections will be conducted to 1,727 wards in the 90 local bodies in the district. This include 1,299 wards in 73 grama panchayats, 155 wards in 11 block panchayats, 26 wards in the district panchayats, 147 wards in the four municipalities of Attingal, Varkala, Nedumangad and Neyyattinkara, and 100 wards in the Thiruvananthapuram municipal Corporation. The technical examination of the machines was carried out by engineers of the Electronic Corporation of India Ltd. under the supervision of District Collector Navjot Khosa. All the machines which underwent the inspections were then sealed.
11 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||567 cases, 580 recoveries in capital||The capital district reported 567 COVID-19 cases and 580 recoveries on Tuesday and the number of active cases is 7,468. Among those who tested positive, 436 persons acquired the infection through local transmission. Twelve health-care workers have also been infected. The COVID-19 death toll in the district mounted to 467 with six more recent deaths being attributed to the disease. The deceased include a 57-year-old man from Perunkadavila; a 57-year-old man from Nellimoodu; a 63-year-old man from Plamoottukada; a 55-year-old man from Ooruttambalam; a 71-year-old woman from Chirayinkeezhu; and a 75-year-old man from Pothencode. The district administration placed 1,453 people under quarantine, taking the total number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 25,424 in houses and 203 in various institutions. Post-COVID-19 clinic A post-COVID-19 referral clinic and a repeat COVID-19 testing centre will commence functioning at the General Hospital on Wednesday. Those suffering from post-COVID-19 health complications such as breathlessness, persistent cough, swelling in one leg and wheezing will receive treatment at the clinic. The out-patient wing of the referral clinic will function from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the following sequence: cardiology department and SWAAS (State programme for prevention and management of obstructive airway diseases) clinic on Monday, general medicine and neurology on Tuesday, physical medicine on Wednesday, respiratory medicine on Thursday and general medicine and psychiatry on Friday. Asymptomatic COVID-19 patients who are undergoing isolation at their homes will be able to undergo their 10th-day antigen test (repeat antigen test) on all days from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the facility. District Collector Navjot Khosa, District Medical Officer K.S. Shinu and other officials reviewed the facilities at the General Hospital on Tuesday. A new micro-containment zones was declared in the Pankadu area of Pazhavila in Pangode grama panchayat. The other existing ones are at Palachira in Cherunniyoor grama panchayat; Poozhanadu-Moolamoode and Kunnanadu-Chettivilakam areas in Ottasekharamangalam grama panchayat; and Office ward and Vittivam in Vilappil grama panchayat. Action taken Sectoral magistrates initiated action against 556 persons for flouting COVID-19 guidelines and prohibitory orders in the district. While four were booked for violating the norms, 100 people were fined. As many as 25,141 people have faced action in the district since prohibitory orders were clamped in the district on October 4.
11 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) defends smart classroom projects||The CPI(M) State secretariat on Tuesday rallied to the defence of the General Education Department against what it termed a political plot to discredit the high-tech and IT@school programmes aimed at modernising school learning. The CPI(M) said the schemes had rendered world-class modern learning accessible to students from ordinary families. However, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala had chosen to tarnish the scheme to reverse the course of progress so that high-fee charging private schools could profit, the CPI(M) said. Chennithala’s charge Mr. Chennithala had demanded the government inquire into the allegation that gold smugglers had used the school modernisation programme as a cover for their operations. In a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, he had said media reports suggested that the government had contracted a UAE gold smuggling case accused to distribute the digital devices to modernise school education. The CPI(M) said the schemes provided better state-of-the-art facilities to government school students than what expensive private schools offered. Antiquated facilities, decaying infrastructure and dilapidated buildings had forced students to flee government schools during the previous United Democratic Front regime, it said. KIIFB-funded projects Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board-funded smart classrooms and allied facilities have brought students back to State-funded schools. Now parents preferred government schools to private ones for their wards. Mr. Chennithala's accusations appeared to aid the BJP, which had used Central agencies as a cover to tarnish the government, the CPI(M) said. The Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) said the allegations were misplaced. It had undertaken various projects in “a foolproof manner without any external interferences and with absolute transparency and strictly abiding by the rules and regulations stipulated.” The tendering processes were above board and the activities of KITE were available in the public domain for scrutiny, it said.
11 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Technopark-based start-up inks $4-m deal with Tenant||Alokin Software Pvt Ltd., a start-up based at Technopark here, has signed a $4-million deal with Tenant Inc for product development. The deal is for the entire product development for self-storage companies, including software, IoT, APIs and web/mobile applications. New divisions The company is launching a Research and Development Centre, Product Development Centre, and System Integration Centre in the State to fulfil the contract. Alokin is a cloud company that began operations in Technology Business Incubator (TBIC) at Technopark here in 2011. Alokin is currently looking to expand into a larger facility to host the growing team.
11 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cracker dealers pin their hopes on Deepavali sales||With Deepavali round the corner, firecracker shops in the city are hoping of seeing some profit after months of shutdown in the wake of the pandemic. News of bans on the use of firecrackers during the festival in some States in the light of the pandemic has come in recently, but shop licensees and dealers are hopeful that as Deepavali celebrations are not very widespread in Kerala, the use of firecrackers would not pose much of a problem. Jinju S.S., who runs a unit that manufactures small firecrackers and flower pot at Poozhikkunnu, says customers have already started coming in, especially as they want to avoid any last-minute rush during COVID-19. He sources fancier crackers from Sivakasi for his shop and for supplying to shops in the city. The footfall will only go up in days to come, he says. In small quantities Jinju says they reopened only in mid-October and a lot is riding on the festival of lights. “Unlike in many other States, people here buy firecrackers only in small quantities. Moreover, we sell green crackers that have low emission as directed by the Supreme Court. The boxes of firecrackers have the CSIR-NEERI stamp and that for PESO compliance too,” says Jinju The restriction on shop timings, he feels, is a damper on business. Good response Vishnu Ram who runs Bheeman Padakkakada at Sasthamangalam says he had second thoughts about opening a firecracker shop this time against the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic, but has been getting a good response from customers. He has also trying his level best to follow COVID-19 safety guidelines and ensure physical distancing. About restrictions on sale and bursting crackers, he says though only branded quality crackers are sold by him, some smoke is inevitable. Firecracker stocks are already in the market, and sales are nearing the peak. Any restrictions just a few days before Deepavali will pose problems. Whether people accept it is debatable. Many workers Naushad Kaippady, general secretary of the Kerala Fireworks Licencees and Dealers’ Labour Union, says the sector which had not been doing great has been dealt a body blow by the pandemic. Each small manufacturing unit has 10-odd workers dependent on it, he says. Then there are the sellers. All of them look to the Deepavali festival to make some money. He says these small-scale units usually see good crowds in the week before Deepavali but restrictions owing to COVID-19 this time could see business getting affected. He also wants the timings for firecraker shops to be extended till 10 p.m.  We sell green crackers having low emission. The boxes have CSIR-NEERI stamp and are in compliance with PESO norms.
11 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Panel to identify courses for SNGOU||Sree Narayana Guru Open University (SNGOU) has commenced efforts to zero in on the prospective courses that could be offered in the distance education mode. While the university has entrusted an expert panel with the task of identifying the undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) programmes that it can offer, it has also sought suggestions from the public to have a participatory approach in the exercise. The fledgling university, which came into being a month ago, has expedited the steps to get its activities up and running in full swing. It has applied for formal recognition under the provisions of the University Grants Commission (UGC) Act, 1956, and formed a committee chaired by Vice Chancellor P.M. Mubarak Pasha to evolve a long-term strategic plan. With a Kerala High Court stay order putting paid to its efforts to the commence courses this year, the open university has tentatively targeted a launch of its courses by March next. According to Dr. Pasha, the university has targeted launching short-term and long-term UG and PG courses, besides job-oriented, skill development, traditional and new-generation programmes. Proposals The university has solicited public opinion on the courses that could be, including among its bouquet of courses. Proposals that include the name, duration of courses and the level of the degree (certificate, diploma, UG or PG) must be sent tocourse.sreenarayanaguruou@ gmail.combefore November 18. The entries must also specify learning outcomes.
11 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Filing of papers for polls from tomorrow||Filing of nomination papers by candidates for the forthcoming elections to local bodies in Kerala will begin on November 12, the date on which the notification for the elections will be issued. A press note issued by the State Election Commission (SEC) here on Tuesday said nominations would be received by the Returning Officer or Assistant Returning Officer from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. till November 19, except on holidays. Candidates will be required to submit the 2A form along with the nomination papers, which will be published at the end of each day. Candidates should be a voter in the ward from which he/she is seeking election and should be at least 21 years of age. The person seconding the nomination should also be a voter in the same ward. Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe candidates contesting from reserved wards should produce a caste certificate from the village officer. Candidates cannot contest more than one ward in a local body, but they can contest in different local bodies in the three-tier system. Security deposit Candidates filing nominations will have to remit a security deposit of Rs. 1,000 for grama panchayats, Rs. 2,000 for block panchayats and municipalities and Rs. 3,000 for district panchayats and Corporations. Candidates belonging to the SC/STs will have a concession of 50% on the security deposit. The SEC has also published the full details of the model code of conduct on the website www.sec.kerala.gov.in.
11 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Referendum in KSRTC on Dec. 30||The much-delayed referendum to select recognised unions in the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will be held on December 30 and the results will be declared on January 1, 2021. A notification for the referendum will be issued on November 13 by the Assistant Labour Officer, Ernakulam, who has been designated as returning officer. The draft voters’ list will be published on November 17. Complaints, if any, can be submitted till November 23 and after hearing on November 25, the final voters’ list will be published on November 30. Nominations will be accepted on December 2 and scrutiny will take place the same day. Voting will be from 7.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. on December 30 at 100 depots of the KSRTC. Around 29,000 employees on the rolls on the date of notification can participate in the referendum. The validity of the recognised unions, the CITU-affiliated Kerala State Road Transport Employees Association and the INTUC-affiliated Transport Democratic Federation (TDF), had ended on December 14, 2019.
11 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Affordable treatment for more people, says SCTIMST chief||The Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) will take all measures to make affordable treatment, including surgery, accessible to more people, K. Jayakumar who assumed office as the Director-in-charge has said. In a statement here on Tuesday, he said that super specialty treatment would be made accessible to the common man and that the institute would turn its focus on the development of indigenous technologies and medical devices. Dr. Jayakumar, a senior professor at the Department of Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery, has served as a member of the governing body.
11 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kidnap of Idukki native: two of gang arrested||The Peroorkada police arrested two youths who were allegedly part of a gang of five who kidnapped and assaulted a person on Sunday. The accused have been identified as Abhiraj (22) from Madhavapuram and Unnikrishnan (26) from Kochuveli. According to the police, the gang of five had kidnapped Jiju Nair, an Idukki native staying for rent in a lodge in the city, on Sunday evening. He was allegedly kidnapped by the gang because his friend had failed to return the money that he had borrowed from the accused Abhiraj in Jiju’s presence. He was also allegedly assaulted in the car. A police team intercepted the car near Kovalam based on information received at the police control room. The police are on the lookout for the three others who escaped when the car was stopped.
11 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Tech leadership award for Manoj Abraham||The 2020 Technology Leadership award, instituted by the Kerala Management Association, has been awarded to Additional Director General of Police Manoj Abraham. Mr. Abraham, who is also the Cyberdom Nodal Officer of the State, has been selected for the honour considering the adoption of the latest technology in the Kerala Police. The award recognises the establishment of the first cyber research centre in the country and for the scientific investigation of cases with the help of the cyber cell, a release issued by the association said. Cybersecurity meet The association also considered “the reputation of the Kerala Police in organising 13 consecutive International Cybersecurity Conferences” from 2009 to 2020 .
11 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Occupational Therapy course||The LBS Centre for Science and Technology has invited applications for admissions to the Bachelor of Occupational Therapy course that was recently sanctioned. Applications can be submitted online throughwww. lbscentre.kerala.gov.infrom November 11 to 16.
11 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DMO calls for caution against leptospirosis||District Medical Officer (DMO) K.S. Shinu has appealed for caution against the prevalence of leptospirosis. Five deaths have been reported due to leptospirosis in the district so far this year. Besides, there are 16 deaths suspected to be due to leptospirosis. The district also reported 150 cases of leptospirosis in all this year. Medication Those displaying symptoms of the diseases have been urged to consume doxycycline tablets using prescription issued by doctors. The drug is provided free of cost at all government health centres, the District Medical Officer said.
11 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Returning Officers appointed||The nominations for local body elections will be accepted from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. on all working days from November 12 to November 19, the district administration said on Tuesday. The last date for withdrawal of the nominations is November 23. The State Election Commission has issued a notification assigning Returning Officers for the three-tier panchayats, municipalities and the municipal Corporations. In Corporation District Collector Navjot Khosa, who is also the District Election Officer, is the Returning Officer for the district panchayat. The Returning Officer for wards one to 25 of the city Corporation is the District Planning Officer (office at Civil Station, Kudappanakunnu). The District Supply Officer, who is also based at the Civil Station, is the Returning Officer for wards 26 to 50. The nominations for wards 51 to 75 should be submitted to the Sub-Collector, Thiruvananthapuram. The District Labour Officer, whose office is situated at Thozhil Bhavan, PMG, is the Returning Officer for wards 75 to 100.
11 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Allotment to engg, pharmacy courses||The third phase of allotment to Engineering/Pharmacy courses and the second phase allotment to Architecture courses-2020 is published on the website www.cee.kerala.gov.in. The allotment in this phase covers five self financing pharmacy colleges, the Civil Engineering course in Palakkad Government Engineering College, and Computer Science (Data science) in Mar Athanasius College, Kothamangalam. Joining date Candidates who have got an allotment in this phase should join the respective colleges from November 11 to 13. The details of allotment will be available on the home page of the candidate and in the allotment memo. Helpline number: 0471 2525300.
11 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Medical, allied courses allotment begins||The first round of allotment for admissions to MBBS, BDS, Agriculture, Cooperation and Banking, Veterinary, Forestry, and Fisheries courses commenced on Tuesday. Options can be registered for Cooperation, Banking and Management, a newly sanctioned course in the College of Cooperation, Banking and Management, affiliated to Kerala Agricultural University, during this round, among other courses. While the options can be registered till 5 p.m. on November 15, the allotment list will be published the next day. Further details are available on thewebsite www.cee.kerala.gov.in.
11 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Voters’ list today||The final electoral roll for the elections to local bodies in Kerala will be published on Wednesday, the State Election Commission has said.
11 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Reserved wards to be decided today||The State Election Commission has issued a renotification on deciding reserved wards in 10 local bodies through draw of lots on November 11. The respective Joint Directors, Urban Affairs, will be in charge of the process of the draw of lots in municipalities while the district electoral officer will preside over the draw in grama and block panchayats. The renotification is based on a High Court order.
11 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Data for admission to nursing course||The verified data of applicants for admission to the post-basic BSc Nursing course for 20-21 has been published. The data can be viewed on the websitelbscentre.kerala.gov.in. Applicants should upload the necessary documents by November 16. For details, dial 0471-2560363,364.
11 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Drop move to wind up AIR station: Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has urged the Centre to drop the move to wind up the Alappuzha station of All India Radio by phasing out the MW transmitter. In a letter to Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar, he said the decision to shut down the transmitter would affect lakhs of radio listeners .
11 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Shameer murder: CB seeks custody of jail officers||The Crime Branch (CB) has moved the court to get custody of six officers of Viyyur Central Prison, who are in remand in connection with the custodial murder of Shemeer. For a detailed interrogation and identification parade, they have to be in custody, according to the CB. Custodial torture The reason for the custodial torture and the places where he was admitted to torture have to be clarified. The Crime Branch special team on Monday arrested six prison offices in connection with murder of Shemeer of Thiruvananthapuram, who was arrested along with his wife and two others from a car in Thrissur on September 29 with 10 kg of ganja. Unconscious state Shemeer, who was sent to Ambilikkala hostel, the COVID care centre of the Jail Department, was admitted to Thrissur Medical College Hospital in an unconscious state on September 30 night. He died the next day. According to jail officers, Shemeer, who suffered an epileptic attack at the centre, fell down and injured himself. However, a post-mortem report revealed 40-odd injuries, including those on the head and back, on his body. His ribs and chest bones were broken. The fellow inmates in the quarantine centre reportedly gave statement that he was subjected to brutal torture at the centre. The arrested jail officers are deputy prison officers M.S. Arun, 35, of Kalavur, and V.S. Subhash, 24, of Kollankode; assistant prison offers T.V. Vivek, 30, of Njarakkal; M.R. Ramesh, 33, of Cherayi; and Pratheesh, 32, of Kottayam; and assistant jail superintendent Athul Puthuvalvila, 24, of Thiruvanathapuram. Charged with murder All the six have been charged with murder under Section 302 of IPC. Earlier, all the six were suspended by jail DGP Rishi Raj Singh. Along with them jail superintendent Raju Abraham was also suspended for negligence of duty. The Ambilikkala COVID care cnetre was closed down following the murder.
11 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||711 cases in Thrissur, 1,088 people recover||A total of 711 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Thrissur on Tuesday while 1,088 recovered from the disease. There are 9,058 active cases in the district and 106 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment at hospitals in other districts. According to official statistics, 685 people, including eight health workers, contracted the disease through local contact. They include 113 people above the age of 60 and 33 children below the age of 10. In all 6,073 people are under home observation. As many as 6,327 samples were collected for tests on Tuesday.
11 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Toll plaza staff infected||Ten more cases were reported on Tuesday from tests held by Health officials at the Toll Plaza. Health wing of Nenmanikkara panchayat has recommended closing down the toll plaza for a week.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||As poll fever catches on||
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||All the best||
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Floating entrepreneurship||
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ruining cityscape||
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Flagging off a campaign||
11 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farm laws violation of Constitution: Chandy||The All India Congress Committee Andhra Pradesh in-charge and former Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy has said that the three farm sector laws passed by the NDA government were a violation of the spirit of the Constitution. “None of the States was consulted before the introduction of the Bills, which is against the Constitution,” Mr. Chandy opined. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, before participating in a ‘tractor rally’ to oppose the passing of the Bills, which according to him benefited only the corporates and took away the right of the individual States to legislate on agricultural issues as it is a State subject. Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee president Sake Sailajanath and working president Narreddy Tulasi Reddy participated in the rally here, which culminated at Collector office. ‘Adverse effects’ The AICC leader said the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act gave impetus to contract farming. A large number of farmer suicides continued and in the absence of a Minimum Support Price and a buying mechanism at the regulated marketyards, farmers would be the losers, he said. “The Congress has been asking all non-BJP States to reject the farm laws and amend them like the Punjab and Rajasthan governments, and our leader Rahul Gandhi had been visiting many States to stand for the farmers’ rights and bring awareness among them on the dangers of the three laws enacted recently. This is one of the nation-wide agitations,” Mr. Chandy said.
11 November 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||After Dubbak win, BJP eyes Tirupati LS seat in by-election||Buoyed by the successful inroads made into the TRS stronghold of Dubbak constituency in Telangana, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has expressed confidence on winning the Tirupati LS constituency, where a by-election is necessitated by the demise of the incumbent MP Balli Durgaprasad Rao of YSR Congress. ‘YSRCP mired in corruption’ Addressing the media here on Tuesday, the party’s State Secretary Nagothu Ramesh Naidu said the party would hoist its flag across Andhra Pradesh in the days to come. Though the people had a lot of hope and voted for Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, he was resorting to undemocratic steps to cover up his corruption, he alleged. Similarly, the TDP regime was voted out in view of its rampant corruption, which had actually doubled in the present dispensation, he said. Mr. Ramesh Naidu also accused ruling as well as opposition party leaders of involvement in smuggling and trading of redsanders, thus plundering the national wealth. Earlier, the BJP leaders called on the family of deceased MLA Kandula Sivananda Reddy and expressed their condolences.
11 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||E.G. crop loss pegged at Rs. 2,442 crore||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Tuesday told an Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) that the district had suffered losses of crops and infrastructure facilities to the tune of Rs. 2,442 crore due to floods in the Godavari and huge inflows into the Yeleru Irrigation System. “The crop loss due to the Godavari floods and rains is estimated to be more than Rs. 422 crore while the loss of various infrastructure facilities belonging to the departments of Roads, Irrigation, Panchayat Raj, Rural Water Supply and Power is estimated to be above Rs. 2019.44 crore,” Mr. Muralidhar said to Saurav Ray, Joint Secretary from the Ministry of Home Affairs, who led the Central team. In October, the floods due to heavy inflows into the Yeleru irrigation system caused damage of crops worth Rs. 322 crore. Mr. Muralidhar sought financial aid of Rs. 21 crore for repairing various irrigation facilities. On Tuesday morning, the six-member Central team comprising R.B. Kaul from the Ministry of Finance, Ayush Puniya from the Ministry of Rural Development and Sravan Kumar Singh from the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways visited the fields of agriculture, horticulture, vegetable and various irrigation sources that were damaged. In Konaseema, accompanied by Joint Collector Ch. Kirti and Kothapeta MLA Ch. Jaggi Reddy, the team interacted with farmers of banana, vegetables and horticulture crops, which were under a sheet of water for more than 21 days.
11 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||15-year-old girl ‘ends life’||A 15-year-old girl allegedly ended her life by hanging in Peddapuram town in East Godavari district on Tuesday. Police suspect that she resorted to the extreme step reportedly following an argument with her boyfriend over phone. The incident occurred when the girl’s grandmother left for Nellore to visit a relative, leaving her alone in the house. The girl lives with her grandmother after her parents passed away a few years ago. The police said the body had been sent to the government hospital in Peddapuram for post-mortem. Those suffering suicidal tendencies can dial 100 for counselling and guidance.
11 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Buoyed over election results, BJP holds celebrations||Jubilant activists of the Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) organised celebrations in the city and other places on Tuesday as the party-led National Democratic Alliance(NDA) put up a good performance in the Assembly elections in Bihar and also in by-elections in Telangana, Madhya Pradesh and other States. Party Ongole Lok Sabha constituency unit president S.Srinivas said the morale-boosting performance in the polls would enable the party expand its political base further across the country, including Andhra pradesh, in the coming days. Crackers burst, sweets distributed The party activists led by BJP leader Yogaiah Yadav burst crackers and distributed sweets at the busy Church Centre here celebrating the the BJP’s electoral performance in Bihar where it defied multiple exit poll predictions by psephologists. It was a good showing by the BJP in Telangana where it bagged the Dubbak Assembly seat in the by-election trouncing the Telangana Rashtra Samiti, he said, adding that the party also put up an impressive performance in the by-elections in other States, including Madhya pradesh, where it staged a political coup and dethroned the Kamal Nath government.
11 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allottees press for early handing over of houses||Housing scheme allottees have urged the Ongole Municipal Corporation to handover early the houses taken up for construction by the Andhra Pradesh Township and Infrastructure Development Corporation(TIDCO) here. Members of the TIDCO Housing Scheme Sadhana Samiti, who met here on Tuesday, lamented that construction of the houses had been pending for over 16 months. The civic authorities should speed up the works including laying of roads, drainage and other common facilities, they demanded. Those allotted the houses, most of them from the low income group, found servicing of loans obtained from banks for house construction difficult and were in dire need to occupy the houses, said Samiti District Convenor M.L.Narayana, also CPI District Secretary. He said some of the allottees were allegedly misled and asked to opt out of the scheme by some ruling YSR Congress Party leaders on the pretext that they would be allotted houses elsewhere. This was done with a view to include the names of persons close to them in the list of allottees, he said. “We will hold talks with the municipal officials on November 16 and based on the response we will decide on future course of action,” he said along with Samiti City Convenor Sd. Sardar.
11 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Regularise services of contract workers’||Andhra Pradesh State Government Employees Association State general secretary G. Askara Rao on Tuesday urged the State government to concede early their 30-point charter of demands. The services of contract employees especially in the Medical and Health department, who were facing severe work pressure following COVID-19 pandemic, should be immediately regularised, he said. He said the employees were eagerly looking forward to implementation of the 11th Pay Revision Commission recommendations.
11 November 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South Coastal A.P. clocks fewer than 200 cases||The health situation was well under control in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as the number of recoveries continued to be more than fresh admissions while one person died of COVID in Prakasam district in the last 24 hours. While the toll remained unchanged at 488 with Nellore district registering no deaths, the toll in Prakasam district edged up to 575, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Tuesday night. The death rate came down to 0.86% in the region with 1,063 deaths so far. With fewer than a few hundred new cases, the cumulative confirmed cases went up to 1,22,750 in the two districts. The caseload came down to 2,313 as little over 200 patients won the battle against the dreaded disease. The number of positive cases rose to 62,085 with 79 testing positive during the period in Nellore district while the caseload came down to 1,420 as 80 persons recuperated during the period. As many as 60,665 have recovered in the district so far. In Prakasam district, 111 new cases took the cumulative confirmed cases to 60,665. However, the number of active cases dipped to 893 as 125 persons returned home on recovery. So far, 59,197 patients have been cured of the viral disease in the district. Meanwhile, SPSR Nellore District Collector K.V.N.Chakradhar Rao said that the district witnessed marked improvement in the health situation.
11 November 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Forest Martyrs’ Memorial unveiled||Principal Chief Conservator of Forests N. Prateep Kumar on Tuesday said that Forest Martyrs’ Memorials would be built at all the forest circles across the State by next Forest Martyrs Day to be observed on September 11. Accompanied by Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests A.K. Jha, A.P. Forest Academy Director J.S.N. Murthy and Chief Conservator of Forest (Rajamahendravaram Circle) N. Nageswara Rao, Mr. Prateep Kumar on Tuesday unveiled the memorial in Nagaravanam at Diwan Cheruvu village in Rajamahedravaram. “The memorial has been built at Nagaravaram in memory of the 22 forest martyrs who laid down their lives for the protection of the forest and wildlife in the State since 1939. Every forest circle will get a martyrs’ memorial and garden in the State by next September,” said Mr. Prateep Kumar. Mr. Prateep Kumar has also released an audio song written on the forest martyrs by N. Srinivas and a video song during the programme. District Forest Officer B. Sunil Kumar Reddy and Division Forest Officer (Wildlife) C. Selvam were present.
11 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Folsom city councillor makes SVU proud||Sri Venkateswara University campus is agog with loud cheers with its alumnus Chalamcherla Yedukondalu (now Y.K. Chalamcherla) getting elected to the Folsom city council in California, USA. Born in Vidavalur of Nellore district, Mr. Chalamcherla did his computer science engineering at SVU in the early nineties. Hailing from a family with meagre income, he stayed in State-funded hostels and gave tuitions to fund his education. With great grit, he went on to become a Group-A gazetted officer in the Income Tax Department, worked on PAN number architecture and development in New Delhi. After quitting his job in 1998, Mr. Chalamcherla shifted to Singapore and later to the U.S. in 2000 to work on the Y2K bug. “My parents had a small shop in our hamlet of 150 houses. When I was working in the fields and grazing cattle, they taught me the importance of education and altruism,” Mr. Chalamcherla told The Hindu in a telephonic interview. He also recalled how his father-in-law T. Venkateswarlu, an IAS officer, inspired him to work harder. Passion for service Mr. Chalamcherla says public service is his passion. “I have been a public servant for 23 years, first with the Indian government, then Singapore and now in California,” he said. Representing the Asian community, he was actively involved in tree plantation, child safety and traffic control programmes in schools and parks. He has conducted California State job awareness workshops for seven years, helping hundreds of youth get State positions. He also offers support to homeless persons and children of imprisoned parents, who he feels need to be embraced. During his college days, Mr. Chalamcherla used to be associated with social and student-centric activities. “He is involved in ‘IGNITE’, the university’s ‘entrepreneurial club’, even recently. Going by his high ambitions, he has the ability to become a senator in California,” said Suresh Perugu, a senior member of SVU Alumni Association, who taught him in the early nineties. Campaign style Braving COVID, Mr. Chalamcherla reached out to his voters by standing at a busy junctions and waving hands to draw their attention. He used social media the most, as part of his strategy to reach out to more Americans. “I spent a mere $8,000 as compared to some of my rivals who spent $1,50,000,” he said. Having lost the 2018 elections for want of time, Mr. Chalamcherla quit his senior executive job and started focusing on buildjng ties with the community, thus emerging successful this time.
11 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIT-T, Amara Raja sign MoU on producing reusable face mask||Indian Institute of Technology Tirupati (IIT-T) has entered into a pact with Amara Raja Group to develop reusable face masks equivalent to N-95. IIT-T Director K.N. Satyanarayana formally exchanged copies of the MoU with Amara Raja Batteries Limited (ARBL) Chief Executive Officer S. Vijayanand, in the presence of the group’s founder chairman Ramachandra N. Galla. The prototype brought out by IIT-T consists of a flexible reusable body designed using 3D printing technology and the filter developed using electrospinning technology. After every use, the N95 filter is replaced with a new one. The Amara Raja team will carry out large-scale manufacturing of the masks using technology transfer from IIT-T. IIT-T has also developed a sterilisation unit prototype using hybrid technology to provide efficient and large-scale sterilisation of PPEs. The unit fuses the UV-C photon-based technology with an advanced oxidation process to achieve rapid sterilisation against a wide range of bacteria and viruses. An industrial-scale sterilisation unit will be developed at Amara Raja group to ensure pre-packaging sterilisation of the masks.
11 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Only 26 cadets from A.P., TS for R-Day parade||Andhra Pradesh and Telangana will collectively depute only 26 cadets of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) to the Republic Day parade to be held in New Delhi on January 26, in tune with COVID-19 protocol. The reduction, from the usual 110, was necessitated due to the social distancing norms. NCC Deputy Director-General (A.P. and Telangana) Air Commodore T.S. Suresh Krishnan, who was here at Tirupati group headquarters on Tuesday as part of the annual inspection of NCC units, received a guard of honour from NCC outriders and was formally received by the Group Commander Colonel Ganga Sateesh. The DDG was overwhelmed by the Tirupati group’s commitment in deputing the maximum number of cadets to serve the public during the lockdown. He is scheduled to visit the Chittoor and Kadapa units on Wednesday.
11 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Alstom rolls out 500th metro car from Sri City||Alstom has rolled out its 500th metro car recently from its Sri City plant in Chittoor district and in all dispatched 112 metro train sets to domestic as well as global destinations like Chennai, Kochi, Lucknow, Mumbai, Sydney and Montreal. The operations at this plant, considered the largest urban rolling stock making unit in the Asia-Pacific region, began in September 2012 with production of cars for Chennai Metro. After the advent of Unlock 1.0, the unit successfully dispatched the first batch of two train sets for the Canadian city of Montreal and work is in progress for Mumbai Metro L3, Montreal Metro and Sydney Metro (city and southwest extension). Alstom Managing Director (India and South Asia) Alain Spohr said his team worked tirelessly to ensure on-time deliveries, braving the global pandemic.
11 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No sale of crackers?||Traders of firecrackers traders who were putting up stalls for Diwali sale were left in despair as the government reportedly decided to prohibit the sale and use of crackers in line with the decision taken by several other States as a COVID safety measure. The civic body called in applications from traders and also allotted stalls after a draw of lots recently. Traders, who almost put up stalls in the PWD Grounds and Gymkhana Grounds, were on Tuesday asked by the civic authorities to stop the activity as the State government is going to issue orders prohibiting firecrackers. "We were asked to convey the State's decision to the traders. A government order will be released soon regarding the same and the fee collected from the traders will be returned," a VMC official told The Hindu.   Crackers not allowed on trains Officials of the South Central Railway (SCR) have appealed to passengers not to carry fire crackers or any kind of inflammables into the railway premises or in running trains.Carrying of crackers would endanger the lives of people, the officials cautioned. Special teams would be formed to prevent transporting of fire crackers and other inflammables. Passengers could alert the railway officials over security helpline No. 182, if they noticed any passenger carrying inflammable material, the officials said.
11 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wait for free parking at all malls to continue||Motorists visiting certain malls and multiplexes in the city are still being forced to pay the parking fee and this will probably continue till July 22, 2021, when the next hearing of the plea against the district consumer forum’s judgment with the AP State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission is scheduled. District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum-II, Vijayawada, in February 2019 fined a multiplex for collecting parking fee from a patron and also asked it not do so citing the government orders and an apex court judgment. The forum also asked the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) and the Joint Collector to ensure that no parking fee is collected from moviegoers and shoppers. The VMC was successful in making a couple of multiplexes and malls to provide free parking as it provided exemption in property tax. However, few other malls and shopping complexes continue to collect parking fee even though the VMC approached them and offered to waive property tax. PVR Limited, a multiplex, which was fined by the forum moved the State Consumer Redressal Commission in April last year. According to Commission proceedings made available on the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum's portal, the counsel on behalf of the multiplex argued that the complaint is not maintainable without impleading the owner of the Ripples Mall which houses the multiplex and that the district forum has misconstrued the Municipal and Urban Development Department’s government order issued in 2007. Interim order The commission, in an interim order, suspended the forum's order issued on February 22, 2019, on the condition that 50% of the fine amount is paid to the complainant. Further hearing of the plea by PVR Limited was recently posted to July 22, 2021, as per the request of the government pleader on behalf of the Joint Collector, Krishna. Consumer Guidances Society president Ch. Diwakar Babu has said that the malls are collecting park fee even though the civic body came up with an offer in the best interest of the public. Official’s appeal When contacted, VMC Deputy Commissioner (revenue) D. Venkata Lakshmi said, “We have appealed to all the malls and complexes not to collect the fee. Some of them have long ago stopped the practice and are offering free parking for all of their visitors. The issue will be sorted out as per the proceedings of the commission which took up the appeal by the mall.”
11 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||More procedures come under Aarogyasri||The State government has expanded the scope of YSR Aarogyasri scheme by including 2,434 medical procedures under its ambit and bringing in six more districts under its cover where all treatments costing over Rs. 1,000 will be carried out free of cost. While the scheme is being implemented in seven districts, it has been extended to Srikakulam, East Godavari, Krishna, Nellore, Chittoor, and Anantapur districts to cover the entire State and the number of procedures has been increased by 234, taking the total to 2,434. Launching the expanded scheme on Tuesday, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said Andhra Pradesh was the only State which brought COVID and post - COVID care under the purview of Aarogyasri. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said he witnessed poor infrastructure in hospitals, surgeries performed under mobile phone light, death of a newborn due to a rodent bite, long-pending dues to Aarogyasri hospitals amounting to Rs. 680 crore etc. and has since decided to strengthen the healthcare sector. Aarogyasri has been made available in over 130 super-speciality hospitals in Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai cities. The government mooted to conduct free eye-checkups, along with high-end treatments for 95% of families across the State. Besides, around 510 medicines approved by the World Health Organisation and GMP were made available in all hospitals. All government hospitals were being revamped under Nadu-Nedu programme, in which 1,147 PHCs, 52 area hospitals, 10,032 village clinics, 560 urban clinics and 191 community health centres would get a facelift. Directive to officials At a review meeting, the Chief Minister directed the authorities to set up Aarogya Mitras in all Aarogyasri empanelled hospitals by December 10 and to create awareness among the public. He launched the Aarogyasri app in English and Telugu languages. Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Minister Botcha Satyanarayana, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney and Principal Secretary (health) Anil Kumar Singhal were among those present.
11 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Meat unfit for consumption being sold at restaurants’||Eating out might cause severe health hazards, if the raids being conducted by the Food Safety Department and Vijayawada Municipal Corporation are anything to go by, Raids conducted by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), Public Health Department officials of Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) and Vigilance and Enforcement (V&E) recently on a restaurant, located at a mall on M.G. Road, and on some mutton shops, revealed how some traders and establishment owners are using rotten meat, beef and meat of dead animals, which are unfit for consumption. Teams of FSSAI and V&E raided the restaurant, a franchisee unit of a major chain with branches across the country, and seized around 400 kg of stale mutton, frozen fish and prawns, half-boiled mutton stored in water and steam rice kept in freezers. A few days ago, officials also raided the parcel services of Indian Railways and seized body parts of of lambs being imported from neighbouring States at lesser price. “Some mutton shop owners have entered into a nexus with wholesale mutton traders of other States and are procuring stale body parts of lambs. They are selling the same at Sunday markets, which draw a large number of customers,” a health officer said. “As per the records, the restaurant management purchased mutton at Rs. 450 per kg. How can the mutton shop owner sell fresh meat at such a low price, when the price of mutton is at Rs. 700 and above in the market,” asked an officer who participated in the raid. Health and Food Safety personnel said there is no need to store raw and boiled mutton, heads and legs of lambs in such large quantities in restaurants and hotels. But the managements of some establishments are using decomposed meat which is highly dangerous for consumption. “In some hotels and restaurants, we found non-vegetarian dishes, steam rice, biryani, mutton, chicken, fish, prawns, crabs, ice creams, bakery products, sweets, chocolates and other items stored in freezers for months beyond the expiry date. A few establishment owners are selling packaged products without details such as packaging and expiry dates,” FSSAI Food Controller N. Purnachandar Rao said. “We served notices on the mutton shop in which we seized rotten meat stocks. The shop has been seized,” said VMC Veterinary Assistant Surgeon A. Ravichand. Meanwhile, people are appealing to the government to deploy more teams and conduct surprise visits on hotels, fast food centres, restaurants, biryani points and other establishments, which are using stale food items.
11 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 cases inching closer to 8.5 lakh||The State’s COVID-19 tally inched close to 8.5 lakh with 1,886 new infections reported in 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. During the same period, 12 deaths were reported taking the death toll to 6,814 while the death rate remains at 0.81%. The infection tally increased to 8,46,245 and the number of cases recovered increased to 8,18,473  which is 96.72% of the total cases. Only 20,958  cases are active and patients were undergoing treatment. The overall positivity rate of 87.85 samples tested so far stands at 9.63% while that of the 67,910 samples tested in the past day was 2.78%. Chittoor and Krishna reported three deaths each, the highest among districts. Six districts including Anantapur, East Godavari, Guntur, Prakasam, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari reported one death each while the remaining five districts reported no deaths in the past day. Also, no district reported more than 300 new infections and seven districts reported less than 100. Kurnool continues to report less than 50 new cases. Vizianagaram crosses 40,000 mark The district-wise new cases are as follows: Chittoor (291), West Godavari (282), Guntur (275), Krishna (269), East Godavari (227), Prakasam (111), Visakhapatnam (97), Nellore (79), Kadapa (67), Vizianagaram (62), Anantapur (60), Kurnool (33) and Srikakulam (33). Vizianagaram, the only district with fewer than 40,000 infections till Monday, too crossed the mark in the past day. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,19,157), West Godavari (89,201), Chittoor (81,162), Guntur (69,987), Anantapur (65,722), Prakasam (60,665), Nellore (60,519), Kurnool (59,791), Visakhapatnam (56,914), Kadapa (53,281), Srikakulam (44,761), Krishna (42,148) and Vizianagaram (40,042).
11 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suspect in CMRF fraud escapes from custody||A suspect in the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) fraud case has reportedly escaped from the police custody. He gave the slip to the special team while being brought to Andhra Pradesh. On September 20, the Thullur police of Guntur district registered a case in connection with the scam. The case is being probed by the Crime Investigation Department (CID) and the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials. Bid to encash cheques Fraudsters deposited a cheque for Rs. 52.65 crore in Moodbiri State Bank of India (SBI) branch in Manguluru on September 9. The accused tried to encash two more cheques for Rs. 39.83 crore and Rs. 24.65 crore in West Bengal. The three cheques were issued to three beneficiaries – Kolli Rattaiah, Konatham Hymavathi and Pathuri Hymavathi – for Rs. 16,000, Rs. 45,000 and Rs. 45,000, of different places in A.P. The gang created duplicate cheques with the same numbers and tried to draw about Rs. 117 crore. The bank staff alerted the SBI officials of Thullur and Vijayawada, who asked them to stop payments and confirmed that the three cheques were fake. They informed the higher officials and the Assistant Secretary to Government (Revenue Department) P. Murali Krishna Rao and lodged a complaint with the police. The CID, ACB and Kadapa police investigating the scam visited Karnataka, West Bengal and other States and identified about 10 persons involved in the fraud. Most wanted accused  A couple of days ago, a suspect, who was being brought to A.P. by the CID police, escaped from custody. He was most wanted in other States, a senior police official told The Hindu on Tuesday. A search was on for the accused, he said.
11 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Aarogyasri expanded in Krishna’||District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz has said that as many as 2,434 medical procedures will be covered under the YSR Aarogyasri scheme in the district hereafter. Krishna was one among the six districts to which the Aarogyasri scheme benefits were fully extended in the second phase on Tuesday. Mr. Imtiaz said that 234 procedures were added to the list of procedures accepted under the same. He said 12.43 lakh families in the district have Aarogyasri cards and 14,211 persons availed benefits of the scheme in government hospitals and 44,338 persons availed them in private hospitals in 2019-2020 and a total of Rs. 123.38 crore was spent. In the current fiscal year up to October, 6,067 availed benefits of the scheme in government hospitals and 19,434 in private as the government spent Rs. 44 crore, he said.
11 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister holds talks with U.S. varsity team||Minister for Industries and Commerce, IT and Skill Development Mekapati Goutham Reddy held virtual deliberations with senior administrators and faculty of Johns Hopkins University (JHU) on the Centre of Excellence (CoE) which it proposed to set up in Visakhapatnam catering to the transformation of health care and health research and policy in the State. He hoped that the CoE would be on a par with similar JHU centers in Italy and China.
11 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB raids KRU||Officials of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) conducted surprise checks on Krishna University (KRU) campus at Rudravaram village in Krishna district on Tuesday. Following allegations of misuse of funds, the ACB sleuths visited the university and seized some documents.
11 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jala Kala’ to benefit over 3 lakh farmers||The State government on Tuesday kick-started the process of digging borewells free of cost across the State under ‘YSR Jala Kala’ programme. As many as 50 borewells were drilled on the first day till 4 p.m. The exercise began in 162 Assembly constituencies in the State. About one lakh farmers have applied under the scheme. Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy said that more than two lakh borewells would be drilled free of cost for needy farmers in the State. The scheme would benefit around three lakh farmers and bring an additional five lakh acres into cultivation. Motors and necessary electrical equipment would be supplied free of cost to the farmers, he said, adding, “the government allocated Rs. 5,000 crore for the scheme.” Sinking of agriculture borewells was taken up with a view to benefiting small and marginal farmers in the arid and upland areas. The process would be taken up based on the feasibility in terms of the level of water table. The farmers can also avail a second chance, in case of a failure to draw water in the first attempt, said the Minister. Sinking of borewells was announced by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during his pre-election padayatra and was a part of his ‘Navaratnalu’ poll promise. Though only sinking of borewells was promised during the padayatra, the government decided to supply motors and other equipment also free of cost, he added.
11 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea for bail cancellation put off||The petition seeking cancellation of bail to Kurnool One Town circle inspector Somasekhar Reddy and head constable Gangadhar, has been posted to November 12. Kurnool SP K. Fakeerappa said the petition had been filed in the Third Additional District and Sessions Court, which deferred the matter to Thursday. The Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate on Monday granted bail to the CI and the head constable, who were arrested in the suicide pact of the family of an auto driver, Abdul Salam. The victim was booked in a theft case a few days earlier.
11 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bright days in store for BJP in State, says Somu||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has described the tremendous support the NDA and its allies are getting from Bihar to Dubbaka as a 'mandate for Modi' and voting for ‘development’. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, Mr. Veerraju said that the BJP would replicate its success in Andhra Pradesh in future. A number of leaders and party workers from other political parties were already joining the BJP in north Andhra. There were some admissions into the party in Rayalaseema districts also. Telugu Desam leader Gadde Babu Rao joined the BJP and a number of ZPTCs and MPTCs were interested in joining the party. “We are keen on admitting the field-level workers for strengthening the party base in AP. Referring to the TDP and the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP), he said that both parties were same for the BJP. He alleged that the TDP was unable to account for the Rs. 4,500 crore granted as subsidy for the construction of 3.40 lakh houses for the poor in the State. Dig at TDP, YSRCP Mr. Veerraju said that construction of houses was not completed as the State government had failed to give its share of the subsidy. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi had envisioned provision of an own house to the poor, Mr. Chandrababu Naidu was content with providing a rented house to them. Similarly, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has announced provision of 30 lakh house-site pattas to the poor and the land required was procured at a cost of Rs. 7,000 crore. It has turned out to be a golden goose for some of the ruling party MLAs and leaders to fill their pockets. He also alleged large-scale irregularities in the implementation of the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) and ICDS. While officials from the Police and Excise Departments were being deputed to the SSA, there were irregularities in procurement of eggs to be distributed to children and the midday meal under the ICDS. Party MLC P.V.N. Madhav, former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju, BJP Parliamentary district president M. Raveendra, former MP K. Haribabu, party spokesperson Suhasini Anand and BJYM State president Surendra Mohan were present.
11 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister: IAB meeting will be held to increase water supply to district||Agriculture Minister and district in-charge Minister K. Kannababu said that in order to increase water supply to the district, an Irrigation Advisory Board (IAB) meeting will be conducted and it would discuss possibility of constructing new projects. He was speaking during the District Review Committee (DRC) meet here on Tuesday. . Mr. Kannababu said that through YSR Rythu Bharosa scheme, in the year 2020-21, the State government has deposited Rs. 209.4 crore in the accounts of 3.68 lakh farmers in the first phase. In the second phase, the government has deposited Rs. 90 crore, he added. The government has also identified farmers whose agricultural lands were affected due to the rains during August to September, he said, assuring that all the affected farmers will be compensated. The Minister also said that they would come up with a solution by talking to navy officials over the issue of bridge with mesh constructed by the navy at Rambilli mandal to check flooding issue. It may be remembered that many farmers from Rambilli mandal complained to the District Collector recently that due to the bridge their agricultural lands were flooded. The Minister said that Zilla Parishad schools under the corporation limits will be brought under the control of the civic body. Mr. Kannababu also instructed the officials to submit a status report over quality of Nadu-Nedu works. MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that the State government was committed to fulfilling its promises. District Collector V. Vinay Chand instructed the Irrigation Department officials to prepare designs to prevent flooding issues in Payakaraopeta constituency. He also said that they have discussed with the navy officials to remove mesh on the bridge on Sarada river. He said that the government would fill vacant posts in the Health Department. The Collector also added that Special Investigation team (SIT)’s report on land encroachments in the district will be delivered by the month-end. Tourism Minister M, Srinivasa Rao suggested forming a taskforce with police, revenue and GVMC officials to deal with illegal constructions/encroachments. He also lauded services of frontline warriors in the pandemic. MP B. Satyavathi, MLC P.V.N. Madhav, MLAs Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar, V. Ramakrishna Babu, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana and a few others were present.
11 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 97 new COVID cases and 1 death||The district reported 97 fresh COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours, as on Tuesday afternoon, taking the total number of cases to 57,426 since the pandemic broke out in March. The death toll also rose to 488 after one more person succumbed to the coronavirus. A total of 111 persons undergoing treatment for coronavirus, recovered on Tuesday. With this, the number of active cases decreased to 1,558. The recoveries have increased to 55,380, nearly 96.4 % of the total cases. As on date, the district has 319 clusters among which six are very active, 19 active and 294 are dormant. Already 627 clusters were denotified by the district administration.
11 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Achieve 100% door-to-door garbage collection, GVMC Commissioner tells staff||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana said that the corporation was 84% successful in door-to-door garbage collection. The activity was monitored through Online Waste Management System (OWMS). She said that while staff at several wards are 100% successful in the garbage collection, some other staff were found not up to the mark. She said that the all staff should put efforts to bring it to 100% in the next one week. She was addressing a meet with the sanitary secretaries, supervisors, assistant medical officers and others from the Health Department, here on Tuesday. Ms. Srijana instructed the sanitary inspectors to make sure the hotels, restaurants and commercial establishments do not dump their wastes in the dumper-bins which were placed for the use of households. She asked the officials to ensure the bins shifted to dumping yard by 10.30 a.m. every day. She asked the staff to impose fines on those involved in open urination, open spitting, using plastic and people responsible for rise of mosquitoes by leaving stagnated water in open places. Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao sought the staff to increase citizen feedback by making use of social media. Chief Medical and Health Officer K.S.L.G. Sastry, Assistant Medical officer M. Jayaram and a few others were present.
11 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State govt. planning to sell lands, alleges CPI(M)||The CPI(M) has alleged that the State government is planning to sell away lands in the name of ‘Build AP Mission.’ The State government announced auction of 15 acres of land, valued at Rs. 110 crore in Visakhapatnam and Guntur in the first phase on November 23. Similarly, 1,400 acres of land in all over the State was planned to be sold in phases to fund the ‘Navaratnalu’ and the ‘Nadu– Nedu’ scheme of the State government, party Greater Visakha City Committee president B. Ganga Rao said in a statement here on on Tuesday.
11 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gutka, khaini products seized, 3 persons held||The city police arrested three persons and recovered gutka and khaini products from them in two cases here on Tuesday. In one case, teams from City Task Force (CTF) conducted raids at Sriram Nagar under Marripalem police station limits and arrested Boyina Ravindra (42), a resident of Old ITI Junction, who was allegedly storing banned gutka and khaini products worth Rs. 3.87 lakh. Police said that the market value of the seized products would be around Rs. 5.5 lakh. According to Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu, the police have recovered 83,741 sachets from him. Mr. Suresh Babu said that the accused has allegedly procured the products at Berhampur, Odisha. In another case, Inspector (South Crimes) P. Suryanarayana along with his staff had intercepted a taxi at L.V. Nagar, Gajuwaka, where they recovered 10,000 packets of gutka and khaini, which were allegedly being transported by two persons B. Lakshmana Rao (27) and P. Venkatesh (22) of Gajuwaka. The DCP said that the seized products would be worth Rs. 1 lakh.
11 November 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two youth arrested in separate cases||The city police arrested two persons who were allegedly involved in two offences here on Tuesday. In one case, the Kancharapalem (crime) police arrested one A. Kalyan Kishore (23) of Panthulapeta, for allegedly gaining entry into a house in the same colony and making good with about seven tolas of gold ornaments worth Rs. 1.75 lakh from the house. He reportedly committed the crime, while the inmates were sleeping in the house. Based on the complaint from the victim, Kancharapalem police registered a case. Under the supervision of DCP (Crimes) V Suresh babu, ADCP (Crimes) K Venugopal Naidu, ACP(Crimes) Ch Penta Rao, investigating officer Sub Inspector of Kancharapalem (crime) nabbed the accused. Police said that the accused earlier was involved in a house break-in. In another case, the police arrested a 20-year old Lakshman Bharik, a native of Khurda, Odisha, for allegedly attempting to loot an ATM at Midhilapuri colony under PM Palem police station limits on November 9.
11 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP trade unions serve strike notice||All trade unions of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) have given a strike notice to the CMD and of RINL, VSP, in view of the joint call for a strike on November 26. The strike will be observed from 6 a.m. on November 26 to 6 a.m. on November 27. The demands include, not to go ahead with the joint venture with POSCO, immediate wage settlement , compassionate employment in case of death due to COVID-19, no disinvestmentof RINL and management contribution to RINL employees pension scheme should not be less than 9% of the salary of the employees.
11 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New CGM of NAD takes charge||P.J. Neware, a 1988 batch of Indian Naval Armament Service Officer from Maharashtra, has taken over as Chief General Manager of the Naval Armament Depot(NAD), Visakhapatnam. He replaces P. Upadhyay, INAS, who is going on transfer to NAD, Mumbai.
11 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man’s body found in Yeleru canal||Mystery shrouds the death of a man whose body was found floating in Yeluru canal near Thumpala under Anakapalle Town Police Station limits, on Tuesday morning. According to the police, the age of the victim could be around 28 to 35 years and he must have been in water since the last three to four days. The body has been shifted to mortuary of NTR Hospital, Anakapalle. Based on the complaint from the Thumpala VRO, a case was registered.
11 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP targets Sanchaita over MANSAS||Telugu Desam MLCs Dwarapu Reddy Jagadish and Gummadi Sandhya Rani have dared MANSAS Trust Chairperson Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju to share the public platform and also speak to the media over Maharaja College privatisation issue and other affairs of the trust. As part of the ‘Save MANSAS-Save education’ programme, the TDP organised a signature campaign at Vizinagaram RTC complex and other places on Tuesday to rope in local people, students and others to protect the government-aided MR College. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Jagadish strongly criticised Ms. Sanchaita for making allegations against former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju over MANSAS Trust. “The YSR Congress government is using Ms. Sanchaiata as a puppet to defame the family of Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju and trying to show the services of the trust in poor light. We are here to expose the political agenda which includes grabbing of valuable lands of MANSAS Trust. The TDP and the public will not allow the Jagan Mohan Reddy government to do so since people of all regions have emotional bonding with MR College and the trust,” said Mr. Jagadish. Ms. Sandhya Rani challenged Ms. Sanchaita to answer their questions directly instead of responding through the social media platforms. TDP Vizianagaram Parliamentary constituency president Kimidi Nagarjuna said that thousands of students suffer following the decision to stop the admission process in MR College for the academic year 2020-21.  Party senior leaders said that the struggle would continue till the government would drop its proposals with regard to MANSAS Trust. LSP support Lok Satta Party State president Bhisetti Babji, BJP leader Bhavireddi Shivaprasad Reddy and others extended their moral support and participated in the signature campaign along with their activists. Meanwhile, Pattana Powra Samkshema Sangham leader Reddi Sankara Rao and other leaders strongly condemned the arrest of Students’ Federation of India leaders.
11 November 2020||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||FPOs will immensely help farmers, says official||Deputy Director of Horticulture Department R. Srinivasa Rao on Tuesday said that villagers would avail the maximum benefits of government schemes if they were able to form Farmers Producers Organisations. He said that 75% subsidy and other benefits would be extended for registered FPOs of the district. As part of Andhra Pradesh Integrated Irrigation and Agriculture Transformation Project (APIIATP), the department organised an awareness programme for farmers at Vasanta village of Gantyada mandal in Vizianagaram district. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Srinivasa Rao urged farmers to concentrate on horticulture crops apart from paddy, maize and other conventional crops. He said that the the additional income source for farmers would be possible only when they join hands and form FPOs. Deputy Director of Groundwater Department K.S.Shastry assured to provide technical support to the farmers in developing horticulture crops. Integrated Rural People Welfare Association (IRPWA) Director P.K. Prakasha Rao said that horticulture crops grow quickly and ensure quick returns for farmers. He said that optimum utilisation of water resources would be possible when farmers are interested in growing horticulture crops under the supervision of experts. He assured to motivate farmers to form FPOs which he said are necessary to get financial support from banks. Mr. Prakash said that unity among the farmers would also help in adopting effective marketing techniques to get profits within no time.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In search of hope||
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive mood||
11 November 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||10 more TSGCC retail fuel outlets coming up in Bhadradri||After its successful foray into the operation of retail fuel outlets at the fag end of 2018, Telangana State Girijan Cooperative Corporation (TSGCC) has now readied an ambitious plan to set up 10 more retail petrol/diesel bunks in the underserved areas of the district. To augment income by diversifying into new ventures, the TSGCC has started two retail petrol/diesel pumps — one in Gundala and another in Mulakalapalli mandal — in collaboration with a public sector oil company in December 2018. Since their launch, the two retail outlets have been running successfully, earning substantial income for the State-run corporation, TSGCC sources said. As part of its aggressive business expansion strategy, TSGCC has chalked out a plan to expand the network of retail fuel stations in the underserved areas of the tribal dominated district. TSGCC-run two retail fuel filling stations in Gundala and Mulakalapalli together earned an income to the tune of around Rs. 75-80 lakh over the past year and a half, TSGCC Bhadrachalam Division Manager Kunja Vani told The Hindu . Livelihood to tribal youths Apart from revenue augmentation, the business venture is providing livelihood to the local unemployed tribal youths working as attendants at the retail petrol/diesel outlets, she noted. Work on the proposed fuel outlets at Dammapeta and Annapureddypalli has almost been completed, she said, adding that the expansion plan envisages setting up of more such retail fuel stations in Bhadrachalam, Palvancha, Dummugudem, Yellandu and a few other mandals
11 November 2020||DUBBAK,TELANGANA||TRS expected last-minute miracle||It was 8 a.m. on Tuesday when counting of postal ballot was taken up first followed by EVMs at Indur Engineering College in Dubbak. After a little while, sources revealed that TRS candidate S. Sujatha polled more votes than her nearest BJP rival M. Raghunandan Rao. Many present at the counting centre felt that the TRS would lead followed by BJP. But dashing their hopes, Mr. Raghunandan Rao, a former journalist turned lawyer, established his early leads that continued till the fifth round. In the sixth and seventh rounds, TRS got a majority though it was slender by both the parties from the beginning. The ruling party again got a majority in the 10th round. In the 12th round, Congress got 83 votes’ majority. From the 13th to 19th round, TRS continued to establish its lead, creating a feeling among observers that the situation was turning for the better for TRS. At this point, it was expected that TRS will win. But the last three rounds pertaining to Chegunta and Narsingi mandals were in favour of the BJP. Finally, the Returning Officer announced the winner.
11 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP’s silent army behind Dubbak victory||There is no doubt that BJP candidate M. Raghunandan Rao, party activists and leaders of all rungs sweated to secure the sensational victory in Dubbak by-election. General public are aware of them. What is not known to the outside world is about the army of activists that spread out to interior parts of the constituency and worked silently. With the State Chief Minister hailing from the same district under which Dubbak falls, strategists of top parties believed there is little they could do in the district to turn voters to their side. But the BJP State organising secretary Manthri Srinivas, who rarely appears in media or in public platforms, had his own plans. At his behest, Siddipet district in-charge P. Papa Rao started working to gain foothold in the district for over three years. “The ground work we had been doing by forming mandal-level committees in entire districts yielded results and attempting to reach out to each house paid dividends in the by-election,” the BJP workers said. The unexpected by-election gave them an opportunity to test the quality of work they were doing to improve the party’s performance. Mr. Raghunandan Rao, who had contested twice from the constituency, had built up a network of activists. But that was not sufficient to emerge victorious over the ‘powerful and prosperous’ TRS. So, they constituted booth-level committees. If there are 750 to 1,000 voters in a polling booth, there would be nearly 200 to 250 families. Each booth-level committee member was assigned the task of personally meeting every family, talking to them and finding out their difficulties. “Most importantly convince them about the benefits of schemes of the BJP-led government at the Centre,” the activists said. They made it a point to attract youngsters even in remote villages to turn to their side and work for them. Each of the top leaders was asked to focus on one specific mandal of the constituency. For example, leaders like Dharma Rao, Yendla Laxminarayana, Chada Suresh Reddy and Mothkupally Narsimhulu, concentrated on specific mandals. Not stopping at this, on an average, 50 dedicated party workers were brought to each mandal from outside the constituency for campaigning. They stayed for nearly three weeks in areas assigned to them, working out plans and carrying out door-to-door campaign. Moreover, party’s young workers cleverly exploited the situations of police inspections by using social media. What was an inspection for police was shown as ‘harassment’ by the social media team. The team ensured all such instances had gone viral on various social media.
11 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State registers 1,267 fresh COVID cases||Telangana added 1,267 cases to its COVID-19 tally on Monday, reaching 2,52,455. While 42,490 people were examined, results of 576 were awaited. The new 1,267 cases include 201 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits, 109 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 104 from Rangareddy, 89 from Nalgonda and 85 from Bhadradri-Kothagudem. Among districts that recorded the least number of cases were Narayanpet (3), Jogulamba-Gadwal (5) and Adilabad (6). Of the 42,490 people who were examined, 41,004 chose government health facilities. From March 2 to November 9, a total of 46,84,766 samples have been put to test. Of the total cases, 18,581 are active while 2,32,489 have recovered. The death toll stands at 1,385 with four patients succumbing to the virus on Monday. In the 61 government hospitals, there were 4,629 oxygen beds and 1,404 ICU beds ready to be occupied while the 225 private hospitals had an availability of 2,889 oxygen beds and 2,245 ICU beds.
11 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Decentralised dump yards at two places’||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) K.T.Rama Rao has announced that two locations, Lakdaram in Sangareddy district and Pyarenagar in Medak district, have been selected for establishment of GHMC’s waste dumping yards. The dump yards will be managed scientifically, and there will not be any pollution-related issues for the local residents, he assured. Speaking after the launch of the Waste to Energy (WTE) power plant at Jawaharnagar solid waste management facility on Tuesday, Mr.Rama Rao said the government intended to decentralise the waste disposal and management for the city, which as of now, is centralised at Jawaharnagar. For this, four dumping yards will be established on all four sides of the city. The city generates 6,000 metric tonnes (MT) of waste on daily basis, and to effectively dispose of it, the government has proposals for establishment of 63 megawatt (MW) capacity WTE power plants, he said. The newly launched 19.8 MW plant, which consumes 1200 MT of municipal waste per day, is touted as the most modern among all such facilities in entire country. Foundation stone has been laid for one more plant with 28 MW capacity, which will start producing electricity in the coming 18 months. In addition, one more WTE facility with 15 MW capacity is under construction at Dundigal. The Minister also said that Rs. 250 crore funds have been allocated for treatment of leachate oozing from the legacy dump at the Jawahar Nagar dump yard. Speaking of the land issues in various parts of the city, Mr.Rama Rao said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will soon announce a policy decision to provide ownership rights to the city’s poor and middle class residents, over the government and gift lands on which they have built homes and lived for decades. Property ownership rights have been provided for 15,000 persons in 16 colonies of Uppal and surrounding localities recently, and ownership documents will be handed over to 40,000 more poor and middle class residents in Jawahar Nagar and surrounding areas soon through chief minister’s hands. In addition, households in Jawahar Nagar and Dammaiguda will soon be provided drinking water connections upon nominal payment of Rs. 1 each, and the Ramky Enviro Engineers Limited, the concessionaire agency running the waste management facility at Jawahar Nagar, will adopt government schools and hospitals in the area to provide better education and healthcare facilities, Mr.Rama Rao said. The event was presided by Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan and attended by Minister Ch.Malla Reddy, Rajya Sabha MP and Ramky group chairman Ayodhya Ram Reddy, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar, Member-Secretary, TSPCB, Neethu Prasad, Director, Municpal Administration, Satyanarayana, Medchal District Collector V.Venkateshwarlu, Mayor, Boduppal Corporation, Samala Buchhi Reddy, Mayor, Jawahar Nagar Corporation Mekala Kavya and others.
11 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dubbak win inspiring victory just before GHMC polls: Bandi Sanjay||People of Dubbak gave a resounding victory to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) despite the ruling Telangana Rastra Samithi (TRS) using all kinds of means to win the by-poll and this inspiring performance will give the right impetus for the forthcoming GHMC elections, affirmed party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday. “This is a decisive victory against Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his arrogant, dictatorial and corrupt rule. He taunted our party’s position so we have shown him that we are just a few kilometres away from Siddipet, Gajwel and Sircilla. We whole-heartedly thank the people of Dubbak and Telangana for reposing confidence in our party,” he said. Addressing a press conference at the State office on Tuesday after party candidate M. Raghunandan Rao was declared a winner against TRS candidate S. Sujatha, Mr. Sanjay Kumar pointed out that the official machinery as well as the police personnel tried to put obstacles in the campaign of the party leaders and workers, yet they have withstood the harassment and managed to triumph against all odds. “Hard work of our party workers, leaders’ experience and the fighting qualities of our candidate won people’s support. People of Dubbak did not fall for the usual lies and did not fear the scare being spread of welfare schemes being stopped if the TRS is not elected. We will continue this victorious march till our flag is hoisted on the Golconda Fort,” he said. The BJP president charged the CM of running away from the electoral battle by not holding a public meeting in Dubbak and not campaigning as he was “aware of people’s anger”. The “COVID-19 mismanagement” and “relief and rehabilitation during the recent floods in Hyderabad” got reflected in the election results, he claimed. Secunderabad MP and Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy charged that the ‘official misuse’ of government machinery reached the peak during the by-election. “Certain officials seem to think TRS is a permanent force so they had acted over zealously in conducting partisan raids against our party candidate, leaders and binding over our activists. Every method was tried to thwart our campaign. But, we have planted our flag firmly in the TRS citadel and this has brought cheer to every TS citizen especially those who fought in the armed struggle to free this region,” he said. Party vice-president D.K. Aruna demanded KCR to resign and go for fresh elections as Dubbak result has clearly shown that people have been waiting to show the door to TRS regime.
11 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Has KTR emerged stronger in TRS?||Nerve-racking finish in favour of the BJP in Dubbak by-poll is the most unexpected result for the ruling TRS. This is the second such shock since it came to power in 2014 and the first being the loss of Chief Minister’s daughter, Kalvakuntla Kavita, in Nizamabad in Parliament elections in 2019. TRS could find some reasons for the Nizamabad loss citing the Narendra Modi factor working in Parliament elections. But in Dubbak, BJP had no such advantage and the win will hurt the TRS a lot. It being a by-poll will only add to its wound with everyone expecting it to win comfortably with all the resources at its disposal. The TRS loss will have an impact on the perceived power structure within the party and in all likelihood, TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao may emerge much stronger with Harish Rao losing that advantage of the ‘go-getter’ and ‘most dependable’ tag. Both KTR and KCR absenting themselves from the poll campaign with all the faith put in Mr. Harish Rao will also help in someone not pointing out fingers at them for the loss. The blame will be shifted to Mr. Harish Rao, which he has already admitted right after the results. Not that his capabilities will be questioned openly but a sense of dejection will prevail. The last by-election that TRS won in Huzurnagar went into KTR’s kitty as he led the campaign aggressively defeating the wife of TPCC working president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy. On the other hand, Dubbak is an out and out TRS belt surrounded by Gajwel, Siddipet and Sircilla constituencies represented by the three most powerful leaders.
11 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Forest fire prevention and control discussed||Meeting of the State-level monitoring committee on forest fire prevention and management, which was held on Tuesday in Aranya Bhavan, discussed the modalities and preparedness of fire prevention in forests. The preparatory meeting was held ahead of the 2020-21 Fire Season which begins from January next. The meeting discussed preparedness of the field staff in tackling fire accidents in high and medium fire vulnerable areas in the state, after receiving alerts from the Forest Survey of India. Since a majority of fires occur from January onwards, the field staff are being directed towards timely fire fighting measures, apart from deployment of quick response teams in vulnerable areas. All fire prevention activities are being taken up on priority, including creation and maintenance of fire lines, removal of fire hazardous material, intensive patrolling and involving local villagers, a statement from the department informed. Awareness campaigns will be taken up in coming months to sensitise the field staff as well as local villagers, especially shepherds, it said. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and head of forest forces R.Sobha has released a new dedicated helpline number (98033-38666) to receive any kind of information related to fire and other incidents. This is in addition to regular crime control toll free helpline at 1800-425-5364 which can also be used by the public to provide any information, including complaints, the statement said.
11 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Overconfidence costs TRS dearly||Overconfidence and realisation at a much later stage that the opponent wasn’t an easy nut to crack cost the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) in the Dubbak by-poll giving BJP the slight edge to create history. Internal bickerings went unnoticed till the by-poll was announced after sitting MLA Ramalinga Reddy passed away and rubbing on the wrong side of certain sections by the late MLA contributed to the TRS defeat, the analysis of the local TRS leaders suggest. Some kind of arrogance seems to have crept in as Mr. Reddy won with a handsome majority of over 60,000 in 2018 and that too for the fourth time. He deliberately encouraged groupism in every village while he also antagonised a section of minority voters over a graveyard issue is the charge of local leaders. The late announcement of the candidate Sujatamma, who was literally unknown to the voters as against the BJP’s Raghunandan Rao also played spoilsport. She neither could generate sympathy from her husband’s death nor had the time to make up for her poor communication skills. She was always shielded by Finance Minister T. Harish Rao due to the lack of those skills. The campaign style itself also contributed with Harish Rao asking votes for himself and it gave the BJP a weapon to counter saying why should people vote for him than the candidate? The TRS couldn’t strongly counter this. This lacunae was noticed in the later part of the campaign but by that time Raghunandan Rao made his way into voters with aggressive posturing on the ‘failures’ of the government in developing Dubbak. Party leaders said the police high handedness and the way it dealt with the BJP cadre generated a lot of sympathy. And the cash seizure episode at Raghunandan Rao’s relatives in Siddipet turned the focus onto police harassment. “The social media campaign of BJP on the same issue really clicked. Irrespective of the truth, people believed their claims,” a TRS leader involved in the campaign revealed. Now, party insiders feel campaign by CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao or TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao could have plugged that huge gain of nearly 60,000 by the BJP compared to last elections.
11 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Asaduddin thanks people of Bihar||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday thanked the people of Seemanchal in Bihar, and his allies of the Grand Democratic Secular front for voting for his party and credited women voters with playing an important role in his party’s victory in the Assembly polls. He evaded questions on a possible alliance with Rashtriya Janata Dal-led Mahagathbandhan. The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen won five of the 20 seats for which it contested. Taking questions from the media on a possible alliance with RJD, Mr Owaisi said, “My fight is for the justice of Seemanchal region. I said in the beginning that Seemanchal is not just the most backward region in Bihar, but in India. Those who were elected did not do justice to Seemanchal.” Touching upon the role of women voter in Bihar elections, Mr Owaisi said, “A big role in our victory is that of women. I have do so many public meetings in my life. Here in each public meeting, the number of women who would arrive was extraordinary. Undoubtedly, their role has been massive.” The Hyderabad parliamentarian said that some of the women told him that they would give a befitting response on polling day to those who were casting aspersions on him. Taking questions on Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury’s comments describing Mr Owaisi as a vote-splitter, the AIMIM supremo said that his party would contest the elections in West Bengal. “We are coming to Bengal. Surely. We will go to Murshidabad, Malda, Dinajpur, we will go everywhere. Has Adhir Ranjan Chowdhry taken the proprietorship of Muslims? He should show why Muslims in his constituency are in such bad shape, and he should show what he has done for Muslims. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhry, you should know that our vote and your raj will not work anymore,” he said. Taking a dig at those who say he was vote-splitter, he said he was increasing confidence in India’s democracy even as he said that he would contest elections in Uttar Pradesh and other parts of the country.
11 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Six killed in accident on Outer Ring Road||Six persons died while three others sustained injuries when the Multi Utility Vehicle (MUV) they were travelling hit a vehicle in the front near Patancheru on Outer Ring Road (ORR) on Hyderabad outskirts on Tuesday morning. The injured were out of danger and shifted to a hospital while the Multi Utility Vehicle driver fled abandoning the mangled vehicle at the accident spot. “No eyewitnesses were available to understand how the accident occurred. We believe the Multi Utility Vehicle driver rammed into a van in the front at high speed,” BDL Bhanur Inspector Ram Reddy said. Completely damaged Left side part of the Multi Utility Vehicle got completely crushed leaving six of the nine passengers dead instantly. The driver and three other passengers sitting behind him on the right side of the vehicle escaped with minor injuries. The vehicle was reportedly going from Bengaluru to Uttar Pradesh carrying the passengers at the time of the accident. Five of those who were killed in the acident were identified as Hari, 21, Vinod, 23, Pramod Kumar, 22, Kamalesh, 32, Pavan, 22. The injured were out of danger. Police are on the look-out for the Multi Utility Vehicle driver. They are yet to identify the other vehicle involved in the accident. Some of its parts, which came off after the MUV hit it, were lying at the accident spot.
11 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Victory shows BJP’s LS show was no flash in the pan||More than a year after the Parliament elections when it had wrested four Lok Sabha seats in Telangana even defeating Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s daughter K. Kavita in Nizamabad, celebrations broke out in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State party headquarters at Nampally on Tuesday. With party candidate M. Raghunandan Rao’s stunning victory over TRS candidate S. Sujatha in Dubbak byelection, which the ruling party was confident of retaining, the BJP has shown that LS polls win was no flash in the pan as many observed then. The national party has, perhaps for the first time has shown sufficient indications that it is ready to be the alternative to the TRS and may have shown people at large about its prowess in wresting the initiative by breaking the seemingly impregnable fortress carefully built by KCR. TRS has been winning consistently every by-poll all these years and there has been certain amount of ennui for this election among the ruling party that sentiment, welfare schemes, irrigation projects, support of official machinery, senior leader and Finance Minister Harish Rao’s sharp political instinct et al will pull them through, once again. It was not to be as BJP’s Mr. Raghunandan Rao led in most of the rounds when votes were being counted, even if it was slender and there were times when the TRS seemed to have lost ground in some rounds. Despite tense moments in between there was no stopping him from winning decisively and full throated slogans, bursting of crackers, patting backs and sweets distribution was all over the party office towards late afternoon/evening. “What is significant in Dubbak is predominantly rural and we have managed to win the confidence of voters especially youth. Looks like people have decided to dump the Congress after the Assembly elections experience and BJP is the beacon of hope against the TRS family rule as they have been looking for a change,” remarked a senior party leader, seeking anonymity. Another leader claimed that the stark contrast in development of neighbouring Gajwel, Sircilla and Siddipet represented by the CM, KTR and Harish Rao was difficult to cover up by the ruling party. “The manner in which our party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar was given rough treatment by the police and raids against the party candidate’s family and relatives helped us get people’s sympathy,” he claimed. Senior leaders say stopping registrations in the last few months for ‘Dharani’ launch has also come as a shocker for many families.
11 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Second loss for TRS in a by-poll||For TRS, its defeat in Dubbak was only the second in a by-election since the party’s ascendance to popularity in the political spectrum in 2010. The TRS had suffered a big jolt in by-elections two years earlier in 2008 losing nine out of sixteen Assembly constituencies that it contested after making its sitting MLAs resign en masse demanding separate State. The TRS also lost two Lok Sabha seats in by-polls at the same time. Party chief K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who had won from Karimnagar with a majority of over two lakh votes in that term of Lok Sabha, scraped through with just 15,000 votes. Hanamkonda was the other Lok Sabha seat which the party retained while losing Adilabad and Warangal. The year 2010 saw all ten MLAs of TRS again resign en masse in support of the party’s demand for a separate State. Then, the 10 Assembly segments and Vemulawada, which had TDP MLA Chennamaneni Ramesh, and Nizamabad, which was vacated by BJP MLA Y. Laxminarayana, went to polls. With the TRS admitting Mr. Ramesh and giving him ticket and not fielding a candidate against Mr. Laxminarayana because he had made a common cause with it, the party inflicted humiliating defeat on the Congress and TDP in the by-elections that followed. It was no going back for the TRS after that as it won election after election with ease. The defeat of the party at Mahabubnagar in 2012 and now at Dubbak were the only ones that it lost in by-elections. The BJP halted a clean sweep of TRS in the 2012 by-elections by wresting Mahabubnagar but the latter won the remaining four seats — Station Ghanpur, Kolhapur, Adilabad and Kamareddy — that it contested. Another seat, Nagarkurnool, was left to an Independent, Nagam Janardhan Reddy. Like in Dubbak, the loss of TRS was by a margin of only 1,897 votes.
11 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Student ends life over financial difficulties||A 19-year-old student of the Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College for Women in Delhi from Telangana has allegedly died by suicide worried about pursuing education in view of the poor financial condition of her family, police and parents said on Monday. Aishwarya, an IAS aspirant, was found dead at her house in Shadnagar in neighbouring Rangareddy district on November 2. She was rushed to a hospital by her parents but declared brought dead, police said, quoting a complaint filed by her father, a vehicle mechanic. A second-year BSc (Honours) in Mathematics student, she had returned from Delhi in March this year after those staying in hostel were asked to go home by the college authorities in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. In a letter purportedly written by her, the teenager said she did not want to burden her parents with her educational expenses, police said. According to her father G Srinivas Reddy, his daughter was worried over continuing her education due to financial problems and was thinking over it for the past several days. She had secured a good rank in Intermediate second year and got a seat in the LSR. He took loan and admitted her in the college, Mr. Reddy said. To support Aishwarya’s ambitions, he had discontinued his younger daughter’s education, he said. “I am a mechanic, but my work is also affected. She was worried about next year’s college fee,” he told media persons here on Monday. Mr. Reddy said since she required a laptop or phone for attending online studies, they had sent a message to actor Sonu Sood, who had helped several needy people during the COVID-19 lockdown. “But there was no reply from him... The college administration also said hostel facility will be given only for one year,” he said. Police said that Mr. Reddy in his complaint had stated his daughter had recently asked him for some money for her studies and he had told her it was not immediately possible and he would take a loan and give. She sought forgiveness adding that she was not a “good daughter.” “Nobody is responsible for my death. My family is incurring a lot of expenses. I am a burden... My education is a burden... I cannot live without education,” she purportedly wrote in the note. Aishwarya, who was awarded INSPIRE merit scholarship by the Department of Science & Technology, also mentioned that it needed “to be released for at least one year.” A case under section 174 CrPC (unnatural death) has been registered, police added.  (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: +914066202000)
11 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Drunk driver’ held for death of man||The Cyberabad police on Tuesday announced the apprehension of a man for alleged drunk driving and his involvement in a road accident in Shadnagar police station limits which led to the death of an auto driver. The accused was identified as B Pavan Kumar Reddy, a resident of Tahtipamula village in Pebbair. According to police, the road accident was reported on November 4, around 4.40 pm at the Dooskal crossroads near Rasoi Junction, Outer Ring Road. The accused was allegedly driving at a high speed under the influence of alcohol. He allegedly hit the auto from behind after which the driver and victim, identified as K Ramulu, a resident of Ziyaguda, died on the spot. Police booked a case under Section 304 Part – II and Section 185 of the Motor Vehicle Act. His driving licence was seized, and forwarded to the Road Transport Authority for cancellation. He was taken into judicial custody for 14 days.
11 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR announces Rs. 50 lakh aid to kin of slain soldier||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday announced Rs. 50 lakh financial assistance to the family of Ryada Mahesh, the army jawan from Nizamabad district who was killed in an anti-terror operation in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday. Mr. Rao said the State government would stand by and support his family. In an official release, the Chief Minister said one family member would be offered a government job, based on the qualification, besides a house site to the kin.
11 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RailTel to drive Railways hospital management information system||Indian Railways has entrusted RailTel Corporation of India Limited (RailTel) with implementation of Hospital Management Information System (HMIS), an integrated clinical information system, for its 125 health facilities and 650 polyclinics across the country for improved hospital administration and patient healthcare. It has been pilot-tested successfully here at the South Central Railway (SCR) Features of the software extend from customising clinical data according to the departments and laboratories, multi-hospital feature that provide cross consultation, seamless interface with medical and other equipment. Patients will have the benefit of accessing all their medical records on their mobile device. RailTel and Ministry of Railways have signed a memorandum of understanding with regard to the modalities for execution of work on Tuesday.  “We are embracing digitisation across all spheres. The upcoming ‘Centre of Excellence for Artificial Intelligence’ will drive these technological changes,” said Railway Board chairman and CEO Vinod Kumar Yadav.
11 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PD act against ‘fake’ doctor||The Rachakonda police on Tuesday invoked the Preventive Detention Act against an alleged fake doctor for duping many persons on the pretext of providing them government jobs. The accused was identified as Y Sandinti Teja, a native of Bodduvaripalem in Prakasham district. Police said Teja allegedly used the initials in his name to pose as a relative of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy. He allegedly took Rs. 15 lakh in hand loan but failed to repay them. In 2016, he impersonated an IPS officer.
11 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Analyse defeat: CPI to TRS||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has suggested the ruling TRS to analyse its defeat in the by-election to Dubbak Assembly constituency honestly and learn a lesson from people’s verdict. In a statement issued on Tuesday, State CPI secretary Chada Venkata Reddy said that the result had taken one and all by surprise, as the ruling party had suffered defeat after winning it with about 66,000 votes majority in the December 2018 elections. The reversal the ruling party had suffered in less than two years should make it realise why people had rejected the TRS in Dubbak and it should make amends in its way of administration.
11 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SCR begins checking of firecrackers in trains||South Central Railway has started undertaking checks to prevent carriage of fire crackers/inflammable substances in trains and on railway premises and cautioned passengers against carrying such items as they pose grave risk to safety. Any passenger noticing fire crackers or any other suspicious/dangerous explosive/inflammable material in trains or at stations, can immediately inform the nearest railway staff or call on the security helpline, 182. Special security teams have been stationed at important stations to keep a watch on defaulting passengers and parcel carrying persons even utilising the services of sniffer dogs and plain-clothed staff too. CCTV monitoring has also been intensified to keep watch on suspected persons round the clock, a press release said.
11 November 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Woman ‘ends life’, after killing three children||Reportedly dejected over being chided by husband, a woman killed her three children before ending her life in Chetla Mallapur of K.T. Doddi mandal in Jogulamba Gadwal district on Tuesday, the police said. Bodies of the woman Chenchu Satyamma, 32, and Nadheeni, 10, Shivani,3 and one-year-old Bujji were recovered from Goulla Cheruvu, a pond in the village, Gadwal DSP Yadagiri said.  (Suicide prevention cetnre, Roshni: +914066202000)
11 November 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Only five days for property tax OTS||A statement from GHMC on Tuesday alerted that the deadline for the One Time Settlement scheme for payment of property tax was due in five days. The OTS scheme has offered 90% interest waiver on property tax arrears up to 2019-20 if paid in full. So far 1.1 lakh property owners have availed themselves of this offer, and paid over Rs. 252 crore. The arrears may be paid in GHMC Citizen Service Centres or Mee Seva Centres, via My GHMC app or online, the statement said.
11 November 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||DCC to hold tractor rally||To highlight farmers’ issues, the District Congress Committee has decided to hold a huge tractor rally titled “Rythu Polikeka” from Gollapudi village in Wyra mandal to Thanikella village in Konijerla mandal on November 11. Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka and a host of other senior party leaders including the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) working presidents, core committee members, former PCC presidents, among others, would take part, party sources said. The rally was intended to highlight the woes of farmers affected by the recent spell of unseasonal rains, “lack” of remunerative prices for farmers and other issues facing them. The DCC called upon farmers to register their protest against the Farm Acts recently enacted by the BJP dispensation at the Centre by making the tractor rally a success.
11 November 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||‘Protocol violation’ at CCI function||The inaugural ceremony of the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI)'s procurement centre at the Agricultural Market Yard in Madhira was marred by allegations of protocol violations on Monday. The centre was inaugurated by ZP chairperson L Kamal Raju along with Agriculture Market Committee chairman Nageswara Rao on Monday morning, sources said. After the ceremony, Congress cadre alleged that the organisers violated the protocol by getting the inaugural done before arrival of Madhira MLA Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka. Mr Vikramarka brought the issue to the notice of the authorities.
11 November 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Vasalamarri to Ankapur ‘awareness trip’ planned||Alair legislator and government whip G. Sunitha said men and women of Vasalamarri of Turkapally mandal in the district, the village adopted by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao here, will go on an awareness trip to Ankapur of Nizamabad district on November 18. Thirteen special buses will be carrying them to Ankapur, known as the ‘role model village’, for a ground understanding of village development, she said. Ms. Sunitha, along with District Collector Anita Ramachandran, spoke to the residents on Monday and explained to them the outline of the proposed strategy. “For women and youth from the village, a special package for livelihood and opportunities will be made. Roads via Vasalamarri – Kondapur-Tirumalapur, Malkapur and Dayyambanda thanda will be improved,” she said. Approximately, Rs. 1.20 crore has been earmarked for improvement of drainage and road system alone, she informed. At the village, Ms. Ramachandran said a survey report was prepared, and it included plans for the village tanks, roads and basic amenities.
11 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||Congress retains Baroda seat with comfortable win||Congress candidate Indu Raj defeated BJP’s Yogeshwar Dutt, an Olympic medalist, with a margin of over 10,000 votes in the Baroda bypoll to retain the party’s Assembly seat on Tuesday. Mr. Raj secured 49% of nearly 1,23,000 votes polled to trounce Mr. Dutt by a margin of 10,566 votes in a direct contest between the two national parties. Mr. Raj polled 60,636 votes against Mr. Dutt, who managed to get only 50,070. Loktanter Suraksha Party supremo Rajkumar Saini stood the distant third with 5,611 votes. Of the 14 candidates in the fray, ten secured votes less than the NOTA tally of 469. Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, in a press conference after the result, said it was a victory for the farmers, labourers, employees and all the 36 communities of Haryana. He added the result proved that people were disillusioned with the BJP-JJP coalition. Seen as a battle of prestige for the Hoodas, the comfortable win for the Congress candidate has re-asserted their firm grip over their turf, the Sonipat-Rohtak-Jhajjar belt. More so, because the Hoodas almost single-handedly carried out the campaign for the election pitted against the government. BJP State president O.P. Dhankar, in a tweet, said the Baroda Assembly seat was with the Congress and the coalition could not convert an “opportunity” into an “achievement”. Accepting the mandate, Mr. Dhankar said he regretted that party’s candidate, a renowned wrestler, could not reach the State Assembly. Swing factor Though the BJP-JJP coalition announced development projects worth around Rs. 165 crore for the Assembly and also hinted at possible ministerial berth for their candidate, in case of a win, the saffron party’s rebel and Jat leader Kapoor Narwal withdrawing his nomination as an Independent to support the Hoodas tilted the scales in favour of the Congress. The Congress, in its campaign, had attacked the coalition for its alleged failure on all fronts during the six-year rule and invoked “Baroda’s pride”.
11 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Vehicles start moving as border tension eases||Vehicular movement between Assam and Mizoram resumed on Monday after 12 days of blockade triggered by inter-State boundary disputes. The easing of tension along the border followed a series of discussions between top officials of the two States and the gradual deployment of Central Security Forces, specifically at three flashpoints. Assam’s Home Secretary G.D. Tripathi said there were signs that normalcy was returning to the touchy areas along the Assam-Mizoram border.
11 November 2020||JAIPUR,||7 workers die in Jodhpur roof collapse||Seven labourers working in an under-construction factory in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur city died and nine others were injured when the roof of the building collapsed. The workers rescued from the site were in a serious condition, while some more were feared trapped in the debris till late in the night. The factory was being constructed in Jodhpur’s Basni industrial area phase-II. Police said a wall and the roof of the building suddenly collapsed with a loud sound in the evening and about 20 labourers were buried under the debris. The bodies of seven labourers were pulled out during the rescue operation, while those injured were rushed to Mathura Das Mathur Government Hospital and AIIMS. The rescue work was continuing till late night with lighting arrangements, while the factory’s owner was stated to be untraceable. Divisional Commissioner Samit Sharma, who was instructed by the State government to launch a probe into the incident, was camping at the site.
11 November 2020||Mumbai,||Winter session will be held in Mumbai||The winter session of the Maharashtra legislature will be held in Mumbai, instead of Nagpur, from December 7. The decision was taken at the business advisory committee (BAC) meeting held on Tuesday. “The winter session is usually held in Nagpur. However, the State and the country are facing a tough battle against COVID-19. It was discussed and decided in the BAC meeting about keeping the venue in Mumbai,” an official, who attended the meeting, said. According to sources, a number of members from the Assembly and the Council advised not to hold the winter session in Nagpur. “It is important that all necessary arrangements must be made to protect from novel coronavirus, and therefore it was decided that the session needs to be held in Mumbai,” the official said. Another meeting of the BAC will be held by November-end to decide on the number of days of the winter session. The monsoon session was held for two days in September.
11 November 2020||Mumbai,||HC allows 2 Jain temples to open for five days||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday allowed two Jain temples to remain open for five days — from November 13 to 17 — during Deepavali between Dhanteras and Bhau Beej, with conditions. A Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and Abhay Ahuja was hearing a petition filed by the two Jain temple trusts. The plea sought that Jain temples should be open for five days during Deepavali as that time was auspicious and important for Jains, and urged the court to grant permission. The advocate appearing for the petitioner relied upon orders by the Supreme Court where the Jain community was allowed in temples, and assured the court that everyone would follow strict guidelines and conditions in view of COVID-19. The advocate also requested the Bench to allow 100 Jain temples to be open for five days, and said when bars and restaurants could be operational, why not permit temples to be open. The Bench rejected the plea, and said all the temples should approach the court individually and seek permission. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, representing the State government, opposed the petition, and said the claim was baseless as the festival was important for all Hindus. The HC granted permission to both the Jain temples to remain open from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. between November 13 and 17.
11 November 2020||Mumbai,||Dawood’s six properties auctioned||Six properties of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim, including his ancestral home in Mumbke village in Ratnagiri district, were sold in an auction held on Tuesday, an official said. The auction was held by authorities under the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act. The ancestral home of India’s most wanted terrorist went for more than Rs. 11 lakh. A plot of land in Lote village in Ratnagiri district remained unsold due to technical reasons and would be put for auction again, the official said.
11 November 2020||Mumbai,||Owners of Kamala Mills Compound discharged in 2017 fire case||A court on Tuesday discharged two owners of Kamala Mills Compound, who were booked in connection with the fire at a pub on the premises in 2017, which led to the death of 14 people. The court rejected the discharge pleas of owners of the pub and restaurant, BMC officials, and other accused, who will face charges under the IPC and the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Act.PTI
11 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Duo nabbed two years after stealing from Panvel school||The Navi Mumbai Crime Branch has arrested two friends who in a drunken state had ‘accidentally’ stolen a TV and a projector from a zilla parishad school in Panvel two years ago. The duo was caught after one of them tried to sell the TV to a scrap dealer. The accused have been identified as Roshan Mhatre (27) and Vinay Joshi (22), both residents of Harigram village in Panvel. On February 6, 2018, after the duo got drunk, they broke into the school at Harigram, through the window. They made away with a 41-inch LED TV and the projector, mistaking them for a home theatre system. “The next day after they came to their senses, they realised their mistake. While Mr. Joshi kept the projector, Mr. Mhatre took the TV. They could not operate them, and they were kept unused until now,” police inspector Giridhar Gore from Crime Branch Unit II said. Recently, Mr. Mhatre decided to sell off the TV and approached a scrap dealer. When the dealer offered him only Rs. 50, he declined. The police got wind of it and picked up Mr. Mhatre. He confessed to the crime and then Mr. Joshi was too picked up following which the electronic items were recovered. The TV and the projector have been handed over to the school, the police said.
11 November 2020||WASHINGTON,||Barr orders probe into poll fraud claims||Attorney-General William Barr has authorised federal prosecutors across the U.S. to pursue “substantial allegations” of voting irregularities, if they exist, before the 2020 presidential election is certified. Mr. Barr’s action comes days after Democrat Joe Biden defeated President Donald Trump and raises the prospect that Mr. Trump will use the Justice Department to try to challenge the outcome. It gives prosecutors the ability to go around long-standing Justice Department policy that normally would prohibit such overt actions before the election is certified. Mr. Trump has not conceded the election and is instead claiming without evidence that there has been a widespread, multi-State conspiracy by Democrats to skew the vote tally in Biden’s favour. Mr. Biden holds a sizeable lead in multiple battleground States and there has been no indication of enough improperly counted or illegally cast votes that would shift the outcome. In fact, election officials from both political parties have publicly stated the election went well, though there have been minor issues that are typical in elections, including voting machines breaking and ballots that were miscast and lost. In a memo to U.S. attorneys, Mr. Barr wrote that investigations “may be conducted if there are clear and apparently-credible allegations of irregularities that, if true, could potentially impact the outcome of a federal election in an individual State.” No specific instances Mr. Barr does not identify any specific instances of purported fraud in the memo. “While it is imperative that credible allegations be addressed in a timely and effective manner, it is equally imperative that Department personnel exercise appropriate caution and maintain the Department’s absolute commitment to fairness, neutrality and non-partisanship,” Mr. Barr wrote. Electors meet States have until December 8 to resolve election disputes, including recounts and court contests over the results. Members of the Electoral College meet December 14 to finalise the outcome. On Monday night, the Justice Department’s top prosecutor for election crimes, Richard Pilger, said he would step down from that post in response to the Attorney General’s memo, according to an E-mail he sent to colleagues and obtained by the AP. He is still expected to remain as an Attorney within the Justice Department’s criminal division. Mr. Barr, a loyal ally of President Donald Trump, helped broadcast Mr. Trump’s claims of voter fraud before the election, attacking mail-in voting as prone to undue influence and coercion, despite multiple studies debunking the notion of pervasive voter fraud in general and in the vote-by-mail process. Generally, Justice Department policy is “not to conduct overt investigations, including interviews with individual voters, until after the outcome of the election allegedly affected by the fraud is certified.” But Mr. Barr argues in the memo that concerns such acts could inadvertently impact an election are minimised once voting has concluded and that, in some cases, investigations could not be delayed until the election is certified. A Justice Department official said Mr. Barr had not been asked by Mr. Trump, anyone else at the White House or any lawmakers to issue the memo. Mr. Barr was in Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s office on the Capitol Hill on Monday afternoon and refused to answer questions from reporters when he left.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Biden’s plan to fix America hinges on China challenge||As much as the world is waiting to see how Joseph R. Biden Jr., the 46th President of the U.S., reorients American foreign policy, the focus of the new administration in Washington in its first 100 days will, as is the case with any new government in any country, inevitably be on matters domestic. That will be all the more true for Mr. Biden, who takes over amidst a raging pandemic and enormous economic challenges. Confronting these economic challenges at home will, however, hinge on whether or not the Biden administration will be able to get one crucial relationship right — fraying ties with China that have descended into outright confrontation, and for many observers, now teeter on the edge of an abyss. Better predictability As of November 10, Beijing has responded carefully to Mr. Biden’s victory, among few nations that had not yet reached out to the President-elect or acknowledged his victory. Despite President Donald Trump during the campaign trying to suggest Beijing preferred him to lose, the fact is few observers in China expect a pause in an increasingly confrontational relationship. Moreover, the concern is even if Mr. Biden may be more predictable and the relationship may return to more institutional engagement, he may yet turn out to be even harder to deal with should he be more effective in reaching out to America’s allies and be more vocal on human rights issues, Xinjiang, Tibet, Hong Kong and Taiwan. “No matter who wins eventually, in general, both parties are on the same page on how to deal with China,” strategic affairs expert Yuan Zheng of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences told the Communist Party-run Global Times this week. “In the short run, China's relations with the U.S. will be less tense. But in the long-term, the bilateral ties will face bigger challenge as Biden underlines U.S. leadership, and he will spare no effort to align with its allies and partners to check and balance China, which seems to be more threatening to China in comparison to [the] Trump administration.” Policy documents Indeed, it is striking how China figures prominently in two key policy documents of the Biden-Harris campaign, to “Restore American Leadership Abroad” and to “Ensure the Future is Made in America”. The documents outline a multi-pronged response to China, ranging from promoting democratic values to continuing the efforts launched by Mr. Trump to bring back American companies and penalise Chinese firms that don’t play by the rules. Mr. Biden has pledged to work “with our democratic allies to develop secure, private sector-led 5G networks” and “reduce their dependence on competitors like China”, as well as to “strengthen our alliances with Japan, South Korea, Australia and other Asian democracies”. The “Made in America” plan states his administration will “stand up to the Chinese government’s abuses” and “insist on fair trade”, while taking steps to “bring back critical supply chains to America so we aren’t dependent on China or any other country for the production of critical goods in a crisis”. It is critical of the “phase one” trade deal agreed by Mr. Trump, under which tariffs remain on $360 billion worth of Chinese goods, for not doing enough. On climate change too, which has been seen by some Chinese analysts as one area where both countries could cooperate, Mr. Biden has said he will takes steps aimed at “pressuring China” to stop “outsourcing their pollution” through the Belt and Road Initiative. If it’s clear that Mr. Biden believes the path to addressing his economic challenge at home will run through Beijing, he will face a difficult balancing act of achieving his economic goals at home — which will, his campaign’s policy documents underline, require continuing many of Mr. Trump’s tough economic policies aimed at China — while at the same time, finding ways to pull back from the brink the relationship between the world’s two biggest powers.
11 November 2020||WILMINGTON,||Biden defends Obama-era health care law||President-elect Joe Biden is championing the Obama administration’s signature health law as it goes before the Supreme Court in a case that could overturn it. Mr. Biden’s speech reflects the importance he is putting on health care as he prepares to take office in January amid the worst pandemic in more than a century. He’s launching his transition process this week as the coronavirus surges across the country. The U.S. surpassed 10 million cases on Monday. Mr. Biden also focused on health care on Monday as he appealed to Americans to put aside their differences and wear masks to protect themselves and their neighbours from the virus. “We could save tens of thousands of lives if everyone would just wear a mask for the next few months. Not Democratic or Republican lives, American lives,” Mr. Biden said. “Please, I implore you, wear a mask.” ‘Public option’ The suit challenging the health care law was brought in America’s largest conservative State, Texas, and is backed by Mr. Trump and top Republicans. It asks the Supreme Court to declare the law’s mandate to buy health insurance unconstitutional because Congress had previously repealed the penalties for noncompliance. After serving as President Barack Obama’s Vice-President for eight years, Mr. Biden has pledged to build on the Affordable Care Act while championing a “public option” that would allow more people to opt into government-sponsored health insurance even as millions of others could stick with their current, usually employer-based coverage. But such changes could be difficult to enact if Democrats fail to win a Senate majority. Control of the chamber hinges on two runoff races in Georgia
11 November 2020||Ramallah,||Key Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat dies||Saeb Erekat, one of the most prominent veterans of the Palestinian cause, died on Tuesday of coronavirus complications at the age of 65, in a death mourned far beyond the occupied territory. Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas called the passing of “a brother and friend... a huge loss for Palestine & our people”. Egypt praised Erekat, the Palestine Liberation Organisation’s secretary general, as “a steadfast fighter ... who spent his life diligently pursuing the rights of the Palestinian people”. Erekat was a long-time architect of negotiations aspiring to end the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, a goal he would not live to see. Born in Jerusalem in 1955, Erekat lived in the biblical town of Jericho in the Israeli-occupied West Bank. An academic and author, Erekat grew up in the shadow of Israel’s crushing victory over its Arab neighbours in the Six-Day War of 1967, and dedicated much of his life to seeking a resolution to the conflict. He was part of every team to negotiate with Israel since 1991.
11 November 2020||Yerevan,||Armenia, Azerbaijan agree on peace deal||Armenia and Azerbaijan agreed on a deal with Russia to end fierce clashes over Nagorno-Karabakh on Tuesday, after a string of Azerbaijani victories in its fight to retake the disputed region. Hundreds of Russian peacekeepers were en route to the ethnic Armenian territory, which broke from Azerbaijan’s control during a war in the 1990s, just hours after ceasefire took effect. But the agreement sparked outrage in Armenia, with angry protesters storming the government headquarters in the capital Yerevan where they ransacked offices and broke windows. Crowds also entered Parliament and demanded the resignation of Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan. “I have taken this decision as a result of an analysis of the military situation,” he said.
11 November 2020||Washington,||Pompeo vows transition to a ‘second Trump term’||Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Tuesday promised the world a “smooth transition” after U.S. elections but refused to recognise President-elect Joe Biden’s victory, saying Donald Trump will remain in power. “There will be a smooth transition to a second Trump administration,” Mr. Pompeo said at a news conference, when asked about contacts with Mr. Biden’s team. “The world should have every confidence that the transition necessary to make sure that the State Department is functional today... with the President who is in office on January 20 a minute after noon will be successful,” he said, referring to the date of the presidential inauguration. World leaders, including almost all U.S. allies, have congratulated Mr. Biden on his victory. But Mr. Trump has refused to concede the November 3 election and has alleged massive fraud, calling for recounts and legal action. Asked if the U.S. can still issue statements calling for free elections around the world, Mr. Pompeo said the question was “ridiculous.”
11 November 2020||San Francisco,||Facebook pulls pages linked to ex-Trump aide Steve Bannon||Following the lead of Twitter and YouTube, Facebook on Monday removed several pages linked to former Donald Trump adviser Steve Bannon, whose content pushed unsubstantiated claims of election fraud. According to the human rights group Avaaz, the social media giant took down seven pages directly linked to Mr. Bannon that had 2.45 million followers and that the group flagged to Facebook content monitors on Friday. “Our team had identified some of these pages earlier this year for repeatedly sharing misinformation on false ‘voter fraud’ claims potentially reaching 10 million views in the last week alone,” an Avaaz spokesman said. “We’ve removed several clusters of activity for using inauthentic behaviour tactics to artificially boost how many people saw their content,” a Facebook spokesperson said. The pages removed had names such as “Conservative Values,” “The Undefeated,” “We Build the Wall Inc,” “Citizens of the American Republic” and “Trump at War.”
11 November 2020||Islamabad,||Pak. Army suspends officials who arrested Sharif’s son-in-law||Pakistan’s military on Tuesday announced the suspension of a number of intelligence officers and troops accused by Opposition leaders last month of abducting a provincial police chief to pressure him to arrest the son-in-law of exiled former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. The unusual action by the military comes three weeks after Mr. Sharif’s son-in-law, Captain (retd) Mohammad Safdar, was briefly detained after Opposition parties held a rally in the port city of Karachi against Prime Minister Imran Khan. Capt. Safdar was taken from a hotel room, where he was staying with his wife. The arrest came after he visited the mausoleum of Mohammad Ali Jinnah. Mr. Sharif’s Pakistan Muslim League at the time inssisted Capt. Safdar was arrested only after troops abducted provincial police chief Mushtaq Mehar to pressure him to sign orders for his arrest. Neither Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence nor the paramilitary Rangers at the time commented and it was unclear how many intelligence agents and troops were suspended.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||In Bihar, the subdued narrative of the silent voter||As the final outcome of the Bihar election remains confusing at the time of writing this piece, with both the political alliances — the Mahagathbandan and the National Democratic Alliance — competing to attain a majority, there is one factor which reveals the sources of the confusion unambiguously: the status quoism of the silent voter in the State. Here, seen from the vantage point of the silent voter, the status quo-ism may not be a pejorative term. However, this brings us to the task of defining the social location and the psychology of the silent voter which seem to have a decisive influence in the ongoing electoral outcome in Bihar. In the electoral arena, generally, it is the non-dominant and vulnerable social groups such as the lower castes and a large section of Dalits that prefer to remain silent when the narrative is championed by the dominant communities in their locality. Their silence becomes all the more profound when a leader who they relate to seems to be at the receiving end. In any electoral analysis, an inadequate factoring in of this silent narrative leads to seeing a wave which was never there in the first place. In the case of Bihar, while the signs of anti-incumbency were visible against Nitish Kumar, its translation into a vote against him/the Janata Dal (United), or the JD(U), was not as seamless as it seemed to be. Rather, it was layered around the identitarian lines of castes and communities, the dominance of material issues notwithstanding. Narratives and players In hindsight, the social base of the electoral narratives resonating across Bihar had three distinct takers. One, while there was a general sense of disappointment with Nitish Kumar, not every section wanted to desert him. While a significant section of upper castes deserted him, the lower backward castes and Mahadalits did not seem to have shared the enthusiasm of a ‘pro-change’ narrative. Rather, they remained silent on the question of leadership. Two, while a majority of upper castes turning their backs on Nitish Kumar ensured the JD(U)’s defeat in as many as 30 seats by voting for rebel candidates from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) fielded by regional parties such as Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP), they were wary of the prospect of Tejashwi Yadav (of the Rashtriya Janata Dal, or the RJD) becoming the alternative. This is despite the fact that he attempted to consciously shift the prevailing perception of the RJD, from being a particular caste-centric to an umbrella party. Three, the demographically significant intermediary caste such as the Yadavs were over-enthusiastically consolidated behind the RJD and peddled the pro-Tejaswi narrative fervently. In this backdrop, the anti-Nitish Kumar narrative had a larger support base as compared to a pro-Tejashwi narrative. However,since the anchors of these electoral narratives were primarily the dominant communities from both the upper and intermediary castes, the core support base of Nitish Kumar, the preference of the non-Yadav Other Backward Classes and Mahadalits got subdued in the process. Nitish Kumar is still relevant Irrespective of the electoral outcome, it is unambiguously clear that Nitish Kumar still holds ground despite his dwindling electoral performance. Let us take a closer look at this election and compare it with the 2015 Assembly election in Bihar. For instance, in 2015 when the RJD was in alliance with JD(U), the former contested 101 seats and won 81 seats, a colossal improvement from a mere 24 seats in the 2010 election. Now, in 2020, the RJD contested a total of 145 seats and is expected to win around 75 seats, despite the entire electoral narrative revolving around the agenda set by Tejashwi Yadav, wherein he emerged as the biggest crowd-puller. Certainly, Tejashwi Yadav has emerged as a leader to be reckoned with, and yet the strike rate of RJD is poor as compared to the 2015 election. Similarly, this time, the better strike rate of the BJP within the NDA should be analysed in terms of the additional support base that Nitish Kumar brought to the NDA fold. With the fewer number of seats that the BJP contested in 2020 as compared to 2015, it is winning more seats, despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi campaigning less intensely than in 2015. Hence, the centrality of Nitish Kumar in the electoral arena of Bihar remains intact. What has changed significantly in this election has been the political miscommunication that he faced from within the NDA, primarily on account of the silence and milder approach of the BJP leadership vis-à-vis the LJP and its leader, Chirag Paswan. In the backdrop of the current trend, it is no one’s guess that minus the LJP factor, the tally of the JD(U) would have been much better as it is now, and the prime responsibility for the same lies as much with the BJP as with the stubbornness of Nitish Kumar not to accommodate the demands of young leaders. Key issues Further, a welcome shift which Bihar has brought to the political realm is the primacy of the material issues dominating the electoral arena. While the context of the novel coronavirus pandemic and the consequent centrality of the issue of jobs and economic security was expected, one must take cognisance of the point that in Bihar, the primacy of material politics has been signified by Nitish Kumar for the last 15 years. Hence, both Tejashwi Yadav and Chirag Paswan were attempting to inherit the developmental mantle from Nitish Kumar. In a State which has been signified by the assertive masculinised political culture, the presence of Nitish Kumar, a non-polarising personality and an accommodative approach led to the changing political common sense of Bihar so much so that both the RJD and the BJP, and the Left had made the politics of accommodation their central plank. The RJD’s outreach To see every party appealing to the youth, women, the vulnerable castes such as Extremely Backward Classes, or the EBCs, and Mahadalits in an aspirational and inclusive language is bound to have the imprint of Nitish Kumar. To the credit of Tejashwi Yadav, the RJD has attempted to adapt itself to the new aspirational plank. For the first time, the party has given significant representation to EBCs, has appealed to every section rather than going to the familiar plank of ‘forward versus backward’, and shifted to the narrative of economic justice to account for the emerging vulnerabilities among all sections. Also, the role played by the Left parties has been significant in terms of restoring the primacy of the material and civic issues of everyday life. The fact that the vulnerable sections constituting the social base of the silent voters chose to support the NDA in significant numbers on account of the Nitish Kumar factor, thereby making it a waveless election, is testimony to the fact that the anchor of political change needs to resonate with the aspirations and anxieties of the vulnerable sections more prominently rather than enthusing the dominant communities supporting them. Hence, it is time to take cognisance of the subdued narratives of the silent voter which tends to get lost in the domineering rhetoric anchored by the politically entitled sections. This is the most desirable takeaway from Bihar. Sajjan Kumar is a political analyst associated with Peoples Pulse
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The mandate was about Nitish||Politics in India never ceases to surprise even seasoned observers. Notwithstanding the ground realities, the mandate of the 2020 Assembly election in Bihar broadly reflects the intense competitive nature of the polity, backroom strategies and political management. This especially holds true for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Bihar, which has increased its seat tally from the previous Assembly election. However, it would be too early for the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) to rejoice given that the NDA and the Mahagathbandhan are neck and neck at the time of writing. At the outset, the Secretary General of the Janata Dal (United), K.C. Tyagi, conceded defeat and attributed the debacle to COVID-19. He probably sensed the imminent losses of his party and leader. The BJP’s goal It seems like the NDA has safeguarded its social base and has also succeeded in not letting anti-incumbency favour a sweep for the Opposition. The JD(U), though, has lost seats. Did the BJP’s apparent electoral arrangement with the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) work in its favour? LJP president Chirag Paswan’s polemical spree against Chief Minister Nitish Kumar seems to have compromised the latter’s winning possibility in at least 25 seats. The LJP’s cadre support was selectively used in favour of the BJP and fiercely against the JD(U). Mr. Paswan’s chosen way did not help boost his party’s performance. Without the charismatic leadership of Ram Vilas Paswan, the LJP has turned out a cropper in seat terms. Also, it would be wrong to assume that Mr. Kumar will have an easy ride if the NDA wins the majority. The BJP’s offering to Mr. Kumar is likely to be a smaller throne or it may repeat its experiment in Haryana that might mean imposing an ideologically committed candidate to further make Mr. Kumar a redundant force in Bihar. Silently, the BJP has achieved its goal and broken the myth that it can’t be the lead force by making the NDA a deeply divided camp. Will this be acceptable to Mr. Kumar? No matter how he had altered his political journey in 2017, he still has the bandwidth to unsettle the BJP’s plan in the State by returning to where he originally belongs. With diminishing stakes in State politics, he can opt to reclaim his old brand of politics that is at odds with the dominating BJP. The tightly contested election opens up the possibilities of shrewd post-poll makeovers. At the crossroads, there will be an opportunity for Bihar to reassure the country about its continuing significance as the ‘political laboratory’. Another key highlight of the Bihar elections is the resurgent performance of the Left parties as the constituents of the Mahagathbandhan. The Communist Party of India, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) fought on 29 seats and are inching close to getting more than 60% success. This shows that after a long gap, Left politics is making headway in Bihar. It is speculated that they could have fought 20 more seats where the Congress has fought half-heartedly and with a surprising selection of candidates. Tejashwi, a game changer The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), being the lead party in the coalition, made enough space for the Congress — possibly because of the Congress’s significant performance in 2015. The RJD’s own performance has been satisfactory. In fact, the party’s seats are close to what it achieved in 2015 in alliance with the JD(U). There can’t be any denying the fact that Tejashwi Yadav has proved himself to be a game changer and the leading political player at the young age of 31. His fight was against the experience and credentials of Mr. Kumar and the popularity and resourcefulness of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He should be credited for coping with the challenges gracefully and leading Bihar towards a refreshing change where ‘development’ instead of ‘identity’ was spoken of as the central electoral plank. The Mahagathbandhan’s poll promises were in sync with mass aspirations. It re-prioritised the notion of inclusive growth and emphasised on working decisively for deepening the industrial base, creating 10 lakh job opportunities in the government sector, checking the alarmingly high rate of out-migration, ending the contract culture in the government jobs, and serving the last man standing in row. The Mahagathbandhan should also be hailed for raising the standard of election campaigns, which in recent times has gone lower and lower. The BJP’s star campaigner didn’t shy away from pursuing a polarising agenda, while the JD(U) showed an obsession with caste arithmetic. Wherever possible, the NDA featured the development narrative but that too was engulfed in poorly presented historical contexts. At no point of time did Mr. Kumar show any inclination to assess his coalition’s performance in absolute terms. With the pandemic and the lockdown, the design and process of the Bihar election have been unusual. Consequently, it should not be shocking to anyone if the suffering due to the lockdown and the public health crisis do not fully influence the mandate. The people of Bihar have not shown a preference for Mr. Kumar as their next Chief Minister. With the status of a junior partner, it would be difficult for him to justify his stay in the coalition. The road ahead for him and his party is foggy. This is a road less travelled by someone like Mr. Kumar. If he stays on, he will be the iconic protagonist of a tragic play that would be performed in Bihar’s new political theatre. Making a choice It is hoped that Mr. Kumar reads the mandate and makes his choice accordingly. He has to remember that his political existence and relevance are not limited by instantaneous considerations. A seasoned leader, Mr. Kumar should listen to his inner call and give Bihar another reason to stand apart. This is also an occasion for him to give public life a fresh lease of life by chasing larger goals rather than trying to stay in power. The mandate from Bihar was all about Nitish Kumar. Even in his personal defeat, he can be the force of course correction in the State or become a shadow of his own past. Atul K. Thakur is a policy professional and columnist. email: atulmthakur@gmail.com
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Strengthening public health capacities in disasters||Much of Europe today is witnessing a menacing second wave of COVID-19, which is seemingly worse than the first. Infections have waned in India, although some are anticipating another wave around winter. While appearing unlikely, it is impossible to guarantee that a second wave will not be worse for India as well. However, one does not get to witness the sharp reaction today that the early days of the disaster evoked, albeit except for the fresh round of lockdowns imposed in parts of Europe. Neither is a second wave necessarily less dangerous nor is a vaccine freely available, but living with the pandemic for months together has had a desensitising effect on the collective psyche. Owing to such ‘desensitisation’, disasters that are not sudden and striking tend to be minimised. Unfortunately, the same has characterised India’s disaster management framework in writing off many pressing public health issues. More a reactive approach In 2005, India enacted the Disaster Management Act, which laid an institutional framework for managing disasters across the country (https://bit.ly/3eKDG9N). What hitherto comprised largely of reactive, ad hoc measures applied in the event of a disaster, was to be replaced under the Act with a systematic scheme for prevention, mitigation, and responding to disasters of all kinds. Disaster management considerations were to be incorporated into every aspect of development and the activities of different sectors, including health. While some headway has indeed been achieved, the approach continues to be largely reactive, and significant gaps remain particularly in terms of medical preparedness for disasters. The Disaster Management Act is one of the few laws invoked since the early days of COVID-19 to further a range of measures — from imposing lockdowns to price control of masks and medical services. The common theme is that the public health angle in disasters and disaster management has been under-emphasised. Two important lessons emerge, which will be discussed: first, that health services and their continuing development cannot be oblivious to the possibility of disaster-imposed pressures; and second, that the legal framework for disaster management must push a legal mandate for strengthening the public health system. Drawbacks in private sector Since the capping of treatment prices in private hospitals in May, many instances of overcharging by hospitals in Maharashtra have surfaced, in some cases even leading to suspension of licences. It illustrates how requisitioning of private sector services during disasters can hardly be a dependable option in the Indian context. This is particularly important since the future development of hospital care services is being envisaged chiefly under publicly financed health insurance, which would very likely be private-sector led. Health systems with large private sectors do not necessarily flounder during disasters. But the Indian private sector landscape, characterised by weak regulation and poor organisation, is particularly infelicitous for mounting a strong and coordinated response to disasters. During disasters, the limited regulatory ability could be further compromised. While publicly financed insurance could be a medium to introduce some order into this picture, a large majority of private hospitals in the country are small enterprises which cannot meet the inclusion criteria for insurance. Many of these small hospitals are also unsuitable for meeting disaster-related care needs. And while requisitioning can be done under law, punitive action against non-compliant hospitals becomes tricky during disasters since health services are already inadequate. Also, development of certain services and competencies that are crucial for disaster response could lag behind. Private hospitals are known to prefer lucrative and high-end ‘cold’ cases, especially under insurance, and are generally averse to infectious diseases and critical cases with unpredictable profiles. Eric Toner (2017), under the “parking lot conundrum” (https://bit.ly/3eJdwUI), describes how disaster preparedness does not make a strong “business case” for hospitals, which prefer to invest in more profitable areas. Strong public sector capacities are therefore imperative for dealing with disasters. While the Disaster Management Act does require States and hospitals to have emergency plans, medical preparedness is de facto a matter of policy, and, therefore, gaps are pervasive. There is a strong case for introducing a legal mandate to strengthen public sector capacities via disaster legislation, including relevant facets such as capacity-building of staff. A desirable corollary will be that it will also serve us well during normal times. Integration with primary care Critics have indicated that the Disaster Management Act fails to identify progressive events (which nevertheless cause substantial damage, often more than sudden catastrophes) as disasters, thus neglecting pressing public health issues such as tuberculosis and recurrent dengue outbreaks. Had they been identified as disasters, they would have attracted stronger action in terms of prevention, preparedness, and response. Again here, a legal mandate can contribute to strengthening the public health system at the grass-roots level. There is also scope for greater integration of disaster management with primary care. Primary care stands for things such as multisectoral action, community engagement, disease surveillance, and essential health-care provision, all of which are central to disaster management. Evidence supports the significance of robust primary care during disasters, and this is particularly relevant for low-income settings. Synergies with the National Health Mission, the flagship primary-care programme which began as the ‘National Rural Health Mission’ concurrently with the Disaster Management Act in 2005, could be worth exploring. Interestingly, the National Health Mission espouses a greater role for the community and local bodies, the lack of which has been a major criticism of the Disaster Management Act. Making primary health care central to disaster management can be a significant step towards building health system and community resilience to disasters. While the novel coronavirus pandemic has waned both in objective severity and subjective seriousness, valuable messages and lessons lie scattered around. It is for us to not lose sight and pick them up. Dr. Soham D. Bhaduri is a Mumbai-based physician, public health commentator, and editor of ‘The Indian Practitioner’
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Employment, finally an election issue||Jobs are rarely far from the minds of citizenry. Politicians woke up to this fact in the run-up to the Bihar Assembly elections. It is for the first time that unemployment has become a big issue in an election. This is not surprising. Rising unemployment The economy had been slowing for nine quarters prior to the COVID-19 outbreak. Before the 2019 Lok Sabha election, the BJP managed to divert the attention of the youth with Ram Mandir and ‘nationalistic’ issues. The government consistently denied that unemployment was a problem. It did not release the National Sample Survey (NSS) on employment until a week after election results were announced. The pandemic and the poorly planned nationwide lockdown caused the economy to contract severely and livelihoods to disappear. Bihar saw millions of poor migrant labour returning home. U.P. and Bihar have a disproportionately high number of out-migrants. The Leader of the Opposition in Bihar, Tejashwi Yadav, was the first to make joblessness an issue this election. He promised 10 lakh government jobs in his first Cabinet meeting, if made Chief Minister; the Janata Dal (United)/BJP countered him by promising to create 19 lakh new jobs. How did we get here? For nearly 10 years after 2003, GDP growth averaged more than 7%  per annum. Non-agricultural jobs in India were generated at a rate of 7.5 million per annum. But only 2 million of the youth were joining the labour force (as enrolment in schools/colleges was increasing). New non-agricultural jobs pulled over 5 million per annum out of agriculture and into construction and other work, where Bihari and U.P. labour got absorbed in large numbers. However, the economy began slowing thereafter. Demonetisation and the reluctance to competently handle the non-performing assets crisis sent the economy into a downward spiral. What followed was nine uninterrupted quarters of slowing growth. Worse, the structural transformation, previously underway, stalled. Post-2013, people are still leaving agriculture, but non-farm sector jobs are growing more slowly. As a result, joblessness has grown. The number of unemployed educated youth and a disheartened labour force (youth who completed education and training but were still neither in jobs nor searching for jobs actively) increased to unprecedented levels by 2018. The COVID-19-driven collapse of the economy and jobs followed this year. Myths and reality Unfortunately, debates on youth unemployment did not attract much political/electoral attention until the 2020 Bihar election campaign. Yet several myths persist, which can easily misguide our employment policymaking. Let’s explain the myths and the reality. First, only about 7% of the total employment is created in the government, including the public sector undertakings (NSS, 2017-18);  yet that is what some are promising. Of the total 465 million jobs in India, about 260 million are created in non-farm (in the industry and services) sectors, of which only 34 million are created in the government sector. Hence, private sector employment through appropriate government policy is crucial. However, simultaneously, measures are needed to fill the vacant government posts. There has been a massive decline of government sector job growth from 1.3 million per annum from 2005 to 2012 to only 0.4 million per annum from 2012 to 2018. Second, the Central government tried to create a myth that the self-employed can create enough jobs. The data have exposed this myth. It is clear that despite the government’s measures (example, MUDRA) to promote self-employment, the number of youth engaged as  self-employed declined from 81 million to 63 million between 2005 and 2012 and further to 49 million between 2012 and 2018. This is despite 95% of MUDRA loans being in the smallest Shishu category. The Ministry of Labour’s MUDRA study in 2018 had already demonstrated this fact. Although the National Education Policy 2020 is likely to increase the supply of vocationally trained youth due to the expansion of vocational training curricula at the school level, it will have no impact on the labour demand conditions of the industries. Meanwhile, Bihar saw girls’ secondary enrolment rising because the government provided bicycles to girls who got promoted from Class 8 to Class 9. Girls and boys can get jobs, if jobs grow. Hence, supplementary measures including development of infrastructure and local industrialisation are necessary. As per the 2015-16 NSS survey, more than 99% of Indian enterprises are micro enterprises (based on both investment and employment criteria). Bihar has 22 industrial clusters, 138 handicraft clusters, and 45 handloom clusters of low-level manufacturing, consisting mostly of micro and small enterprises. With appropriate support, these enterprises can grow into small and then medium enterprises. It is the private sector that creates jobs; the government’s role is limited. However, Bihar, like most other States, can provide more jobs in the government. But the new government will have to be careful. The focus will have to be on two kinds of jobs. First, the health and education sectors and the police and the judiciary have too few government staff. These are sectors where the new government can expand government jobs. Second, in all governments, State and Central, the share of Groups C and D jobs is an overwhelming 89%, leaving 11% of jobs for Groups A and B. With such few managerial or professional staff, it is impossible to run any government. Post-pandemic, most States will need to increase spending on public health. Bihar still has the highest fertility rate of any Indian state (3.4 children per woman of reproductive age), according to 2015-16 data. This is because Bihar’s public health system is in a shambles. According to the World Health Organization, there should be one doctor per thousand population. However, in Bihar, one allopathic doctor serves 43,788 people. Bihar also has the lowest bed-population ratio. Santosh Mehrotra was formerly Chair of the Centre for Labour, JNU, and J.K. Parida, a labour economist, teaches at the Central University of Punjab
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Road bumps||On Monday, the Fifteenth Finance Commission submitted its report with recommendations on the formula for sharing the divisible pool of tax revenues between the Centre and the States for the next five years to the President. The panel’s proposed fiscal road map, up to 2025-26, will only come into the public domain once it is tabled in Parliament, if not in the winter session, at least before the Union Budget for 2021-22 is presented. An action taken report would reveal the government’s acceptance or rejection of the panel’s prescriptions. When the Fourteenth Finance Commission recommended a sharp increase in their take-home cut from 32% to 42% of the divisible pool of revenues and the Centre accepted it, States had obvious cause to be upbeat. However, their actual shares of total taxes mopped up have turned out to be far lower as the Centre deployed more cesses and surcharges to garner additional revenues in recent years. There are fresh reasons for the States to be anxious about the Commission’s revenue sharing recommendations, not in the least because of their recent stand-off with the Centre on how their GST compensation dues will be paid this year. While 22 States have now come on board with a solution conjured up by the Centre, there are still loose ends as more dues pile up over the next two years. Second, the Centre had tasked the Commission with assessing a few unusual ideas, including the creation of a non-lapsable fund for defence and security spending, and incentivising States for performance on reforms considered desirable by the Centre such as adoption of direct benefits transfer. Southern States are worried that the use of 2011 population data, instead of 1971, will penalise them for managing population growth better. All these have the potential to impact States’ actual share. The RBI’s assessment of State finances reveals they were already hurting from the slowing economy. The pandemic and the lockdowns have made things worse. Last year, this Finance panel had tabled an interim report for 2020-21 by saying a five-year forecast is tough when the economy is slowing down due to the effects of reforms like demonetisation and GST. Its final report comes at an even more uncertain time, with the pandemic throwing the global economy into a tailspin. That the panel has dedicated a volume entirely to States, analysing the development needs of each, is heartening. The Centre can allay States’ fears further by tabling the report soon so that any anxieties can be debated and laid to rest, and States can also plan upcoming Budgets with less uncertainty. Being receptive to States’ concerns can help forge a fresh cohesive federal compact for the coming years — a double engine that can hasten India’s return to high growth.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Dose of optimism||Multinational drug company Pfizer has announced promising results from its ongoing phase-3 trial of a potential COVID-19 vaccine. However, these early results, of the vaccine candidate being “90% protective” in the trial’s volunteers — nearly 40,000 are enrolled — is the only important detail that is public. Pfizer, which is using a vaccine candidate by German firm BioNTech, had disclosed in September that for a vaccine to be judged 60% effective, 164 volunteers would have to contract COVID-19. This includes both the vaccine and placebo groups. The claim of 90% is based on a sample of 94 volunteers but it is not known how many belonged to either group. It is also unclear if those who were eventually infected, manifested mild or moderate severity of disease. Though the results, according to Pfizer, were announced by an expert independent committee, they have not yet been announced by the standard procedure of a peer-reviewed journal. In short, there is still time to be reliably sure that the results actually hold up in a wider population. Pfizer’s announcement may not have an immediate impact for India. Unlike ‘Covishield’ by the Serum Institute or ‘Covaxin’ by Bharat Biotech Ltd., there are no large phase-3 trials of the vaccine in India. While there were early discussions with Pfizer, there is as yet no confirmation on whether India can be assured of early access to even a fraction of the vaccine output in the event it is readied. The vaccine candidate is based on an m-RNA technology, which eschews the use of an infectious particle, such as a portion of the virus, and uses a piece of RNA that is then made into an antigen by the body’s own machinery. This reduces the odds of untoward reactions. It also does not need to be cultured in chicken eggs or other mammalian cells, allowing it be made faster and more inexpensively. Though it is at the frontier of novel vaccine production methods, there are still no commercially available m-RNA based vaccines. They also reportedly need to be refrigerated to nearly minus 70°C and India, with its limited cold chain infrastructure, lacks efficient vaccine storage capacity. However, irrespective of whether and when the Pfizer vaccine is available, there is reason for optimism. For one, it shows that scientists’ basic strategy — of developing a vaccine to target the spike protein of the virus — is correct and given that this is an approach most vaccine developers are following, the chances of several encouraging results are high. Given that another firm, Moderna, also employs an m-RNA based approach, it is likely that the new vaccine platform may prove to be a breakthrough approach in developing future vaccines. India must keep a close watch on such platform-technology and develop expertise. It must also not lose an opportunity to improve its cold chain infrastructure which currently is developed only for rudimentary vaccines.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Providing quick psychosocial support||World Mental Health Day was observed in October. The number of people with mental illnesses had been increasing across the world even before the pandemic. Despite mental health issues constituting a significant percentage of the health burden in India, the country does not have enough mental health professionals, especially psychiatrists and clinical psychologists. Though the pandemic has a deep psychological impact on people of all age groups, children are especially vulnerable to adverse mental health conditions during such times. According to a recent review in the Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, children whose movements have been severely restricted are at a higher risk of experiencing feelings of loneliness, depression and anxiety during the pandemic. Most governments around the world took the drastic step of closing educational institutions. When schools are closed, children lose their moorings and are likely to get disoriented. If not appropriately addressed at the right moment, the mental health consequences of the pandemic for a generation of children and young people could outstrip the immediate health and economic impacts of the pandemic. In the early stages of the pandemic, UNICEF had conducted a survey of children, parents, teachers and caregivers in 104 countries on how the event was affecting their lives, particularly their mental health and psychosocial well-being. It pointed out that there is an urgency to work for the mental health and psychosocial well-being of the world’s children and lend support to parents and caregivers as well. As the pandemic rages on, it is important to monitor young people’s mental health status and provide psychosocial support whenever and wherever necessary. Psychosocial support in Odisha Odisha had some experience of psychosocial support in the aftermath of the super cyclone in 1999 and a severe cyclonic storm in 2019. On both occasions, UNICEF, NIMHANS of Bengaluru, and the NGO, Bharat Gyan Vigyan Samiti, made psychosocial support interventions for children traumatised by the unsettling events. In a few hundred coastal villages of Odisha, volunteers were trained in providing psychosocial support. Children were encouraged to participate in various activities like painting, music, storytelling, dance, quizzing, toy-making. They were also encouraged to share their emotions. It was possible, through structured counselling, to improve the coping capacity of disoriented children. These experiments were found to be useful in bolstering their confidence and getting them back to school. However, all these were not used in mainstreaming psychosocial support in the overall public health system of the State. This can be said to be true for the country as well. In India, where basic health infrastructure is weak, access to mental health services is a far cry. Now that the pandemic has once again exposed this weakness, it is time for greater attention to be paid to the availability of adequate mental health services both in urban and rural areas. Community volunteers Since it is unlikely that the availability of professionals will ever match the requirements of a growing number of people suffering from mental illness, creating a cadre of community volunteers to reduce the burden on health workers can be considered. Sometime back, The Economist highlighted the inadequacy of mental health professionals in Western countries as a result of which two-third of people with a mental health problem do not receive any treatment. In such a scenario, ‘talk therapy’, recommended by the World Health Organization, could be the first line of treatment. This can be delegated to community volunteers. The experiences of countries such as Zimbabwe, Canada and New Zealand show that community volunteers with some basic training can supplement regular mental health services. When an adequate number of such volunteers work as frontline workers, the mental health needs of a society can be met not as a one-off event and in sporadic manner but on a sustained basis. Ananya Behera is an independent researcher based in Bhubaneswar
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||India in 1919 (From an editorial)||The report presented to Parliament on the material and moral progress of India during 1919 is from one point of view a performance creditable to its author, Mr. Rushbrook Williams. In the presentation of the matter, in the general tone of the remarks and the comprehensiveness of the summary, the report marks a mentionable improvement on its predecessors: and Parliament, we may be sure, will give it as speedy a repose on the shelf as previous annuals on the same subject have received. In the essentials, however, the report does not belie its usual character, which, as we have had occasions to point out, is that of a self-righteous master describing his relations with his servant. But the art of whitewash has, in this instance, been practised with a subtler touch, the appearance of impartiality being cleverly sustained. In the events of the year which lend themselves readily to statistical treatment, the lesser scope for exaggeration has led to a closer fidelity to facts, although room has been found, for example, in the accounts of famine relief operations and industrial expansion, to claim more for Government’s prevision and responsiveness than the public conscience will be prepared to allow.
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||General de Gaulle passes away||General Charles de Gaulle, former French President, died here [Colombey-les-Deux-Églises] suddenly last night [November 9], aged 79, of a heart attack. The General slumped over a table in his country home here while playing patience and waiting for the evening television news programme that he seldom missed. General de Gaulle, the man who rallied France in World War II and who was its President from December 1959 to April 1969, died 15 minutes later at 19.30 p.m. (local). Only Mme de Gaulle was present when the former Chief of State was struck with the heart attack. She called a local doctor and the parish priest. The doctor pronounced him dead. He lunched alone with his wife, Yvonne. During the afternoon the man walked alone in the grounds of his house. He returned to his manuscript on the second volume of his memoirs, to be called “The Effort,” and then at 7 p.m. joined his wife in the salon, spread a pack of cards on a small bridge table for a round of patience “and was struck by a heart attack.” His sudden death stunned the country.
11 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Banks must not distance customers: FM||Banks must not shy away from lending, especially when the economy is facing major challenges, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Tuesday. Lenders should also offer all Indian customers the Rupay card first, discourage non-digital payments, and link every account with the customer’s Aadhaar number by March 31, 2021, she added. “The pandemic has created distance among us, but I hope it is only that distance to keep the virus away, not our customer[s] away,” Ms. Sitharaman said at the Indian Banks’ Association annual general meeting. Bankers, she asserted, no longer needed to fear the three Cs (CBI, CVC and CAG) and must not hesitate in taking decisions. “We are keen that the fear that was voiced when we came in 2014 about the 3Cs has to go away from your mind. No more fears of the 3Cs… the CVC himself is developing your training courses, so you can take commercially justifiable decisions and you need not fear taking decisions, that came into your mind during some unfortunate period,” she said. ‘Principal business’ Department of Financial Services Secretary Debasish Panda reminded banks that lending is their principal business and they must lend after undertaking prudent risk management rather than avoid lending altogether. “You cannot pay your depositors unless you lend and make money. You cannot enhance the wages of your employees if you don’t earn sufficient profits. Your shareholders will have no interest in you if you don’t give them dividend,” he said. “A variety of steps have been initiated, including by the CVC, the RBI and the government that ensure there is no reason for you to be worried if there is prudent lending, properly risk-managed,” Mr. Panda said, suggesting that banks use more technology so that ‘no discretionary scope is available that could be questioned.’ While India now had 42 crore Jan Dhan bank accounts, the Minister told banks that work remained to widen financial inclusion.  Aadhaar link push “You still have so many out there who don’t have a bank account that is Aadhaar-seeded. I do not want to hear from any bank that they can do DBT [direct benefit transfer] because the government wants me to do it, but I still cannot tell from that how many accounts are not Aadhaar-seeded,” Ms. Sitharaman said. “This is giving me a feeling that we may have some duplication, some form of unverified accounts and we are not really sure about each of these accounts. I don’t think, beyond December 31, I can even be patient to hear that there are accounts in banks that are not yet Aadhaar-seeded,” she added, setting March 31, 2021, as the outermost deadline for the process to be completed.
11 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Mahindra Q2 net drops 88% as provisions surge||Auto major Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (M&M) and its wholly owned subsidiary Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Ltd. (MVML) together reported a 88% drop in second-quarter net profit to Rs. 162 crore on account of exceptional items. Exceptional items worth Rs. 1,149.5 crore ‘represent impairment provisions for certain long-term investments,’ the company said. The provisions were made towards the company’s investments in its overseas subsidiaries and in Mahindra Finance Ltd., said Anish Shah, deputy MD and CFO. “There would be no impairment provisions after March 31, 2021 [towards international subsidiaries].”  For the quarter, M&M and MVML reported a 6% growth in revenue to Rs. 11,590 crore. The company sold 21% fewer vehicles at 87,332 during the quarter compared with 1,10,824 units. Exports dropped 33% to 7,103 units.
11 November 2020||Mumbai,||Hindalco profit slumps 60%; sees ‘strong’ H2||Hindalco Industries on Tuesday reported a 60.2% fall in consolidated profit after tax (PAT) to Rs. 387 crore for the quarter ended September 30, but said it was expecting strong third and fourth quarters as demand had returned in domestic as well as export markets. PAT declined due to a one-time impact of Rs. 1,398 crore on account of the divestiture of the Lewisport unit of Aleris in the U.S., Hindalco’s Managing Director Satish Pai told reporters. However, revenue from operations during the July-September quarter rose to Rs. 31,237 crore, from Rs. 29,657 crore in the year-earlier period. In a statement, Hindalco said results were driven by a strong performance by wholly owned subsidiary Novelis, and India aluminium business, supported by higher volumes and better product mix, lower input costs and cost-saving initiatives.
11 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Premji is ‘most generous’ Indian, donates Rs. 7,904 cr.||With donations of Rs. 7,904 crore in 2019-20, Wipro founder Azim Premji topped the EdelGive Hurun India list of ‘India’s most generous’, surpassing Shiv Nadar and Mukesh Ambani. That sum was a 17-fold jump from the Rs. 453 crore Mr. Premji donated in FY19.  Education draws most Mr. Nadar, the HCL founder who had topped the ‘EdelGive Hurun India Philanthropy List’ last year, came a distant second with donations of Rs. 795 crore. The primary cause for which Mr. Premji and Mr. Nadar donated was education. India’s richest man Mukesh Ambani, CMD of Reliance Industries, was third after giving away Rs. 458 crore, mostly for disaster relief. Others in the top 10 include Kumar Mangalam Birla (Rs. 276 crore), Vedanta founder Anil Agarwal (Rs. 215 crore), Ajay Piramal (Rs. 196 crore), Infosys co-founder Nandan Nilekani (Rs. 159 crore), the Hinduja brothers (Rs. 133 crore), Gautam Adani (Rs. 88 crore) and Rahul Bajaj (Rs. 74 crore).
11 November 2020||Mumbai,||Sensex hits 43,000-mark for first time, rises 1.6%||Extending its winning streak for the seventh straight session, the equity benchmark Sensex soared 680 points to scale another lifetime high on Tuesday, tracking a global market rally driven by Pfizer’s COVID-19 vaccine trials data. After touching its lifetime peak of 43,316.44 during the day, the 30-share BSE index settled 680.22 points, or 1.6%, higher at 43,277.65. The broader NSE Nifty touched a fresh intraday high of 12,643.90. It closed 170.05 points, or 1.36%, higher at 12,631.10. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging about 9%, followed by IndusInd Bank, L&T, Bajaj Finserv, HDFC, SBI, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, ONGC and Axis Bank. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, HCL Tech, Infosys, Nestle India, Sun Pharma and TCS closed in the red. “Announcements by BioNTech and Pfizer about successful phase-3 trials of their COVID-19 vaccine instilled confidence among investors and possibility of sustained economic recovery led sharp buying in beaten down stocks,” said Arjun Yash Mahajan, head, Institutional Business, Reliance Securities.
11 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||LG doubles marketing budget to Rs. 100 crore||Anticipating a 50% growth in demand during Diwali, LG Electronics India has this year doubled its marketing budget for the festive season to Rs. 100 crore, a senior company executive said. “We are totally geared up for the festival season… Normally, we used to do TV commercials for one or two products,” Vijay Babu, VP — Home Appliances, LG Electronics India, said. “This time we are seeing huge demand for health and hygiene products and we have the products that meet these requirements. We have doubled the marketing spend this year compared to last year Diwali,” he said. He added that the company would be spending Rs. 100 crore on marketing this festive season. Mr. Babu said that the company is anticipating a 50% year-on-year growth in sales in the home appliance category during the upcoming festivals of Dhanteras and Diwali. “Majorly it’s the pent-up demand. Another reason is that now with the pandemic, people are avoiding eating out, they have cut down travels and other activities... so, these are savings for a middle-class consumer and they are upgrading and buying consumer durables,” Mr. Babu said. He added that following the lifting of curbs June onwards, the firm had witnessed high demand for high-end premium products across categories like refrigerators, dishwashers and washing machines.
11 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Siemens arm not to support new coal units||Siemens Energy, a part of Siemens Ltd. in India, will discontinue support for the development of new coal-fired power plants in the country as a part of Siemens AG’s global policy. But it would continue to offer bridging technologies such as gas-fired plants and components for efficient combined heat and power (CHP), waste heat and biomass co-firing projects and CO2-reducing services. “The above decision does not have a material impact on the revenue or profit of gas and power (now energy) business as the firm currently does not have the competencies to provide utility equipment for new coal-fired power plants,” said Siemens.
11 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SEBI mulls risk control panel for more firms||SEBI on Tuesday proposed extending the requirement of constituting a risk management committee to the top 1,000 listed entities from 500 at present. The risk management committee should meet at least twice a year from the current practice of minimum one meeting, SEBI said in a paper. Considering the multitude of risks faced by listed entities, the regulator said risk management had emerged as a very important function of the board. The COVID-19 pandemic had reinforced the need for a robust risk management framework, it added.
11 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||NMDC fixes buy-back of shares at Rs. 105||Mining major NMDC will buy back more than 13.12 crore equity shares at Rs. 105 each. The offer price is almost 12% premium to Tuesday’s closing price of Rs. 94 on the BSE. NMDC said the board had approved the buy-back of not more than 13,12,43,809 shares (of face value of Rs. 1 each), representing 4.29% of the fully paid-up equity shares, at Rs. 105 each. NMDC set November 23 as record date. For the September quarter, the PSU’s consolidated net profit rose more than 10% to Rs. 772.5 crore. Total income stood at Rs. 2,318.7 crore (Rs. 2,369.4 crore).
11 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Godrej Group forays into home finance||The Godrej Group has forayed into financial services by unveiling Godrej Housing Finance (GHF). The company aims to build a Rs. 10,000-crore balance sheet in three years. “This is the first step in what we hope will be another important pillar of growth for the Godrej Group,” said Pirojsha Godrej, chairman, GHF. “The increasing formalisation of the real estate sector combined with the dislocation in the residential real estate and housing finance markets makes this a particularly interesting opportunity at the moment.” GHF will initially provide loans to Godrej Properties’ clients in Mumbai, NCR, Pune and Bengaluru.
11 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘States may cut capex on infra by up to 40%’||Impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, States are likely to cut capital outlay on infrastructure by up to 40%, rating agency ICRA said. States account for 37-40% of the total infrastructure capital expenditure. The major States together had budgeted a capital outlay of more than Rs. 5.7 lakh crore for 2020-21. “However, with COVID-19 severely impacting revenues of State governments, and additional expenditure towards healthcare and public welfare, the capital outlay on infrastructure by States could decline 10-40% in FY2021,” ICRA said in a statement.
11 November 2020||New Delhi,||SBI board okays to divest 8.5 pc stake in UTI Trustee Co||State Bank of India (SBI) on Tuesday said its board of directors had approved a proposal to divest over 8.5% in UTI Trustee Company. “The executive committee of the central board of directors of State Bank of India approved the divestment of 8,510 equity shares constituting 8.51% of the bank’s stake in UTI Trustee Company Pvt. Ltd.,” SBI said in a regulatory filing on Tuesday.pti
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Fearsome MI breaks DC’s resilience, surges to a record fifth title||Mumbai Indians underlined its status as a true powerhouse team, cruising to a fifth IPL title with a five-wicket victory over Delhi Capitals in Tuesday’s final at the Dubai International Stadium. Saving his best for last MI took the big prize without much fuss, reaching a 157-run target with eight balls to spare. Skipper Rohit Sharma (68, 51b, 5x4, 4x6), not in the best form this season, saved his best for last. Rohit made his intentions clear early, coming down the track to whack R. Ashwin for a six over long-on off the third ball of the chase. His opening partner Quinton de Kock (20, 12b, 3x4, 1x6) packed a punch too. Their pyrotechnics took MI to 58 for one in five overs, effectively shutting DC out of the contest. Selfless Suryakumar The only hiccup came when Suryakumar Yadav and Rohit found themselves at the same end, leading the former to selflessly sacrifice his wicket. The MI captain was eventually dismissed 20 runs short of the target, but he had done his job. Ishan Kishan (33 n.o., 19b, 3x4, 1x6) ensured that MI’s title march would not be stopped. After choosing to bat, DC rode on a 96-run partnership between Shreyas Iyer (65 n.o., 50b, 6x4, 2x6) and Rishabh Pant (56, 38b, 4x4, 2x6) to post a par score. In trouble The duo came together when the side was in trouble at 22 for three, facing heavy fire from pacers Trent Boult and Jasprit Bumrah. Boult gave MI the perfect start, dismissing Marcus Stoinis with a snorter in the very first ball of the match. Boult got his second when Ajinkya Rahane glanced one down the leg to ‘keeper de Kock. Jayant strikes Off-spinner Jayant Yadav, drafted into the eleven to counter the many left-handers in the DC batting line-up, delivered the goods. Jayant tossed one up to Shikhar Dhawan, who failed to connect with a wild slog and lost his stumps. Shreyas and Pant prevented an embarrassing collapse, displaying great temperament to steady the ship. Pant opened up in the 10th over, bowled by left-arm spinner Krunal Pandya, striking two big sixes. The young wicketkeeper-batsman notched up his first fifty of the tournament with a clever ramp shot off Nathan Coulter-Nile, but got out a few deliveries later. Losing momentum Pant’s dismissal put a halt on DC’s scoring rate. Shreyas, Shimron Hetmyer and Axar Patel could not provide much firepower in the death, managing only 38 runs in the last five overs.
11 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Prannoy working on improving his fitness||With international badminton set to resume early next year, H.S. Prannoy, the former World No.8, has intensified his preparations. The 28-year-old former National champion has hired a personal trainer and is concentrating on his off-court fitness to stand up to the rigours of the hectic season ahead. Amal Manohar, the fitness expert who worked with Sanju Samson before this season’s IPL, is Prannoy’s new fitness guru and the badminton star has been following a tough regime for the past one month. Customised programme Amal has chalked up a customised programme for Prannoy to improve his core strength and endurance. It involves a lot of cardiovascular exercises, gym work and beach training. Prannoy, who will be joining Gopichand's academy next week, said it was important to improve his fitness during the off-season as he would be left with little time to work on it once the season gets underway. Long season ahead “It is going to be a long season with lot of tournaments lined up next year, including the Olympics. There is little scope to work on my fitness once the season begins. “I will be joining the camp next week in Hyderabad and the focus there will be mostly on improving my game. “So it is important for me to work on my fitness while I am here in Thiruvananthapuram. Working with Amal was great and I am feeling really good about my fitness,” he said. Prannoy said he had closely followed the Danish Open and added that the tournament has set the template for the future. Fresh challenges “The pandemic has thrown up fresh challenges for players and organisers. Now, after the Danish Open we know what the protocol is and we are mentally prepared,” he said. Prannoy said his aim was to improve his rankings and to qualify for Olympics.
11 November 2020||Paris,||Six-time champion Marquez not to return before 2021||Six-time MotoGP world champion Marc Marquez, who has not raced since fracturing his arm in the season-opener, will sit out the final two events on the 2020 calendar, his Honda team announced on Tuesday. Marquez, 27, had won the title four years in a row but has been sidelined since crashing out of the Spanish GP in Jerez on July 19. The Spaniard will now focus on a return to the track in 2021. MotoGP organisers last weekend released a provisional calendar featuring 20 races. Recovery continues “As his recovery continues, Marc Marquez and the Repsol Honda Team confirm he will not participate in the remainder of the 2020 MotoGP season and aims to return to racing in 2021,” Honda said in a statement. “This season I will not compete again. After evaluating how the arm is doing with the doctors and my team, we have decided that the best option is to return next year,” Marquez tweeted. “It’s time to continue with the recovery. Thanks for the messages of support. Looking forward to returning in 2021.” Marquez underwent surgery following his fall in Spain, and was initially declared fit for the following race before eventually dropping out of qualifying. He had a second operation in August after an accident caused by opening a window at his home, which damaged a titanium plate inserted into his right arm during the first surgery. In his absence, compatriot and former Moto3 champion Joan Mir has surged to the top of the championship. The 23-year-old Suzuki rider won last week’s European MotoGP in Valencia and leads Fabio Quartararo and Alex Rins by 37 points. He can secure the title with another podium finish at the same Ricardo Tormo circuit in Sunday's Valencia GP.  This season I will not compete again... we have decided that the best option is to return next year — Marquez
11 November 2020||KOLKATA,||Lovlina fighting to remain focused||Two-time World championships medal-winning boxer Lovlina Borgohain is relying on meditation to maintain her composure amid adversities as she is looking to bounce back before the Olympics. Lovlina missed the National boxing team’s exposure trip to Italy after testing positive for COVID-19 on October 15. Her mother’s poor health was another cause for concern. “Refocusing on the Olympics is important. Mother’s health is also a worrying factor. I do a lot of meditation to stay calm,” Lovlina told The Hindu . Quarantine Following a tough week in hospital, the 23-year-old is in quarantine at the National Stadium in Delhi. “I resumed training two days after getting out of hospital. With the help of OGQ (Olympic Gold Quest), I am getting online guidance and working on strength and conditioning,” she said. The prolonged isolation has been a test of character. “After the lockdown, I was in quarantine for 23 days in Patiala prior to joining the camp. “Then I went home (in Assam) to see my mother. Again I was in quarantine and now this. “I am just going through everything without thinking too much,” she said. About missing the trip to Italy, she said: “Of course, it was disappointing. “ However, I don’t think it was a big loss as the Olympics is seven months away. I think I can catch up.”  I am just going through everything without thinking too much
11 November 2020||Tokyo,||Olympic test events early next year||Tokyo Olympics organisers on Tuesday said they were encouraged by a gymnastics meet over the weekend and are now ready to hold test events early next year. The Sunday meet featured 22 Russian, Chinese and American athletes entering Japan and competing in Tokyo with a few thousand fans attending. Tokyo Olympic games delivery officer Hidemasa Nakamura told an on-line briefing that plans are now in the works for more test events starting in March. However, he did not say what form these might take or if non-Japanese athletes would be involved. “We are discussing how to deal with COVID-19 together with the Japanese government and Tokyo Metropolitan Government,” he said. “From the beginning of next year we will begin operations and proceed to have test events in March.” Holding the postponed Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics will be far more difficult than a one-day event with a few dozen athletes. Reports said no staff or athletes tested positive for the virus at the meet. The gymnasts who entered Japan first faced a quarantine at home. In Tokyo, they were isolated in hotel rooms, not allowed out for tourism, and tested daily for COVID-19. Convince the world Tokyo Olympic officials, the International Olympic Committee, and the Japanese government are trying to convince the world that the postponed Games can open on July 23 despite so much uncertainty in the ongoing pandemic. IOC president Thomas Bach is expected in Tokyo later this month to drive home the point, particularly with the public and with local sponsors who have put up more than $3 billion to run the Games. Bach cancelled a trip last month to South Korea because of the virus’ resurgence in Europe. The Olympics will involve 11,000 athletes from 206 nations and territories competing over more than two weeks. The Summer Games also usually draw tens of thousands of officials, judges, coaches, media, broadcasters, sponsors and VIPs. The subsequent Paralympics will involve 4,400 athletes. It’s unclear how many fans will be allowed at venues, and if any non-Japanese fans will be allowed. Nakamura was asked about news on Monday that Pfizer Inc. has said that early data on a vaccine suggested it might be 90% effective at preventing COVID-19. “Of course I heard the news about the vaccine and I think that everyone felt a sense of relief,” Nakamura said. “The same can be said for the organising committee. What we are doing right now is not thinking about the vaccine because we don’t have it yet, but rather focused on testing, social distancing and also the cooperation between the athletes and the other stakeholders.”
11 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Mrunmayee — dancing away the blues||Mrunmayee Salgaonkar, the 2019 Asian indoor rowing gold medallist, is raring to be back in the waters after being away for close to eight months because of the pandemic. “It has been a very challenging phase. But, Kathak kept me relaxed,” said Mrunmayee at the webinar ‘Beyond The Track’, organised by Hyderabad Runners and chief National rowing coach Dronacharya Ismail Baig. Sport and education The 19-year-old Mrunmayee, who trains a lot at the Hussain Sagar Lake, said it was a different kind of challenge for her to balance her education (she studies in Nasik) and sport, especially during the pandemic. “I enjoyed Kathak dancing, but nothing compares to the power I got from rowing,” the young rower recalled her early days. My dad persuaded me to take up the sport and once I felt the calmness of the water, there was no turning back,” she said. Mrunmayee, who is a Khelo India scholarship recipient and has qualified for the National camp for Tokyo Olympics (most of the women rowers tested positive for using banned substance and are awaiting final word from NADA), said the ultimate goal is to bring laurels to the country at the highest level. Coach Baig dwelt on the specifics of getting initiated into rowing, identifying prospective athletes, the Indian and international rowing scene, nuances of training to be a competitive rower, as well as what it takes for athletes to excel at the sport. “Rowing takes a lot of strength and endurance from every part of the body,” he said. “The lockdown impacted routines but athletes are returning to institutes and getting back into training.” He also called upon boys and girls to try their hand at the sport from the age of 12 at the Hussain Sagar under the guidance of qualified coaches like V.V. Rao.
11 November 2020||Paris,||Formula One unveils calendar for 2021||Formula One unveiled a 23-race calendar for 2021 on Tuesday, its biggest ever, but the slot that was to be occupied by Vietnam has been left vacant. The season will start in Australia on March 21 and includes the first-ever race in Saudi Arabia on Nov. 28. The Vietnamese organisers said their race originally scheduled for April might never take place. F1 organisers said they expect spectators to return next year. “The plans for 2021 have involved extensive dialogue with all promoters,” F1 said in a statement.
11 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Full auction for 2021?||With the most challenging edition of the IPL ending, the BCCI has seemingly begun preparations for the forthcoming season. In all likelihood, the BCCI is likely to conduct a full auction ahead of the next edition.  The Hindu understands that the BCCI hierarchy has indicated to the franchises informally that a full auction will be scheduled early next year, with an eye on the IPL’s possible return to India, after the 2020 edition was moved to the UAE because of the pandemic. In fact, according to a BCCI insider, the full auction is being planned since “the BCCI has plans to add a ninth team” for the 2021 edition. The move, it is understood, is aimed at striking a financial balance in the aftermath of the pandemic. Should the BCCI — embroiled in an administrative muddle, with top office-bearers, whose term is over, sticking to their positions, hoping for the apex court to hear their plea — decide to float a tender, a corporate giant is likely to go all out to bag a new franchise based in Ahmedabad. The Gujarat Cricket Association has refurbished the stadium in Ahmedabad with a record capacity of 1,10,000.
11 November 2020||RAWALPINDI,||3-0 sweep for Pakistan||Pakistan thrashed Zimbabwe by eight wickets in the third T20I to sweep the series here on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Babar Azam has replaced Azhar Ali as Test captain for the tour of New Zealand. Babar, 26, is now skipper in all three formats and his first assignment will be the World Test Championship fixtures against New Zealand, which will be played in Mount Maunganui and Christchurch from December 26-30 and January 3-7.  The results: Zimbabwe 129/9 in 20 overs (Chamu Chibhabha 31, Donald Tiripano 28, Usman Qadir 4/13) lost to Pakistan 130/2 in 15.2 overs (Abdullah Shafique 41 n.o., Khushdil Shah 36 n.o.). MoM & MoS: Qadir .
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Message of Kapila||In this world, every individual succumbs to the pulls and attractions that constantly influence one’s life to such an extent that one forgets the purpose of one’s birth. While this truth cannot be denied by any one, it is only through some fortunate intervention that some at least are able to be drawn to practise spiritual sadana. This is exemplified in the case of Devahuti who is taught the philosophy of life and existence by her son Kapila who is the incarnation of the Supreme Lord, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. The Kapilopadesa, a crucial section in the Bhagavata Purana, is a compendium of valuable instruction on esoteric matters. It explains the immortal atma as distinct from the body that is perishable. As Devahuti listens to Kapila, she regrets the way she has been involved in the worldly life of senses all these years. Though wedded to Kardama Prajapati, and though hailing from realised ancestry, she has spent her life by being attached to the world. Attachment is the culprit that hides the permanent values one has to seek from one’s vision even as darkness can easily eclipse the brilliance of light. The irony is that one spends the most valuable time in whole hearted attachment to the temporary attractions and goals. If this situation has to be reversed, one has to seek satsanga and direct one’s desires to God alone. The senses are the root cause for keeping us tied to worldly attractions. They are one’s strong enemies that are not easy to control. They nurture the sense of ahamkara and mamakara. All these have to be transcended, says Adi Sankara in the famous stotra Bhaja Govinda. He advocates the company of the pious that alone can provide a suitable environment for the jiva to gain control over the indriyas.
11 November 2020||PARIS,||Neymar and Mbappe contract talks ‘have started’||PSG sporting director Leonardo said on Tuesday contract negotiations with Neymar and Kylian Mbappe are underway. The deals of the pair, who cost the French champion €402 million in two separate transfers, are up in 2022. He also said talks with Angel Di Maria and Juan Bernat are ongoing. “All the extensions we’re considering, we’ve started to talk about. I think they’ll escalate over the coming weeks.”
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 08:19 IST,||Sudoku - November 11, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Viral fame||At 21, when Devansh Sharma, then a fresh college graduate out of Dehradun, adopted the stage name Viruss, little did he realise that five years later most questions put forth to him would start with a ‘why’ and it would be about his name. Now 26, and having been introduced to mainstream Bollywood fame due to the ‘Bam Bholle’ song in Akshay Kumar’s Laxmii , Viruss says that he “didn’t invest a lot of thought” whilst choosing his stage name. “Everybody asks me why I named myself Viruss, and I honestly never thought that a pandemic would happen and that the name would get these negative vibes,” he says, over phone from Mumbai. Having been a part of student politics in college days, the singer opted out of that life to choose a career as a musician, and headed to Mumbai to make it big. “I worked for other singers like Aditya Narayan, and wrote tracks for them. I was there for about a year-and-a-half when I met Anup Kumar paaji (of Ullumanati),” says Viruss.  Trance is missing in mainstream music. However, it is also important to not just stick to one genre of music. So I will try to experiment and create different tracks
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||In frame, on screen||The sixth edition of the Indian Photo Festival (IPF), which has been held in Hyderabad annually since 2015, takes on a virtual hue this year. During the month-long festival from November 12 to December 13, print exhibitions will be on display along the outer walkway of the Kasu Brahmananda Reddy National Park, Hyderabad, and multimedia exhibitions at the State Gallery of Art, Hyderabad. Artist Talk sessions, workshops and masterclasses will be online (for details and to register, check www.indianphotofest.com). Festival curator Aquin Mathew concedes that while he, like many other photography enthusiasts, will miss the personalised approach of interacting with nationally and internationally reputed photographers during the festival, the virtual edition enables aspiring and emerging photographers from other cities to tune in: “The registrations are open. Those who want to get their work evaluated can register and get portfolio reviews done by photographers from National Geographic.” All eyes on this On November 12, 8 pm, septuagenarian master photographers Raghu Rai and Sebastiao Salgado will be in conversation. It took the IPF three years of persuasion to get the Brazilian photographer on board. Speaking over phone, Rai describes Salgado as “a sensitive gentleman and a great human being, not just an excellent photographer of our times”. Rai’s association with the Brazilian photographer goes back to the 1980s when the photography project ‘Workers of the World’ brought Salgado to India. Salgado has stayed with Rai for a week, and the duo discussed life and work. In 2019, Rai was the recipient of the first edition of Académie des beaux-arts Photography Award — William Klein. Rai travelled to Paris to receive the award. In his address at the event, jury member Salgado stated that he had seen photographs of India taken by him in the late 1960s when he was an economist and had been keen to do photography. “‘This is the kind of photographer I would like to become’ Salgado said, talking about my work. He sounded so humble, genuine,” recalls Rai. During the IPF session, Rai and Salgado will talk about the changing trends in photography and why young photographers need to take a meditative approach to capturing images rather than seek instant gratification. There will be insights into photography from their respective careers that span more than five decades. The session will also discuss Salgado’s work as an environmentalist. Stark, poignant captures Bangladesh photographer Abir Abdullah will lead a session on November 16, 8 pm, along with a three-day masterclass. “The online masterclass is designed in a way that it gives students the scope to do research, peer discussions and reviews along with the main presentation,” he says. Abir is known for documentary photography, which he terms as the “core genre to expressing my statements about the world and especially marginalised people and their stories”. He will focus on documentary photography as a potential tool to educate, inform and make people aware of the lives of others. Abir prefers to narrate sensitive stories in black and white: “Black white gives an abstract impression of a difficult scene or situation; black and white also lasts longer in the memory of the readers,” he reasons.  The IPF line-up  Workshops:Editing workshop with Dominique Hildebrand, editor, National Geographic; documenting human rights issues with sensitivity by Smita Sharma; art of travel photography by Abhishek Hajela   Exhibitions:Among the many exhibitions, look out for images by Harsha Vadlamani, Madhugopal Rao, Adam Wiseman and Siegfried Hansen. Documenting the COVID-19 pandemic are T Narayan, Nihal Shanigram and Adnan Abidi.  Artist Talks:Habiba Nowrose, Adnan Abidi, Siegfried Hansen, Marcus Cederberg, Adam Wiseman, T Narayan, Vinod Venkapalli, Indrajit Khambe, Ishan Tankha, Gauri Gill, Kamna Patel, Aun Raza, Paula Bronstein, and others.  Detailed schedule on www.indianphotofest.com
11 November 2020||November 11 2020 00:00 IST,||‘OTT releases do not promote songs’||When the world went into lockdown, Govind Vasantha let his music flow. The composer, who started the year with Jaanu , the Telugu remake of the breakthrough project, 96 , has had a long list of releases on OTT platforms, starting with Jyothika-starrer Ponmagal Vandhaal . Then came Tamil anthology Putham Pudhu Kaalai , and his first Hindi project, Bejoy Nambiar’s Taish . Next up is Suriya’s Deepavali release, Soorarai Pottru (releasing on Amazon Prime on November 12), which has his band Thaikkudam Bridge teaming up with GV Prakash Kumar for a track. He is also on board Vijay Sethupathi’s Tughlaq Durbar and has already released a track sung by rapper Arivu. The musician is also part of Mani Ratnam’s anthology for Netflix, Navarasa , and choreographer Brinda’s directorial début, Hey Sinamika , starring Dulquer Salmaan and Aditi Rao Hydari. In Malayalam, he has finished Nivin Pauly’s Padavettu and Vijay Sethupathi-Nithya Menen-starrer 19 (1) (a).  “It so happened that the projects came one after the other with the films getting pushed or delayed because of the pandemic. Except for the two anthologies, the rest were already there,” he says. Although a guest composer in Putham Pudhu Kaalai, the project has been special in that he has worked with Bombay Jayashri for the segment Avarum Naanum-Avalum Naanum . Directed by Gautham Menon, it tells the story of a grandfather and his granddaughter who reluctantly arrives at his home to stay with him during lockdown. Music is integral to the story. The grandfather and his daughter, a classical singer, are not on talking terms. “Since we don’t see the character, it was important to have a voice that stood out, one that was mature and melancholic. It had to be a haunting number as well and that is why I decided to go with Jayashri ma’am,” he says. The song, ‘Kanna Thoothu Poda’, written by Karky, has minimal arrangement, with a blend of Carnatic and folk elements. “I didn’t want to make it an out-and-out Carnatic track but something on the lines of ‘Padariyen padippariyen…’ [from Sindhubhairavi ]. So it starts off as a Carnatic song and slowly shifts to a folksy mood,” says Govind, who has also done the background score of the segment. However, he is disappointed that the song has not had the reach he hoped for. “That’s the downside of OTT releases. We don’t know whether the audience liked the song or not. Songs too are not promoted as much as in a theatrical release,” he observes. As for Soorarai Pottru , it was director Sudha Kongara who approached his band to use their song, ‘Urumbu’ in the track, ‘Aagasam’.
11 November 2020||New Delhi,||Provide more COVID-19 beds: Kejriwal to Centre||With new COVID-19 cases in the city showing an upward trend, the Delhi government has requested the Central government to provide at least 1,092 additional beds with manpower, as there is a “shortage” of 4,900 beds, as per official projections. “I request you to issue necessary directions to the authorities concerned to ensure that the above steps to provide at least 1,092 additional beds, including 300 ICU beds with manpower are taken on priority,” Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a letter to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan dated Saturday, which is seen by The Hindu . Cases to surge Mr. Kejriwal said in the letter, which is yet to be made public, that as per the Report-III of the Empowered Group-1 on September-November, the worst-case scenario is about 11,909 new COVID-19 cases per day in Delhi by November-end or early December, for which a capacity of 20,604 COVID-19 beds is required. “At present, Delhi has a total bed capacity of 15,713 for treating COVID patients... However, the shortfall of around 4,900 beds, as per the projection of the Report-III of the Empowered Group-1, will have to be met by augmentation in both the Central government and State government hospitals apart from leveraging private sector capacities,” the letter read. Upscale capacities The Chief Minister said in the letter that as per information obtained from different Central government hospitals in Delhi, it has been observed that a capacity augmentation of around 1,092 beds has been proposed by these hospitals. “It is, therefore, requested that Central government hospitals may be directed to upscale their capacities as indicated so that the number of beds are augmented to ensure that hospital capacity for COVID-19 patients in Delhi is adequate in the coming weeks,” the letter said. The letter also said that according to projections made by an expert committee, the number of new cases is expected to rise to 15,000 per day during this third surge in the upcoming weeks due to various factors such as rising pollution, celebration of festivals, wedding season among others.
11 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi’s air quality ‘severe’ for sixth consecutive day||The air quality of Delhi and Noida continued to be in the ‘severe’ category for the sixth consecutive day and that of Gurugram for the fourth day on Tuesday, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The newly formed Commission on Air Quality Management (CAQM), as an interim measure, has given the CPCB powers to operationalise measures under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) on air pollution, The GRAP is a set of emergency measures to be implemented to control air pollution depending upon the air quality. Currently, measures under ‘severe’ category of GRAP are in place, including a ban on diesel generators. Measures under ‘severe+’ category of GRAP include stopping entry of trucks into Delhi, ban on construction, and introduction of odd-even vehicle rationing scheme, among others. Improvement expected The necessary conditions for imposition of severe+ measures have been met as on Tuesday evening, as per CPCB data. But a decision was yet to be taken as of 9 p.m. on Tuesday. “Tomorrow [Wednesday], the Air Quality Index is likely to improve to the lower end of ‘severe’ to higher end of ‘very poor’ category owing to a forecasted change in transport level wind direction and marginally better ventilation condition,” said monitoring agency SAFAR. Severe air pollution level affects “healthy people” and “seriously impacts” those with existing diseases. PM2.5 level The level of PM2.5, a deadly pollutant, in Delhi and NCR has been above 300 micrograms per cubic metre (ug/m3) since 7 p.m. on Sunday. Measures under ‘severe+’ category of the GRAP can be implemented when the PM2.5 level crosses 300 ug/m3 or PM10 level crosses 500 ug/m3, and persist for 48 hours or more. The PM2.5 level in Delhi was 427.5 ug/m3 at 9 p.m. on Tuesday — seven times above the safe limit of 60 ug/m3. The 24-hour average AQI of Delhi was 476 on Tuesday. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 427 and 455 respectively. The number of farm fires in Haryana, Punjab, and neighbouring regions of Delhi dipped to 2,247 on Monday. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5 level in Delhi was estimated to be around 22% on Tuesday.
11 November 2020||New Delhi,||Teen beaten to death by group after quarrel||A 17-year-old boy was beaten to death allegedly by a group of five people after a quarrel broke out between them in outer Delhi’s Alipur on Tuesday, the police said. Two of the accused have been apprehended, they said. The deceased has been identified as Karan Pal, a Class XI student. His father Ajay Pal is into the business of mini bus services. He along with his 20-year-old brother, Aman Pal, helped his father in maintainence of buses, they said. The incident took place at 2.30 p.m. in Bakhtawarpur in Alipur. According to police, a week ago, the boy had a fight with the accused group following a heated argument over his father’s bus. The group, at that time, was returning after attending their computer coaching classes in the area. They were standing next to Pal’s bus. Fearing that they might damage his father’s bus, Karan asked them what they were upto. This lead to a fight between them. The group left the spot but on Tuesday again, a fight broke out between them. The victim was punched and beaten by the group following which he was rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead, a senior officer said. The group, including juveniles, have been apprehended. A case of murder has been registered and further probe is under way, police said.
11 November 2020||New Delhi,||Capital witnesses biggest single-day spike with 7,830 fresh cases||Delhi on Tuesday witnessed the biggest single-day spike in new COVID-19 cases with 7,830 fresh infections reported in 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the city government. The death toll has risen to 7,143 with 83 more fatalities reported in a single day. Of the total 4,51,382 cases, 4,02,854 people have recovered and there are now 41,385 active cases. “Prompt and appropriate treatment is the key to save lives and combat COVID-19 complications and deaths. All testing centres are hereby directed to ensure xxygen saturation. Patients with less than 94% oxygen saturation must undergo a medical examination,” Health Minister Satyendar Jain said. Of the total 16,324 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 50.6% were occupied, as per government data. Also, 84.9% of the ICU beds with ventilators are occupied and 83.6% of ICU beds without ventilators are full.
11 November 2020||New Delhi,||Jain addresses concerns over industrial policy||Minister of Industries Satyendar Jain on Tuesday convened a meeting with the industrial associations of the Capital, seeking to address their concerns regarding the recent notification implemented by the Delhi government. According to the notice issued by the Centre, only hi-tech and service industries will be allowed to operate in new industrial areas in Delhi. The old industries have the option to switch to the service sector from the manufacturing sector. “As per the amendments in the Master Plan-2021, hi-tech industries will be set up in the new industrial areas, something which we were trying from the last four years. These sectors were not legally allowed to be set up in traditional industrial areas earlier,” Mr. Jain said. “We have now got these areas legalised due to which the old industrial areas can operate both new hi-tech services and old services, and new industrial areas can only set up hi-tech offices,” he said. In the new industrial sectors, he said computer hardware and software industries, industries doing systemic integration, industries integrating and manipulating the interfaces of computer and telecom facilities, IT service among many others too will be allowed to operate. Mr. Jain said that the old industries will not have to pay any conversion charges upon shifting to new industries.
11 November 2020||New Delhi,||E-health card facility to be implemented in Delhi by Aug. 2021: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday convened a meeting and directed the health officials to ensure the implementation of the Health Information Management System (HIMS) and the e-health card facility in Delhi government hospitals. The HIMS will be implemented by August 2021 in all Delhi government hospitals with the system seeking to target the healthcare delivery process. The Delhi government will also issue an e-health card to the people, which will be a QR-based card to identify and track demographic and basic clinical details of every patient. “By 2021, every resident of Delhi visiting a hospital should be issued a card to avail the benefits of the government healthcare services. Post the issuing, we have to ensure that this card is integrated with the HIMS,” said Mr. Kejriwal.  The HIMS will be implemented to provide effective healthcare services to the residents of Delhi through technologically empowered healthcare processes, the government said. Mr. Kejriwal said that with the e-health card, healthcare facilities will be extended to everybody and provide convenience to residents of Delhi seeking treatment in government hospitals. “It is our duty to ensure that there is no inconvenience to the people of Delhi. This management system should be able to provide all the healthcare facilities to the people,” Mr. Kejriwal said.
11 November 2020||New Delhi,||Civic bodies not giving medical aid to retd. workers, alleges AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday alleged that the BJP-ruled municipal corporations had collected Rs. 221 crore from their retired employees for cashless insurance in private hospitals, but did not pay a “single penny” to the clinics. “This shameful act by the BJP has created havoc among the 34,000 retired employees and they are not getting any medical assistance. These people are suffering due to misgovernance and corruption of the BJP,” said AAP leader Durgesh Pathak. “There are around 34,000 retired employees under the BJP’s North Corporation and East civic body. These people have opted for cashless insurance scheme and now they are suffering. The scheme is that the employee will pay certain amount of money to the corporations by which they will ensure free treatment in any Delhi hospital,” he said. Under the scheme, the BJP-ruled civic bodies took money from every employee and these retirees had deposited around Rs. 221 crore in the account of the corporations, Mr. Pathak said. He said that the corporations were supposed to pay regular bills to the registered hospitals under the scheme but they did not pay a “single penny” to these hospitals. “Today, 1.25 lakh civic employees are protesting due to non-payment of salaries. Around 34,000 pensioners have not received money for many months. Now, these retirees are not getting any health benefits,” Mr. Pathak said, while demanding that the civic bodies resolve the issues.
11 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||2 held for making Aadhaar cards using forged papers||Two men were arrested for allegedly making Aadhaar cards and voter IDs for a gang of cheats using forged documents, the police said on Tuesday. The accused — Umesh Chander (29) and Ravi Sachdeva (36) — were arrested from Mangolpuri and Burari respectively on Saturday, they said. The arrest was made by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police in connection with a case registered on a complaint by a private bank, which alleged that a gang of cheats had procured several credit as well as debit cards from it using forged documents. On November 4, eight members of the gang were arrested in the case by the EOW and hundreds of credit and debit cards, PAN cards, Aadhaar cards, cash and jewellery were also recovered from their possession. Joint Commissioner of Police (EOW) O.P. Mishra said during interrogation, the gang members revealed that Chander and Sachdeva prepared PAN cards, Aadhaar cards and voter IDs on the basis of forged documents for them to obtain credit and debit cards from various banks. The officer said Chander used to work as an operator in a firm authorised for processing data for preparation of Aadhaar cards. He was aware of the entire process of preparing Aadhaar cards.
11 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||Sharpshooter killed in police encounter||A 23-year-old sharpshooter, wanted in connection with the murder of a Congress leader, was killed and his accomplice injured in an encounter with the Gurugram Police in the early hours of Tuesday. The deceased carried a cash reward of Rs. 50,000 on his arrest. Rohit alias Lambu, a resident of Gurugram’s Kakrola village, was wanted for the murder of Congress’ Vikas Chaudhary at Faridabad in June last year. Mr. Chaudhary was shot inside his SUV parked outside a gym in Sector 9. Faridabad Police had announced a reward of Rs. 25,000 on Rohit in this connection. He carried a reward of similar amount announced by the Gurugram Police. Rohit and his accomplice Satender Pathak alias Gudda were headed towards Gurugram in a hatchback to allegedly commit a robbery when the police, acting on a tip-off, put barricades on the Tauru-Naurangpur Road around 3 a.m. to stop them. The duo tried to run on foot after their car hit a boulder and came to a halt. They were then injured in an exchange of bullets with the police, said Assistant Commissioner of Police, Crime, Preet Pal Sangwan.
11 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||15 of gang held for stealing two-wheelers||Fifteen members of a gang — who allegedly stole two-wheelers to commit snatchings and robberies — have been arrested, the police said on Tuesday. A total of 125 stolen bikes have been recovered from them, they said. DCP (Outer) A. Koan said the action was taken after it was observed that snatchers were using stolen motorcycles to commit crimes Outer District. The auto lifters provided stolen bikes to snatchers on rent or commission. On October 23, a team was constituted to curb such activities. The team nabbed three persons — Sumit, Ajay and Vika — from Sultanpuri during picket checking. During inquiry, it was found that they stole the motorcycles — they were riding — from Sultanpuri and adjoining areas. They also lent these vehicles to other criminals. Mr. Koan said the accused are members of a syndicate headed by one Sagar, who is involved in 33 cases of theft, snatching and auto-lifting.
11 November 2020||New Delhi,||10-DE-Rocky-Delhi HC Kejriwal defamation||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has approached the Delhi HC against a Sessions court order which issued summons to him in a defamation complaint filed against him by Bharatiya Janata Party leader Karan Singh Tanwar.
11 November 2020||New Delhi,||10-DE-Rocky-Delhi Court MJ Akbar||Former Union Minister M.J. Akbar told a Delhi Court on Tuesday that journalist Priya Ramani’s tweet accusing him of sexual harassment were defamatory and lowered his reputation. Mr. Akbar’s statement were made before ACMMVishal Pahuja during the final arguments in a criminal defamation complaint filed by him against Ms. Ramani. The next hearing is onWednesday.
