12 July 2020||JAIPUR,||BJP offering MLAs Rs. 25 crore to topple Rajasthan govt.: Gehlot||A major dispute has arisen between the ruling Congress and the Opposition BJP in Rajasthan, with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot once again accusing the latter of trying to topple his government in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Gehlot said on Saturday that though huge sums of money were being offered to the Congress MLAs, his government was stable and would complete its term. A day after the Special Operations Group (SOG) of the Rajasthan police registered a case on the alleged attempts to destabilise the State government, Mr. Gehlot said at a press conference in Jaipur that BJP leaders in the State, who had crossed the “limits of shamelessness”, were playing the game at the behest of Central leaders of their party. ‘Organised effort’ Mr. Gehlot said this was the second attempt to topple his government, after the BJP’s attempt to poach the legislators ahead of last month’s Rajya Sabha elections failed. “This time, the efforts are more organised. MLAs have been offered an advance of Rs. 10 crore and a deferred payment of Rs. 15 crore,” he claimed. “Amid the crisis posed by the pandemic, the BJP has gone beyond humanity. Its leaders are doing politics like in a bakra mandi (goat market),” Mr. Gehlot said. He named Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria, Deputy Leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore and BJP State president Satish Poonia as those involved in “dirty games”. The SOG has detained two persons, whose telephone calls were intercepted, after registering an FIR in connection with the horse-trading charges during the Rajya Sabha polls. The FIR stated that the conversation revolved around the alleged differences between the Chief Minister and his deputy Sachin Pilot and the scope for breaking the ruling party and luring Independent MLAs to topple the government. Notice to CM, Dy. CM While the SOG has issued notices to the Chief Minister, the Deputy Chief Minister and the government’s chief whip Mahesh Joshi for recording their statements, the Anti-Corruption Bureau is also likely to take action under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Mr. Gehlot said the SOG’s investigation, which he would be glad to join by giving his statement, would reveal all aspects of the BJP’s conspiracy. The BJP rejected Mr. Gehlot’s allegations and accused him of misusing the agencies like SOG and ACB for “threatening MLAs and [other] political parties”.
12 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||COVID-19 threatens to engulf State’s coastal belt||COVID-19 is threatening to engulf Kerala’s coastal belt as densely populated fisher colonies with their crowded living environs and inherent occupational hazards faced by fisherfolk in their daily activities of livelihood have made this region vulnerable to intense disease transmission. Apart from five clusters found in three coastal wards of Thiruvananthapuram, the Chellanam area in Ernakulam district and the coastal areas of Alappuzha too have begun to show signs of cluster formation, where intense disease containment activities are on now. Public health experts pointed out that the coastal belt should be seen as one large community cluster because coastal living conditions were the same everywhere. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Saturday that intense surveillance, testing and containment activities had to be focussed on the coastal areas. Stringent measures Stringent measures, including declaring these areas as containment zones and preventing the movement of people outside, restrictions in the movement of fishermen across borders and controls in fish markets, were necessary as it would not take long before the disease transmission reaches inland, Mr. Vijayan said. He said that intense disease transmission was being reported across the State now. In Thiruvananthapuram, where five clusters had been reported in coastal wards within the city Corporation, the situation was fluid. Of the 69 fresh cases reported in the district on Saturday, 46 were through local transmission and 11 cases were with no known source of infection. In Alappuzha, 51 out of the 87 cases reported were developed through contact transmission. Local transmission was rife in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police camp at Nooranad, Kayamkulam market, and in the coast where two fishermen were now positive. First-line centres More first-line treatment centres were being readied in all districts in anticipation of a surge in patient load and officials from various departments were being deployed to help the Health Department staff. Vigil was tightened in Malappuram where four clusters were reported. Some 7,266 tests using viral antigen detection kits in Ponnani taluk yielded 89 positive cases. In Ernakulam, testing was intensified in the Chellanam coastal belt where a cluster was in the making with 13 positive cases. Another 161 symptomatic cases were reported in the region. Controls were being imposed in the markets at Kasaragod where local transmission cases are once again on a upswing. In Kollam too, the coastal belt was very vulnerable to COVID-19 after three fishers who tested positive had transmitted the disease to 15 persons. Mr. Vijayan said that a special action plan had been formulated for surveillance, prevention and containment in the tribal belt of Wayanad. Mr. Vijayan appealed to the people to cooperate with the antigen tests. Asymptomatic persons formed a chunk of the cases detected, however, they can still transmit disease. Hence active case finding is very crucial, he pointed out.
12 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Tension at Poonthura, adjacent wards eases||After a tense day, a sense of calm returned to Poonthura and the adjacent wards of Manikyavilakam and Puthenpally with the State government and the district administration taking steps to address some of the concerns raised by the people after the areas were declared containment zones on Thursday following the detection of a large number of COVID-19 cases there. But, the pandemic situation remained grim here, with close to 300 COVID-19 cases being reported in total. Early Saturday, District Collector Navjot Khosa announced the formation of a quick response team consisting of Revenue, Police and Health department officials, specifically focussing on the area. Poonthura had on Friday witnessed protests by the local people, fuelled partly by lack of access to essential items and partly by false rumours regarding testing. The quick response team, under the tahsildar and the incident commander, will function round-the-clock. It will monitor the transport of goods, and provision of water and electricity to the critical containment zone. Facilities arranged Instructions have been issued to post sufficient number of personnel at the community health centre at Poonthura and provide facilities including ambulance round-the-clock. As per the instructions from the district administration, no hospital in the region is allowed to deny treatment. Screening test would be conducted on those displaying COVID-19 symptoms. One of the major complaints of the local population was regarding the shortage of essentials, as most of the shops remained closed and the residents were being turned back from shops in adjacent wards. On Saturday morning, mobile Maveli stores, Haritha’s vegetable store, mobile ATMs, and mobile chicken stall became functional, with people queuing up in considerable numbers wherever they stopped. “Now, the situation here has improved considerably compared to Friday. But, quite a few people appear in public without masks, and physical-distancing norms are not being followed everywhere. There is a shortage of police personnel on roads after a junior sub-inspector tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday leading to some personnel to go into quarantine. The city Corporation has distributed 20,000 masks in Poonthura and surrounding wards, but some more awareness on the need for wearing masks and follow physical distancing needs to happen,” says Sony, Health Inspector, Poonthura. The body of 67-year-old Saifudeen, the first COVID-19 death in the Poonthura region, was buried in the afternoon by Health Department and city Corporation officials following all protocols.
12 July 2020||Srinagar,||Kashmiris pitch in to charter flights home from Dubai||While the Vande Bharat Mission has brought home thousands of people stranded abroad, the preference for the elderly, pregnant women and persons with medical emergencies meant that not everyone got a ticket to fly. Two government-run flights brought back many Kashmiris from Dubai to Srinagar on May 22 and June 11. “However, over 800 stranded Kashmiris continued to suffer. We wanted to attend to their desperation,” Farooq Peerzada, an engineer working in Dubai, told The Hindu over the phone. “Scores of companies stopped hiring and started thinning out staff in April, with many Kashmiris losing their jobs. We had no money to pay even rent. We started shifting to friends’ places. But sustaining ourselves was getting difficult with each passing day. Even our kids started suffering due to the slump,” said Adil Ahmad (name changed), who worked in the sales section of a company. Growing number of distress videos and appeals on social media platforms by stranded and jobless youth in Dubai and their families in Kashmir forced the community to work on a novel idea: pooling money and arranging the logistics for charter flights, with the financially less stressed buying their own ticket and others being fully or partially funded from the pool. Two such flights, one on June 25 and the other on July 3, have helped around 385 desperate youth and their families escape the Dubai lockdown and the growing unemployment there due to the economic slump induced by the COVID-19 pandemic. A third such flight is scheduled for next week, tentatively July 14. Brainchild of six The entire initiative was the brainchild of six Dubai-based employees and businessmen — Kaiser Zargar, Alim Banday, Sajad Wani, Irfan Wani, Sadia Dehlvi and Mr. Peerzada. Their ‘Fly Kashmir Team’ collaborated with Miraj Islamic Art Centre, a carpet company, on the charter flights. “It was a tedious process. We started registering the stranded passengers on J&K government-run portals to get approval from the Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir,” said Mr. Peerzada. Step-by-step clearances from India’s Ministry of Civil Aviation, Bureau of Immigration and Dubai’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs followed. “The process became prolonged because of the need for securing airspace approval and to arrange medical staff and quarantine facilities in Srinagar. Finally, June 25 saw the first community-sponsored charter flight touch down in Srinagar,” said Mr. Peerzada. According to an estimate, over 30,000 people from Kashmir, including employees and their families, live in Dubai. A J&K government spokesman said 2.08 lakh stranded residents have returned to the Union Territory by July 11 by road and air.
12 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Drop in COVID cases, nine more succumb||Six days after surge in COVID-19 cases in Telangana, the cases are on downward trajectory from the figures of past three days as 1,178 cases were recorded on Saturday. While 1,924 cases were detected on Wednesday, 1,410 were recorded on Thursday, 1,278 on Friday, and 1,178 on Saturday. Nine more COVID-19 patients died on the day. Of the 1,178 new cases, 736 were recorded in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 125 from Rangareddy, and 101 from Medchal. A total of 33,402 cases were recorded from March 2 to July 11. Of them, 12,135 are active cases, 20,919 were discharged, and 348 died. From Friday, when the number of tests were further increased by the State Health department, a curious trend has been observed. While the number of tests increased, the number of cases has come down from the past two days. The number of tests conducted in a day ranged between 3,000 and 6,500 from June 20 to July 9. On July 10 (Friday), 10,354 tests were conducted, and 11,062 were conducted on Saturday. Until Tuesday, only RT-PCR tests were used to determine a positive case. The State Health department has started to use Rapid Antigen Tests to determine coronavirus positive cases. Number of tests conducted in a day and total tests are mentioned in the Medical Bulletin issued daily by the State Health department. However, it was not mentioned in the Medical Bulletin if the tests conducted on Friday and Saturday included Rapid Antigen Tests. The World Health Organisation, on April 8 stated that sensitivity of antigen-based Rapid Diagnostic Tests might be expected to vary from 34% to 50%. This was based on experience with the RDTs for other respiratory diseases such as influenza. Since sensitivity of the antigen test is under question, some who have coronavirus might test negative. This is called false negative. If the State Health department categorises the numbers according to the RT-PCR, and Rapid Antigen Tests, it helps people understand sensitivity of the tests. When asked, senior officials of the Health department said that those with symptoms and who test negative in the Rapid Antigen Test would be tested again using RT-PCR method. Link to Positivity Rate The Test Positivity Rate might drop over the days if equally high number or more tests are conducted in the State. The positivity rate is percentage of samples which test positive for coronavirus. From 12.6% till June 16, it spiked to 21.98% till June 9. This was observed after tests were increased from mid-June. It stood at 20.05% on Saturday.
12 July 2020||Madurai,||Madurai sends 800 samples daily to Chennai, Coimbatore||As Madurai ramps up COVID-19 testing, the district administration has been sending over 800 samples collected from the district to Chennai and Coimbatore to bridge the capacity gap. Collector T. G. Vinay said that Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) has the capacity to test 2,200 samples a day. Since June 8, the district administration has been conducting 3,000 tests a day. “Considering that we have significantly increased the tests in the last few days, we have reached out to districts where labs have the ability to undertake our testing too so that there is no backlog every day. Apart from Chennai and Coimbatore, we are likely to send samples to Tirunelveli as more testing needs to be done. The samples are being taken securely by road and it takes eight hours to get results,” he said. Until the first week of June, the district was only taking half the number of samples it currently takes. District Monitoring Officer B. Chandra Mohan, while interacting with mediapersons on June 2, said that they were collecting 1,500 samples a day. As cases increased, the Collector said that they have been intensifying testing and implementing the fever clinic model, where those with symptoms of COVID-19 can get their tests done at government-run fever clinics or at private labs. “All the results are uploaded online. We immediately communicate to those who have tested positive so that we can discuss severity and treatment options for them,” he said.
12 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||COVID tally crosses 27,000-mark in State||In an yet another biggest single-day spike of COVID-19 cases and deaths, the State witnessed 17 more fatalities and 1,813 new cases in the past 24 hours ending Saturday morning. While the tally went up to 27,235, the toll mounted to 309. Of the total number of cases, 24,422 are local, 2,385 pertain to people of other States and 428 are foreign returnees, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. With the recovery of 1,199 patients, the number of recoveries increased to 14,393, and 12,533 patients are undergoing treatment. The recovery rate is 52.85% and has been increasing over the past few days. The death rate is 1.13%. Four deaths in Kurnool Kurnool district recorded four new deaths while Guntur and Vizianagaram witnessed three deaths each. Krishna and Nellore saw two deaths each and Anantapur, Kadapa and Visakapatnam one death each. Of the total fresh cases, 1,755 are of locals and only 34 are of people from other States, and four are of foreign returnees. Anantapur reported 311 new local cases, the highest in the past one day. Close to it, Chittoor reported 300 cases, and Kurnool and Srikakulam 229 and 204 cases respectively. The samples tested so far is 11,36,225, including the 20,590 tested in the past day.
12 July 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 deaths in west Bengal cross 900||West Bengal on Saturday recorded 26 more deaths due to COVID-19 taking the number of casualties to 906. The State recorded yet another highest single-day spike of 1,344 cases in 24 hours, taking the tally to 28,453. The active cases rose to 9,558. Of the 26 deaths, 16 were recorded in Kolkata alone, five in the North 24 Parganas, four in Howrah and one in the South 24 Parganas. With the fresh spurt, the recovery rate also dropped to 63.11%. Delays in last rites Reports of bodies not being handed over to families and delay in conducting the last rites of the deceased also came from Kolkata and adjoining districts. The Kolkata police have requested the authorities of the Cricket Association of Bengal to allow the Eden Gardens as a makeshift quarantine centre. “The police are in an urgent need of a large accommodation for setting up a makeshift quarantine centre for the personnel with immediate effect,” a letter by Joint Commissioner (Headquarters) Supratim Sarkar to Abhishek Dalmiya, president of CAB, said. In the letter dated July 10, the police have sought the gallery of blocks E, F, G H and J. They held a meeting with the CAB officials and visited the iconic grounds. The CAB authorities have allowed the police to use the galleries. With the infections spreading at a rapid pace, even police personnel are getting infection. There were reports of several personnel testing positive at Kasba station. Minister’s wife infected Earlier in the day, Minister and former cricketer Lakshmi Ratan Shukla took to twitter saying his wife Smita Sanyal Shukla has tested positive. Ms. Shukla is also a Deputy Secretary of the Health Department. Tollywood actor Koel Mullick and her father actor Ranjit Mullick have also tested positive.
12 July 2020||New Delhi,||All upcoming exams of State-run universities cancelled: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday said all upcoming written examinations of universities under Delhi government will be cancelled due to the novel coronavirus outbreak, and students, including those in final year, will be passed based on evaluation of previous exams or semesters. “All State universities have been asked to promote students based on previous exams or semesters or other evaluations till now. First year, second year and third year or final year exams will not be conducted,” said Mr. Sisodia while addressing a video briefing. “Final-year students should also be evaluated this way (without written examinations) and awarded degrees.” The Minister clarified that the decision is for Delhi’s State universities such as Ambedkar University Delhi, Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University and Delhi Technological University. The Capital also has Central government-run universities such as DU and JNU and the Centre will have to take a decision on them. “Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is going to write to the Prime Minister [Narendra Modi] that the decision taken by the Delhi government for State universities should be replicated for Central government-run universities across the country so that students get some relief,” said Mr. Sisodia. Later, Mr. Kejriwal tweeted that he had urged the Prime Minister to personally intervene and cancel the final year exams of DU and other central government-run universities.  ‘Problem for students’ The University Grants Commission had announced this week that final-year university examinations may be postponed until the end of September, but must be conducted in either online or offline mode. Reacting to the uncertainty over the exams, DU’s executive council member Rajesh Jha said: “The attempt to score political points over exams will complicate the problems further for the students. Let the universities decide. When the district administration can decide on lockdown, containment zo-nes, then why can’t the universities, the AC [academic council] and the V-C together decide about the exams?”
12 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||HC seeks U.P. govt.’s response on recovery order against Darapuri||The Allahabad High Court has asked the Uttar Pradesh government to explain under what law it had issued a recovery order of Rs. 64.37 lakh against human rights activist and retired IPS officer S.R. Darapuri in connection with damage to private and public property during the protests against the Citizenship (Ame-ndment) Act last December. Mr. Darapuri, a septuagenerian, is among 57 persons who were issued recovery notices by the Lucknow administration. Many of them have been issued orders for confiscation of their properties or face the threat of being arrested again. The former IPS officer is one of the accused in the FIR lodged at Hazratganj police station. He is currently out on bail. Justice Rajan Roy of the Lucknow Bench on Friday directed the State standing counsel to “satisfy” the court under what authorities of law the notice for recovery was issued to Mr. Darapuri. The court also asked if “on the date of the alleged incident there was any provision of law permitting such recovery, that too unilaterally, without any notice or opportunity of hearing”. Mr. Darapuri had filed a petition praying for the quashing of the recovery proceedings and urged the court to issue a notice to the government to not take any coercive action. He argued that Section 143 (3) of the U.P. Revenue Code invoked in the recovery order was non-existent. The matter will come up for hearing on July 14. Officials in Lucknow had recently visited Mr. Darapuri’s house in a bid to recover the fine and also allegedly threatened to confiscate his property.
12 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Leading firms keen on rail operations||Leading infrastructure companies, rail vehicle and equipment manufacturers, and service industry firms are learnt to have evinced interest in running private trains on the rail network. Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Ltd. (IRCTC) and Bharat Earth Movers Ltd (BEML), mining and construction equipment manufacturer under the Ministry of Defence, have also shown interest. Hyundai, Hitachi, Bombardier, Alstom, and Siemens are among the infrastructure majors keen to compete with Indian companies such as Adani Ports, KEC International, and Essel Group in the Request for Qualifications (RFQ) invited by Railways for passenger train services on over 100 routes with 150 modern trains. The IRCTC, which has created a brand in tourism and catering, is behind the country’s first three private trains operating on Delhi-Lucknow, Ahmedabad-Mumbai, and Indore-Varanasi corridors. Road map  According to a road map worked out by Railways, the train sets have to be brought by private operators and maintained by them. Fares will be competitive and passengers can look forward to world-class service. The selected entity will pay fixed haulage charges, energy charges as per actual consumption, and a share in gross revenue to Railways.
12 July 2020||MUMBAI,||Vikas Dubey’s aides held in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Saturday nabbed two associates of Vikas Dubey, who was shot dead by the Uttar Pradesh Police on Friday. An ATS team of the Juhu unit, led by former Mumbai police “encounter specialist” inspector Daya Nayak, laid a trap at Kolshet Road, Thane, following a tip-off and arrested Arvind, alias Guddan Ramvilas Trivedi, 46, and Sushilkumar, alias Sonu Suresh Tiwari, 30. They have been booked under Sections 302 (punishment for murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. Murder of Minister “Initial inquiry by the agency revealed that Guddan was involved in many cases with Dubey, including the 2001 murder of State Minister Santosh Shukla,” said Vikram Deshmane, Superintendent of Police, ATS. The Uttar Pradesh government had announced a cash reward for his arrest. He said Uttar Pradesh Police’s Special Task Force had been informed about the arrests. Dubey and his henchmen had ambushed a police team that had gone to arrest him in an attempt to murder case on the intervening night of July 2 and 3. Eight policemen died and several more were injured in the shootout that followed.
12 July 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata urges PM to cancel final year exams||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to ‘re-examine’ the order of the University Grants Commission (UGC) to hold terminal examinations for colleges and universities. The letter comes days after State Education Secretary Manish Jain wrote to Secretary of Ministry of Human Resource and Development Amit Khare urging him to “re-examine the matter in the interest of the physical and mental well-being of students”. Ms. Banerjee said her government has had extensive consultations with all the Vice-Chancellors and other stakeholders on June 27 where it has been decided that weightage to the internal assessment and previous semesters will be given to students. “The Universities/colleges aided by the State government have already taken steps as per the advisory issued by the Higher Education department,” she said in the letter. She said the discussions were held “considering such unforeseen, uncertain and challenging situation” with the trend of rising COVID-19 cases. The authorities urged the VCs to write to the UGC against the order. “In fact, I am now receiving hundreds of emails from the students and the teaching community raising their concern compelling me to take up the matter with your good office.” She said students and the teaching community are assets and “we must take care of their physical and mental well- being”. “I understand that various States have already raised the issue with the government of India,” Ms. Banerjee wrote in the letter.  I am now receiving hundreds of emails from the students and the teaching community raising their concern  Mamata Banerjee  West Bengal Chief Minister
12 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||UGC to take action if States cancel exams: Govt.||As Delhi became the latest State to cancel final year university examinations in defiance of University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines, both the Centre and the regulatory agency reiterated that guidelines were legally binding on the States and must be followed. Concurrent list “As per the UGC Act, State governments cannot take this decision. Unlike school education, which is on the State list, higher education is on the concurrent list. UGC and AICTE [All India Council for Technical Education] directives have to be implemented. It is there in the Act,” Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare told The Hindu . “It is not permissible for States to do like this. UGC does have the power to take action. First we will try to take States on board.” On Monday, the UGC had directed that final year examinations must be conducted by September-end in online or offline mode.
12 July 2020||MUMBAI,||Dharavi proves we can curb COVID-19: CM||After the World Health Organization (WHO) Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus acknowledged the success of Mumbai’s densely populated Dharavi slum in containing the COVID-19 pandemic’s spread on Friday, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said the battle against the virus in Dharavi demonstrated that it can be contained through self-discipline and community efforts. At least 82% patients in Dharavi have recovered, and the number of active cases has been arrested to 166, the CM said. “Dharavi is an inspiration for the world on how to curb the spread of a pandemic,” he said in a statement, applauding the tireless efforts of BMC, along with local NGOs, residents and medical practitioners. Environment and Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray asked all Municipal Commissioners in the MMR region to strengthen the ‘Chase the Virus’ campaign by implementing the Dharavi model. Mr. Thackeray, along with Thane’s Guardian Minister Eknath Shinde held a meeting in Kalyan-Dombivli, which has been seeing a sharp rise in new cases, to discuss the Dharavi model with other MMR Commissioners. “If Dharavi, with such a dense population could contain the virus, any other place could do the same. Even as Jumbo COVID-19 centres are being made in the MMR region, they need to focus more on contact tracing and increase testing,” Mr. Thackeray said. “Do not panic if the number of cases increase,” he said, stressing that no person should be devoid of treatment and priority should be given to reducing the mortality rate. Thane collector’s order Meanwhile, Thane Collector Rajesh Narvekar issued an order for extending the lockdown till the midnight of July 19 and municipal corporations have been asked to decide individually as per the situation of the respective areas. While Kalyan-Dombivli Corporation and Thane Municipal Corporation had extended the lockdown till July 19 on Friday, Mira-Bhayander Municipal Corporation extended it till July 18. Following their cue, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) also extended the lockdown for another six days till midnight of July 19 as new cases touched fresh highs. A total of 253 new cases under the NMMC took its tally to 9,132 with 292 deaths till date. Raigad district reported new 384 cases with the maximum 169 cases under the Panvel Municipal Corporation. Till now, Raigad has reported 7,332 cases of which 4,118 have recovered and 205 succumbed and 3,009 are undergoing treatment.
12 July 2020||MUMBAI,||Sombre Saturday: highest cases reported in a day; death toll crosses 10,000||Maharashtra reported a fresh high of 8,139 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, even as the State’s death toll from the pandemic crossed the 10,000 mark with 223 more patients succumbing to the virus in the last 24 hours. The State’s previous record high for new COVID-19 cases was 7,862 reported earlier this week. The State has now reported a whopping 2,46,600 cases so far, but nearly 1.37 lakh patients have recovered, so effectively, there are over 99,000 active cases currently. Mumbai, which had accounted for a bulk of fresh infections through the early weeks of the pandemic, reported just 1,284 new cases on Saturday. Just 39 of the 223 deaths on Satuday, which took the State’s total toll to 10,116, were reported from the State capital. Mumbai’s current COVID-19 tally is at 91,745 cases with 5,244 deaths. However, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) on the whole still accounted over half the State’s new cases, with municipal corporations near Mumbai reporting 3,126 cases. The MMR accounts for over 1.68 lakh cases of the State’s tally and the gap between Mumbai city cases and the cases in other MMR regions combined is fast shrinking. Within the MMR, Kalyan-Dombivali reported 640 cases, taking its total cases to 13,832, while Thane Municipal Corporation saw 455 new cases, taking its tally to 14,292. Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation reported 305 cases too, taking total cases to 7,541. Pune division, including Solapur, Satara and Pimpri-Chinchwad, reported 2,278 new cases taking the total cases to 42,690, while the Nashik division reported another 779 cases to take its total case load to 14,990. BMC official succumbs On Saturday evening, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation informed that Ashok Khairnar, Assistant Commissioner of the H-East ward had lost his life battling the novel coronavirus. Environment and Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray offered ‘heartfelt condolences’ to Khairnar’s family and said, “We have lost a Covid hero today. He managed his ward with brilliance, the doubling day rate being at 134 and infection rate being lowest at 0.5%.”  The silver lining As many as 4,360 patients were discharged on Saturday, after full recovery, taking the total number of recovered cases to 1,36,985. This gives the State a recovery rate of 55.55% with a case fatality rate of 4.1%.
12 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Paderu’s first C-section delivers a bundle of joy||When 23-year-old Lochali Vasantha, a native of Hukumpeta mandal in Visakahapatnam district, was brought to the district hospital at Paderu on July 6, in an advanced stage of pregnancy, she was in a state of panic since she had learnt that she developed complications. She was initially frightened when doctors informed her that a Caesarean delivery needed to be performed. Never in the history of the ITDA in Paderu had a C-section delivery been performed. Motivated by the health officials, a team of doctors performed the first such delivery on July 7 and Vasantha gave birth to a baby girl. Both mother and baby are safe now. For decades, it has not been easy for tribal women to have safe deliveries. As tribal villages lack access roads, women with delivery complications have to be physically carried to the nearest road point, which may be a few km away, to get a vehicle to reach a nearby hospital. According to Additional DMHO Dr. Leela Prasad, earlier at least two to three pregnant women with criticality used to be referred to the KGH every week. “ Sometimes, we used to witness maternal deaths on the way,” he said. However, things started changing after the district hospital at Paderu was allotted a gynaecologist and an anaesthetist, about five months ago, with the efforts of former ITDA Project Officer D.K Balaji and former Sub-Collector Dr. S. Venkateswar, who is now ITDA Project Officer. Thanking district Collector V. Vinay Chand for quickly approving funds to renovate the operation theatre, Paderu MLA K. Bhagya Lakshmi said improving medical facilities in the agency was their priority. “At present, Araku has a pregnant women’s hostel where they are brought before the expected date of delivery and are provided care,” she told The Hindu .
12 July 2020||Hyderabad,||No time limit for giving away Rythu Bandhu: KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has said that the government has not fixed any time limit for extension of assistance to farmers under Rythu Bandhu, an investment support programme for agriculture, as the objective is to reach out to the last farmer. The government aimed to achieve cent per cent coverage of farmers under the programme. Not a single farmer should complain of not getting money. The government will spend any amount, Mr. Rao told officials at a meeting to discuss agricultural activities in the State.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Purse seine nets cannot be used for fishing’||Even though fishermen in various parts of the State have been demanding that they be allowed to fish using banned purse seine nets, Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar said it cannot be allowed. When appraised of protests in various districts, including in Cuddalore, he said there was a Supreme Court order banning purse seine fishing. “I can only ask my brethren to remain calm and abide by the order,” Mr. Jayakumar said. Officials of the Fisheries Department said purse seine fishing was a highly damaging and ecologically unsustainable method, leading to its ban in the maritime States across the country. “We have given adequate opportunities for fishermen who are practising this to stop and change their methods. The government is also ready to support them to adopt alternatives like deep sea fishing,” an official said. However, fishermen in Cuddalore and elsewhere have been protesting and demanding that they be allowed to use purse seine nets where pelagic fish (fish in the top layers of the sea) were caught in huge numbers. Selvam, a fisherman from Cuudalore, said it was unfair that they were being stopped. “The entire village can earn in one shot. It is not dangerous and we don’t have to go to the deep sea,” he said. Nanjil Ravi, of Akhila Indhiya Meenavar Sangam, said the government could make conditions and allow fishing with these nets and not ban them. “They can register and regulate their use. Also an in-depth and independent study is necessary on the effects of such nets,” he said.
12 July 2020||Bengaluru,||South, West zones top list of COVID-19 cases in city||It has been a bitter turnaround of fortunes for Bengaluru, which has seen a massive increase in the number of COVID-19 cases over the last few weeks, and Bengaluru South is contributing the most, accounting for 26% of them in the last 10 days. According to the war room data of the BBMP, as on Friday, the city’s South zone tops the list of cases, followed by the West (25%) and the East (21%). Bommanahalli zone accounts for 9% of cases, Yelahanka and Rajarajeshwarinagar 6% each, Mahadevapura 5% and Dasarahalli 2%. However, Saturday saw a change in the order as the West accounted for 26% of cases and the South 25%. Amidst the massive spike in cases over the last few days, 15 wards account for the highest number of cases in the city: Shantalanagar (East), Chamarajpet (West), Dharmarayaswamy Temple (South), Sampangiramanagar (East), Gandhinagar (West), Jayanagar (South), Chickpet (West), Pattabhiramanagar (South), Hombegowdanagar (South), Suddaguntepalya (South), Rajarajeshwarinagar (R.R. Nagar), Visveswarapuram (South), Basavanagudi (South), K.R. Market (West), and Yediyur (South).  As for containment zones, the West zone has the highest number, followed by South and East zones. Unlock vs lockdown Back in April, when the country was under a lockdown and Bengaluru was among the cities doing exceptionally well in keeping its COVID-19 tally low, it was the East zone that had the highest number of cases, followed by the South and Mahadevapura, and Bommanahalli (data of April 3, with 46 positive cases). By May 8, when the number of positive cases reached 167, the West zone and Bommanahalli had the highest number of positive cases. By June 26, after Unlock 1.0 kicked in and cases started seeing a rapid increase, BBMP areas saw a huge jump in numbers from 386 cases as on May 31 to 1,798 cases on June 26. The war room bulletin showed that between June 1 and June 26, there were 1,412 cases. It is also during this period that the South zone rose to the top spot with the most number of active containment zones. By July 1, the city’s BBMP areas had 5,290 cases, adding 4,904 cases in June alone. The South zone continued to have the highest number of active cases, followed by the East and West zones. ‘Population, mobility factors’ Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, BBMP War Room special officer, told The Hindu that the density of population, presence of markets and mobility are factors that have come into play in the three zones — South, East and West zones. “Especially in South and East zones, there are the main markets. Initially, everything was under a lockdown. But in the second fortnight of June, post unlocking, movement of people increased, so did the number of tests, both of which have contributed to the increased number of cases. There is also a direct correlation to markets and mobility in an unlock scenario. After the 10 to 14 days of interactions, symptoms started to appear,” she explained. Zonal-level monitoring The BBMP has come up with zonal-level monitoring as a strategy to tackle the spike. Ms. Korlapati said the BBMP Commissioner has ordered for the strengthening or ward and zonal offices and for the creation of zonal command centres to have clear monitoring at the zonal level to fill in any gaps and enable flow of information between the zones and the central office.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Rules for all||
12 July 2020||Bengaluru,||70 deaths in a day||Karnataka on Saturday reported 70 deaths, including 23 from Bengaluru Urban, the highest on a single day taking the total toll to 613. With this the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) in Karnataka has now increased from 1.41% to 1.69% in the last 24 hours. In Bengaluru Urban, that has reported a total of 229 deaths, the CFR has increased marginally from 1.34% to 1.35% since Friday. Among other districts, Mysuru recorded 8 deaths. With 2,798 new cases across the State, the total has now touched 36,216. Bengaluru Urban recorded 1,533 cases in 24 hours.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||SIT to probe police role||The Uttar Pradesh government has formed a Special Investigation Team to probe the killing of eight policemen in Bikru village, the financial and criminal background of the accused and the role of the Kanpur police.page 7
12 July 2020||NEW DELHI/Thiruvananthapuram,||NIA detains 2 gold smuggling case suspects||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday reportedly detained two suspects in a case relating to the misuse of diplomatic channels to smuggle gold into the country through Kerala. Initial reports indicated that an NIA team from Hyderabad had held Swapna Suresh and her alleged accomplice Sandeep Nair, a car accessory shop owner, from an apartment near the Yelhankar Air Base in Bengaluru. The Customs and the NIA wanted them for separate offences in a case relating to the illegal import of 30 kg of gold from Dubai in a shipment addressed to an official attached to the consulate of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) here. The Customs valued the contraband at Rs. 15 crore. The NIA, possibly put a phone trace on the suspects and used the help of local police to track the suspects. By some accounts, the NIA zeroed in on the accused when Swapna's daughter, a college student, switched on her mobile phone to secretly call her friend in the capital. Investigators had earlier tapped the person for information on the whereabouts of Swapna. The NIA had been hard on the heels of Swapna ever since they booked her on the charge of anti-national activities on Tuesday. The NIA probe was focussed on whether the anti-national forces had used the proceeds from the complex gold smuggling operation to fund terrorist activities in the country. Swapna, a former employee of the UAE consulate, had worked on a "request basis" for the mission. She came under a cloud of suspicion after she allegedly pressurised a Customs officials to release a shipment addressed to the consulate expeditiously. Swapna had aroused interest when she attempted to return the shipment to its port of origin. The NIA has reportedly moved a magistrate court in Bengaluru for a transit warrant to bring the suspects to Kerala.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Let States decide on semester exams: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday urged the Centre to give States the freedom to work out their “own assessment methods” for the final semester examinations “without compromising on quality and academic credibility”. In a letter to Union Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, he said several States had decided not to hold final semester examinations. He said States must be allowed to employ their “own assessment methods to ensure career opportunities and future prospects and simultaneously safeguard the principles of health, safety and fair and equal opportunity for students”. He urged the Union Minister to direct the respective apex bodies like the University Grants Commission (UGC), the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), the Council of Architecture (COA), the Pharmacy Council of India (PCI), the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) and the National Council for Hotel Management and Catering Technology to endorse the decisions of the respective State governments, which would have been taken based on local conditions. “This would go a long way in rendering justice and fairness to parents and students during these distressful times,” he said. Mr. Palaniswami made it clear that the States would not be in a position to conduct examinations even after waiting till September 2020, since most of the government and private arts and science and engineering colleges, polytechnics and other institutions of higher learning (including their hostels, classrooms etc.) in the State had been converted into COVID Care Centres for housing asymptomatic patients under quarantine, and may continue to remain that way for quite some time. The Chief Minister said the new guidelines mandating the State governments to conduct the examinations in September entailed many constraints and difficulties, especially with regard to the ability of students to reach the examination centres, as many of them were residing outside their respective districts, States or even the country. “It is also not feasible to conduct online examinations, considering the various issues relating to digital access among students,” he said.
12 July 2020||RAICHUR,||Four members of family killed in Sindhanur||Four members of a family were killed in Sukalapet area of Sindhanur in Raichur district on Saturday. The victims have been identified as Sumitra, 55, Sridevi, 36, Hanumesh, 35, and Nagaraj, 38. The police suspect that the reason for the killing was the love marriage between a boy and a girl against the wishes of the latter’s family. According to the police, Mounesh and Manjula, belonging to the same community, got married a few months ago, against the wishes of her family. After the marriage, the girl’s family members developed enmity against the boy and his family, the police said. On Saturday in broad daylight, members of the girl’s family allegedly attacked the boy’s family members and killed his mother, sister, and brothers, according to the police. Three injured Three others [Revathi, Tayamma, and Erappa] were severely injured and were taken to a local hospital and their condition is said to be stable. Mounesh and Manjula managed to escape and rushed to a police station for protection. Sources said three persons had been arrested in connection with the incident, but it was not confirmed by the police.
12 July 2020||Bengaluru,||BDA to auction 300 more corner sites next week||After receiving a good response on the online auction of sites that concluded on Friday, the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has announced that in the next week, 300 more corner sites will be e-auctioned.
12 July 2020||New Delhi,||Active COVID-19 cases fall below 20,000 in Delhi||The number of active COVID-19 cases in Delhi dropped below 20,000 on Saturday, even as 1,781 new cases were reported in past 24 hours, taking the tally to 1,10,921, said a government health bulletin.
12 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Akhil Gogoi tests positive for COVID-19||Jailed peasant leader and anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act activist Akhil Gogoi tested COVID-19-positive as the total lockdown in Guwahati was extended by a week on Saturday.
12 July 2020||New Delhi,||No room for complacency in COVID-19 fight: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reiterated the need to observe physical distancing in public places. He was speaking after attending a COVID-19 review meeting. The PM also appreciated the manner in which the pandemic had been “contained” in Delhi.
12 July 2020||Siliguri/Kolkata,||Flooding in parts of north Bengal, heavy rains in Kolkata, Siliguri||Heavy rain lashed north Bengal, leading to flooding in low-lying areas on Saturday. Heavy to very heavy showers have been forecast in the region for the next two days. Several places in Mainaguri block were inundated and people in low-lying areas were moved to safety, officials said. Jalpaiguri recorded 93 mm rainfall, while Siliguri recorded 61.4 mm of rain and faced waterlogging. Showers also lashed Kolkata in the evening, leading to traffic snarls.PTI
12 July 2020||Kolkata,||Be politically neutral, Governor tells officials||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday urged the bureaucracy in the State to maintain political neutrality, accountability and transparency, and commit themselves to upholding the supremacy of the Constitution. Mr. Dhankhar took to Twitter saying that IAS and IPS officials must observe All India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968.
12 July 2020||Mumbai,||Amid spike in COVID-19 cases, Pune civic chief transferred||The Maharashtra government on Saturday transferred Pune Municipal Commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad. He has been replaced with Vikram Kumar, CEO, Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority. Pune city is among the worst hit in the State and, as on Friday evening, had 25,893 cases, with the rise particularly sharp and worrying over the past few days. Mr. Gaikwad’s transfer comes at a time when Pune city is set to undergo a 10-day lockdown with minimum restrictions from July 13.PTI
12 July 2020||Mumbai,||‘Height of Ganapati idols cannot exceed 4 feet’||The Maharashtra government on Saturday directed Ganesh mandals to restrict the height of idols to four feet during Ganesh Chaturthi this year. Even idols installed at home cannot be taller than two feet. The government has also asked the mandals to consider immersing the idols during Maghi Ganesh Chaturthi in February or next year’s Ganesh Chaturthi.
12 July 2020||Bengaluru,||C.T. Ravi tests positive||Tourism Minister C.T. Ravi tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar told presspersons on Saturday that Mr.Ravi is the first Minister from the State to test positive.
12 July 2020||HUBBALLI,||COVID-19 deaths reported in NK districts||Dharwad district registered 77 positive cases of COVID-19 on Saturday and three deaths. Gadag district recorded four deaths, Vijayapura and Davangere three each, Belagavi two, and Uttara Kannada and Haveri districts one fatality each.
12 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Govt. justifies buying materials at ‘higher cost’||The State Health Department has justified the purchase of PPE kits, sanitisers and IV fluids by the Karnataka State Drugs Logistics and Warehousing Society at costs higher than the current market rates, arguing that the rates are “dynamic” during a pandemic.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||3,965 new COVID-19 cases recorded in T.N. CHENNAI||Of the 3,965 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Tamil Nadu on Saturday, Chennai accounted for 1,185 infections. Thirty-six other districts also reported cases, accounting for 70% of the fresh infections in the State. In the southern region, Madurai topped the table with 276 new cases.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Loan racket busted, 26 persons arrested||The Anti-Bank Fraud Wing of the Central Crime Branch has arrested 26 suspects for cheating several people by offering online loans via fake call centres in the city. The police raided six “call centres” based on 365 petitions. The amount involved in the racket was estimated to be Rs. 1.6 crore.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Protocol announced for textbook distribution||The distribution of free textbooks and other educational resources to students of government and government-aided schools will take place with strict adherence to standard operating procedures issued by the State government.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Karnataka tally up by a record 2,798 cases||Local transmission accounted for more cases than imported ones again in Kerala, as it recorded 488 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday. Imported cases stood at 243, while cases of local transmission were 245. With the death of a 79-year-old reported from Ernakulam, the State’s toll came to 29. There were 143 recoveries, and active cases were 3,442. Alapuzha with 87 cases, Thiruvananthapuram (69), Pathanamthitta (54) and Malappuram (51) were at the top of fresh cases reported. Three health care workers, four Defence Security Corps in Kannur, two ITBP personnel and two BSF jawans were among those who contracted the disease through local transmission. A junior sub-inspector deputed for surveillance in the COVID-19 hit coastal region of Poonthura contracted the infection. With this, COVID-19 cases among police in Thiruvananthapuram rose to five. Earlier, three personnel of the Armed Reserve camp and a civil police officer of Pettah police station were diagnosed with the disease. The Poonthura policeman was among the many policemen tested randomly. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order, Traffic) Divya V. Gopinath said he was hospitalised as soon as his test sample returned positive. Some 12 officers who came in close proximity with the infected person were quarantined. Karnataka on Saturday reported the biggest single-day spurt of 2,798 cases and a record 70 fatalities, taking the total number of infections in the state to 36,216, the health department said. Out of fresh cases, a whopping 1,533 were from Bengaluru urban. As of July 11, cumulatively 36,216 COVID-19 cases had been confirmed. There were 613 deaths and 14,716 discharges, the health department said, adding that out of 20,883 active cases, 20,379 patients were in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, and 504 in ICU. Out of 70 deaths, 23 were from Bengaluru urban, eight from Mysuru, five from Dakshina Kannada, among others. Out of 2,798 new cases, contacts of the majority were still in the process of being traced. Among the districts, on new cases, Bengaluru urban accounted for 1,533, followed by Dakshina Kannada 186, Udupi 90, Mysuru 83, Tumakuru 78, Dharwad 77 and Yadgir 74. A total of 7.99 lakh samples were tested so far, 20,587 just on Saturday.  Telangana recorded total cases of 33,402, of which active cases were 12,135 and the total deaths 348. Andhra Pradesh had another single-day high of COVID-19 cases and deaths. The State witnessed 17 more deaths and detected 1,813 fresh cases on Saturday. The tally rose to 27,235 and the death toll to 309. Of the total, 24,422 were local cases and 2,813 including 2,385 of other-State individuals and 428 of foreign returnees were imported, the Health department said. With 1,199 more patients overcoming the infection, the number of recoveries rose to 14,393; 12,533 patients were in treatment at hospitals and care centres. Kurnool district witnessed four new deaths while Guntur and Vizianagaram had three deaths each. Krishna and Nellore recorded two deaths each and Anantapur, Kadapa and Visakapatnam one death each. Anantapur reported 311 new local cases. Chittoor was close with 300 while Kurnool and Srikakulam reported 229 and 204 new cases respectively.   (With inputs from Vijayawada bureau and PTI)
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||‘We are still in a crisis and need a full reset of India-China relations’||India and China must fully reset ties, says former National Security Adviser Shivshankar Menon , cautioning that any move to allow buffer zones, mutual pull-outs and suspending patrols at the LAC sends out the wrong message that both sides are equally responsible for the aggression.  What do you think will be the lasting impact of the stand-off at the LAC? Well, I think there is no question that after this, India-China relations will be reset, as there is no going back on the situation before [the Ladakh stand-off]. What China did this time — pressing forward on multiple points along the LAC, then changing the definition of LAC claims, the deaths for the first time since 1975 [in the June 15 Galwan clash] — represents a significant change in Chinese behaviour. This actually calls into question the whole structure of agreements and confidence building measures that were put in place since 1988, and with the 1993 agreement, which had kept the peace on the border for some time. But this is still a crisis. I don’t see this as having been solved yet or being behind us. And I am sure that India-China relations will have to be reset after this. What do you make of some of the terms of disengagement on both sides, the creation of buffer zones, suspending patrols on the LAC, etc.? These [terms] are dangerous, as they suggest that we are withdrawing from territory which we have controlled consistently, and that we were part of the problem to start with. China stopped us from doing our normal patrols in these areas, which we have done for years. If we are withdrawing from territory that we have controlled, it seems to me that we are setting a dangerous pattern. And this started with Doklam, where we negotiated withdrawals by both sides from the face-off point in 2017. The Chinese then proceeded to establish a very strong, permanent presence on the plateau, leaving the face-off point itself free. I think it is a political and diplomatic failure not to call them out for changing the status quo, something that China committed to maintain both with Bhutan and with us. So, frankly, [China] learned the lesson that as long as the Indian [government] could walk away with a propaganda victory, they could actually make gains and change the outcomes on the ground in their favour. What we are seeing is more of the same strategy that China has followed in the South China Sea where she changes facts on the ground, presents you with a fait accompli , takes two steps forward and then negotiates one step back. And if we are agreeing to a similar kind of arrangement, no matter how temporary you say it is… all these temporary arrangements tend to become relatively permanent. So are you saying that status quo ante is something that has to be enforced soon? What we need to do is to insist that China implement what she has committed to implement under the agreements, what she says she is committed to do, which is to respect the LAC and maintain the status quo. There is a suggestion now that India could militarise the Quad or make the Indo-Pacific a strategic concept. Do you think that is the way for India to counter China? Well, that is not the entire solution because India-U.S. congruence actually applies to the maritime domain. Our problem with China right now is on land… it is a continental problem and that problem is not going to be solved by the U.S. That is something we have to solve by our own self-strengthening. You spoke of the congruence with Washington, and yet, the one message that India sent out during this time, was the visit by the Defence Minister to Moscow… It has never been binary for us, either the U.S. or Russia or even U.S. or China. We have worked with both, and we will continue to work with both. Russia is still the source of our major military platforms. I do think that one consequence of what we have seen happening in Ladakh and the whole reset of India-China relations, will be stronger India-Russia relations as well. What do you see as the diplomatic roadmap ahead? You know, right now we are in the middle of the crisis. So everything is possible. We could go the 1986-88 way after Sumdorong Chu when the Chinese came in and sat on territory on our side in eastern sector. And we ended up with the Rajiv Gandhi visit, and the new understanding, the modus vivendi of 1988, which kept the peace for several years, and enabled us both to develop and grow. Or we could go the 1959-62 way, which is a steady downward spiral in the relationship where public opinion and actions drive the two sides into conflict, which is the worst option. Thirdly, we could go into a sort of “no-war, no-peace”, an indeterminate space where relations are much more adversarial. My expectation is of a sort of muddling through for the time being, but that always contains the risk of things getting worse. (Read the full interview at https://bit.ly/NSAMenon)  China learned that if Indian government gets a propaganda victory, they could actually make gains
12 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cong., BJP step up protest against Kerala govt.||Anti-government agitators owing allegiance to the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) broke physical distancing strictures and staged separate demonstrations across Kerala to highlight the “proximity” of the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) with persons wanted by the law on the charges of gold smuggling and anti-national activity. The police used water cannons and canes to disperse BJYM protesters at Adoor in Pathanamthitta district. The police fired a water cannon to disperse a protest organised by the Kerala Student Union (KSU) in Kollam on Saturday demanding the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. A march taken out by the KSU district committee resulted in a minor clash in front of the Collectorate. Former MLA Prathapa Varma Thampan inaugurated the march and KSU district president Vishnu Vijayan presided over the function. The protesters were arrested and cases registered against the participants under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance. In Kochi, the Youth Congress organised a protest in compliance with the physical distancing norms. In his inaugural address, Youth Congress State president Shafi Parambil, MLA, said had the Chief Minister and others maintained physical distancing with smugglers, then the Opposition would not have been forced into protests. He alleged that a person accused of treason continued to be in hiding as part of a bargain not to expose the names of the influential people involved. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Saturday asked the police to take cognisance of the attempt to smuggle gold concealed in an air freight addressed to an official in the consulate of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) here. He said the offence had acquired a politically severe dimension after the preliminary investigation revealed that Swapna Suresh, a “respondent” in the case registered under the Customs Act, was a close confidant of M. Sivasankar, who was removed from the post of Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan after the scandal broke.Mr. Vijayan could not absolve himself of the responsibility of appointing Swapna Suresh in a critical position in an IT Department subsidiary that handled space and allied strategic sectors.
12 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||On a new innings, after de-addiction||Omin Pertin joined an open school before receiving an appointment letter from a public sector undertaking via Arunachal Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Chowna Mein on June 26. This would not have been out of the ordinary in the frontier State had the Class 11 dropout not held his employment letter soon after completing a drug de-addiction camp. Four others from the camp got the contractual job too, but he was the only one to enrol for classes in distance learning mode. “I am living a dream now. I intend to not drift back into the nightmare that took some years out of my life,” says the 20-year-old from Meka village near Roing, headquarters of the Lower Dibang Valley district. Omin began snorting heroin and cannabis while studying in a higher secondary school at Boleng close to his village. He dropped out in 2018 to peddle drugs for sustaining his addiction and ran into the Roing-based Anti-Drug Squad (ADS) a year later. Supportive approach Fortunately for him, this wasn’t a squad that believed only in using the baton or putting addicts and peddlers behind bars. The Crime Unit of ADS, under nodal officer S.S. Jha, arrested 69 drug dealers since its formation in July 2017. But the fight against addiction in a State notorious for growing cannabis and opium began to yield results after the squad added the rehabilitation unit in October 2019 with inspector R.K. Mishra as its nodal officer. The rehabilitation programme entailed opening a counselling centre atop the Roing police station building. Omin was among the first batch of 27 boys at the centre along with Mingkeng Pertin, Ranbo Pertin, Mabom Tapak and Akhunga Umpey. The squad had profiled the five for special attention as they were deeper in the vortex than the 22 others. In February, they were sent for a 90-day rehabilitation camp run by an NGO in Guwahati. They underwent home quarantine after returning to Roing in May and were roped in as counsellors at the ADS centre. Seven more from the second batch of 41 addicts and drug-peddlers have been chosen for undergoing the rehabilitation camp after the lockdown in Guwahati ends. Sanjay Kumar Sain, SP, said, “The main challenge is to motivate the addicts to get rid of the habit, to ensure constant supervision of the boys so that they will not relapse and above all create awareness amidst their families and society that the boys are not the problem, their drug habit is.”
12 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Telangana reviews its oxygen supply||The Telangana government has decided to form joint teams of officials to carry out inspections, among other measures, to check black marketing of oxygen cylinders. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar held a meeting with officials, including the police, on Friday, to review the supply of oxygen to hospitals. It was decided in the meeting to form joint teams and take other measures, following complaints of black marketing of oxygen cylinders leading to a possible shortage in supply to hospitals, an official press release said. The joint teams would comprise officials from the Drug Control Administration, Task Force of Hyderabad City Police, Director of Public Health, and Deputy Chief Controller of Explosives. The teams will inspect hospitals and dealers to assess whether sale and utilisation of oxygen cylinders were in conformity with the guidelines, and initiate prosecution in case of any violations. It was decided at the meeting to advise all the hospitals treating COVID-19 patients to go in for cryogenic liquid oxygen tanks/vessels to avoid bottlenecks due to usage of cylinders, the release said. Traders holding stock of oxygen cylinders shall possess a licence from competent authorities, failing which they will also be prosecuted under the Explosives Act, it said. The Hyderabad Commissioner of Police stated that the Commissioners’ Task Force had commenced action and that two cases had already been booked. D
12 July 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. MPs back Rahul as party chief||Lok Sabha members of the Congress, at a virtual meeting with party president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday, pitched for Rahul Gandhi to take over as “full time” Congress president once again. The leadership issue assumes significance as Ms. Gandhi will be completing a year as the party’s interim president on August 10, and the Congress Working Committee (CWC) may have to give her an extension. Mr. Gandhi, who is the Wayanad MP in the Lok Sabha, did not respond to the demands that were first raised by Kerala MP K. Suresh and backed by others. However, he launched an attack on the Narendra Modi government calling it a “failed government”. He cited India-China border clashes and India’s rise to the third spot in terms of COVID-19 cases as “examples of failures”. While the former Congress chief accused the Modi government of “misleading” and being “untruthful” with regard to the situation at the Ladakh border, his Lok Sabha colleague Manish Tewari is learnt to have said that even if Chinese troops withdrew now, it would only be after they had made a strategic point to India. Mr. Gandhi is also learnt to have told his colleagues that the party should more forcefully raise people-centric issues as the common people have been most affected by the lockdown. The video conference meet, which went on for over three hours, had been convened to discuss current issues such as the government’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, border clashes with China in Ladakh, economic distress, fuel price rise, restoration of MPLADS (Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme) funds, and the possibility of holding the monsoon session of Parliament. ‘Deliberate delay’ Starting the proceedings, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said his impression was “that the government would delay the monsoon session as much as possible and may even utilise the provision of having a six-month interval between two sessions to avoid unsavoury questions”. With 10-11 ordinances passed by the Centre during the pandemic, Mr. Chowdhury asked his colleagues “to keep their powder dry” to corner the government whenever Parliament reconvened. “In her remarks, Sonia- ji also expressed the view that it may be September by the time the Parliament meets,” said a Congress MP. The Congress’s Lok Sabha leader is also learnt to have narrated his experience at the Public Accounts Committee on Friday, when Bharatiya Janata Party members objected to his proposal to discuss the COVID-19 pandemic “as that would have also led to a discussion on the PM-CARES Fund”. “Why is the PM so scared of disclosing the names of those who donated money to him for PM-CARES? Everyone knows Chinese companies Huawei, Xiaomi, TikTok and OnePlus gave money. Why doesn’t he share the details?” Mr. Gandhi tweeted hours after the meeting. Lok Sabha member Shashi Tharoor, who had praised Mr. Gandhi’s stand on the Sino-India border hostility and COVID-19, also shared his experience of trying to hold a meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Information Technology that he heads. While MPs shared their individual experiences on the migrant workers crisis because of the lockdown, COVID-19 management and the freezing of MPLADS funds, the leadership question took centre stage with MPs urging Mr. Gandhi to take over. The stage for such a demand seems to have been set by senior party leader Digvijaya Singh who, just before the meeting, tweeted: “This is the crux of the matter and this is the challenge before Sonia ji Rahul ji and Priyanka ji. I am certain they would do it. The whole Congress Party Young Old everyone stands behind you and are ready to make whatever sacrifice you demand. So Rahul ji please LEAD.”  Why is the PM so scared of disclosing the names of those who donated money to him for PM-CARES? Rahul GandhiCongress leader
12 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Padmanabhaswamy temple case ruling tomorrow||The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce its judgment on Monday in the famed Padmanabha Swamy temple case, primarily who should play a dominant role in running the temple and managing its considerable assets — the State government or the erstwhile royal Travancore family. The judgment by a Bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Indu Malhotra will answer major questions in the case: whether the temple is a “public” entity; should a devaswom board be formed like in Tirupathi, Guruvayur and Sabarimala; what is the ideal scheme to be formulated by the court in its parents patriae jurisdiction to protect the assets of the deity, which in law is a perpetual minor; what should be the role of the erstwhile royals in future administration of the temple, the deity being a perpetual minor; and should the erstwhile royals be allowed to continue to manage or administer the other assets and properties belonging to the temple through their private trusts. Over the years, different Benches of the Supreme Court had played a part in taking an inventory of the treasures stored in the temple vaults, appointed amicus curiae to report on the happenings of the temple and even had former Comptroller and Auditor General Vinod Rai audit the valuables. One of the major debates was the opening of Kallara (vault) B. Two independent reports from former amicus curiae and senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, who bowed out of the case later, and Mr. Rai had pointed to a large number of financial discrepancies, major system deficiencies as regards maintenance of temple accounts, and discrepancies in the use of precious metals, among other things. The judgment is on petitions challenging a 2011 decision of the Kerala High Court. The High Court had essentially held that, upon the death of the last ruler of the erstwhile State of Travancore on July 20, 1991, the petitioner, His Highness Sri Marthanda Varma, did not step into the shoes of the ruler and cannot claim management rights over the temple under the provisions of the Travancore Cochin Hindu Religious Institutions Act, 1950.
12 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Monsoon 20% deficient in Kerala||Kerala has received 20% less rainfall than is normal till July 11 after the southwest monsoon set in over over the State on June 1. A 20% departure from the normal is deemed ‘deficient’ in India Meteorological Department (IMD) parlance, while rainfall between -19% and +19% is considered 'normal' for a given period. Sole exception According to the latest IMD data, eight districts in the State have recorded deficiency in southwest monsoon rainfall for the period from June 1 to July 11. Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Kasaragod and Kannur recorded normal rainfall, while Kozhikode alone has recorded excess rainfall. After an energetic start to the monsoon in June, the State is passing through a lull. According to the weather update issued on Saturday, the monsoon has been weak over Kerala. In its extended range forecast for Kerala issued on July 10, the IMD has forecast widespread rainfall across the State, with isolated heavy rainfall in some places, till July 16. The weather agency has issued yellow alerts for Malappuram, Kannur and Kasaragod for Monday indicating the possibility of isolated heavy rainfall. Meanwhile, the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) has issued a high wave alert for Kerala. INCOIS has warned that the Kerala coast might experience high swell waves till Monday night.
12 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||COVID-19 compounds misery of Bargarh’s cancer patients||Battling with cancer is a struggle for its victims and the COVID-19 pandemic has tilted the scale further, making it far tougher to deal with it. Perhaps nobody understands it better than Pratap Dash, a cancer survivor, in Odisha’s Bargarh district. Diagnosed with oral cancer in 2016, he was operated upon at the Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai. Since then Mr. Dash has had to spend much of his earnings from renting out marquees on his treatment. However, the expense has become almost impossible for him after the pandemic-induced lockdown. “Since March-end, I am yet to receive a single order as social functions have come to a halt due to lockdown. My earnings are almost nil. After the surgery in 2016, my follow-up treatment such as chemotherapy and radiation therapy have been going on in Cuttack. I have already skipped my treatment scheduled for the first week of July. I don’t know if I will survive this,” said Mr. Dash, on a note of hopelessness. While cancer patients all over the State are feeling the impact of the lockdown, the effect has been more visible in Bargarh district, dubbed the cancer capital of Odisha. Despite the high incidence of cancer in the district, no focused study has been conducted so far and residents have held several protests demanding better cancer care in the western Odisha district. In 2017, Subal Sahoo, MLA from Bijepur in Bargarh, died of cancer. Subash Chouhan, Chairman of Western Odisha Development Council, a leader from Bargarh, succumbed to the disease in May this year. Said to be the rice bowl of Odisha, Bargarh has seen a growing cancer cluster probably due to the overuse of pesticides and fertilizers for the paddy crop, though there has been no focused study as yet. Left alone While Mr. Dash is worried about arranging funds for his cancer treatment, Prasanna Mishra, a veteran journalist of Bargarh district, is desperate for consultation about his daily medication for leukaemia. His desperate calls to Tata Memorial Hospital have gone unanswered and two top government cancer care institutes in Odisha are affected by COVID-19 infection and have shut down outpatient departments (OPDs). The OPDs of Acharya Harihar Post Graduate Institute of Cancer, Cuttack, and AIIMS-Bhubaneswar shut down recently after detection of 150 COVID cases. “The tablet, which is a lifeline for me, is not available. The cost of the medicine here is thrice the price as in Mumbai. But it is difficult for me to get the drug,” Mr. Mishra said.
12 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||CII centre to bring startups, corporates closer||A centre for innovation, entrepreneurship and startups of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) set up with the support of Telangana government, by way of space at T-Hub here, and Pratiksha, a charitable trust founded by Infosys co-founder S. Gopalakrishnan, was launched on Saturday. Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao, launching the facility, said the CII Centre for Innovation, Entrepreneurship & Startups is a pioneering initiative of the industry body and a testimony of an enabling ecosystem in Telangana. A CII statement quoted the Minister as saying that the facility will provide the right mix of entrepreneurial elements — mentorship, access to capital and safety net for experimentation. It will do wonders for strengthening the startup ecosystem in not just Telangana but across India, he said. Describing it as “significant and timely”, Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said the centre is a very big leap forward for harnessing new technology and business opportunities along with knowledge creation. He assured Telangana government’s support for the centre to flourish. Mr.Gopalakrishnan, who is chairman of CII National Startup Council and also of Axilor Ventures, said the focus of the facility would be to connect CII members with the startups through mutually beneficial partnerships. It will spur research translation from lab to market, generate society-ready innovation, foster innovation for societal problems, explore new business models for farming, encourage funding for the entire value chain from proof of concept to business models, he added. The centre would provide thought leadership, shared knowledge, policy suggestions, hand holding to startsups and student entrepreneurs. He mentioned that the centre will offer landing pad and enable connections of Indian startups with those from other nations thus helping to complement and strengthen each other’s entrepreneurship ecosystems. CII Director General Chandrajit Banerjee said as there is a need to create unicorns in the technology sector, the CII centre would focus on deep tech startups in manufacturing sector. It will bring startups to work together with the large business houses and corporates through CII network, on the lines of the very successful model of Silicon Valley.
12 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Congress plans black flag protests||The Congress party has decided to organise Statewide protests against the demolition of places of worship in the Secretariat complex. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir at Gandhi Bhavan on Saturday. The meeting, convened by Hyderabad City Congress Committee Minorities Department chairman Sameer Waliullah was attended by senior leaders including TPCC vice-president Zafar Jaweed, TPCC spokesperson Syed Nizamuddin, TPCC general secretary SK. Afzaluddin, Nampally in-charge Feroz Khan and others. Addressing a press conference later, Mr. Shabbir Ali informed that the Congress party would organise Statewide protest against the “illegal demolition” of two mosques and a temple in the Secretariat complex hurting the sentiments of all communities. “Chief Minister was treating the entire Telangana as his personal ‘Jagir’ and he needs to be taught a lesson.” In the first phase of protest, the party would appeal its cadre and other common people to hoist black flags at their residences and wear black masks and badges. He said this would be organised at a massive scale and people of all communities would be involved in the protest. The mode of protest in the second phase would be decided after consulting the party High Command.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Improve facilities in rural PHCs: Kamal Haasan||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Saturday said the State government must improve basic facilities in Primary Healthcare Centres (PHC), intensify COVID-19 testing and increase awareness about the spread of the virus in rural areas and provide treatment on a par with the cities. In a statement, Mr. Haasan said rural areas run the risk of experiencing a spike in cases. “PHCs do not have proper facilities, infrastructure, protective equipment and medical professionals in several villages. When big cities that have modern hospitals are struggling to cope with the impact of COVID-19, the State government must think about what would happen when cases increase in rural areas,” he said. The MNM chief said State government must intensify precautionary measures to prevent the disease from spreading in rural areas. “If the disease spreads to rural areas, the country’s basic needs might be affected. It is not enough to say India’s soul lives in rural areas but ensure that such areas are free of the disease,” he said. Mr. Haasan also criticised the State government for forcing the Greater Chennai Corporation school teachers to undertake COVID-19 precautionary work by calling them ‘Street Warriors.’ He said that Corporation school teachers were being made to go door-to-door to gather data. “Those who don’t want to do this work are being threatened with a memo and are being made to do this job without being given proper gloves, masks, protective gear and sanitisers. This is condemnable,” he said. Mr. Haasan also said it was not right to ask teachers to buy their own protective gear and work without special wages or transport allowance when the government was paying non-governmental organisations for doing the same.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||NIA detains smuggling case suspects||By some accounts, the NIA zeroed in on the accused when Ms. Suresh’s daughter, a college student, switched on her mobile phone to call her friend in the capital. Investigators had earlier tapped this person for information on the whereabouts of Ms. Suresh. Ms. Suresh, a former employee of the UAE consulate, had worked on a “request basis” for the mission. She came under suspicion after she allegedly pressured a Customs official to release a shipment addressed to the consulate expeditiously. Ms. Suresh had attempted to return the shipment to its port of origin after she reportedly felt something amiss in the reluctance on the part of the Customs to clear the cargo. Ms. Suresh’s alleged involvement in smuggling and the optics of her proximity with people in power had emerged as tools for the Congress and the BJP to attack the Pinarayi Vijayan government. The NIA has reportedly moved a magistrate court in Bangalore for a transit warrant to bring the suspects to Kerala.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||UGC to take action if States cancel exams||On Monday, the UGC had directed that final year examinations must be conducted by September-end in online or offline mode. As The Hindu had then reported, the Commission said it would tell States which had already cancelled examinations to comply with the fresh directions. However, in what is fast becoming a political battle, with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi calling for the cancellation of exams, several non-BJP ruled States which had already cancelled exams — Punjab, Maharashtra, Odisha and West Bengal — have written to the Centre saying they did not wish to conduct exams. On Monday, Delhi joined them as the first State to cancel exams after the UGC guidelines were issued, citing the fear of COVID-19 cases spreading. Strengthening the idea that political sides are being taken on this issue, BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh, which had cancelled its exams, took a U-turn after the UGC guidelines were issued, saying it would now conduct exams. Congress-ruled Rajasthan and BJP-ruled Haryana, which had both cancelled exams earlier, are yet to announce their course of action after the guidelines were issued. “As per our guidelines, they are binding in nature. The original guidelines [on exams, issued in April] had flexibility, but guidelines are usually binding in nature,” said UGC general secretary Rajnish Jain. Mandatory guidelines He told The Hindu that so far, UGC has only received a representation from Punjab, and has replied asking them to reconsider as the guidelines must be mandatorily adopted by States. “For us, all universities are similar in terms of implementation of guidelines, wherever they are,” added Prof. Jain. “We have given them different options on when and how to conduct the exams, based on their COVID situation. They are free to choose within those options.” On Thursday, the Congress leader Rahul Gandhi accused the UGC of “creating confusion” and called for students to be promoted on the basis of past performances in light of the COVID crisis. He was speaking as part of the #SpeakUpForStudents online campaign being piloted by the Congress’ student wing, National Students Union of India (NSUI). NSUI in-charge Ruchi Gupta said the UGC had failed to follow legal norms by not holding consultations with States before announcing its guidelines. “Under the UGC Act, UGC must hold consultations before taking such decisions. No such consultations were held, at least not with State universities in non-BJP ruled states,” she said. Ms. Gupta also raised questions regarding the panel headed by UGC member R.C. Kuhad, which was asked to make recommendations on the issue. “What was actually in the Kuhad Committee report? Why was that not made public?” she asked. HRD Secretary Khare indicated that the Centre is also closely watching the proceedings in the ongoing Delhi High Court case on Delhi University exams. The next hearing is on July 14. “[Consider] the future if those degrees are granted without any assessments. Even if final term [degrees] are granted now without exams, what will happen to the next term? If COVID continues for a year, will we start granting degrees without exams for years together?” asked Mr. Khare. “Or if there is some other exigency somewhere else, then this practice may actually affect the entire education system. Next, somebody in Bihar will say there were floods this year so now you give degree [without exams]…This populist action versus long-term goals of the education system needs to be considered together,” he added.
12 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Series of pleas in SC seek probe into Dubey’s death||A series of petitions were filed in the Supreme Court (SC) on Saturday seeking an independent probe into the police encounter of Vikas Dubey and his associates on Friday. One of the petitions, filed by Anoop Prakash Awasthi, begins by asking “shall we close our honourable courts, prosecution agencies and dismantle the system of administration of criminal justice as the trigger-happy cops in Uttar Pradesh do not need them and believe only upon their fire power when taking any adversary or outlaw in their custody?” Mr. Awasthi asked the court to appoint a central agency like the NIA or the CBI to probe the “police-criminal-politician nexus” involved in the deaths of the eight police officers and the encounter killings of Dubey and his henchmen. A separate plea was also filed by NGO, People’s Union for Civil Liberties, saying the police version of the encounter “raises many serious questions”. It had previously moved the court for a probe into U.P. police encounters between January 2017 and March 2018.
12 July 2020||Ahmedabad,||Hardik named Gujarat Cong. working president||Gujarat’s Patidar quota agitation leader Hardik Patel was appointed working president of the State Congress on Saturday. The State unit had recently witnessed an exodus of legislators. Mr. Patel, 27, who had launched a massive agitation demanding quota for the Patidar community in 2015, is perhaps the youngest leader with State-level responsibility in the Opposition party. His appointment was cleared by party president Sonia Gandhi. According to party leaders, with the appointment of Mr. Patel, the Congress party is making a serious and determined attempt to gain support of the politically significant Patidar community ahead of the Assembly election in 2022.
12 July 2020||Kolkata,||Be politically neutral, Dhankhar tells officials||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday urged the bureaucracy in the State to maintain political neutrality, accountability and transparency, and commit themselves to upholding the supremacy of the Constitution. Mr. Dhankhar took to social media saying that IAS and IPS officials must observe All India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968. “IAS and IPS @MamataOfficial must observe All India Services (Conduct) Rules,1968 that mandate: political neutrality; accountability and transparency; commit himself to and uphold the supremacy of the Constitution and democratic values; refrain from doing anything which is or may be contrary to any law, rules, regulations and established practices…,” the Governor said on Twitter. Mr. Dhankhar said a bureaucrat should maintain “discipline in the discharge of his duties and be liable to implement the lawful orders duly communicated to him, perform and discharge his duties with the highest degree of professionalism and dedication to the best of his abilities”. He remarks come at a time when his summonses to officials have not generated the desired response. Without referring to anyone, he warned that such infraction would attract due accountability.
12 July 2020||Guwahati,||Six NSCN (IM) members killed in Arunachal||A joint team of the Assam Rifles and the police on Saturday gunned down six members of the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagalim, or NSCN (IM), in an encounter in Arunachal Pradesh. Officials said an Assam Rifles trooper was injured in the gunfight in Longding district bordering Nagaland. Most factions of the NSCN are active in Longding, Changlang and Tirap districts of Arunachal Pradesh, where ceasefire agreements do not apply. This is said to be the biggest operation against the extremists in recent times. Arunachal Pradesh Director General of Police R.P. Upadhyaya said the joint team followed specific inputs that an “armed gang” of NSCN members was trying to carry out kidnappings for extortion and could attack the security forces. “The place where the incident happened is a 40-minute trek from nearest village Nginu, which is about a two-hour journey from district headquarters Longding,” he said. He added that the extremists fired about 250 rounds. “We have recovered six firearms, including four AK-47 rifles, two grenades, an improvised explosive device and 500 rounds of unused ammunition. Senior police and Assam Rifles officers are at the spot where the operation is still on,” Mr. Upadhyaya said. The NSCN (IM), the largest extremist group in the northeast, has been engaged in peace negotiations with the Centre since 1997. The territorial limit of the ceasefire is within Nagaland, and the outfit and other factions are active in adjoining States in the region. Some top NSCN (IM) leaders, reportedly frustrated with the “never-ending” peace process, are learnt to have gone underground once again and are negotiating with Chinese agencies for a possible return to insurgency.
12 July 2020||New Delhi/HYDERABAD,||Psoriasis drug gets DCGI nod for emergency use||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), has cleared Itolizumab, a drug used to treat severe chronic plaque psoriasis, for restricted emergency use in COVID-19 care. The DGCI’s approval for Itolizumab is for emergency use only in the treatment of cytokine release syndrome (CRS) in moderate to severe ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome) patients due to COVID-19, biopharmaceuticals firm Biocon said. The company said Itolizumab will be manufactured and formulated as an intravenous injection at the bio-manufacturing facility in Bengaluru. Itolizumab is the first novel biologic therapy to be approved anywhere in the world for treating patients with moderate to severe COVID-19 complications. The DCGI nod for the repurposed drug is based on results from the successful conclusion of a randomised, controlled clinical trial at multiple hospitals in Mumbai and New Delhi. The decision comes as the Health Ministry said that available evidence for remdesivir suggests that it may decrease the time for clinical improvement when used in moderate to severe cases and has no benefits in terms of reduced mortality. “Remdesivir has to be used with extreme caution due to its potential for serious adverse effects including liver and kidney injury,” the Ministry said. It added that studies on another drug, Tocilizumab, have not shown any benefits in mortality reduction. “Rampant use is to be discouraged since the effect of the drug is directed at the ‘cykotine storm’,” the Ministry added.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||BJP offering MLAs Rs. 25 cr. to topple govt.: Gehlot||BJP State president Mr. Poonia said the Chief Minister was trying to shift attention from an “intense infighting” in Congress by blaming the BJP for the political situation created by the ruling party. “The Congress protected democracy for 70 years after Independence, but all of this changed after 2014 when the BJP came to power at the Centre,” Mr Gehlot said. The Congress, elected to power in December 2018, has 107 MLAs in the 200-member State Assembly. The ruling party has the support of 13 independent legislators and one Rashtriya Lok Dal, two CPI(M) and two Bharatiya Tribal party MLAs.
12 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Kin of COVID-19 patient carry body in autorickshaw||In violation of norms, relatives of a patient in Nizamabad in Telangana allegedly carried his body in their own autorickshaw for burial from the State-run government hospital with a relative’s help. The patient died on Thursday night while undergoing treatment, a hospital official said. As per guidelines, the bodies are sent in an ambulance. However, the family members took away the body saying there would be delay in the arrival of ambulance, he claimed.
12 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Act sensibly, Karnataka CJ tells advocate||Enabling facility for filling petitions through e-mails to help advocates and litigants as entry to Karnataka High Court is restricted due to COVID-19 pandemic has turned out to be a hassle for the court’s registry. A rise in instances of some advocates not only sending repeated e-mails but also using nasty language against the officers of the registry has forced Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka to summon one such advocate to be personally present before the court through videoconference last week. The Chief Justice had been repeatedly requesting the advocate during hearings over last month not to send e-mails unnecessarily. “Though the court has to initiate contempt of court action for sending such e-mail, we thought of calling you through videoconference to compliment you for sending such an email and telling us we don’t understand anything,” he told the advocate. The court’s registry, which received the e-mail from the advocate, had replied seeking some clarification but the advocate instead responded in nasty language saying “you don’t understand anything”. The advocate, while apologising for the e-mail, said that it was one of his juniors, who was not well conversant in English, who sent the e-mail. However, the Chief Justice said if so, then the task of sending the e-mail to the court should not have been assigned to the junior. The Chief Justice expressed serious displeasure over the conduct of some advocates and litigants sending e-mails unnecessarily multiple times despite clear guidelines published in the SOP on procedure for e-filling petitions through e-mail. The advocates will have to be sensible in sending e-mails for urgent hearing when the staff are working under extreme pressure, he said. He disclosed that he had been spending six hours every day reading e-mails as it is the Chief Justice who has to decide the factor of urgency to hear a case. If such insensitive tendency continues, then the court may have to think of imposing costs of Rs. 1 lakh for sending unnecessary e-mails and for using inappropriate language, he said.
12 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Akhil Gogoi tests positive for COVID-19||Jailed peasant leader and anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) activist Akhil Gogoi tested COVID-19 positive as the total lockdown in Guwahati was extended by a week on Saturday. Mr. Gogoi has been in captivity since his arrest on December 12, 2019, for allegedly instigating violence during the anti-CAA protests that led to the death of at least six people. Dhaijya Konwar and Bitu Sonowal, two members of his group Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti, also in jail for more than 200 days, had tested positive on July 8. “His antigen tests a few days ago came out negative. A third test today [Saturday] said he is positive,” Inspector-General, Prisons, Dasarath Das said. Supporters of Mr. Gogoi have been campaigning for his release from the Guwahati Central Jail since July 9. Mr. Das said 55 of some 1,200 prisoners in the jail had tested positive so far.
12 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED seeks info on cases against Dubey||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has sought from the Uttar Pradesh police details of the cases against Vikas Dubey, who was gunned down on Friday, to initiate a money laundering probe. The agency has also asked for details of the gangster’s properties, who was allegedly involved in the killing of eight police personnel in the intervening night of July 2 and July 3. It is learnt that over 60 criminal cases, including eight involving 15 murders, were filed against Dubey in the past three decades. Among them, seven pertained to attempted murders, and two were under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.
12 July 2020||Mumbai,||Varavara Rao needs medical help: family||Varavara Rao, 81-year-old poet incarcerated at the Taloja jail, called his family members after eight days on Saturday, but they said his speech was incoherent and he needed urgent medical help. His daughter Pavana told The Hindu , “He had called us on July 2 and was talking normally then. But today he was incoherent.” ‘He was hallucinating and his voice dropped. He then gave the phone to Vernon Gonsalves, 61, [another accused in the Bhima Koregaon violence lodged with him]. Vernon has been taking care of him at the hospital ward in the jail,” she said. ‘He is stable physically but he needs help neurologically. He is not receiving any treatment inside jail. He has been sick since he was discharged from J.J. Hospital on June 1,” she said. On June 6, he had written a five-page letter to his family telling them that he was fine and eating well. Mr. Rao’s appeal against rejecting his bail is slated to be heard by the Bombay High Court on July 17.
12 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. forms SIT to probe Bikru ambush||The Uttar Pradesh government formed a Special Investigation Team on Saturday to probe the killing of eight policemen at Bikru village, the financial and criminal background of the accused and the role of the Kanpur police. The development comes a day after the main accused Vikas Dubey was gunned down while allegedly trying to flee from police custody. The SIT has been mandated to probe the involvement of policemen in the incident. It will examine a full year’s call records of Dubey and his associates and recommend “suitable and tough” action against policemen they were in touch with, if evidence was found against them. It will also probe if there were lapses on the part of the police in gathering information about the weapons and firepower of the assailants on the night of July 2, and at what level these lapses occurred. Additional Chief Secretary Sanjay Bhoosreddy will head the SIT, which will also include ADG Hari Ram Sharma and DIG J. Ravinder Goud. The SIT will submit its report by July 31, the State Home Department said. ‘Tactical move’ Meanwhile, amid questions about the manner in which Dubey was shot dead, U.P. ADG, Law and Order, Prashant Kumar said the vehicle in which Dubey was being taken may have been changed as part of a “tactical move” by the operational commander. “He was such a dreaded criminal. Somebody could have tried to attack and kill him,” Mr. Kumar told Hindi channel India TV. “It was not necessary to share every minute details with everyone questioning the “exchange of fire.” The police operation came under question after several journalists trailing the police convoy from Ujjain said their cars were stopped by the police a few kilometres ahead of the site where Dubey was shot dead. Several social media users wanted the U.P. police to explain why Dubey was seen sitting in a Tata SUV while crossing a toll plaza before the incident, while the car that met with the “accident” was a different one. As for why Dubey was not handcuffed, Mr. Kumar said questions would have been asked even if he had been handcuffed. In any case, that was the prerogative of the team head who was escorting him. Ultimatum to villagers In Bikru village, police used a public address system to issue a 24-hour ultimatum to locals to provide information about the location of the weapons that were snatched from the police during the ambush. “Legal action will be initiated thereafter,” the police said. An AK-47 and an Insas rifle among the weapons snatched from the police have still not been found.
12 July 2020||New Delhi,||No room for complacency in COVID-19 fight: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reiterated the need to observe personal hygiene and physical distancing in public places. He was speaking after attending a COVID-19 review meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and senior government officials The Prime Minister also appreciated the manner in which the pandemic had been “contained” in Delhi. Mr. Modi said that priority was being given to “close monitoring and guiding the containment work in regions where the infection rate is high”. Stating that there was no room for complacency in this regard, he said that awareness of COVID-19 should be disseminated widely and that there should be a continuous emphasis on preventing the spread of the infection. He also appreciated the efforts of the Centre and State and local authorities in containing the pandemic in Delhi, and directed that a similar approach be adopted by the governments of the neighouring States for containment in the entire National Capital Region. India on Saturday recorded the recovery and discharge of a total of 5,15,385 COVID-19 patients so far. “There are 2,83,407 active cases and all are under medical supervision either at the Central and State government hospitals for severe cases, and in home isolation for pre-symptomatic patients and those showing moderate symptoms,” said the Ministry. It noted that the recent policy changes, including allowing all registered medical practitioners to recommend testing for COVID-19 and the introduction of Rapid Antigen Point of Care testing along with RT-PCR (Real Time Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction,) have substantially bolstered monitoring. “So far, 1,13,07,002 samples have been tested through the collective public and private labs under Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) diagnostic network of 1,180 labs in the country. While those in the public sector have increased to 841 labs, the number of private labs has also been strengthened to a total of 339,” said ICMR. 2,82,511 samples were tested on Friday and currently, India’s tests per million (TPM) figure stands at 8,193. “The States as well as the medical college hospitals designated as centres of excellence were reminded by ICMR and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) that indiscriminate use of ‘investigational therapies’ may cause more harm than good,’’ noted the Health Ministry. It added that the ICMR had strongly recommended that the focus of COVID-19 clinical management should continue to remain on oxygen therapy (including high flow nasal oxygen), steroids, appropriate and timely administration of anti-coagulants and supportive care.
12 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Lockdown in Bengaluru Urban, Rural from July 14 Detailed guidelines to be issued tomorrow||With a big rise in COVID-19 cases over the last two weeks in and around the city, the State government has reimposed total lockdown in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts for seven days from 8 p.m. on July 14 till 5 a.m. on July 22. All the guidelines announced during the previous lockdowns will be in force during this period. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who is currently under home quarantine, has appealed to all residents to remain indoors to control the pandemic. Shops and establishments delivering essential items such as medicines, vegetables, fruits, and milk will remain open, while all government and private buses will remain off the road in the two districts. More detailed guidelines will be issued on Monday. However, the scheduled graduate and postgraduate medical exams will be held during the lockdown period, a release said. The government has already declared total lockdown on Sundays in July. The Chief Minister is scheduled to hold a virtual meeting with the Chief Secretary, Deputy Commissioners, and Superintendents of Police on Monday and discuss issues related to the pandemic. Later, he is expected to hold detailed discussions with the eight Bengaluru Ministers who have been assigned different zones in the city for controlling the pandemic. The eight Ministers, in an earlier meeting, had argued that the city needed another lockdown. “Even experts are of the opinion that it is essential to cut down one cycle of transmission of the virus,” Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said. During the recent all-party meeting, the Opposition Congress too had urged the government to reimpose lockdown for a few days.  Considering the suggestions from experts to curb the increasing number of COVID-19 cases, the government has decided to implement complete lockdown in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts for 7 days, starting 8 p.m. on July 14. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Twitter
12 July 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Ariyalur Collector’s office closed||The Ariyalur Collector’s office has been closed after an employee from the Department of Cooperation tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. The employee contracted the virus from his wife, who was working as a sub-registrar at the District Registrar office. The swab lifted from the employee returned positive and he was immediately admitted to a government hospital, officials said. Following this, Collector D. Rathna issued an order to shut the office for three days, from Saturday to Monday. Official sources said that a disinfection drive of the premises was under way. The District Registrar office too will remain shut.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu records 3,965 fresh cases, 69 fatalities||Of the 3,965 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Tamil Nadu on Saturday, Chennai accounted for 1,185 infections, after reporting 1,200-odd cases for four days in a row. Thirty-six other districts also reported cases, accounting for 70% of the fresh infections in the State. In total, 1,34,226* persons have tested positive in the State since March 7. Of them, 46,410 persons are undergoing treatment. Another 3,591 persons were discharged and 69 persons died, taking the total number of persons discharged to 85,915 and the toll to 1,898. In Chennai alone, 1,791 persons were discharged after treatment. This left the number of active cases at 17,989. The city’s neighbouring districts continued to witness a surge in cases. Tiruvallur’s daily count increased to 346, while Chengalpattu recorded 237 cases and Kancheepuram 119. A total of 135 persons tested positive in Vellore and 102 persons in Kallakurichi. Southern region In the southern region, Madurai topped the table with 276 new cases, followed by Thoothukudi with 174. There were 131 cases in Kanyakumari and 119 in Theni. A total of 94 persons tested positive in Virudhunagar, while Ramanathapuram had 81 cases and Tirunelveli 78 cases. Cases continued to rise in Tiruchi and Salem too. Another 127 persons tested positive in Tiruchi, while 132 persons were infected in Salem. A total of 58 returnees, including 16 from Saudi Arabia, tested positive in the State. The overall case counts in the districts were: Chennai - 76,158, Chengalpattu - 7,872, Tiruvallur - 6,421, Madurai - 5,757, and Kancheepuram - 3,218. The districts of Tiruvannamalai, Thoothukudi and Vellore had over 2,000 cases each, while 12 other districts had over 1,000 cases each. A total of 51 persons died in government hospitals and 18 in private hospitals. The death of two persons at the Government Vellore Medical College Hospital on July 4 was reported in Saturday’s bulletin. A 38-year-old man from Ranipet, who had no co-morbidities, died at the hospital owing to respiratory failure, severe acute respiratory illness and COVID-19, while a 65-year-old man with diabetes died owing to respiratory failure and severe acute respiratory illness. Two persons in their 20s succumbed to the infection. One of them was a 24-year-old man, who had no co-morbidities and died at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on July 9 owing to cardiogenic shock, complete heart block, bronchopneumonia, pancytopenia and COVID-19. With this, Chennai accounted for a total of 1,221 deaths, while Chengalpattu recorded 154 deaths, Tiruvallur 122 and Madurai 111. A total of 37,825 samples were tested during the last 24 hours. In total, the number of samples tested so far stood at 15,66,917, while 15,00,909 individuals were tested. Meanwhile, a private laboratory — Saveetha Medical College and Hospital, Chennai — was approved for testing. This took the total number of testing facilities in the State to 102. ( *This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection. )  A total of 37,825 samples were tested during the last 24 hours. In total, the number of samples tested so far stood at 15,66,917
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Loan racket busted, 26 persons arrested||The Anti-Bank Fraud Wing of the Central Crime Branch has arrested 26 suspects who have cheated several people by offering online loans via fake call centres in the city. A senior police officer said, “So far, a group of six call centres have been raided by the Central Crime Branch based on 365 petitions and subsequent cases registered. A total of 26 persons have been arrested for causing a loss of Rs. 1.6 crore to members of the public this year.” Notwithstanding the action taken, many people are falling prey to enticements/threats made by fraudsters pretending to be call centre operators. The Central Crime Branch constantly keeps an eye on fake call centres that target members of the public and steal money from them, he said. On the instructions of Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, Additional Commissioner of Police (CCB) Thenmozhi formed a team to raid the fake call centres. On receiving reliable information, Additional Commissioner of Police (CCB) Saravana Kumar asked the police team to raid two call centres on L.B. Road in Thiruvanmiyur and Perungudi, run by Thiyagarajan who is a close aide of Selva alias Selvakumar, who was arrested ecently for similar offences in Rayala Towers, Anna Salai. On Friday, police arrested R. Thiyagarajan, 38, of Salem, V. Gopinath, 28, of Saidapet and R. Manibala, 22, of Villupuram. The modus operandi adopted was that the fraudsters would get data containing phone numbers of potential customers by paying Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 10,000. Insurance agents’ link The fraudsters had links with private insurance agents. Under the pretext of selling insurance products, women would call potential borrowers with a promise to arrange loans. The callers would then collect photographs, address proof and identity proof from the customers and pass these on to insurance agents for follow up. Then, the customers would be issued insurance policies instead of loans. Thus, customers looking for loans were forced to buy insurance products and then left high and dry. In the case of customers who rejected the insurance products and insisted on loans, “commission” was collected for an instant loan without any collateral, CCB officials said. According to a press release, the Commissioner of Police had asked the police force to prevent such crimes in the city. The Greater Chennai Police has appealed to the public to beware of fraudsters who could exploit them using the COVID-19 pandemic situation.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Encroachments sprout again on lake bed||A gap in executing works to restore the Korattur lake, a the major waterbody in the western parts of the city, has led to mushrooming of encroachments in the lake bed. Makeshift structures have been put up in the lake bed at Dhanalakshmi Nagar and Thachan Nagar, encroaching on the lake and catchment areas. The newly laid bund along the lake has been breached and new buildings have come up inside the lake boundary demarcated by the Water Resources Department (WRD), the local residents said. The WRD removed encroachments in February and laid a 750-metre-long bund. Members of the Korattur Aeri Pathukappu Makkal Iyakkam (KAPMI), who have filed a case with the National Green Tribunal, Southern Zone, alleged that attempts were being made to sell land in the encroached portions of the lake near Menambedu. WRD officials recently lodged a complaint with the police against those who breached the bund and laid a road on the lake bed. S. Sekharan, secretary of KAPMI, said the department should take measures to ensure that the area around the lake is fenced to prevent further encroachments. The surplus course that brings flood water from Ambattur to Korattur lake continues to carry sewage from areas such as Gnanamurthy Nagar and DTP Colony. As inlets to the lake have been blocked, sewage release has been temporarily prevented. Measures to resolve the issue should be taken and the canal should be desilted before the northeast monsoon sets in, as the inlets would need to be opened then, Mr. Sekharan said. Though an action plan was submitted for lake restoration, including sewer connections and treatment plants in Ambattur, it was yet to be implemented, he added. Meanwhile, the Water Resources Department is awaiting funding from the government to kickstart projects, including installing regulators near inlets, desilting and solid waste removal from the lake. Officials said the work and the eviction had been delayed due to the lockdown. There were plans to desilt the inlet channels as part of pre-monsoon work by August. Eco-restoration project also includes creating nesting islands for birds and parks.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fever clinics credited with Chennai’s declining trend in infections||The Greater Chennai Corporation has screened 10 lakh residents so far in fever clinics as part of its efforts to arrest the spread of COVID-19 in the city. Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said that a high number of residents being screened in fever clinics had led to a declining trend for 11 days in the city that has a population of 87 lakh. The fever clinics were started in May to better COVID-19 containment activities in the city. Pointing to a death analysis in the city, Mr. Prakash said that 20% of COVID-19 deaths were caused because residents did not reveal symptoms to Corporation workers who visited their homes as part surveys. “Residents are requested to talk about their symptoms to volunteers or to doctors at fever clinics. People are not visiting the fever clinics voluntarily,” said Mr. Prakash. The civic body has been conducting fever clinics at 550 locations in the city, every day. Testing in the city too had doubled, increasing from 4,000 tests to 11,300. Now, the number of tests have come down to 9,139. The Greater Chennai Corporation has so far quarantined seven lakh residents in the city. “At least 2.75 lakh residents have completed 14 days of quarantine. Every day, 40,000 residents are quarantined. Currently, 4.25 lakh residents are on quarantine in the city, under various categories,” said Mr. Prakash. Door-to-door checks The State government has allocated Rs. 40 crore for 4,500 FOCUS volunteers in Chennai to monitor those in quarantine and help them get essentials. An allocation of Rs. 100 crore has been made towards door-to-door survey and quarantine. The number of containment zones in the city too has reduced to 175. Currently, a road is notified as a containment zone if residents in three houses have tested positive for COVID-19. Stressing the need for closure of markets to prevent the spread of COVID-19, Mr. Prakash said that multi-member committees had been formed for each of the 70 organised markets in the city. “We will have to order indefinite closure of markets that report crowding ,” said Mr. Prakash.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Koyambedu market should have been closed earlier’||The Tamil Nadu government should have taken some proactive steps to contain the spread of COVID-19, BJP State president L. Murugan said on Saturday. He said the government should have closed the Koyambedu market earlier and asked why it had been hesitant to do so. At a webinar on the novel coronavirus and Tamil Nadu politics, he said that had the market been closed earlier, the number of cases would not have increased. People from the State who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Nizamuddin, Delhi, not testing early was another key reason for the virus to spread, he said. He said the Centre had given the State over Rs. 6,000 crore for handling the pandemic, and Rs. 15,000 crore in all. “Some Ministers saying that the Centre has not given funds is not acceptable to us. I request the State government to issue a clarification,” he said. Mr. Murugan said DMK president M.K. Stalin had merely been criticising the government without coming up with constructive suggestions. He said the BJP was geared up to face the Assembly election due next year.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu Government issues SOP for textbook distribution||The distribution of free textbooks and other educational resources to students of government and government-aided schools will take place with strict adherence to standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the State government. Students of classes 10 and 12 will first receive their books and this is being done to facilitate learning from their homes during the COVID-19 lockdown. Time slots In the SOP issued by the Revenue and Disaster Management Department, schools have been asked to distribute the books in pre-assigned time slots to students or parents. Not more than 20 persons will be allowed to gather on the school premises during a slot of one hour and strict physical distancing norms have to be followed. Teachers, students and parents have all been instructed to wear masks. Schools have also been asked to ensure that students get the video content of lessons on their laptops. Designated staff members have been asked to collect their laptops and take them to hi-tech labs in the schools. Once the e-resources are downloaded, the laptops will be returned to the students and no student or parent will be allowed inside the lab. On school campuses, two classrooms will be earmarked as waiting halls for parents and students, and they have been asked not to linger outside the school premises after the distribution. For students in quarantine or those living in containment zones, the schools have been asked to handover the books once their quarantine period is over.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK may not win next election but won’t disappear either’||Tiruchi Lok Sabha MP and former TNCC chief, Su. Thirunavukkarasar, who will turn 71 on Monday (July 13), cut his political teeth in the AIADMK under its founder M.G. Ramachandran (MGR). In an interview, he strongly feels that though the ruling AIADMK does not have chances of victory in the 2021 Assembly elections, it will not get destroyed, as it has its network in every nook and corner of the State. Excerpts:  You spent over 20 years of your nearly four-decade-old political career in the AIADMK till 1997. How do you see the future of the party? The AIADMK of the MGR era or the Jayalalithaa period was different. Now it does not have a mass leader or an established leader who is acceptable to the party rank and file and the common man. MLAs who are supporting [Chief Minister] Edappadi K. Palaniswami are not his choices. They had all won the last election as Jayalalithaa’s nominees. Only after eight or nine months will we see how successful he is. Even then, I don’t think the party has got chances of victory. The party’s future depends on its performance in the Assembly poll and the quality of leadership it gets thereafter. It is my assessment that the party will not get destroyed. It will remain there in the field as it has cadres and office-bearers all over the State but the level of its strength will be decided by the Assembly election results. In the event of the release of V.K. Sasikala [Jayalalithaa’s aide] from a Bengaluru jail, will her return to the AIADMK or active politics cause any impact? I do not think it can make any impact. It is doubtful whether Sasikala will be taken back in the AIADMK as such a move will weaken only the position of Edappadi [Palaniswami]. Even assuming that she runs her own political party, she has nothing much to claim about her track record in public life as Jayalalithaa had never given any position in the party to Sasikala. Even during the last Assembly election, when Jayalalithaa was not doing well health-wise, she did not assign any election campaign work to Sasikala. Even if Sasikala starts a party, this can only disturb marginally the prospects of the AIADMK at the time of the Assembly elections. With Assembly elections due in next 10 months, do you think the present alignment of political parties will continue? I think the DMK-Congress alliance will continue. This is my desire also, as this will benefit us mutually. The forthcoming poll is going to be a very important one as far as Tamil Nadu is concerned. For the first time, [DMK chief] M.K. Stalin and Edappadi are going to face the Assembly election on their own. Unlike in the Lok Sabha polls when the State had an anti-Modi, anti-BJP, pro-Rahul and pro-Congress wave, there is no such factor at work. Of all the parties in the State, the DMK is the strongest as it has not suffered any split. If the DMK-Congress alliance continues, it will achieve a resounding success. Will Rajinikanth enter politics? Will his presence in politics make any difference? He has been my friend for more than 30 or 35 years. Even though he said a few years ago that he would start a party, he has not launched it yet. When eight or nine months are only left for the Assembly election, there are certain questions whether it is a sufficient period for a party to be launched and run, and whether such a party can face the polls on its own. A bigger question than all these is whether he will start a party or not. Having said that, let me also say that it is not up to me but to him to clarify whether he will start a party or not.  For the full interview, visit: http://bit.ly/Thirunavukkarasar
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC bats for higher salary for court employees||The Madras High Court on Thursday set aside a decision taken by the State government on January 29, 2019 to reject former Chief Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul’s 2017 recommendation to increase the salaries of over 3,800 High Court staff on a par with that of the Delhi HC and Supreme Court staff. Justices R. Subbiah and C. Saravanan rejected the government’s contention that the HC staff salaries could not be raised because it would have a cascading effect and that the Secretariat staff and other government employees might demand a similar increase. It was not an acceptable reason to deny fair wages, they said. Not comparable “First of all, a comparison between the scale of pay between the staff of the High Court and the State Secretariat cannot be made at all. The nature of work discharged by the staff of the High Court is not akin to or comparable with the nature of work discharged by the members of the State Secretariat,” the Division Bench observed. After setting aside the government’s decision, the Division Bench ordered for constitution of a committee comprising HC judges and government officials to analyse the nature of duties performed by the Madras and Delhi HC staff before implementing the new pay scale as recommended by the former Chief Justice.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madipakkam’s pincode issue resolved||Residents of some streets of Madipakkam, who faced confusion and delay as they were served with a pin code of another locality, may soon have a respite. They would get to use the pin code of Madipakkam in their addresses from July 13. T.V. Sundari, Senior Superintendent of Post Office, Tambaram division, said postal services to some streets in Madipakkam were delivered through Old Pallavaram post office with the pin code of 600117. The streets, including Rajarajeswari Avenue, Ganga Street, Krishna Nagar 1st to 5th Streets, Rainbow Colony first and second street and Saminathan Street, would get to use Madipakkam pin code of 600 091.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nedunchezhian, a stickler for organisational discipline||Former Finance Minister V.R. Nedunchezhian, whose birth centenary fell on Saturday, was such a stickler for organisational discipline that he had disregarded his personal position on the issue of abolition of Legislative Council in May 1986, according to ‘Panruti’ S. Ramachandran, a key member of the M.G. Ramachandran Cabinet (1977-87) and former Minister for Public Works, Electricity and Food. For over 30 years, the Council’s revival remained a non-starter despite the DMK, while being in power, attempting thrice — 1989, 1996 and 2010. In the 2016 Assembly elections, the DMK had even included it in its manifesto. Recalling events leading to the controversial decision on the Council abolition, Mr. Ramchandran, ranked no.3 next to Nedunchezhian, said the Chief Minister had first taken the support of the then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on the issue during a visit to New Delhi. “I had accompanied him then and discussed the matter with the Prime Minister,” he said. On returning to Chennai, as asked by M.G.R., he [Mr. Ramchandran] conveyed the decision to Nedunchezhian, who was also the Leader of House in the Assembly. The initial reaction of the latter was one of strong disapproval. “He had often likened the Legislative Assembly and Legislative Council to a cup and saucer and held the view that the Council, being an Upper House, could provide course correction to certain decisions of the Assembly,” the former Minister pointed out. But Mr. Ramachandran told him that the abolition of the Council was the Chief Minister’s decision. Not just that. The Chief Minister had wanted him [Nedunchezhian] to pilot a motion in the Assembly on the subject. “Not only he agreed to go along with M.G.R.’s decision but also commendably justified it in the House during the discussion,” Mr. Ramachandran recalled. On Nedunchezhian’s style of functioning, C. Ponnaiyan, another member of the MGR Cabinet in charge of Transport, Law and Education over the 10 years, said as a Minister, he would thoroughly peruse files and insist on getting views of Secretaries of the departments concerned. “If any Secretary did not record his or her view on the file, he would send back the file and get their opinion,” the former Law Minister said adding that as leader of the party, his focus was always on the unity of the party and reconciliation among members of the organisation.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vested interests acting against development of Siddha: HC||Doubting that vested interests were acting against the development and promotion of the ancient and indigenous Siddha form of medication, the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the State government to spell out whether it plays a vital role in curing COVID-19 patients. Justices N. Kirubakaran and V.M. Velumani issued the direction on a habeas corpus petition filed against the detention of a Siddha hospital administrator under the Goondas Act for having circulated a video accusing the government of not having done anything to contain the pandemic. In their interim order, the judges said, Siddha medication was not being given due recognition either by the Union Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy (AYUSH) or the State government which had failed to test efficacy of various Siddha medicines. The result was that many Siddha doctors had to approach the High Court seeking a direction to the government to test their medicines and it was only after one such direction issued by the Madurai Bench of the High Court, the government found out anti-viral properties of a Siddha medicine. “Even though Siddha doctors are independently curing COVID-19 patients successfully and Tamil media is reporting the same promptly, English media is not giving any importance and recognition to such an important news about the native medicine,” the judges lamented. If the medications developed by Siddha practitioners were not promptly sent to the Ministry of AYUSH for analysis by the State government, the very purpose of having established Siddha institutes and colleges in the State would be lost, the Bench added.  Penning the order, Justice Kirubakaran said: “The apathetic attitude exhibited by the government is not going to help the Siddha doctors or the government or the public in general. When a solution is given by Siddha doctors, they should be encouraged and proper research has to be done. “So far no Indian doctor or researcher has developed any medicine for any disease… As far as Siddha field is concerned, no comprehensive research is made and adequate facilities are not provided. The Ministry of AYUSH and the State government have to look into the issue more seriously.” He directed both the Centre as well as the State government to file comprehensive reports by July 23 listing out the medications given to COVID-19 patients as well as the native medicines prescribed to boost immunity.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Free dialysis facility opened in Chennai||The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), the Freemasons Lodge Accountants No.194 and the TANKER Foundation inaugurated a new free dialysis unit in the Cholamandal Artists Village at Injambakkam on the East Coast Road on Saturday. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash, Regional Grand Master of the Regional Grand Lodge of South India V.G. Madhusudan and Corporation Joint Commissioner (Health) Madhusudhan Reddy together inaugurated the unit. While the civic body provided the infrastructure and Freemasons Lodge Accountants No.194, through its charitable trust Lodge Accountants Charitable Trust, has equipped this unit with 10 dialysis machines and all medical equipment and accessories estimated to be Rs. 1 crore. The TANKER Foundation would manage and running the unit. This is the 10th dialysis unit to be run by TANKER Foundation. About 2.5 lakh people died of kidney failure in the country every year.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Local labourers roped in for Chennai airport’s modernisation project||As the majority of migrant workers have returned home, it has left infrastructure projects hanging in the city. Airports Authority of India (AAI) too has been finding it challenging to handle the Chennai airport’s phase II modernisation project. To keep the work going, they have now roped in several local labourers, sources said. Chennai airport’s phase II modernisation, which included a new integrated terminal and some other facilities, began last year with an estimated cost of Rs. 2,500 crore. With 1,500-1,800 migrant workers, the project was on in full swing until a lockdown was imposed in the city. Hundreds of workers left for their hometowns over the past few months and only about 200-300 workers stayed back, sources said. At present, fabrication work and raising trusses and frames were in progress at the site. “It is quite tough to manage with the existing worker strength. We have been working with local labourers as well, who constitute about 30-40% of the workforce,” a source said. Officials said only when train services resume, migrant workers will be able to return to the city.  Only when train services resume, migrant workers will be able to return to the city
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM writes to MEA on repatriation of fishermen from Iran||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday requested External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar to make arrangements for repatriation of 40 Tamil fishermen stranded in Iran. Recalling his earlier letter, Mr. Palaniswamy said while 681 fishermen had been brought to India by INS Jalashwa , 40 fishermen were left behind because of lack of space in the ship.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tips to handle psychological impact of COVID-19, lockdown||The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on mental health was the focus of the third webinar in The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling series, presented by SRM IST. Held on July 11, the event saw Dr. Ravikumar Arunachalam, Pro Vice-Chancellor, Medical & Health Sciences, SRM IST; Dr. M. Thirunavukarasu, professor and head, Department of Psychiatry, SRM Medical College and Research Centre; Dr. Lakshmi Vijayakumar, founder of SNEHA and Head of Department of Psychiatry, Voluntary Health Services, Chennai; and Subhashini Gopal, psychologist at Schizophrenia Research Foundation (SCARF) and Sundaram Medical Foundation give tips and advice and answer questions from viewers. The session was moderated by Ramya Kannan, chief of Tamil Nadu bureau, The Hindu . Dr. Arunachalam gave a broad overview of the psychological impact of the pandemic and focused on issues relevant to students. Research is the key during this time, he said, and mentioned India’s growth in the medical and biological fields, which also provided opportunities for students in the future. While stating that suicide had always been a silent epidemic shadowing a pandemic, Dr. Lakshmi Vijayakumar also said that there had been a significant decline in the number of student suicides since the shift to e-learning and examinations. She emphasised that the current education system needs to help students develop skills, instead of focusing on exams and results. “Make use of this time to broaden your horizons, discover yourself and find out what your true passions are, so you can live a more meaningful life in the future post-COVID,” she said. Dr. M. Thirunavukarasu said that some stress is normal but it becomes a problem when it starts to affect one’s performance and life. He emphasised the importance of being aware of one’s mental health and encouraged people to seek help and talk about it and also suggested improving services through the digital medium so that people can reach out for therapy and counselling. Ms. Subhashini Gopal made a presentation on the effect of COVID-19 on children and youth. She highlighted the negative aspects of e-learning without a proper transition, excessive or unsupervised screen time, and the effect of witnessing parental conflicts or domestic violence. Parents should engage in open conversations with kids and provide them with more activities and teach ‘digital hygiene’. Social and physical distancing, sleep irregularities, uncertainty about their future, lack of physical activity and a schedule could add to adolescent anxieties. She also mentioned that it is important to recognise that being anxious is okay, but one needs to create positive distractions, find ways to connect with friends and encourage ‘me time’ to discover oneself.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Stalin’s allegation baseless’||Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani on Saturday termed as “baseless” the allegation by Opposition leader M.K. Stalin that there were irregularities in the mission to provide safe and adequate drinking water through individual household tap connections by 2024. Mr. Velumani said under the Tamil Nadu Tender Transparency Act 1998 and Rules 2000, tenders should be called for all the works above Rs. 10 lakh estimation. It was the DMK government that swindled crores in the 1970s in the Veeranam scheme, he said.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anbalagan recovering from infection||Minister for Higher Education K.P. Anbalagan, who was hospitalised after testing positive for COVID-19, is recovering well from the infection, MIOT Hospital said on Saturday. “He is in an independent room and all his observations are stable. We are hoping that he will soon be ready for discharge from the hospital,” it said in a release. On June 18, Mr. Anbalagan tested positive for COVID-19 and has been in the hospital since. Mr. Anbalagan was the first Minister from Tamil Nadu to test positive for COVID-19.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered in spat over sewage release||A 50-year-old man was allegedly murdered by his neighbour over a dispute over discharge of sewage. The police said the victim has been identified as Selvam, 50, a resident of Ambedkar Nagar and a booking agent of a travel agency. He had a quarrel with his neighbour Anjali, 50, on discharging sewage. She told her son Kutti alias Kuralarasan, about her dispute with Selvam. On Friday night, Kutti, accompanied by his friends, riding a bike, encircled Selvam while he was sitting near his house and attacked him. The gang fled the spot, leaving Selvam in a pool of blood. Neighbours alerted the Adambakkam police.
12 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||King cobra rescued from Narasipuram||The Forest Department on Friday released a female king cobra (Ophiophagus hannah) in a new habitat after it was caught twice from a village near Narasipuram of Coimbatore district. Officials said the 13-foot-long king cobra was released in a natural habitat on the way to Siruvani, seven km away from where it was caught. The snake was found inside a shed in an agricultural field at Narasipuram on Friday. After alerted by villagers, Pooluvapattu forest range officer Arokiasamy contacted snake handler K. Santhosh Kumar to rescue the snake. Mr. Kumar had rescued the snake from the same village and released it in a forest area near Vaidehi Falls on June 14. “As the snake strayed into the village again, it was released in another natural habitat on the way to Siruvani based on directions from the District Forest Officer,” said Mr. Arokiaraj. Mr. Kumar had also caught two other king cobras from Narasipuram – a 16-foot-long male snake in November 2019 and a 14-foot-long female snake in April this year. Apart from disturbances in habitats caused by human interventions, presence of rat snakes in agricultural fields is also said to force king cobras to stray into villages.  Rat snake is one of the favourite meals of king cobras, diet of which mostly constitutes other snakes.
12 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Pumpset industry sees a 40% slump in sales||Pumpset sales across the country and in Tamil Nadu have seen a 40% drop in the first three months of the financial year, mainly because of the lockdown. K.V. Karthik, vice-president of the Southern India Engineering Manufacturers’ Association, told The Hindu that though summer was the peak season for pumpset sales, there were no sales this year in April and during the first two weeks of May. Sales revived thereafter, but remained subdued. “The demand is mainly from the agriculture sector. We are unable to service it because of labour shortage,” he said. Manpower shortage Foundries that supply raw materials to pumpset manufacturing units have been hard hit by labour shortage. These factories employed a large number of migrant workers and most of them have returned to their home States. Even in the case of pumpset units, though labourers from Tamil Nadu can be recruited and trained, there are challenges in getting e-passes to bring in workers from other districts to Coimbatore. In Gujarat, another major pumpset manufacturing hub in the country, inter-district movement is permitted. But workers are all from other States. Pumpset units in Coimbatore have been operating at just 60% of their capacity because of labour issues and low demand, Mr. Karthik said. “We have been managing since mid-May with the stocks we had. Now we have started fresh production,” he said. With the onset of monsoon, demand may drop again, he added.
12 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Swab collection of domestic passengers to resume at Coimbatore airport||Health Department will resume collection of swab samples of domestic passengers who arrive at the Coimbatore International Airport, said District Collector K. Rajamani on Saturday. Incoming passengers An official from the Health Department also confirmed that swab samples of incoming domestic passengers will be collected from Sunday.  The Hindu reported in its columns on Friday that the Health Department stopped collection of incoming domestic passengers’ swab samples from July 7, owing to overloading of swab samples and issues with referring swab samples to private laboratories approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research. Sources at the airport said that results of swab samples collected from domestic passengers in the last week of June were pending. As of Saturday, results of about 20,000 swab samples of domestic air passengers were pending. However, there was no interruption in swab collection of passengers who arrive from other countries.
12 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||212 streets in Coimbatore city have active COVID-19 cases||The Coimbatore Corporation has placed 212 streets in the city under quarantine after people in these areas tested positive for COVID-19. On Saturday, 7,913 people came to the fever clinics the Corporation conducted across five zones. It lifted 316 swab samples for COVID-19 test. The Corporation also slapped a fine of Rs. 18,300 on 183 persons for not wearing the mask. The civic body also fined and sealed a fish shop at Olympus for violation of physical distancing norm at the outlet.
12 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||SpiceJet air-lifts cargo||SpiceJet air-lifted nearly 18 tonnes of cargo to Sharjah from Coimbatore International Airport on Saturday night. The cargo included a variety of fresh vegetables and flowers. While the vegetables and flowers were from Coimbatore, bananas came from Kerala. This is sixth all-cargo flight to operate from Coimbatore to an international destination since lockdown restrictions were imposed in March, said sources.
12 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Held for stealing goats||Vadakkipalayam police on Friday arrested a taxi driver on charges of stealing at least six goats. The man confessed to the police that he stole goats during trips as he was unable to earn enough to meet financial needs during lockdown. The arrested has been identified as M. Moorthy (36), a native of Tiruvannamalai who was staying at Chettipalayam here.
12 July 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘Eco watchers are ineffective in Dindigul Forest Range’||As people remained indoors due to COVID-19 lockdown, intrusion of wild animals in human habitation is on the rise. Kartik, 30, of MM Street, Kodaikanal, was gored to death by an Indian Gaur on Friday. The victim, a mechanic, was walking home around noon, when he was attacked by the animal and he died on the spot. Locals said threat from wild animals has been increasing. A fortnight ago, a milch animal was killed in a similar fashion. Though complaints were lodged with the forest department officials nothing has happened, villagers complained. In this backdrop, accusing Forest officials of negligence, members of Bharatiya Kisan Sangh here demanded registration of cases against them. The district is represented by Dindigul C Srinivasan who is the Minister for Forests, it said in a memorandum to the Collector. “Neither are we given compensation, nor any measures are taken to prevent the conflict between man and animals in this region,” said a farmer Boopathi from Adalur village. The Dindigul Forest Range is one of the biggest ranges in south Tamil Nadu and has as many as four IFS officers. Instead of examining modalities to keep wild animals deep inside the forests with the aid of technology, officials blamed farmers all the time, he said. The locals say forest officials harass villagers whenever there was death of an animal. “It is the local forest officials who let poachers inside reserve forests but locals are blamed and humiliated,” Antony of Vilpatti near Kodaikanal said. To prevent animals from trespassing into human habitations, eco watchers have been appointed but they were ineffective, the Sangh said and demanded they be stopped the way Friends of Police (FoP) was rescinded in Tamil Nadu. Considering the plight of farmers and villagers, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami should immediately act upon their demands and give compensation for the losses, office-bearers said in the memorandum. A majority of farmers here raised horticulture crops and most of them had suffered losses due to destruction of their farms, they added.
12 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||CM to review development works in Erode on July 17||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will review various development works being executed in the district on July 17, said School Education Minister K. A. Sengottaiyan here on Saturday. The Minister told presspersons at the Collectorate that Mr. Palaniswami would chair a meeting with officials at the Erode Collectorate and review various ongoing works executed by various departments in the district. New projects He would also inaugurate works and lay foundation for new projects in all the eight Assembly Constituencies in the district during his visit, the Minister said. Mr. Sengottaiyan said that the Chief Minister would inaugurate textbook distribution for government school students on July 14. A decision on reducing the syllabus for the 2020-2021 academic year would be taken up after the committee constituted by the State Government submitted its report, he added. Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan, District Collector C. Kathiravan, MLAs, Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan was also present at the Collectorate to discuss the arrangements for the next week’s meeting.
12 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to works at Erode sub-station, power supply will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on July 14 at TVS Street, NMS Compound, Eswaran Kovil Street, Nethaji Road, Manikoondu, R.K.V. Road, Ramasamy Street, Venkadachalam Street, Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Kongalamman Kovil Street, Chokkanatha Street, Jinna Street and Agraharam Street.
12 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Thoppur hospital turns intensive care unit for COVID-19 cases||Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar said the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine in Thoppur will be used as an intensive care facility apart from being a COVID-19 care centre. Speaking after inspecting the Thoppur hospital, he said there has been a need to expand the health infrastructure in the district. In order to increase the number of beds with oxygen facilities, the State government has purchased two oxygen cylinders with 1,000 litre capacity for Thoppur hospital. “Thoppur hospital and the Government Rajaji Hospital will be considered centres where tertiary care is provided,” he said. He said at least 250 beds with oxygen facilities will now be available in each taluk and at 117 Primary Health Centres (PHC). This is apart from COVID-19 care centres, health facilities and tertiary care facilities available in the district. He said that the positivity rate has been between 9% and 10% of the total number of samples taken in the district since testing has been stepped up. In the last week, a total of 17,000 people have been tested. “Doctors are better prepared to deal with positive cases. With the lockdown in place, we hope cases will come down,” he said. He said that many health workers across the district were staying at quarantine centres for a longer period to serve patients. “Efforts are being taken to ensure that Madurai district's COVID-19 numbers are kept in check. The public can help by ensuring that they consistently wear masks and ensure personal distancing in public places,” he added.
12 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Positive cases on the rise||A total of 277 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai on Saturday taking the overall tally of cases to 5,757. A total of 553 people were discharged from various COVID-19 facilities in the district. The count of active cases was 3,843 and 10 deaths were recorded taking the toll to 111. One of the patients died without any co-morbidities. Out of the 277 cases, 276 were indigenous.  Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district registered 94 new positive cases that took the total number of cases to 1833. However, with 43 patients getting discharged (total 827), the number of active cases stood at 994. However, a 77-year-old man with Diabetes Mellitus and systemic hypertension, admitted on July 3, in a private medical college with complaints of fever and difficulty in breathing, died on Friday morning due to COVID-19 pneumonia/respiratory failure. With this, the total number of deaths has risen to 12.  Theni The district saw 119 fresh cases taking the tally to 1,614 from 1,495. After treatment, 48 people were discharged today. According to a press release, there were 66 men, 46 women and seven children. There were 531 samples taken today and Cumbum continued to witness high number with 33 testing positive today out of 119. There were two deaths in the district.  Dindigul The district, which reported steep numbers initially during March end and beginning of April among the 10 districts in south TN, has slipped from third position to ninth position bringing a sigh of relief among the COVID-19 warriors. On Saturday, the district saw six fresh cases and 56 people were discharged.  Ramanathapuram In the district, 83 persons tested positive taking the total positive cases to 1774. Forty two persons were discharged.  Sivaganga There were 66 new cases taking the total positive cases to 786. A total of 645 samples were taken. Karaikudi had 21 fresh cases, Sivaganga Town: 17 and other towns such as Tirupathur, Manamadurai, Devakottai too had fresh cases. There were 47 discharges from the hospital.  Tirunelveli Southern districts, while witnessing five COVID-19- related deaths including the demise of 56-year-old Armed Reserve Police Inspector, added 453 positive cases on Saturday with Thoothukudi continuing to lead with 175 fresh cases. Of the 175 cases in Thoothukudi, 174 were indigenous patients and the fresh infections took the total number of cases to 2,124 and active cases to 1,096. The district also witnessed three COVID-19-related deaths on Saturday taking the total number of deaths in the district to 11. Kanniyakumari again registered a major surge on Saturday with 133 cases that took the total number of infections to 1,203 and active cases to 741. As one more COVID-19 positive patient died on Saturday, the total number of deaths in the district moved to five. Tirunelveli district that added 80 new cases witnessed the death of Armed Reserve Police Inspector Sadhu Chidambaram, who was undergoing treatment in a private hospital here. After taking the body to his native place at Srivaikundam, the Social Democratic Party of India cadres buried the mortal remains with police paying a gun salute. His 35-year-old son-in-law had succumbed to the viral infection only ten days ago, sources in the police said. The district now has 815 active cases even as the total number of infections stood at 1,629. Tenkasi, after a brief lull, recorded 65 fresh cases including 61 indigenous cases on Saturday which took the total number of cases to 665 and active cases to 365.
12 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC allows doctor to furnish adequate security instead of bank guarantee||Taking into account the financial position of a doctor, aspiring to pursue higher studies, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has allowed her to furnish adequate security instead of a bank guarantee. The court was hearing the petition filed by R. Elanthendral who completed her MBBS in 2016. Subsequently, she completed her Diploma in Child Health and was appointed as Assistant Surgeon in Avudaiyarkoil Government Hospital in 2019. The petitioner wants to pursue a post diploma Course in Paediatrics and has been selected for the course after successfully clearing the entrance examination. However, her original certificates were not returned to her as she was unable to furnish a bank guarantee. According to the order issued by the Health and Family Welfare Department, it is mandated that a candidate should furnish a bank guarantee of Rs. 20 lakh, if they want to pursue higher studies and then rejoin government service. The petitioner said that she hails from a middle class family and her family was not in a position to furnish the bank guarantee of Rs. 20 lakh. The State argued that notification was issued so that candidates do not breach the condition to serve the government. Refusing to interfere with the government order, Justice C. Saravanan allowed the petitioner to furnish adequate security instead of a bank guarantee. She shall furnish a post dated cheque for 50 % of the bond amount favouring the Director of Medical Education. The petitioner was also directed to furnish post dated cheques for the stipend amount paid to her. The certificates of the petitioner shall be returned to her after she abides by the conditions, the court said. On completion of the course she shall report to the Director of Medical Education to be deployed in a government hospital. After the petitioner rejoins service, the amount encashed by the Director of Medical Education shall be refunded to the petitioner with interest, the court said.
12 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Pharmacies say ‘no’ to fever medicines||Residents across the city complain that the rule necessitating a doctor’s prescription for getting medicines for cold, cough or fever from pharmacies has affected those who have an urgent need for these medicines. D. Murugesan, president of Madurai Mavatta Marunthu Vanigargal Sangam, said based on instructions from the government, all pharmacies have displayed boards for the past three months stating that doctor’s prescription was necessary for getting medicines for cold, cough or fever. “This is to ensure that people do not self-medicate in case they are infected with COVID-19 virus,” he said. M. Mariam Begam, a resident of Mahaboopalayam, said she endured an ordeal recently when she had a cold, sore throat and wanted to get medicines from a pharmacy. “All pharmacies refused to give the medicines and asked me to get tested for COVID-19. But results indicated that I tested negative for COVID-19 and was suffering from mild typhoid,” she said. Ms. Begam added that if she had the medicines earlier, she would have recovered quicker. “Getting tested for COVID-19 is not an easy task. It would be better if pharmacies give medicines for those who are in urgent need after they collect personal details including the house address of customers. This will help field workers to follow upon the customers personally,” she said. C. Anand Raj, a health rights activist, said that intense door-to-door screening of residents through mobile fever camps will be helpful. “Compared to urban areas, there are very few PHCs in rural areas. So, medical staff can screen them and accordingly give them medications,” he added. A senior official from the State Drug Control Department said it was a complicated situation and need for prescription was essential to combat COVID-19 pandemic. “We will emphasise that pharmacies can give medicines with prescriptions after they collect personal details of the customers,” the official added.
12 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea alleges illegal sand quarrying||Yet another public interest litigation petition on illegal sand quarrying has been filed before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. The petition complained of illegal extraction of sand from the Vaigai river at Thirupuvanam in Sivaganga district. The petitioner, U. Seetha of Thirupuvanam, complained that continuous sand quarrying in the region had led to depletion in the groundwater level in the area. This also affected the agricultural activities and people were suffering from shortage of drinking water, she said. Prior to 1994, agricultural lands in the area were spread over 10,000 acres. But, now it has reduced to 3,000 acres. Agricultural lands were turning into barren lands. Despite representations sent in this regard, the authorities concerned have not initiated action against the illegal sand quarrying, the petitioner said. Taking up the public interest litigation petition for hearing, a Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the Sivaganga district authorities to file a counter affidavit and adjourned the hearing in the case.
12 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||1.5 lakh students to get dry rations||Around 1.5 lakh students of government and government-aided schools in the district will receive dry ration for May under the Puratchi Thalaivar MGR Nutritious Meal Programme. An official from the district administration said that since last week, dry ration was being given to children studying in primary classes. “Since, most of the primary students are near their respective schools, we are distributing dry rations to them at their doorsteps through Block Development Officers,” he said. The official added that they will have to procure additional stock of dry ration to be distributed to students of Classes 6 to 10. “Based on a schedule, students will be asked to come to school to collect the dry ration. Personal distancing and wearing of face masks will be strictly enforced,” he added. Each student of primary class will be given 3.1 kg rice and 1.2 kg pulses. For students from classes 6 to 10, 4.65 kg rice and 1.25 kg pulses would be given.
12 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 113 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 218 cusecs and a discharge of 125 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 32.97 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 15 cusecs and and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 1,411 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday was (in mm): Sothuparai dam 12.5, Periyar dam 2 and Thekkadi 0.2. The water level in Papanasam dam stood at 53.90 feet (permissible level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 350.69 cusecs and 354.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 65.20 feet (permissible level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 9 cusecs and 75 cusecs of water was discharged.
12 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Webinar series for MSMEs||Madurai Extension Centre of MSME - Technology Development Centre, an autonomous body under the Central government’s Ministry of MSME, will conduct a three-part online webinars. The webinars are aimed to cater to the needs of young entrepreneurs, skilled workers intending to start their own business, housewives looking for business opportunities and students interested in entrepreneurship. The first webinar focussing on how to start a micro, small or medium enterprise, will be held from July 17 to July 19. The second webinar focusing on financial subsidy schemes will be held from July 24 to July 26. The final webinar on business plan preparation will be held on July 31 and August 1. All the webinars will be held between 6.30 p.m. and 8.30 p.m. Those who complete the programmes will be issued e-certificate from Government of India. For registration, contact 8870990816 / 8667065048
12 July 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen continue stir||Defying the ban on processions and agitations, a group of fishers belonging to Nambiyar Nagar, a fishing village, took out a march to the Collector office, protesting against the action taken against those using the banned purse seine nets. According to a report, about 500 fishermen took part in the protest. Raising slogans, they urged the government to lift the ban on the fishing nets, claiming that they were important to sustain the livelihood. Some of the fisher women threatened to commit self immolation. However, a strong posse of policemen prevented them from proceeding further, at Ellapillaiyarkoil. Since they insisted on marching to the Collector office, the police selected a group of leaders to present petition. They then held a meeting with Collector Praveen P. Nair.However, they agreed to postpone the protest till Wednesday after the Collector promised them to take up their demand with the Government. Earlier, the peace talk held at the Revenue Divisional Office, Nagapattinam, failed to find a solution. Meanwhile, fisherfolk observed a fast in Poompuhar and Kollidam to press for the demand. A group of 2,000 fishermen of about 44 villages out of 54 villages in Nagapattinam had demanded the State to take action against those using banned nets.
12 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. Cabinet meet concludes without finalising Bedi’s address, budget speech||The Puducherry Cabinet, which met on Friday evening, concluded without finalising the customary address of the Lieutenant Governor and draft of the budget speech. As soon as the Ministers, Secretaries gathered at the Cabinet room at the Legislative Assembly at around 6. 30 p.m, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy informed the members that the meeting could not proceed as the government was yet to get any communication from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs on the status of the budget estimate prepared by the Finance Department. Since the approval was not received, the agenda before the Cabinet could not be discussed, the Chief Minister informed the members. “The meeting lasted for just about ten minutes,” a senior official told The Hindu. A confidential note circulated by Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar on Thursday has included the Lt. Governor’s address and budget speech in the agenda. According to a government source, the meeting was convened anticipating approval for the budget estimate by Friday evening. The Assembly passed a vote on account of Rs. 2,042 crore on March 30 for a period of three months.
12 July 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||All hospitals to try plasma therapy||Plasma therapy would soon be extended to all the Government Medical College Hospitals and District Headquarters Hospitals, said Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. Of the 44 hospitals chosen to try plasma therapy on COVID-19 patients across the country, Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital was approved and had the largest recovery rate. A total of 24 of the 26 patients who had undergone the plasma therapy recovered well, the Health Minister said, after inspecting the COVID-19 ward and interacting with the doctors at the Ranee’s Government Hospital on Saturday. Mr. Vijayabaskar said that the bed capacity, oxygen tanks, pipelines for supply for oxygen and other facilities were all being scaled up following the orders of Chief Minister. “At least 60 litres of oxygen is available per active case in the state. The death rate has significantly gone down and the discharge rate has increased,” he said. At some districts in Tamil Nadu, including Madurai, Tiruvannamalai, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram, fever clinics on wheels had been introduced so nurses and doctors can reach residents across the districts and check for fever, cough and other COVID-19 symptoms, he said. Mr. Vijayabaskar said that all necessary medication and equipment had been stocked at all Government Medical College Hospitals, District Headquarters Hospitals and all other COVID-19 treating hospitals in the state. Patients are being trained in yoga, breathing exercises, and are given regular counselling to ease their anxiety and fear. The Siddha doctors in each district are also providing kabasura kudineer as an immunity booster. Nutritious food and a healthy environment will help the patients, ranging from babies to senior citizens, heal and go back home to their loved ones, the Minister said. He urged the public to stay home, wear a facemask when stepping outdoors and wash their hands regularly.
12 July 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||A new doctor spends a month in hospital on COVID-19 duty||S. Arasapriya, a 26-year-old front-line worker, has had an eventful first year as a doctor, but has no time to celebrate. Posted in the COVID-19 ward of the Ranee’s Government Hospital here, she had stayed at the doctor’s room for over a month. Then she was allotted quarters on the campus of the Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital. “My life has changed in more ways than I can count,” she says. After graduating from the K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College last year, she was posted as a medical officer at the Primary Healthcare Centre at Neerpalani in the Viralimalai block last July. In November, she was transferred to Ranee’s Government Hospital at Pudukottai. “From November to March, I was posted at the outpatient ward; but in March 2020, I was moved to the COVID-19 ward,” she says. Since she was initially deputed at Neerpalani, the quarters given to her, too, was there, but travel during the lockdown was difficult. From March to mid-May, Dr. Arasapriya chose to stay at the duty doctor’s room at Ranee’s Government Hospital. “I felt that I could help two more patients instead of travelling 60 km a day.” ‘Bravery part of the job’ Asked if she was afraid of contracting the infection, she laughs. “My job revolves around being brave. Even if I am afraid, I cannot show it. I was a house surgeon in Tiruchi when H1N1 was spreading. Although there were not too many cases, that was my first experience with a serious communicable disease,” she says. A day in Dr. Arasapriya’s life at the COVID-19 ward involves a six-hour shift in the day, or a 12-hour shift at night. A shift begins with the laborious task of wearing the PPE, she says. “Our Chief of Medicine trained us in putting it on properly as early as March. As it was very hot in the PPE, we struggled with dehydration. But it is all routine now,” she says. After the suits are on, the doctors enter the COVID-19 ICU ward and check the vitals of all patients. Dr. Arasapriya says, “It is important to note them down. While patients at the COVID-19 general ward can complain about inconvenience and pain, these patients cannot and it is important to see them first.” Special care is also given to post-natal mothers who have tested positive. “When Pudukottai saw its first COVID-19 death, we were all dejected,” she says. “The patient and his 12 family members were all admitted to the ward. After he died, I could not look them in the face. What can I say to console them? They saw him die,” she says. At the Doctors’ Day Celebration at the Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital, Dr. Arasapriya was given the ‘Best COVID Warrior’ award. “When I walked into the hospital, I did not know anyone in Pudukottai; but soon, I realised many former professors from Tiruchi were here. They have been my family away from home,” she says. “Following the doctors’ recommendation, a room in the campus quarters was given to me. Without them, I would not have had anyone to talk to,” she says. Only after she received the award did many of her family members know of her posting, she laughs. She has not seen her family based in Madurai since February. “I’ve answered so many calls from the extended family, neighbours and friends, assuring them that I am safe.” Her parents pray for her every day on a video call. “They know that I will prioritise my patients and so they remind me to stay safe,” she adds.
12 July 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Three killed||Three persons were killed when a car collided with a lorry at Kodumbalur Chathram near Viralimalai in Pudukottai district on Saturday evening. Three persons travelling in the car, identified by the police as Mithun Kishore, Aravind and Bharat, died on the spot. Traffic on the Tiruchi-Madurai National Highway was disrupted for sometime due to the accident.
12 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers protest at PWD office||A group of farmers staged a symbolic protest by dumping paddy seeds at the portico of the office of the Superintending Engineer, Public Works Department, Thanjavur, on Saturday against non-release of water for irrigation in a channel in Thiruvaiyaru block. The farmers from Kandiyur and surrounding areas raised slogans condemning the officials for not making water available in the Kandiyur, Thiruthukkal, Sankarakulam and Thiruvalampozhil channels branching off from the Kudamuruti river as the farmers in Kandiyur, Naducauvery, Kattukottai, Thirupoonthuruthi and 11 other villages had raised nursery on 100 acres. The nursery bed turned dry since the required quantum of water was not released, they alleged and condemned the PWD officials for eclipsing the real issue by indicting the farmers that the latter had taken up kuruvai cultivation in an elevated area. “If we can cultivate samba crop on the same land by tapping the surface water why not kuruvai. Had the officials had released sufficient quantum of water in Kudamuruti river we may not have faced this problem”, said P. Sugumaran, Joint Secretary, Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association. The demonstrators who were pacified by the PWD and police officials left the premises after presenting a petition.
12 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers to launch signature campaign||The Thanjavur district unit of All India Farmers Agitation Committee embarked on a signature campaign in protest against “the enactment of corporate-oriented Acts” by the Union Government on Friday. The committee has decided to obtain signatures from the residents of Thanjavur district and forward them to the Central Committee of AIFAC for inclusion in the nation-wide one crore signature campaign. Earlier a meeting of the constituents of the Thanajvur district unit of AIFAC was held where resolutions urging the Tamil Nadu government to ensure that crop loans were disbursed without any delay in the primary agriculture cooperative banks and to ensure that Tamil Nadu’s share in Cauvery water for June and July released immediately. Apart from organising the signature campaign, the committee decided to hoist black flags at houses. The meeting, chaired by Veeramohan, Thanjavur district president, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, was attended by the representatives from Farmers Wing, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Sugarcane Mill Farmers Association, Samaveli Vivasayigal Sangam, Thanjavur Traders Association, Makkal Adhigaram and Thamizh Desiya Munnani, according to N.V. Kannan, coordinator, Thanjavur district unit, AIFAC.
12 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Appeal to make use of free testing in Thanjavur||The district administration has called upon the public to make use of the free testing conducted for COVID-19 and provide their samples at any of the collection centres functioning at 31 places in the district to ascertain whether they have been infected with the virus or not. Disclosing this in a press release, Collector M.Govinda Rao has said that these centres are functioning at eight government hospitals (Thanjavur Medical College hospital – 94438 66578; Rajah Mirasdar Government Hospital, Thanjavur – 98424 32956; Government hospitals at Kumbakonam – 0435 2430002; Pattukottai – 04373 252080; Thiruvaiyaru – 04362 262644; Papanasam – 04374 222459; Peravurani – 04373 232459 and Adhiramapattinam – 04373 232459); 14 primary health centres (Murukkangudi block PHC – 0435 2448053; Konullampallam – 0435 2450853; Patteeswaram – 0435 2445280; Kabisthalam – 04374 220172; Naducauvery – 04362 283464; Melattur – 04374 273404; Vallam – 04362 266066; Thiruvonam – 04372 241741; Thondarampattu – 04372 250474; Madukkur – 04373 261302; Seruvaviduthi – 04373 286021; Alagiyanayagipuram – 04373 288602; Thamaraikottai – 04373 283019 and Palayapatti – 933449 60257); three check posts (Anaikarai – 97905 35129; Neelathanallur – 95003 76883 and Vilangudi – 89736 91439); five mobile testing centres (Thanjavur Corporation domain – 98656 56519; Kumbakonam Municipal limits – 99940 21101; Pattukottai Municipality – 94434 86386; Vallam – 93442 67877 and Patteeswaram – 95003 76883) and at the institutional quarantine facility at Vallam (Periyar Maniammai Institute of Science and Technology, Vallam – 93442 67877).
12 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Child resource centres to be set up in 10 villages||The Centre for Education Development Action and Research (CEDAR), Madurai, will set up children resource centres (CRC) at 10 villages in Thanjavur district in association with People’s Organisation for People Education (POPE), Madurai. CEDAR and POPE are registered non-governmental organisations working among children of Dalits and other marginalised communities to ensure children’s right to education, protection, participation and development. Multiple approaches are adopted through the CRCs to enable children access creative learning through alternative pedagogy methods using art and media, lobbying and advocacy on children rights policy matters. The CRCs in Thanjavur district will come up in Manojipatti, Munnaiyampatti, Vallam, Sengipatti, Avarampatti, Vilaripatti, Melathur, Ayyampettai, Thiruvaikavur and Thirumanur, where after school hour educational support will be provided to children of marginalised communities.
12 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Trade activities come to a grinding halt||With most parts of Big Bazaar Street and adjacent areas being declared containment zones, business and trade activities on the important streets came to a grinding halt on Saturday. Right from Gandhi market to Theradi Veedhi on Big Bazaar Street, Jaffersha Street and Big Kammala Street to Kallatheru and NSB road to Chinnakadai Street, many business-cum -residential localities were declared as a containment zone. The Tiruchi Corporation with the cooperation of the City Police put up iron sheets at various entry points, restricting public access to the restricted areas. Except essential stores such as pharmacies, grocery and vegetable, most of textile, jewellery, plastics, utensil and other retail and wholesale business establishments were closed. Though the sudden move of the Corporation appeared to irk the local residents, who find it hard to source essential commodities, the traders appeared to have reconciled to the situation after noticing the sharp rise in COVID-19 cases in their localities. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said that the trader’s bodies and associations and important business establishments were apprised of the “prevailing situation” before blocking the roads for public access. Moreover, the decision was announced through “thandora” at important junctions. Justifying the action, he said that more than 50% of the cases being reported in Tiruchi city were from the Big Bazaar zone. It was observed that cases were spreading a lot. The containment measure was to bring down the cases. Mr. Sivasubramanian said that though the measure was originally planned for two weeks, he would monitor the situation daily. If there was noticeable improvement, the days would be curtailed and the streets would be opened for business. During the containment period, all households would be served kabasura kudineer concoction daily besides door to door verification of fever cases.
12 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 testing intensified||The Tiruchi district administration has scaled up COVID-19 testing to identify more vulnerable spots and grey areas and check the spread of the virus. During the initial stages of the outbreak, the number of testing stood at around 200 a day. It was gradually ramped up to 500 a day in the next few weeks, particularly after the resumption of train and flight services to Tiruchi. It was subsequently increased to 700 to 800 a day thereafter. Testing has now been increased to beyond 4-digit mark. As many as 1,245 swab samples, excluding the samples collected from the overseas returnees at Tiruchi international airport, were lifted for laboratory analysis on Friday alone. The sharp rise in number of cases during the last few weeks has forced the authorities to scale up testing. “Primary and secondary contacts of those who had tested positive are being tested. The idea works out well,” said S. Sivarasu, Collector. He said that primary contacts of the positive patients were being quarantined at Yatri Nivas in Srirangam, which had a capacity of 600 persons. A total of 152 primary and close contacts were accommodated in the first batch after the collection of swab samples. Of them, 22 tested positive. They were subsequently shifted to K.A.P.Viswanatham Government Medical College Hospital and the COVID care centre at Khajamalai. If these people had not been tested and quarantined, they would have spread the virus to many. Hence, more focused testing would be done in the coming days. The cases might increase for one or two days, he said but exuded confidence that they would come down in the next few days. Mr. Sivarasu said that the Government College of Engineering campus at Sethurapatti had so far been utilised to quarantine overseas returnees. It had been decided to convert the facility as COVID centre to treat the patients. It had about 530 beds. It had been observed that active cases had not gone beyond 450-mark so far. The KAP Viswanatham Government Medical College had facilities to admit 450 patients. The COVID care centre at Khajamalai had 200 beds. Hence, there would be no space crunch for beds. There were 81 ventilators at the Tiruchi GH to meet the requirements, he added.
12 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Single-day high in Tiruchi district||Tiruchi saw a new single-day high for the second day in a row with 128 patients testing positive in the district on Saturday. The region also recorded two deaths — one each in Karur and Tiruvarur A 41-year-old man from Karur, who was admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital on July 8, died of respiratory failure. The patient had a pre-existing condition of hypertension which added to the complications, doctors here said. A 56-year-old man from Tiruvarur who had co-morbid conditions, including hypertension, chronic kidney disease and coronary artery disease tested positive for COVID-19 on July 9 and was admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. On the same day, he died at 2. 15 p.m. after all efforts to resuscitate him failed, official sources at the TMCH said. Including Tiruchi’s 128 cases, the central region saw a total 229 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. Pudukottai recorded 36 new cases, 27 in Thanjavur, 12 each in Tiruvarur and Ariyalur, six each in Karur and Nagapattinam and two patients in Perambalur. Of the 129 in Tiruchi, patients continued to test positive in containment zones. “Some patients also tested positive from the newly cordoned off containment zones in the Bazaar area,” officials here said. Meanwhile, a total of 30 patients, including 27 from Tiruchi and one each from Perambalur, Pudukottai and Dindigul, were discharged after recovering from the viral infection at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Twenty-three patients were also discharged from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai. Of the 23, 18 hailed from Tiruchi and one each hailed from Perambalur, Pudukottai, Chennai, Madurai and Krishnagiri districts. A total of 27 patients tested positive in Thanjavur while 12 patients tested positive in Tiruvarur. Among the 36 patients who tested positive in Pudukottai are 29 men and seven women, including a four-year-old girl and ten-year-old boy. All patients are stable and have been admitted to the Ranee’s Government Hospital, officials here said. Of the 12 patients who tested positive in Ariyalur, one returned from Thanjavur, one had been working at a testing facility in Chennai, a few from Andhra Pradesh, one returned from Tiruchi and the rest are immediate family members of those who had previously tested positive. Including these patients, the total cases in the district has risen to 509. However, 461 patients have recovered from the infection and returned home. A total of 693 samples were also lifted from patients with COVID-19 symptoms, family members and those from containment zones in the district. Among the six who tested positive in Karur were men aged 57, 52, 24 and 35, 61 and one woman aged 24. The patients have been admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital for treatment. In Nagapattinam, six patients tested positive. Among them, two returned from Thanjavur, one from Tiruvarur, one from Thoothukudi, one from Chengalpattu and one from Chennai. All have been admitted to the Nagapattinam District Headquarters Hospital for treatment. Of the two patients who tested positive in Perambalur, were a 50-year-old man and a 20-year-old woman post-natal mother. The 50-year-old man developed chest pain and was admitted to a private hospital here. Following a test result which declared him positive, he was transferred to Tiruchi MGMGH for treatment. The woman was admitted to the Tiruchi GH for delivery on June 22, when she delivered a pre-term baby. A sample was lifted on July 9 and she tested positive. “The mother and baby are healthy, and she will be discharged soon,” official sources here said.
12 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers not clear about their roles in TV lessons||Teachers of government schools are curious to know finer details of the government's latest move to initiate classes through television channels for levels I to X, and to provide video lessons to students of higher secondary classes from July 13. The School Education Department, which runs the Kalvi Tholaikatchi channel, has in its kitty video lessons for all levels contributed by senior teachers from across the State in recent months. The government's decision on utilising television medium for teaching-learning, according to a section of teachers, was, hence, along expected lines. “Dependence on television channels is the only option left for the school education department to reach out to students in remote areas where poor Internet connectivity eliminates scope for online classes. What is not known as yet is how the School Education Department is planning to make the teaching-learning process interactive,” a teacher of a government-aided school in the city said. The role of teachers in keeping their students engaged has not been specified yet. The methodology of classwork and homework, the attendance and system of monitoring of the academic progress of the students have not been made clear, teachers point out. “As of now, we understand that the lessons will be delivered through Kalvi Tholaikatchi and four more channels, so as to ensure learning slots for all levels, on a daily basis,” a school head in Tiruverumbur Union said. It looks like the Kalvi Tholaikatchi will cater substantially to the educational requirements of students in levels VI to X, and private channels will be roped in to reach out to students in levels I to V. Though it is still early to say that the method will be effective, the teachers seem to be eager to make it work, he said. As for higher secondary level, the video-lessons need to be supplemented with assignments that could be submitted online.
12 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Certificates given||Certificates were given away to nine police personnel of Ariyalur district in appreciation of their good works performed in various areas. Superintendent of Police, Ariyalur V.R. Srinivasan handed over the appreciation certificates at the District Police Office, a press release said. Mr. Srinivasan also gave away Good Samaritan certificate to nine members of general public who had rescued those injured in road accidents during the golden hour and alerted the Ariyalur police and 108 ambulance in shifting them to hospitals, the press release added.
12 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||CBI begins probe into Sattankulam case||A team from the Central Bureau of Investigation on Saturday commenced its investigation into the Sattankulam twin custodial deaths case. The CBI team first went to Jayaraj’s house at 11.40 a.m. and talked to his wife J. Selvarani, who was inconsolable. She recalled the sequence of events that led to the custodial death of her husband and Benicks, her only son, due to alleged torture by the Sattankulam police on June 19. The team also met Jayaraj’s daughters Beulah and Berlin and other close relatives who were with Ms. Selvarani when she pleaded with the Sattankulam police to release her husband and the son. The investigators also visited Benicks’s mobile phone shop from where Jayaraj was picked-up by the police. While a few team members continued their inquiry in Jayaraj’s house even beyond 5.30 p.m., others went to the Sattankulam Government Hospital along with Jayaraj’s brother-in-law Joseph, who can speak Hindi. Videography The investigators videographed the spot where Jayaraj and Benicks were seated on arriving at the hospital on June 19, the out patient section, CCTV cameras installed in the hospital, the dispensary and the way to the trauma care unit. The team also talked to Medical Officer Authikumar and other staff of the hospital. The CBI team, however, did not talk to Benicks’s elder sister Persis, as she and her two daughters are down with chickenpox. “As today [Saturday] is the third day of the viral infection, my wife and my children feel better,” said Augustine, husband of Ms. Persis. Two CB-CID officials accompanied the CBI team to help them in the investigation. Prisoners questioned Meanwhile, Kovilpatti Judicial Magistrate M.S. Bharathidasan questioned the prisoners and authorities of Kovilpatti sub-jail in connection with the custodial murder. The Judicial Magistrate, who entered the sub-jail premises at 10.45 a.m., continued the inquiry till 2.05 p.m. During the three-hour-long stay, the Judicial Magistrate quizzed the prisoners, who were lodged along with Jayaraj and Benicks from June 20 to 22. Mr. Bharathidasan, who had earlier visited the jail on July 9 for inquiry, also grilled the prison authorities about the health condition of the father and son and the injuries they had sustained when they were handed over to them on June 20.
12 July 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||CBI begins investigation||A team from the Central Bureau of Investigation on Saturday commenced its investigation into the Sattankulam twin custodial deaths case. The CBI team went to the house of Jayaraj at 11.40 a.m., inquired his wife J. Selvarani, who was inconsolable as she recalled the sequence of events that led to the custodial death of her husband and Benicks, her only son, due to alleged torture by the Sattankulam police on June 19. The team also inquired Jayaraj’s daughters Beulah and Berlin and other close relatives who were with Ms. Selvarani when she pleaded with the Sattankulam police to release her husband and son. The team also visited the mobile phone shop of Benicks, from where Jayaraj was picked up by the police. While a few members of the team continued inquiry with the family beyond 5.30 p.m., a few others went to the Sattankulam Government Hospital along with Jayaraj’s brother-in-law Joseph, who is conversant in Hindi. The investigators videographed the spot where Jayaraj and Benicks were seated on arriving at the hospital on June 19, the out patient section, CCTV cameras installed in the hospital, the dispensary and the way to the trauma care unit. They also inquired Medical Officer Authikumar and other staff of the hospital. The CBI team, however, did not talk to Benicks’s elder sister J. Persis, as she and her two daughters are suffering from chickenpox. Two CB-CID officials accompanied the CBI team to help them in the investigation. Meanwhile, Kovilpatti Judicial Magistrate M.S. Bharathidasan inquired the prisoners and the authorities of Kovilpatti sub-jail in connection with the custodial death. The Judicial Magistrate, who entered the sub-jail premises at 10.45 a.m., continued the inquiry till 2.05 p.m. The Judicial Magistrate inquired the prisoners, who were lodged along with Jayaraj and Benicks when they were kept at the sub-jail from June 20 to 22. Mr. Bharathidasan, who had earlier visited the jail on July 9 for inquiry, grilled the prison authorities regarding the health condition of the father and son and the injuries they had sustained when they were handed over to them on June 20.
12 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Child care centres reopened in Tiruppur||A week after images of a conservancy worker’s child standing inside a dustbin went viral on social media, Tiruppur Corporation announced on Saturday that child care centres have been reopened in two zones to look after the children of conservancy workers. In a statement, Tiruppur Corporation Commissioner K. Sivakumar said the centres are located at Boyampalayam in Zone – II and Kovilvazhi in Zone – III and they look after 19 and 33 children respectively. The centres are maintained by Tiruppur Corporation in collaboration with SAVE, an NGO. The children are given milk, eggs, fruits and other nutritious foods for breakfast and lunch, Mr. Sivakumar said. The centres were earlier closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic and now reopened as per the directions of District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan. City Health Officer N. Boopathy said that the centres would be open every day from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Regarding the child who was seen in the images, Mr. Boopathy said that she was now at the Kovilvazhi centre. Her mother, a contract worker, is employed at Ward No. 31. “We have issued a memo to the sanitary officer and sanitary inspector regarding this issue,” he said.
12 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two held for robbery, jewellery recovered||Tiruppur South police on Friday arrested two persons on charges of stealing gold jewellery and silver vessels totally worth around Rs. 9 lakh. Vehicle check The police said R. Raj Kumar (38) and G. Jagan Karthi (34) were caught during a vehicle check on Kangeyam Road within Tiruppur City Police limits on Friday. The two confessed that they stole the jewellery and silver articles from a house on Dharapuram Road in the last week of June. The police recovered the jewellery, two watches and silver vessels weighing four kg. The accused were remanded in judicial custody on Saturday. Efforts are on to nab one more person involved in the case, the police said.
12 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘T.N. Ministers working efficiently’||Ministers in the State are working efficiently to tackle the rising COVID-19 cases, said former MP and BJP senior leader C.P. Radhakrishnan here on Saturday. He told presspersons that the Ministers are working among the people even though three of them have contracted the virus. “I pray that they recover quickly and return to public life,” he said. Describing the cases crossing the one-lakh mark in T.N. as ‘regrettable’, he said that no particular person could be blamed for the situation.
12 July 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Street vendors told to apply for working capital loan||Street vendors operating in urban local bodies have been directed to approach respective civic bodies to apply for working capital loan under the Prime Minister Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme. In a press release, Collector T. Anand has urged street vendors who have been issued with the Certificate of Vending (CoV) by the Town Vending Committee to approach Municipal or Town Panchayat offices to apply for Rs. 10,000 offered as the working capital loan through PM SVANidhi scheme. The prescribed application form can be downloaded from thepmsvanidhi.mohua.gov.inwebsite and the filled-in application submitted at the civic body offices for processing. Stating that the loan to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments, he said there was no need to provide collateral security for the loan and would not attract any prepayment penalty charges. Timely or early repayment would make borrowers eligible for an enhanced loan in the next cycle of working capital loan disbursement. Borrowers could receive around Rs. 1200 per annum as ‘reward’ if they opt and carry on their business through digital mode of transaction. The vendors who have not obtained the CoV could approach the respective civic body in whose limits they were doing business and apply for the CoV, he added. The interest subsidy would be available up to March 31, 2022, and it would be credited into the borrower’s account quarterly. The interest subsidy facility would be available on the first and subsequent enhanced loans up to March 31, 2022.
12 July 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||NEEDS beneficiaries exempt from training||The State Government has exempted the mandatory training for the young first generation entrepreneurs to avail term loan assistance through New Entrepreneur-cum-Enterprise Development Scheme till March 31, 2021. Hitherto, on successful completion of the NEEDS training component, the aspirants will be assisted to get term loan from banks/the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation Limited to set up manufacturing or service enterprises with subsidy. Stating that Rs. 123 lakh has been allotted to Tiruvarur district for disbursement as subsidy to 13 entrepreneurs for setting up of manufacturing units or establishing service enterprises during 2020-21, Collector T.Anand called upon the interested younger generation entrepreneurs to approach the District Industries Centre on the Collectorate campus for further information before applying for the assistance through thewww.msmeonline.tn. gov.in.
12 July 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||‘Use NABARD fund to release new loans’||The Tamil Nadu All Farmers Organisations Coordination Committee has urged the State government to use the COVID-19 special additional fund allotted to Tamil Nadu by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development to set off the outstanding crop loan taken by the farmers from the cooperative institutions. In a statement issued here, P.R.Pandian, president of the committee, said that the NABARD had announced that Rs. 1000 crore would be allocatted to Tamil Nadu as COVID-19 special additional fund for disbursement as crop loans to farmers through cooperative financial institutions. Hence, the State government should utilise this fund to waive the loans and release fresh loans without any conditions. Further, the old system of processing and disbursement of loans should alone be adopted in the primary agricultural cooperative banks, he added. The committee also expressed opposition to bringing the sale of urea and fertilizers under the cashless digital transaction mode, claiming that most of the farmers did not know how to handle smart phones. Even if they knew how to transfer funds through netbanking facility most of them were not in a position to purchase smart phones, said Mr.Pandian.
12 July 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Prisoner escapes from Vellore hospital||A 35-year-old woman remand prisoner who was admitted to the Government Vellore Medical College Hospital for delivery, escaped during the early hours of Saturday. According to police, Krishnaveni was arrested in connection with a murder case and remanded to judicial custody at the Special Prison for Women, Vellore in June. She is seven months pregnant.
12 July 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar comes up with containment plan||The movement of people and commercial activities in 57 containment zones across Virudhunagar district has been completely banned from Sunday. An order issued by the Virudhunagar Collector, R. Kannan, said that the movement of people, transport and commercial activities would be prohibited from Sunday till the containment plan was over. The containment plan has been intensified in the district after it reported a big surge in the number of COVID-19 positive cases, with more than 1,000 cases in one week. While Virudhunagar taluk has the maximum number of containment zones at 15, Sivakasi has 12 and Aruppukottai has 11. Other taluks that have containment zones are Vembakottai - 5, Sattur and Tiruchuli 4 each, Watrap - 3, Rajapalayam - 2 and Srivilliputtur - 1. All the departments have been asked to coordinate and provide essential services to people in the containment zones. Personal Assistant (Agriculture) to the Collector, has been directed to ensure that essential goods are supplied to these zones. The officials have been been asked to put up boards about the containment plan in these zones. People should follow physical distancing norms and wear masks. Besides, autorickshaws with public address systems would make frequent announcements about the containment plan to the people living in the zones. Fever camps would be conducted and door-to-door surveillance will be done. Kabasura kudineer, a herbal concoction, should also be distributed to the people, the order stated. People should be allowed to come out of containment zones only in case of an emergency and they should compulsorily wear masks and maintain physical distancing. Pharmacies should not give medicines to people without a proper prescription from doctors. Sale of products other than medicines has been banned in the zones, the Collector’s order read.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem witnesses 100-plus cases for second day||As many as 136 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Saturday. According to health officials, among the patients, 126 are indigenous, including 64 from Salem Corporation limits. Five persons have travelled from other districts like Chennai, Kanchipuram, and Namakkal and five have travelled from other States like Bihar, West Bengal and Karnataka. A 38-year-old warden of Salem Central Prison tested positive for COVID-19 disease on Friday. Prison officials said the warden was posted for duty only in the outer premises of the prison, hence, there wasn’t any risk of disease spread among prison inmates. A constable with the Salem City Police tested positive and about 20 police personnel, who could have come in contact with the patient has been quarantined. The police station has been disinfected. As many as 71 persons tested positive in Coimbatore. With this the total number of persons, who tested positive for the disease in the district touched 1,142. A senior official of the Income Tax Department and three of his family members tested positive, said sources with the district administration. The official had come to Coimbatore with his family from New Delhi, a few days ago. The official also visited Madurai. Sources said the official had symptoms of COVID-19 when he arrived here by flight. However, he attended a meeting which was attended by 15 to 20 IT officers in Coimbatore. After the official tested positive for COVID-19, arrangements were made to collect swab samples of those who attended the meeting, the sources said. New facility at CMCH With the number of COVID-19 cases going in Coimbatore district, a new COVID-19 ward has been readied at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). District Collector K. Rajamani inspected the 200-bedded facility on Saturday. The facility at CMCH will be used when the bed strength at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital gets fully utilised. ESI Hospital was declared COVID-19 nodal treatment centre so that CMCH could handle other cases. It has close to 400 beds for COVID-19 patients. CMCH Dean P. Kalidas said that the COVID-19 centre was set up in a block that remains isolated close to the gate on Government Arts College Road. All the beds are equipped with oxygen line. The gate will be used for the entry and exit of COVID-19 patients, suspected patients and medical professionals handling them. In the highest single-day spike, a total of 42 new cases were reported in Erode district while 75 persons were discharged from the hospital. Health officials said that 31 cases were reported in corporation limits, seven in Kodumudi, two in Perundurai and one case each at Modakurichi and Gobichettipalayam. Officials added that 20 cases were contact of positive cases, while 14 were unlinked, three were of inter-State travel, three were of contacts of inter-district travel and one case of frontline worker. Currently, 188 persons are undergoing treatment at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital while the district’s tally is at 369. Fifteen positive cases were reported in Krishnagiri. Among the patients, seven were identified during ILI surveillance in the district and one patient has travelled from Bengaluru. In Dharmapuri, 14 cases were reported. The patients include a sub-inspector, who was on check-post duty. Namakkal district has reported 12 positive cases. Among them, six are undergoing treatment at the Namakkal Government Medical College Hospital and three at Thiruchengode Government Hospital. A sub-inspector at Veerapandi police station in Tiruppur City Police limits has tested positive. The test result was out on Friday, which confirmed that the 57-year-old sub-inspector was positive, a senior police officer said. He was asymptomatic and was admitted at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. Following this, Veerapandi police station was closed. Swab samples of over 50 police personnel who were working in the building were lifted. As part of the contact tracing process, samples of three persons who visited the station were also lifted. All the police personnel have been asked to go on medical leave, he said. The police station will temporarily function out of the old South Taluk office located nearby. The district saw six new cases, including the sub-inspector.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation declares vulnerable areas as partial containment zones||Coimbatore Corporation has declared as partial containment zones the areas it considers vulnerable to COVID-19 and placed a few restrictions. Sharing the details with The Hindu , Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath said the areas it had declared and would declare as partial containment zones were those that had a high concentration of commercial establishments, high population density and prone to quick spread of the SARS-CoV-2 (corona) virus. The partial containment zones did not mean that one or more persons had tested positive for COVID-19. In areas that had the positive cases, the Corporation imposed complete restriction on movement of people by declaring those as containment zones. In the partial zones the Corporation would impose restrictions like placing barricades to prevent entry of outsiders, restricting the timing of the functioning of shops selling essential commodities while closing other types of commercial establishments and a few more. Mr. Jatavath said people within the partial containment zones could go out for work or for very essential needs but people from outside the area would not be allowed to enter. In the partial containment zones and also the core business district in the city, the Corporation was also exploring the possibility of restricting hawkers and street vendors. It was only a temporary measure, he hastened to add. The Corporation felt it was necessary to do so because the hawkers and street vendors drew a good crowd while failing to ensure physical distancing norms. In another development, Commissioner Mr. Jatavath handed over three autorickshaws to the Selvapuram Police after he found the drivers without mask and asking passengers to maintain social distance. This was during his morning inspection on Vysial Street, said sources. He also asked zonal assistant commissioners to take steps to ensure that daily wagers like construction workers maintained social distancing while awaiting work at their regular waiting spots. He issued the instruction after finding labourers gathered on 80 Feet Road, Ramanathapuram. He asked the officials to throw open the nearest Corporation school for the labourers to wait.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Prevent fall armyworm attack’||With farmers in Tiruchi and other neighbouring districts expected to begin maize sowing this year, the Agriculture Department has issued an advisory suggesting a set of measures to prevent fall armyworm attack, which caused extensive devastation to the crop in 2018. Incidence of the pest attack was reported in some places last year too. Hence, it is essential that all farmers take coordinated action and follow the advisory issued by agricultural scientists to prevent the attack, department officials said. Maize is cultivated on about 3.5 lakh hectares in Tamil Nadu. In Tiruchi district, the crop is raised on about 15,000-16,000 hectares mostly in Manapparai, Vaiyampatti, Thuraiyur, Musiri, Uppilliyapuram, Thathaiyengarpet, Thottiyam, Manachannalur and Pullambadi taluks. In its advisory, the Agriculture Department has advocated integrated pest management methods including summer ploughing, proper treatment of seeds, synchronised early sowing, split application of nitrogenous fertilizer and collection and destruction of egg masses and larvae in the field. Summer ploughing is essential to destroy the egg masses or larvae naturally either by sunlight or by birds. In the last leg of ploughing, 250 kg of neem cakes can be applied to the field per hectare. Synchronised sowing in a village will help check multiplication of the pest. Besides, adequate spacing should be ensured. Installation of a dozen pheromone traps has also also recommended. The department has recommended use of specific insecticides in rotation depending on the intensity of pest incidence. Repeated use of the same pesticides, which have not been recommended by scientists, should be avoided, the advisory said.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 under control in Salem: Collector||District Collector S.A. Raman said that COVID-19 disease spread is under control in Salem and vigorous contact tracing is being done here. Talking to presspersons after launching World Population Day events, Mr. Raman said that though over 100 COVID-19 positive cases have been reported over the past few days, the disease spread is under control in the district and vigorous contact tracing is being done. “Details of places and persons visited by the patient for 21 days is collected by interacting with the person and also based on details collected from their neighbourhood, necessary containment measures are taken”, he said. He added that intensive testing is also being conducted in the district. A total of 59,149 samples have been tested till date and over 2,000 samples have been tested over the past two days. The Collector said that decision on collection of swab samples is taken based on advice of medical experts. There are 126 containment zones in the district and residences are being monitored. Mr. Raman said that deaths due to COVID-19 disease is less in Salem and it could be prevented through early admission and early diagnosis. He added that fever camps are being conducted in congested areas in the district to check for ILI and SARI cases. The Collector launched the functioning of fever camps in corporation limits. According to a release, fever camps have been set up at 20 places in the corporation limits and there are 76 containment zones. Persons are checked for ILI and SARI symptoms and swab samples would be collected from those with symptoms.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Let States decide on semester exams’||“This would go a long way in rendering justice and fairness to parents and students during these distressful times,” he said. Mr. Palaniswami made it clear that the States would not be in a position to conduct examinations even after waiting till September 2020, since most of the government and private arts and science and engineering colleges, polytechnics and other institutions of higher learning (including their hostels, classrooms etc.) in the State had been converted into COVID Care Centres for housing asymptomatic patients under quarantine, and may continue to remain that way for quite some time. The Chief Minister said the new guidelines mandating the State governments to conduct the examinations in September entailed many constraints and difficulties, especially with regard to the ability of students to reach the examination centres, as many of them were residing outside their respective districts, States or even the country. “It is also not feasible to conduct online examinations, considering the various issues relating to digital access among students,” he said.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Girl succumbs to COVID-19||An 18-year-old girl, who tested positive for COVID-19, died during the late hours of Friday. According to health officials, the girl, a resident of Vazhapadi here was referred to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital and her swab samples were collected for COVID-19 tests. R. Balajinathan, Dean of the Hospital said the girl tested positive for the disease and she suffered from CNS meningitis. He said that early detection was essential to prevent deaths due to the disease.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police to enforce total lockdown||With complete lockdown to be enforced in the district on Sunday, over 1,200 police personnel were posted for duty to check for violations. The administration has announced that hospitals, pharmacies, Amma canteens and Aavin outlets will only be opened and except for ambulances, no other vehicles will be permitted to ply on the roads. Corporation officials will be inspecting shops across the city.
12 July 2020||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Doctors save baby with rare heart condition||Doctors at the KLE society’s Prabhakar Kore Hospital saved a baby suffering from a rare condition by conducting a complicated surgery and careful post-operative care. A 8-month-old baby girl that was suffering from a birth defect in the heart called as “Truncus Arteriosus” was saved by a team of doctors led by heart surgeon Praveen Tambrallimath. Her parents were farmers with limited means from Saundatti village. The patient was admitted with complaints of breathing difficulty, frequent cough, poor appetite, and giddiness. Truncus Arteriosus is a rare heart disease estimated to occur once in more than 15,000 live births. This defect could be an outcome of genetic disorders. It is a rare defect of the heart in which a single common blood vessel comes out of the heart, instead of the usual two vessels — the pulmonary artery and aorta. The only solution is a surgery. In this case, both the aorta and pulmonary artery were coming from the same side of the heart. The surgical procedure involved separating the arteries and ventricular chambers. Operating on a small baby with low body weight (3.6 kg) is a challenge and needs top order surgical infrastructure, ICU support and surgical skills, Dr. Tambrallimath said. The operation went on for eight hours. Post-surgical management was even more challenging as the baby’s lung pressure continued to increase and it was kept on a ventilator for two weeks. Post-surgical ICU management amidst COVID-19 pandemic threat was a difficult task. The treatment was offered free of cost under Ayushman Bharath and Arogya Karanataka Yojana.
12 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||State facing financial difficulties: Karjol||Minister for Public Works and Social Welfare Govind Karjol admitted on Saturday that the State was facing a severe cash crunch. “Revenues to the State government have fallen due to the lockdown. The Union and State governments are trying to make good the losses suffered in the period. Though we are not getting expected revenues, we are working hard to see that the administration is not affected. We are carrying on the administration of the State without affecting development programmes in anyway,” he said. He was speaking at the inauguration of Dr. Ambedkar Bhavan in Nippani. “The floods in north Karnataka led to a loss of over Rs. 35,000 crore. The lockdown since March has reduced our revenues. Though our development activities may have slowed down now, we will pick up pace in the future,” he added. He said the CM’s relief package had helped wage earners, vocational workmen and small businessmen. He hoped that the Prime Minister’s Atma Nirbhar idea would bring back rigour in the economy. He said the State had taken up many social welfare programmes. No other State has taken such projects and programmes, he said. There were four lakh students in 824 hostels run by the Social Welfare Department in Karnataka, he said.
12 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||No transport employee has been asked to go on compulsory leave: Savadi||Transport Minister Laxman Savadi has said that no employee of KSRTC, BMTC, NWKRTC or NEKRTC has been asked to go on compulsory leave without pay for one year. There was no such proposal before the government, he said. He was speaking to presspersons at the inauguration of Dr. Ambedkar Bhavan in Nippani on Saturday. “Reports that the government has asked State-owned transport corporation employees to go on compulsory leave without pay is far from truth. We are only granting leave to those who want to seek higher studies or acquire new skills,” he said. “The State-owned transport corporations have 1.3 lakh employees. Their salary bill adds up to Rs. 126 croe per month. During lockdown, we have suffered losses of Rs. 2,652 crore. On our request for financial support, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has released Rs. 326 crore which we used to pay salaries for two months. We will try to release the third month’s salary as soon as possible. We will not shy away from our responsibility of paying salaries to our staff,” he said.
12 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Volunteers pitch in to perform last rites||Over the past week, the pandemic has wreaked havoc on the city, which recorded 29 deaths on Friday and 23 deaths on Saturday. Given the spread of the virus, family members are wary of performing the last rites of their loved ones, and are relying on the kindness of volunteers. Every day, around 20 volunteers are busy performing the last rites of those who succumbed to COVID-19. For social worker Sayyed Fairoze and his friend Mohammed Ayub Pasha, who works in the office of an MLA, it was an incident on April 14 that prompted them to take up this work. A man had died after contracting COVID-19 and his family was not aware of the protocol. Those were the early days when Bengaluru was in lockdown and the caseload manageable. “Nobody came forward to do the final rites of the deceased person. It was then that we decided to step in and perform the last rites ourselves,” said Mr. Pasha. Since then, the number of volunteers has been steadily increasing. To help families, Mr. Pasha and Mr. Fairoze have been making videos of precautions to be taken during cremation and burials and uploading them on social media. “We have so far cremated or buried 139 bodies. It is heart-breaking as families refuse to perform the last rites of their loved one who has passed on. We have performed the last rites of people belonging to all communities with the sole intention of giving them a dignified send-off,” said Mr. Pasha. The volunteers’ group has also been pooling money to help those who cannot afford it. “Initially, we received some help from MLA for Chamarajpet B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan. We get PPE kits from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, along with bleaching powder and disinfectant,” Mr. Pasha added. Another volunteer, Syed Risalath Jah, a businessman, said locals were unhappy with the work they were doing. “We have had to face quite a bit of opposition from local residents. We have had a hard time making them understand that we are taking all precautions. Even our families are worried about our safety,” he said. Over the last few weeks, several youngsters have been joining them in volunteer work. A few family members of the deceased persons have also donated PPE kits and money. “We use double gloves and masks, which are disposed of as per protocol along with the body. We sanitise the vehicles each time as well,” he said. The volunteers have only one request: that they all be tested for COVID-19 once every 15 days. “We are not going to stop performing last rites. Though we take utmost care and all precautions, for the sake of our family members, the authorities concerned must test us,” said Mr. Jah.
12 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||In report to panel, Health Dept. justifies purchase of materials at ‘higher cost’||The State Health Department has justified the purchase of PPE kits, sanitisers and IV fluids by the Karnataka State Drugs Logistics and Warehousing Society (KSDLWS) at costs higher than the current market rates, arguing that the rates are “dynamic” during a pandemic. Moreover, the quality of the material also matters, the department’s Additional Chief Secretary said in a report submitted to the State Legislature’s Public Accounts Committee (PAC) on July 7. Based on a complaint by the Karnataka Rashtra Samiti to PAC about the alleged irregularities in procurement of medical equipment including PPE kits, sanitisers, IV fluids, and other COVID-19 materials, the PAC had posed seven questions to the Health Department asking it to submit a detailed explanation. Responding to PAC point by point, the Health Department said the demand for PPE kits was huge in March while the number of domestic manufacturers were few. “Also, as the KSDLWS did not have any prior experience in procuring PPE kits, orders were placed with firms approved by the Centre. Although 3.5 lakh PPE kits were ordered at the rate of Rs. 330.4 per kit, the rates were revised to Rs. 725 as the prices went up due to shortage of human resources and raw material during the lockdown,” the report said. “Up to March 26, orders for 10 lakh kits were placed with various companies including the centrally approved Mssrs HLL. However, only 77,250 kits had been delivered. As our stocks were depleting, the price fixation panel had to revise the rate and allot the contract to Plastisurge. However, a part of the order was later cancelled owing to poor quality. Following that, PPE kits were available locally and the prices came down,” the report stated.  Rate of sanitisers With regard to the allegation that sanitiser bottles were procured at a higher rate than that quoted by first and second lowest bidders who participated in the tender, the department claimed that the first and second lowest bidders had violated tender norms by not delivering the complete order by the stipulated time. Hence, their orders were cancelled. “Moreover, as the raw material cost jumped from Rs. 66 to Rs. 4,00 and as plastic containers and nozzles had to be imported from China, the cost went up. As there was a demand for 20,000 litres of sanitiser in the State, it had become inevitable for the KSDLWS to procure 25,000 bottles of 500 ml each from two local manufacturers Mahendra Labs and Charan Associates at Rs. 250 and Rs. 244.94 each bottle respectively,” the report stated. Regarding IV fluids, the allegation was that the KSDLWS placed orders with Aculife Healthcare, which had been blacklisted by Odisha, while Kerala too had rejected its tenders. “We had called for tenders from Fresenius Kabi Company, but they said they needed 2-3 months to deliver the stock. As our stocks were depleting, we needed urgent procurement. As the firm got a stay order on blacklisting by the Odisha government and also as the price quoted by the firm was lower than the lowest bidder, we procured from Aculife,” the report stated. The department dismissed allegations pertaining to procurement of ventilators and rapid antibody test kits stating that the orders were cancelled after it was found that the company had sent some used ventilators and as the accuracy and efficacy of the antibody test kits was not up to the mark. Sources in the department told The Hindu that the prices of these equipment now is much lesser than March-April as the demand was high then and manufacturers were few.
12 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Political establishment blamed for custodial deaths, fake encounters||Karnataka’s former police officers, intellectuals and a former Supreme Court judge have condemned the custodial deaths of P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks at Sathankulam town in Thoothukudi district of Tamil Nadu and blamed the political establishment for custodial deaths and fake encounters. “Every single act of omission or commission in the functioning of the police in India, including custodial deaths and fake encounters, can be traced to failure on the part of the political establishment to embrace and implement comprehensive police reforms,” said N. Santosh Hegde, former SC judge and former Karnataka Lokayukta; R. Sri Kumar, S.T. Ramesh, and R.K. Dutta, all former DG and IGPs, Karnataka, and B.K. Chandrashekar, former chairman of the Legislative Council and member, Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI), in a letter to the press. “According to the Human Rights Watch (Dec. 2016), 1,727 people died in custody during 2001-2018 in India. Of the 97 custody deaths in 2015 alone, only six according to the police died of assault by police, 34 listed as suicides, 11 due to illness, 12 during hospitalisation,” they said in the letter. They said the police have been covering up custodial deaths across the country, but in the case of Jayaraj and Benicks, they could not hide their crime. Noting that the Centre and States had failed to implement police reforms in any substantive manner, they said stringent punishment should be given to police officers found guilty after their crime is established. “Political masters should refrain from attempts to protect such police officers on any ground,” the letter stated. Prof. Chandrashekar said, “It is most essential for Parliament to consider enacting anti-torture  legislation, as persuasively advocated by the CHRI. Such a measure signifies India’s commitment to the United Nations Convention against Torture.”
12 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 helpline gets over 500 calls in 5 days||In five days since the State government designated Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) helpline 1912 as the go-to number to register complaints about difficulty in getting admission to hospitals, the helpline has got over 500 calls – around 100 calls per day. Bescom Managing Director M.B. Rajesh Gowda told The Hindu that the helpline received 567 calls in five days until Thursday. “Of these, 106 were bed enquiries and beds were arranged in all 106 cases,” he added. As many as 461 were categorised as general enquiries. The number of bed enquiries has seen a gradual increase as the days progressed. The government, through a July 4 circular, came out with a series of measures to counter the huge spike in COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru and an increasing number of cases where patients were denied treatment. Some of the measures included roping in 108 Arogya Kavacha services to shift patients across treatment facilities, and establishing a 24x7 call centre to redress grievances or denial of beds. The circular had specified that 1912, which is the Bescom helpline for electricity related complaints, would be the toll-free number to deal with complaints of denial of admission in hospitals or COVID care centres for COVID-19 and SARI patients. Located in the Bescom corporate office, it is supervised by the Bescom MD. Teams from multiple departments are manning the helpline - Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust - SAST (a separate body under the aegis of the Health and Family Welfare Department to implement Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Scheme aimed at BPL families), the Health and Family Welfare Department, Medical Education Department, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), and Bescom. Each of them have been given specific duties: the Health Department is to coordinate with government and private hospitals, the Medical Education Department will coordinate with facilities under it as well as in private medical colleges; the Trust coordinates with private hospitals regarding funding; BBMP for bed allotment after the grievance is addressed, and Bescom to coordinate using its nodal officers. The call centre is expected to ascertain calls pertaining to denial of hospital admission, directing calls to relevant helplines such as 104, and passing on the complaint to the controlling department to deal with the nodal officers of the hospital, or with the ‘Arogya Mitra’ in case of SAST. As reports of patients being denied admission continued to pour in, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, on Wednesday, had raised the centralised bed allocation system and helpline as answers to the problem and warned of action in case of delay in arrival of ambulance or denial of treatment in hospitals. Monsoon queries With monsoon setting in, the Bescom helpline is also getting an increasing number of rain-related calls. On the other hand, as COVID-19 cases increase, the number of calls related to this is also expected to go up. “Monsoon-related calls can sometimes go up to 25,000. During the rain, there is call congestion as many people from the same area call when there is a power cut. But, we should be able to manage both,” said Mr. Gowda.
12 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BDA to auction 300 more corner sites next week||After receiving a good response on the online auction of sites that concluded on Friday, the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has announced that in the next week, 300 more corner sites will be e-auctioned. Of the 195 sites that were put up for auction, the BDA was able to sell 166 sites. The cash-strapped authority was able to earn revenue of Rs. 210.82 crore. In a press release, it stated that successful bidders have three days to deposit 25% of the total value of the site they have purchased, which cumulatively comes to Rs. 52 crore. No bids were received for 10 sites, and the sale of 19 sites has been put on hold as the plots did not receive the minimum value quoted by the authority. Around 2,500 people participated in the bidding process. Robust sales recorded Contrary to expectations, the auctioning of corner sites received an excellent response, said officials. Earlier, we would sell an average of around 50 sites a month and the target achieved was around only 40%, but this time, sales have touched 85%. “This time, the middle class and NRIs participated in large numbers,” said the BDA. The BDA had issued the notification for e-auctioning of sites from June 20 to July 7. However, after the procurement portal developed technical glitches in the last hour on July 7, bidding was extended twice — first till July 8 and then again till July 10. “We have held a meeting with officials from the Centre for e-Governance on fixing technical problems. The next phase of e-auctioning will happen without any problems,” read the release. In mid-April, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had announced the auctioning of 12,000 BDA sites to help the State government generate revenue to the tune of Rs. 15,000 crore. Many people had disputed the government’s claim that 12,000 sites were available with the BDA. Some BDA officials said there were around 7,000 unsold sites available with the BDA in various layouts. After his announcement, the BDA decided to auction sites in a phased manner online.
12 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools part of THiS excel in board exams||Students from schools that are part of The Hindu in School (THiS) programme achieved excellent results in Class 10 ICSE and Class 12 ISC examinations, the results of which were announced on June 10. New Cambridge English School, RPC Layout, had 100% pass results, with 173 of 203 students securing distinction. Harsh S. (98.83%) emerged the school topper. In Vidyashilp Academy, Yelahanka, 109 of 152 students scored 90% and above in the ICSE examination, while in Class 12, four of the 27 students secured 90% and above. In Class 10, Mrithika Basker (99%) was the topper. Topper in the Class 12 ISC examination are Rohit Kamath with 91.25% (Science), Chaitanya Jaishankar with 95.5% (Humanities), Aditi Naveen Patil with 95% (Commerce), and Manasa Dhwani, who scored 91.75% (Commerce and Humanities). Mitra Academy, Arakere, too achieved cent percent pass results, with 29 of 50 students scoring 90% and above marks. Drithi P., who secured 98.17%, is the school topper. At Ryan International School, Kundalahalli, 122 of the 286 students secured distinction. Shreya Bansal, with 98.4%, emerged topper among Class 10 students. Cathy Anand, with 94.75% in Science, and A. Sankari Meena (85.75%) in Commerce are toppers in Class 12. In VLS International School, Basaveshwaranagar, 35 of the 52 students secured distinction. Aishwaryaa U., with 96%, is the school topper.Bunts’ Sangha RNS Vidyaniketan, Vijayanagar, achieved 100% pass results, with 100 of the 171 securing distinction. Amogh Sreenivas B.K. (98.6%) is the topper. Students of St. Joseph’s Boys’ High School, Museum Road, achieved excellence in both Class 10 and Class 12 examinations. Hardik Jajodia (98.5%) topped the ICSE examination, while Vedhas Balaji (98.25%) in Science and Gunjan P. Khanted (98.25%) in Commerce are the Class 12 toppers.Christ Academy (ICSE), Koppa-Begur Road, achieved 100% pass results in both Class 10 and Class 12 examinations. Gayana Shree A.N. (99%) topped Class 10. In the ISC examination, Barkha Goyal secured 98% in Science. In Ryan International School, Yelahanka, all the 134 students passed, while 42 scored 90% and above. Ayush Bhargav, who got 97.8%, is the school topper. St. Antony’s Public School, T.C. Palya, too, saw all its students clear the board examination; Manish R., who secured 88%, is the school topper.
12 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Varsity’s move to hold online exam opposed||Many students of Christ (Deemed To Be University) have raised concerns over the management’s decision to schedule semester-end examinations online from July 13 onwards. A few students urged the university to cancel the online exams saying that they do not have Internet access. “Many students do not have access to study material as they are stuck either in their PGs/hostels or at home,” said a student in an email. Fr. Abraham V.M., Vice-Chancellor of Christ (Deemed To Be University), said that over 94% of students have registered for the examination. “The system is student friendly. Students can attempt the exam using either laptops or phones or even write the exam on paper and upload it,” he said. He added that they had successfully conducted exams for final year UG and PG students of various streams in the same way. Many students in emails cited the Department of Higher Education order dated July 10 while appealing for examinations to be cancelled. The order stated that students from intermediate semesters will be promoted based on a comprehensive evaluation parameter, and will not have to sit for any examination. “The order does not apply to us as we are a Deemed University and the order pertains to State and private universities coming under the Department of Higher Education,” the Vice-Chancellor added.
12 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. ramps up measures||The State government on Saturday took several measures to control COVID-19 in the State. According to a release, 18 district hospitals have been made dedicated COVID-19 hospitals and have authorised district surgeons to appoint 45 additional staff per hospital on contract basis. It also approved appointing 1,700 additional staff on contract basis in BBMP area, besides appointing 707 additional staff for 12 dedicated health care centres in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts. The government will also issue a notification appointing 1,246 general duty medical officers, 824 specialists and 88 dental health officers, on regular basis. It has enhanced salaries of 504 contract doctors from Rs. 45,000 to Rs. 60,000 per month. Honorarium of ASHAs has been enhanced from Rs. 3,500 to Rs. 4,000 per month.
12 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM to ‘WFH’ till July 14||It was the first day of Work from Home (WFH) for Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday at his residence Cauvery. He will continue to work from home till Tuesday and visit the State Secretariat from Wednesday onwards. Sources in the CM’s office said that Mr. Yediyurappa spoke with top government officials over phone and monitored COVID-19 related cases and arrangements. He has no official programmes on Sunday and the day has been listed as “reserved”. He will hold virtual meetings with Ministers, senior officials and Deputy Commissioners through videoconference from Monday, sources said. DKS too It was WFH for KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar too, with the KPCC office being shut following three employees testing positive. He held a videoconference with DCC presidents on Saturday  Meanwhile, five Congress MLAs — Prasad Abbayya, H.D. Ranganath, T.D. Raje Gowda, Ajay Singh, and B. Shivanna — have tested positive for COVID-19.
12 July 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Burglary attempt fails||Three masked men barged into a jewellery shop on M.G. Road in Chikkamagaluru on Saturday and opened three rounds of fire in a failed robbery attempt. Nobody was injured in the incident and valuables were not lost. The three men arrived at Kesari Jewellery shop on a two-wheeler at 11.30 a.m. As they entered, the owner attempted to stop them, forcing the miscreants open fire. Glass panels of the shop were damaged. The owner, Jayaprakash, suffered a bruise as one of the pieces hit him. Superintendent of Police Akshay M.H. told The Hindu that as the accused entered with a country-made pistol, the owner pounced on them. The SP has formed a team to investigate the case. “We have got some leads and working on them to trace the accused,” he added.
12 July 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Some govt. offices go tech-savvy||As the visit of COVID-19 positive persons to various government offices has resulted in some being sealed down and others being sanitised on a regular basis, the Dharwad district administration has now taken the digital route to attend to issues concerning the public. While other offices will continue to function normally, with all necessary precautions, the Revenue Department has decided to allow the public to approach them through email and WhatsApp to get their works done. The move is said to be reduce the visits of public to the government offices as the government employees working there are exposed to more risk if the number of visitors increases on a daily basis. As on Friday, Dharwad district recorded 882 positive cases in the district and a majority of them are from Hubballi-Dharwad. The office of Dharwad tahsildar and Assistant Commissioner of Dharwad are being made more tech savvy and the people have been asked to reach them through email or WhatsApp. Those seeking works at the tahsildar office can send in their applications through email to tahasildardwd@gmail.com and those comfortable with WhatsAppa can send their applications on 7619471093. According to an official release, applications concerning social security scheme, caste and income certificate applications, title deeds and others can be sent through the email or WhatsApp. Similarly, people can air their grievances or submit applications seeking government facilities to the office of the Assistant Commissioner through email accwd_123@yahoo.com or WhatsApp their application to 9481130922. The Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has asked the officials to make more use of technology to address issues concerning the public.
12 July 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Man’s death triggers panic||The body of a man lying on the roadside created panic in Dharwad and out of fear of contracting the virus, the family members sought help of the administration to lift the body. The 42-year-old man identified as Rafeeq Basti, a resident of Basti Oni in Hosayallapur (a containment zone) was found dead near KCC Bank on Thursday. As none came forward, the family hired a private vehicle and took the body to the district hospital. His COVID-19 test report is awaited.
12 July 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Home isolation||Following changes in COVID-19 guidelines, 17 asymptomatic patients in Hubballi-Dharwad have opted for home isolation and are availing teleconsultation. According to the district administration, 11 such patients in Hubballi and six from Dharwad are being treated at their homes. On Saturday, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil asked the officials to continuously monitor the health condition of asymptomatic patients who have opted for home isolation.
12 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Poor foodgrain supply hits anganwadis||Irregularities in the supply of foodgrain meant for children, pregnant women and lactating mothers have hits Anganwadi workers. With no regular supply, they are facing the angry public, most of whom are in distress with no earning due to the lockdown. While Ministers claim that foods are being provided to beneficiaries at their doorstep, it is the workers who face the difficult situation on the ground. Under the Integrated Child Development Scheme, children get nutri-mix, wheat rava, rice, green gram, and eggs, among other items. Similarly, pregnant ladies and lactating mothers get rice, toor dal, oil, eggs, and vegetables under the Mathrupoorna scheme. Since the lockdown came into effect, the workers were asked to distribute the items at the doorsteps of the beneficiaries. “We did not get food items for two April and June. How can we manage? The Ministers and officers, while sitting in Bengaluru, issue statements that the items are supplied regularly. But, this is not true. We are facing the angry public in rural areas,” an Anganwadi worker said on the condition of anonymity.  Honorarium delay Every child should get two eggs a week, which is eight eggs a month. Under the Mathrupoorna scheme, women should get 25 eggs. “Our workers have faced a tough situation in many villages. The officers ask us to purchase eggs with our money. When we have not received the honorarium for three months, how can we so do? We are tired of answering the public,” said another worker. During the lockdown, many NGOs and social activists distributed food packets, responding to the pandemic. “But, the government cannot supply foodgrain to the poor, during these tough days,” opined a worker. Not a new problem Karnataka State Anganwadi Workers’ Association president S. Varalakshmi said this had been going for last few years. “Most anganwadi centres do not get foodgrain on an average of two months a year. We have raised this earlier too. It is highly disappointing to note that even during the pandemic, the supply is not proper. We have urged the department to look into the issue and take action,” she said. When The Hindu contacted K.A. Dayananad, Director, Women and Child Development, he said that during his recent review of the stocks, there were no discrepancies in the supply of foodgrain. “Anyhow, I will look into the issue and check if any taluks did not get supply,” he added. On the delay in the payment of honorarium, the officer said it was a routine issue at the beginning of a new financial year. It had been sorted out and they will get the honorarium soon.
12 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Business timings restricted in twin cities||In the wake of increasing number of COVID-19 positive cases in Dharwad district, traders and businessmen of Hubballi-Dharwad have decided to close shops at 5 p.m. from Monday till July 31. They met under the aegis of Karnatak Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) and took the decision. According to the KCCI president, Mahendra Ladhad, shops would operate between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. starting from Monday. The decision would be in force from Monday to Saturday and there would be no commercial activities on Sunday because of lockdown. In the meeting that was attended by former president of KCCI Shankranna Munavalli, present office-bearers including Mr. Ladhad, Vinay Javali, Siddeshwar Kammar and others, the participants felt that closing commercial activities early in the evening would help in reducing crowding in the market areas and thus act as a deterrent for spread of the pandemic. The traders and businessmen have also decided to strictly take precautionary measures such as use of masks and sanitisers, thermal screening and social distancing. The decision was taken after consulting members of the various trade associations belonging to different sectors, Mr. Ladhad said. Meanwhile, KCCI also arranged awareness programme on the precautionary measures to be taken by the traders and businessmen during this time of crisis. In a programme held on Friday, Shylendra Kumar from Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) sensitised the participants on dos and don’ts of the fight against COVID-19.
12 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Man arrested||The police on Friday arrested a man for selling fake degree certificates. The accused has been identified as Mohammad Khan, a resident of Ghouse Nagar in Tarfile locality in the city. Mr. Khan is a cloth merchant who hired a shop in a shopping mall in the city, from was he operated the racket. He was arrested and sent to judicial custody.
12 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||12-year-old dies of COVID-19||A 12-year-old girl from Huvinahadagli in Ballari district who had tested positive for COVID-19 died at a designated hospital in Ballari on Saturday. With this, the total number of COVID-19 casualties in the district rose to 42. Ballari Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul said that the patient was suffering from haematemesis, cardiac problems, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, and other health issues. Ballari also reported 65 new cases.
12 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||80 govt. hostels turn COVID-19 care centres in DK||While speaking about treatment and care facilities for COVID-19 available in Dakshina Kannada, Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh and six government and private doctors on Saturday asked people not to worry about fever and other viral disease symptoms and get themselves treated at the earliest. For asymptomatic and mild COVID-19 cases who have problems undergoing home isolation, the district administration has converted 80 government hostels into COVID-19 care centres where treatment will be provided. Presently, 2,287 beds are available at these hostels, she said, adding that of them, 42 hostels are in Mangaluru taluk, nine in Sullia, eight in Bantwal, seven in Belthangady, five each in Puttur and Kadaba taluks, and four in Moodbidri taluk. “If you have fever or cough there is no need to get panic. Approach the nearest fever clinic and get the necessary treatment. In a majority of the fatalities reported so far, they have failed to report on time,” Ms. Rupesh said. M. Chakrapani, Physician and Professor, Department of Medicine, Kasturba Medical College, said early visits will help doctors distinguish between COVID-19 and other viral diseases and give appropriate treatment. Superintendent of Government Wenlock Hosptial Sadashiva said of the 270 beds earmarked for COVID-19 in the Wenlock Hospital, 130 patients who tested positive and require critical care because of co-morbidities, are being treated. Ms. Rupesh said other positive cases are being referred to the hospitals of eight private medical colleges. As many as 80 persons who are asymptomatic and have mild COVID-19 symptoms are being taken care of at the care centre in Konaje. Two medical teams are posted at the centre to take care of inmates. There are 259 patients who have tested positive under home isolation and their condition is being monitored daily, she said. Ms. Rupesh said district administration has received antigen testing kits on Saturday and health workers will begin conducting the tests in the next a few days as per the guidelines prescribed by the Centre. “Rapid antigen tests that help in finding virus quickly, will prevent delay now associated with RT-PCR test of swabs,” she said. Physician Hansraja Alva said the whole system runs on trust. “There seems to be lack of trust (on doctors). This has to change. Do not fear if you have any symptoms. We are responsible in taking better care of you all,” Dr. Alva said. A good number of people, including those in ICUs, have recovered, said pulmonologist Sharat Babu from the Wenlock Hospital. The district reported 186 positive cases on Saturday.
12 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Injured sea turtles being treated by ReefWatch||Several sea turtles, some injured and one dead, have washed up on shores across coastal Karnataka over the past week. Many of them are entangled in fishing nets, stated ReefWatch. Of eight reported stranding of sea turtles during the period, two had been severely injured while one was dead. The Forest Department with volunteers from Clean Kundapur Project and FSL brought the injured Olive Ridley sea turtles to the ReefWatch Marine Conservation Centre where they are now being given fluids and treatment for their wounds. Discarded ghost nets and disposed off fishing nets in the sea are a growing problem in coastal areas. They result in the deaths of numerous wild marine species and studies have shown that they can hamper fish stocks over time, especially in areas under intense fishing pressure, it said in a release. “We hope the Fisheries Department takes cognisance of this growing issue and establishes proper disposal systems for fishing nets going forward,” it said. If anyone finds a stranded marine animal on the coast of Karnataka, ReefWatch can be contacted on 9740892394 or onwww.reefwatchindia.org, it said.
12 July 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Government yet to take a decision on imparting online education: Suresh Kumar||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar on Saturday said the government has not taken any decision to impart online education while it was the design of private schools. The government will take suitable measures on Tuesday on complaints against private schools, including forcing parents to buy laptops and other gadgets, he said. The Minister was speaking to reporters at Temple Town Kukke Subrahmanya in Dakshina Kannada district. Mr. Kumar said there was no conducive atmosphere for online education in the State that was dominated by rural areas. The government was not in favour of online education as adequate infrastructure was not available in villages. Even on reopening of schools, the Minister said the government was yet to take a decision. Schools would not reopen in the present circumstances. Tthe decision would be taken based on the situation as well as experts’ suggestions. SSLC results Mr. Kumar said evaluation of answer scripts of SSLC examinations would be completed before July 30 and the results would be announced in the first week of August . Similarly, evaluation of PUC examination papers was over with lecturers completing the task expeditiously. PUC results would be announced before July 18, he said. Doordarshan classes The Minister said the government has sought two additional channels from Doordarshan to broadcast classes. Snehabandhu classes introducing textbooks to students of Classes 8 to 10 would soon start on Doordarshan's Chandana channel. The same would be extended to other classes with the additional channels, Mr. Kumar said. The Minister was on a private visit to temples in Dakshina Kannada since Friday Mr. Kumar’s wife Savithri Suresh Kumar, temple executive officer M.H. Ravindra, assistant EO Chandrashekhar Peral and others were also present.
12 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||This Raksha Bandhan, tie seed rakhis||Come Raksha Bandhan, some sisters can tie ‘rakhis’ having seeds of tomato, cucumber, capsicum, tulasi, and the like. A social entrepreneurship called Paper Seed near Mangaluru has made those ‘rakhis’. It has also made some terracotta ‘rakhis’ having seeds. If COVID-19 restrictions are preventing people from personally purchasing the ‘rakhis’, one can get them through the postal department. Paper Seed founded by artist Nitin Vas at Pakshikere, on the outskirts of the city, is two-years-old now. It makes eco-friendly products and provides green solutions. His entrepreneurship in a rural area has provided permanent employment to six persons and indirect employment to many artisans. An alumnus of Chamarajendra Academy of Visual Arts (CAVA), Mysuru, Mr. Vas told The Hindu that Paper Seed sold about one lakh seed papers having a variety of seeds in the past two years. They had been made only from recycled papers. It also makes eco-friendly jewellery, earrings, keychain, ladles, cups from coconut shells, driftwood sculptures, baskets from locally available creepers and climbers. Some of the other products include seed pens, bamboo toothbrush, designed paper mache, seed paper notepad, paper straw, recycled paper cards, newspaper seed pencils, organic agarbatti, and the like. “All our products are plastic free,” Mr. Vas said adding that it has made ‘rakhis’ from seed paper and terracotta for the first time. In both the ‘rakhis’, the seeds are hidden in the pendants made from paper pulp and terracotta. “We are making at least 2,000 seed paper ‘rakhis’ and 500 terracota rakhis,” he said. It made 11,000 seed paper flags for Independence Day last year. He said that Sahaya, a Hyderabad-based non-government organisation, and many other volunteers have helped in marketing its products, all handmade. Like others, COVID-19 has also hit its marketing badly affecting artisans. In addition to using social media for marketing, it has adopted community connect approach to market the products of artisans.
12 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Yakshagana gombeyata for COVID-19 awareness||Yakshagana gombeyata, a form of traditional string puppet theatre, has now been used to create awareness on COVID-19 through YouTube. Siribagilu Venkappaiah Samskritika Prathisthana and Gopalakrishna Gombeyata Yakshagana Sangha, Kasaragod, Kerala, have shot performances and uploaded videos of their English, Hindi and Kannada versions on YouTube. Though there is no change in the screenplay, the dialogues are in three languages. Each performance lasts about 30 minutes. The bhagavathike (singing) in the Hindi version is in the same language while Kannada songs have been used in the English performance. The English and Hindi versions were uploaded last week. The Kannada version was on YouTube early this week. Yakshagana bhagavatha (singer) and founder of the prathisthana Siribagilu Ramakrishna Mayya, who took this initiative, told The Hindu that yakshagana gombeyata has been used for the first time to create awareness on a social issue. Yakshagana has been used for the same many times, Mr. Mayya who has sung in the three performances, said. “We did not go for dubbing but performed and recorded thrice separately. A team of more than 15 persons is behind this initiative,” he added. Stressing on the ;stay home stay safe’ message, the shows through the puranic character Dhanvantari, ask viewers to maintain social distance and cleanliness, wear masks, and do yoga and pranayama to increase immunity and take care of themselves. Dhanvantari makes the fictitious ‘coronasura’ (villain) run away from the battlefield in India, thus ending the performance. Unlike in many conventional yakshagana performances or gombeyata in which a spiritual force kills an evil force, here the spiritual force does not kill the evil force but makes it flee. The Gopalakrishna Gombeyata Yakshagana Sangha led by its director K.V. Ramesh is the only surviving troupe presenting the show in Tenku Thittu (southern) style. Earlier in March, the pratisthana had shot a performance to create an awareness on COVID-19 in Kannada and uploaded its video on YouTube.
12 July 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Co-morbid conditions resulted in deaths||Of the 41 deaths reported in Dakshina Kannada till Saturday, 26 persons who had COVID-19 died owing to co-morbid conditions, according an analysis done by experts appointed by the district administration. The team analysed the cause of death in 35 cases. Sadashiva, Superintendent, Government Wenlock Hospital, who is a member of the team, told reporters here on Saturday that in four cases, COVID-19 was found after the death of patients. There were four non-COVID-19 pneumonia deaths and one was a non-COVID-19 death. Of the 35 deceased, 30 belonged to Dakshina Kannada, three were from Bhadravati and one each was from Chitradurga and Madikeri respectively, he said. As many as 21 of the deceased were between 50 and 70 years, while five were above 70 years. Nine were below 50 years, he said.
12 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||GP member dies in clash||A gram panchayat member was murdered at Adyar Padavu on the outskirts of the city on Friday night. According to the Mangaluru Rural Police, Yakub and his supporters had a heated exchange of words with another group. Yakub was injured during the exchange of blows that followed among members of the two groups. He was brought to a private hospital in Falnir where he died early on Saturday. The police have registered a case.
12 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three deaths, 186 new cases||Dakshina Kannada reported three more COVID-19 deaths which was announced on Saturday taking the total deaths to 39. There are two non-COVID-19 deaths in the district. According to a release issued by the district administration, a 33-year-old male and a 67-year-old female died on Friday while a 78-year-old man died on Saturday. The district reported 186 new cases taking the total active cases to 1,211 on Saturday. It said that 29 patients were discharged after treatment on Saturday. A release from the Udupi district administration said that the district reported 90 new cases on Saturday. With this the active cases rose to 319. It said that 26 persons were discharged.
12 July 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Heritage cess’ to care for Mysuru’s historic structures?||Authorities in Mysuru city, that boasts of 250 heritage structures and attracts a huge number of tourists annually, is toying with the idea of levying “heritage cess” to fund the restoration and conservation of the buildings. Chronic lack of funds, and now COVID-19, has pushed conservation issues to the back burner and the historical structures — many of which are public offices or landmark structures over 100 years old and hence, require regular maintenance — are languishing in neglect. The ongoing fight against the pandemic and the diversion of human and financial resources to curb its spread has left little time for authorities to focus on conservation. However, the Mysuru City Corporation is now contemplating introducing heritage cess and creating a separate corpus for maintenance of the historic buildings. MCC Commissioner Gurudutt Hegde told The Hindu that the issue will be placed before the MCC Council and in the next meeting of the District Heritage Committee, to secure their approval. If approved, 2% or 3% cess will be levied along with entry tickets for the palace, Chamundi Hills and even parking lots, said Mr. Hegde. N.S. Rangaraju, convener of INTACH-Mysuru, said the heritage structures lacked regular maintenance owing to paucity of funds. Drawing attention to the Silver Jubilee Clock Tower which was constructed in 1927 to mark the 25th anniversary of the coronation of Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar, he said the foundation was being gnawed by rodents. Also, the inner portion of the clock tower had cracks and the plaster was peeling. These problems were identified almost five years ago but nothing has been done to restore the structure, said Mr. Rangaraju. However, Mr. Hegde said the MCC will fund the restoration but it will be a long-drawn process as a thorough structural analysis was pending after which the Detailed Project Report had to be prepared and it would take three months. In case of Jayalakshmi Vilas Mansion at the Mansagangotri campus which houses the folklore museum, the situation was turning from bad to worse, according to Mr. Rangaraju. The 125 year-old Devaraja Market which is condemned for demolition is in limbo as the issue is pending before the High Court. Senior MCC officials said even if there was clearance from court, the government did not have funds at this point for constructing new markets and Devaraja Market reconstruction alone would cost around Rs. 90 crore.
12 July 2020||Udupi,KARNATAKA||Youth arrested on rape charge||The Udupi Women’s Police on Saturday arrested a 21 year-old on charges of raping and impregnating a minor girl in Hiriyadka. According to Prabhakar Achar, Legal-cum-Probation Officer of Udupi District Child Protection Unit, a hospital provided information about the minor being found pregnant. On inquiry, it was found that the girl, a resident of Hiriyadka, was allegedly raped by her maternal uncle’s son Pundalika a few months ago. Since the girl, 15, had missed her periods, the parents took her to a hospital where she was found two months’ pregnant. Mr. Achar said the parents, from Belagavi, had settled in Hiriyadka for 15 years as labourers. They had brought Pundalika to stay with them sometime ago. Violet Femina, SI, registered a case against Pundalika under relevant provisions of the POCSO Act, 2012.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Looking for girl||
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Work begins||
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Hubballi MLA tests positive||MLA for Hubballi-Dharwad East Prasad Abbayya has tested positive for COVID-19. The MLA issued a public appeal through social media giving information on his health condition saying that as he had excellent immunity he would soon return home after treatment. He is now being treatment at KIMS Hospital, the designated COVID-19 hospital. Through the release, Mr. Prasad has also said that he had already given details of persons whom he had come in contact with.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Moving lock, stock, and barrel||
12 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha tally disconcerting||The COVID-19 situation is turning grim in parts of Alappuzha with 87 people testing positive for the virus on Saturday. In a huge spike in locally transmitted cases, 52 more people, including five health employees, contracted the disease through contact (local transmission). While 19 had returned from abroad, 16 persons, including two Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel at Nooranad unit, came from other States. According to officials with the Health Department, three major COVID-19 clusters have been created in the district, which includes northern parts of Alappuzha (Cherthala taluk), Nooranad, and Kayamkulam municipality. “A surge in cases through local transmission and cases with unknown sources of infections are causes for huge concern,” said an official. At least 13 employees of a seafood factory at Ezhupunna have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. A 49-year-old man hailing from Pulinkunnu, who is an employee of the factory, was the first to test positive on Thursday while 12 were found to have contracted the disease on Saturday. The Pulinkunnu native’s source of infection is unknown. Another 20 people associated with the husband of a pregnant woman from Pallithode, who was found to have contracted COVID-19 last week, tested positive on Saturday. Health staff too Five health staff members, who conducted medical examinations of the pregnant woman at Taluk Hospital, Cherthala, too contracted the disease, besides three in her contact. District Collector A. Alexander has declared the entire Cherthala taluk a containment zone and imposed a lockdown in its limits. Apart from the Cherthala taluk, three grama panchayats — Nooranad, Palamel, and Thamarakulam — have been declared as large cluster/containment zones after 54 ITBP personnel at Nooranad unit tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 between July 6 and July 11. The situation continues to remain worrisome at Kayamkulam, where nine more people on the contact list of a person associated with the Kayamkulam market, who tested positive two weeks ago, contracted the disease. So far, 37 people directly or indirectly related to the Kayamkulam market have tested positive. Ward 1 in Alappuzha municipality, ward 1 in Puliyoor, ward 13 in Ala, and wards 2 and 3 in Vallikunnam panchayat have also been declared as containment zones.
12 July 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Panel directive on certificates||The State Human Rights Commission has ordered the immediate return of original certificates of two former students of Nettur Technical Training Foundation, Thalassery. The students had to discontinue their studies because of financial difficulties. P. Mohandas, judicial member of the commission, issued the direction to the Principal of the institution in this regard on Friday. The students,V.V. Sharanya and T. Rinsha, joined the course in 2012. The commission said that the college authorities could not withhold original certificates of students due to non-payment of tuition fee.
12 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||34 cases of local transmission in Ernakulam||In the largest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases through local contact in the district so far, 34 out of the 47 persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday acquired the infection through local transmission. The district also recorded a third COVID-19-related death. A 79-year-old native of Rayamangalam who died at a hospital in Kolenchery on Friday night has tested positive after his death. He had visited a hospital in Valayanchirangara with fever and the hospital has been closed and staff members have gone into quarantine. When symptoms worsened, he had visited the hospital in Kolenchery on Friday morning. Panchayat officials said that some of his family members had had fever earlier and recovered. His son, a KSEB employee, was working in Aluva. Twelve people who tested positive from Keezhmad panchayat and a 38-year-old from Kavalangad were all on the contact list of a building contractor who had tested positive earlier. The patients had all attended a pre-wedding ceremony together in Keezhmad on June 27. The source of infection of the building contractor was unknown and 14 of his contacts had tested positive so far, panchayat officials said. Swabs collected Swabs of 50 persons in the panchayat were collected on Saturday. A 45-year-old private bus service employee from Keezhmad who was on the primary contact list of another patient has also tested positive. Seven people linked to the Aluva area have contracted the disease. A 23-year-old and a 25-year-old, both sanitation workers at the Aluva Municipality, have also tested positive. One of them had been on the contact list of a tea-shop owner in Aluva. A 67-year-old from Veliyathunad has tested positive. He had visited markets at Aluva and Maradu and might have acquired the infection from there. A 35-year-old native of Choornikkara and a 51-year-old resident of Sreemoolanagaram have also tested positive. Both of them had visited the Aluva market. A 67-year-old resident of Keezhmad who works as a security guard at a company in Aluva and a 64-year-old family member of his have acquired the infection. A 62-year-old and a 43-year-old of Chellanam, who are close relatives of two patients who had tested positive earlier, have tested positive for the virus. A 40-year-old from Chellanam who had come in contact with an Alappuzha-based COVID-19 positive fisherman, has also contracted the disease. A 53-year-old colleague of a patient from Maradu who had tested positive earlier, and her 21-year-old relative, residents of Edappally, have tested positive. A 24-year-old from Thammanam who was on the primary contact list of a patient from Vennala has also tested positive. Six people, residents of Kumbalangi, Puthencruz, Chellanam, Pandikudy and Thrikkakara, who were colleagues at a private company in Alappuzha, have also tested positive. Another employee of the company had tested positive in Alappuzha earlier. A 27-year-old employee of a hotel who was on the primary contact list of the Alangad-based journalist who had tested positive earlier this week, has also acquired the infection. Twelve people who tested positive on Saturday arrived from outside the State. Only three recoveries were recorded and 274 people are currently being treated for the disease in the district. A total of 651 samples were sent for testing and additional samples have been collected from Aluva and Chellanam areas.
12 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Youth Cong. stages novel protest||After being criticised for organising protests in violation of physical-distancing norms against the government for the alleged involvement of the Chief Minister’s Office in the gold smuggling case, the Youth Congress tired to make amends during the protest it held in Kochi on Saturday. The activists who participated in the protest in front of the Commissioner’s office organised themselves using a pipe in an attempt to create space between them to comply with physical distancing norms. In his inaugural address Youth Congress State president Shafi Parambil, MLA, said that had the Chief Minister and others maintained social distance with smugglers, then the Opposition would not have been forced into protests. He alleged that one of the suspects, Swapna Suresh, talked along the lines of the LDF convener in an audio clipping that had gone viral. Mr. Parambil accused Ms. Suresh of being concerned about the electoral prospects of the Chief Minister even while living in hiding. He alleged that the audio clip revealed the link between the Chief Minister and Ms. Suresh. He alleged that a person accused of treason continued to be in hiding as part of a bargain not to expose the names of the influential people involved.
12 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||District now has 89 containment zones||With no let-up in the number of COVID-19 infections, the number of containment zones in the district is edging close to the 100-mark. There were 73 containment zones within rural police limits and 16 within the city limits in as many wards and divisions on Saturday evening. District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik held a tour of the containment zones on Saturday as part of ensuring that the containment protocol was being strictly adhered to. All access points to containment zones remain barricaded and police pickets have been put in place. Aluva town remains completely out of bounds for motorists ever since the entire municipality was declared a containment zone on Friday after fresh cases of infections through local contacts were revealed.
12 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Student Innovator Meet on July 25||The Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) has invited applications from those who have been engaged in developing innovative tech products across the world during the lockdown. Those selected will get an opportunity to exhibit their products at the virtual Student Innovator Meet on July 25. The details can be submitted athttps://innovationsunlocked
12 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||18 more test positive in Kollam||The district reported 18 COVID-19 cases and 18 recoveries on Saturday. Of the new cases, eight persons are from abroad and one had travelled from Delhi. There are seven contact cases and the other two patients have no travel history. Among the patients, four are fish vendors who had been selling fish at Anjilimoodu in Sasthamcotta. Other cases have been reported from Thevalakkara, Karunagappally, Poruvazhi, Palliserikkal, Elamadu, Adinad, Melila, Poothakulam, Kundara, Alappad, Perinad, Chavara, and Anchal. The 45-year-old Thevalakkara resident has been working at a private hospital in Puthanchanda. Her colleague had tested positive on July 10 and another person who tested positive on July 6 had undergone treatment at the hospital. According to Health officials, it is suspected to be a contact case. The 21-year-old Karunagappally resident is the brother of a woman who tested positive on July 5 and the 28-year-old Adinad resident had travelled from Delhi. The 29-year-old Poruvazhi resident and two Sasthamcotta residents, aged 65 and 61, are suspected contact cases. Others had travelled from Kuwait, Muscat, Damam, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Riyad and Sharjah.
12 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||15 fresh cases in Kottayam||As many as 15 persons, including a health worker and three persons each from two families, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 here on Saturday. Of the persons confirmed positive, seven came from abroad while three returned from other States. The remaining five persons contracted the virus through local transmission. With this, the number of active cases in Kottayam is 134. Local transmission The persons who contracted the virus through local transmission were a 47-year-old Aymanom native, his 40-year-old wife, nine-year-old daughter and 42-year-old sister-in-law. The 47-year-old man was in the primary contact list of a health worker who was diagnosed with the disease at Pathanamthitta. The fifth person to be identified with the virus is a 42-year-old staff nurse from Thalayolaparambu, who was in home quarantine. The remaining patients were a 23-year-old resident of Panachikkad who returned from Hyderabad on July 2; a 28-year-old woman from Parathodu(Muscat, June 23), her two-year-old son and 62-year-old mother-in-law; a 24-year-old Thuruthy native(Kuwait, June 25); a 28-year-old Madappally native (Sharjah, June 28); a 40-year-old Chirakkadavu native (Dubai, June 26); the six-year-old son of a female patient from Changanassery; a 59-year-old Erumeli native (Muscat, June 28); and a 28-year-old Manjur native from Mumbai. Meanwhile, six persons recovered from the infection on Saturday.
12 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Chillies bring comfort to Kanamala farmers||Vast stretches of rubber plantations at Kanamala, a village in the forest fringes in the east of Kottayam, are giving way to neat rows of chilli saplings these days. Once known for its fruit and vegetable plantations, Kanamala’s current hot favourite is bird’s eye chillies, called Kanthari in Malayalam. The weekly production in the village touches 150 kg. Kanthari Viplavam, a project initiated by the Kanamala Service Cooperative Bank, is now reaping rich dividends. Around 500 farmers, pooled into about 20 farming clubs are cultivating varieties of Kanthari. The chilli saplings continue to make their way to more homesteads and plantations. At Rs. 250 a kg During a meeting of farmers convened in February this year, the bank announced a scheme to procure Kanthari crop at a fixed price of Rs. 250 a kg. The declaration, according to Binoy Jose, its president, was aimed at offering an alternative to the farmers in distress.Since around 60% of the village is near the Sabarimala forests, wild animals ravaging vegetable and fruit crops has become a common occurrence here. Also, natural rubber, the mainstay of farmers here for decades, has been witnessing a steep price fall.“The guarantee of a fixed price and market proved to be a game-changer. As against the initial plan of procuring chilli every two weeks to be sold locally, we now have agreements with the exporters for bulk purchase,” Mr. Jose said. ‘Kanamala Kanthari’ Besides procuring chillies, the bank also offers to provide interest-free loans and help lease out farmlands to those interested in cultivating Kanthari. “The objective is to make Kanamala synonymous with Kanthari as pineapple is with Vazhakkulam,” he said.Babu Abraham Inchiyil, a 54-year-old farmer who recently replaced the cocoa trees in his farm with varieties of Kanthari, said fruit farming was no longer a viable proposition because of crop-raiding wild animals. “Hence we decided to switch to chillies,” he said.
12 July 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||51 more persons test positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram||Fifty-one persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Saturday. As many as 27 of them contracted the disease through local transmission in Ponnani, where the government has imposed prohibitory orders. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said that 19 patients had returned from abroad and five from other States. The number of infected persons currently under treatment in Malappuram rose to 497 on Saturday. Four of the 27 persons infected through local contacts in Ponnani are above 60 years of age. Twenty of them are men and seven women from different strata of society. The youngest of them is a 22-year-old textile shop employee and the oldest a 72-year-old man. All of them were tested positive during a special examination held in Ponnani taluk. More than 41,000 people are in quarantine in the district. In Palakkad Forty-eight persons, including a five-year-old girl, were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Saturday. Twenty-two of them had returned from the UAE, seven from Tamil Nadu, four from Saudi Arabia, five from Karnataka, three each from Oman and Qatar, and one each from Delhi, the UK, Jammu and Kashmir and Kuwait. In Thrissur Twenty-nine new cases were reported in Thrissur district on Saturday. As many as 19 people who returned from abroad, including a two-year-old boy, and five persons who came from other States tested positive. The wife and two children of a man from Kunnamkulam, who had tested positive earlier, were also infected on Saturday. The other patients are two BSF jawans. Meanwhile, the District Medical Board has asked 10 people, including doctors at the Government Medical College Hospital, Thrissur, to go into quarantine as the samples of a woman from Arimbur, who collapsed and died at the hospital on July 5, were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. They were asked to remain in quarantine till July 21. As COVID-19 has been reported at Vettilappara, strict restrictions have been imposed from wards 2 to 7 of Athirappilly panchayat for the next seven days. In Kannur In Kannur, 19 more people were tested positive on Saturday. Of them, five are foreign returnees, nine arrived from other States and four are Defence Security Corps (DSC) personnel and one person contracted the disease through local transmission. One person from Kunnothparamba tested positive for the virus after coming into contact with an affected person. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases reported in the district rose to 687. District Collector T.V. Subhash has ordered to convert Aster MIMS Hospital in Kannur into a COVID-19 treatment centre. Meanwhile, the government has decided to set up 700 beds in private hospitals in Kannur district. The decision was taken at a meeting of private hospital owners and IMA representatives chaired by Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan on Friday. In Kasaragod Eighteen more people were tested positive in Kasaragod on Saturday. It includes seven people who contracted the disease through local contacts. They include a 74-year-old man, a 21-year-old woman and a three-year-old child of Mangalpadi panchayat; a 19-year-old from Kumbala panchayat; a 43-year-old woman from Meencha panchayat; a 10-year-old girl from Vorkady panchayat; and a one- year-old girl from Mangalpady panchayat. Four people who arrived from other States have tested positive.There are 6,416 people under observation in the district. In Kozhikode The number of people turning positive for SARS-CoV-2 through local transmission and whose source of infection is unknown continues to go up in Kozhikode while another first-line treatment centre (FLTC) was opened in the district on Saturday to treat asymptomatic persons infected of COVID-19 and those with mild symptoms. The second FLTC has been set up at the hostel building of the National Institute of Technology, Calicut (NIT-C) located at Chathamangalam. Meanwhile, 17 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Saturday, of which eight were through contact with already infected persons. There were two whose source of infection is not known. According to a release by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, men aged 61, 37, and 31, a 36-year-old woman and two six-year-old children from Meenchanda had been in contact with a woman who was among the five persons tested positive for the virus on July 10. Another infected person, a 13-year-old girl from Vellayil, had been in contact with a security guard in an apartment in the area who was found infected after he committed suicide. She is the twelfth person to be part of the local transmission there. The eighth case of local transmission is a 34-year-old woman from Nadapuram whose husband had returned from the Gulf. So far there have been reports about local transmission from Vellayil, Kallai, Kolathara and Meenchanda. The Kozhikode Corporation has placed severe restrictions on people visiting the civic body office till July 18. The Corporation has announced that no services or queries pertaining to pensions will be entertained at the office till July 18. In Wayanad The number of cases continued to rise in Wayanad as 11 persons, including a health worker, were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. Three had returned from abroad and seven returned from Karnataka, District Medical Officer R. Renuka said.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Thrissur, Kannur, Kasaragod, Kozhikode and Wayanad bureaus)
12 July 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Remembering sole Cong. president from Kerala||The Congress’s cultural wing Samskarika Sahiti revived the memories of Chettur Sankaran Nair, the sole Malayali who headed the Indian National Congress, on his 163rd birthday on Saturday. The Congress in the State had never commemorated Sankaran Nair apparently because of his differences with Mahatma Gandhi. His 1922 book titled Gandhi and Anarchy had never gone well with the Congress. The Samskarika Sahiti cleaned up Sankaran Nair’s discarded memorial at a village near Mankara. Congress leader V.S. Vijayaraghavan called for protecting the memorial and setting up a research centre in Sankaran Nair’s name. Sahiti district chairman Boban Mattumantha said Palakkad should take pride in the legacy of Sankaran Nair who held many high positions including membership in Viceroy’s Executive Council in 1915 with the charge of education portfolio.
12 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Highest spike in Pathanamthitta||Fifty-four persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, making it the highest ever spike in the number of cases in the district. Twenty-five of the newly infected people contracted the disease through contact with patients. Twenty-five persons were cured of the disease on the day. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district has been placed at 293. The sources of infection of many residents who contracted the disease in the past three days remain unknown. The Health authorities here are much concerned about the steadily growing cases of local transmission of COVID-19, especially in places centred on markets. District Medical Officer A.L. Sheeja said people should take maximum precautions against the pandemic. According to Dr. Sheeja, markets at Kumbazha, Thiruvalla, Mallappally, Kottangal, Malayalappuzha and Pandalam have been identified as potential hotspots. Dr. Sheeja said medical officers had been posted at the block-level to identify the contacts of infected people. The places from where 10 or more primary contacts had been identified would be declared containment zones. RT-PCR test facility Dr. Sheeja said RT-PCR test facility would be made available at the district hospital in Kozhencherry in the next 10 days. Installation of machinery was progressing at the hospital.
12 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Move on Hagia Sophia decried||The Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council (KCBC) has strongly condemned the Turkish President’s decision to convert the historic Hagia Sophia Museum into a mosque. In a statement issued here on Saturday, KCBC deputy secretary general Fr. Varghese Valikkattu alleged that the decision was aimed at seeking votes in the name of religion, promoting intolerance, and encouraging religious extremism. The move was made despite strong objections by UNESCO and the Orthodox Church, he added.  History Hagia Sophia, originally a Christian basilica, was converted into a mosque in 1453 by the Ottoman Turks who conquered the then city of Constantinople (Istanbul). Under the Republic of Turkey, Hagia Sophia was made a museum in the year 1934. UNESCO has declared it a World Heritage Site.
12 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Spectre of new clusters in capital||Raising the spectre of new COVID-19 clusters, the number of cases without known sources of infection continued to mount in the capital district, even while the daily caseload fell by a half on Saturday when compared to Friday. Among the 69 people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, as many as 46 contracted the infection through local transmission. The administration was in the dark over the origin of infection of 11 of the cases, strengthening the possibility of silent transmission in parts of the district. Silent transmission They include a 26-year-old pregnant woman, hailing from Venjaramoodu, who was diagnosed with the disease after she sought treatment at SAT Hospital for fever. Other cases were reported from various parts of the district, including Vizhinjam and Varkala. An Alappuzha native with no recent history of travel was also diagnosed with the disease. Along expected lines, the bulk of the cases were reported from coastal areas, many of which are critical containment and buffer zones such as Poonthura, Beemapally, and Muttathara. Worryingly, a cluster in Vizhinjam and surrounding areas, including Kottappuram and Venganoor, appears to be widening, accounting for nearly 15 cases. The newly diagnosed patients in the district include a Vattappara-native supervisor of a private hospital, a medical representative hailing from Kesavadasapuram, and a Poonthura native who worked at a juice shop at Chakka. Eleven imported cases were also reported on the day. 262 cases at Poonthura During his briefing, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said 1,366 persons had been subjected to rapid antigen detection tests at Poonthura, of which 262 had tested positive. The government would establish a 150-bed COVID-19 first-line treatment centre in the region at the earliest. The district has containment zones in 45 wards. Meanwhile, the administration issued the flowcharts of two patients, one who worked at the pathology department of KIMS Hospital and the other, an ASHA worker attached to the Aryanad community health centre. The City police registered three cases in connection with the demonstration, attack on health workers, and the alleged misinformation campaign at Poonthura on Friday.
12 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Harsh restrictions to be eased: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said harsh restrictions on travel and essential shopping necessitated by the imposition of triple lockdown measures would apply only to critical containment zones notified by the respective district administrations and not the State and panchayats or municipal Corporations as a whole by default. The government focussed on locking down localities within a limited radius of the new clusters and superspread hotspots while allowing a semblance of normality outside the perimeter of the epidemic centre. The government had withdrawn State-wide total lockdown on Sundays at the beginning of the second phase of the COVID-19 ‘unlock’ process last month. However, the public could expect lockdown regulations in regions notified by the authorities. When pressed that the triple lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation had inconvenienced the public, Mr. Vijayan said the citizenry could expect a loosening of restrictions from Monday. (At present, the police allowed traffic and shopping only between 7 a.m. and 11 a.m. in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limits. Markets remained closed and entire wards barricaded from the rest of the city.The police had also disallowed poultry and meat shops. Coastal localities Mr. Vijayan said the risk of a community spread was relatively high in coastal localities in the State. The infection had radiated out from fish-landing centres, harbours and market places to homes, neighbourhoods and residential colonies. The temporary ban on fishing and sale had distressed the coastal folk. The State was aware that freight movement posed a risk to its containment strategy. Cargo lorries entering the State are tracked from border check-posts to their destination points by the police. Check-post officials informed local body officials in advance about the arrival of freight, including vegetables, so that they could isolate the drivers and ensure they were rested before they returned home. The Chief Minister said police officers on duty would be posted near their homes. Additional Director General of Police K. Padmakumar would tour facilities across the State and report daily on the welfare of officers on the frontline of the battle against the outbreak. He would flag the difficulties officers faced on the field. Mr. Vijayan said the law enforcement would work in shifts to avoid burnout. On Saturday, fresh cases reported in Kerala was 488. Imported cases were 243, while cases of local transmission were 245. With one more death of a 79-year-old reported from Ernakulam, the State’s death toll now stands at 29. With 143 recoveries on Saturday, the number of active cases in the State at present is 3,442. Till date, of the 7,438 persons who tested positive in the State, 3,965 persons have been reported to have recovered from the disease. Fresh cases Alappuzha with 87 cases, Thiruvananthapuram (69), Pathanamthitta (54) and Malappuram (51) were at the top when it came to the fresh cases reported on Saturday. The number of samples tested by the State in the last 24 hours was 12,104. With 16 new areas designated as hotspots and 15 other areas dropped from the list, the number of hotspots in the State at present is 195.
12 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Police form special team to probe death of Mahesan||The Kerala Police have formed a special team to investigate the suspected suicide of Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam office-bearer K.K. Mahesan. Inspector General of Police Harshita Attaluri will head the probe team. Mahesan, a long-time aide and close confidant of SNDP Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan, was found dead hanging in the local office of the SNDP Yogam in Alappuzha last month. ‘Scapegoating him’ His relatives had alleged that Mr. Natesan had abetted the suicide of Mahesan by attempting to scapegoat him in a microfinance cheating case. The SNDP Yogam had raised bank loans and used government grant to extend microcredit to its members. However, some of its office-bearers did not remit the mortgage payments collected from the beneficiaries in the banks. Faced with defaults amounting to crores of rupees, the banks sent revenue recovery notices to the loanees, most of them women from indigent families. Thousands of worried women, believing they were cheated, approached the police against the SNDP office-bearers, resulting in scores of cheating cases against the Yogam across Kerala. Mahesan’s relatives had also expressed dissatisfaction with the local police probe. They demanded that the police bring Mr. Natesan’s son and SNDP Yogam vice president Thushar Vellappally under the ambit of the abetment of suicide probe. Mahesan’s death also led to protests against Mr. Natesan and renewed demands for his resignation by factions opposed to him in the SNDP Yogam. Former Congress leader V. M. Sudheeran had also written to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to bring to light the alleged role of Mr. Natesan and Mr. Thushar, in the scam.
12 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong., BJP pushing State to community spread: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday accused Opposition parties of forsaking basic civic sense and acting in a reckless manner that nudged the State in the direction of an unmanageable COVID-19 community spread. Mr. Vijayan launched a broadside against the Congress and the Bharathiya Janata Party for throwing physical-distancing norms to the wind by organising raucous street protests across Kerala for the second consecutive day on Saturday. The mobs could cause a troubling spike in SARS-CoV-2 infections. The unprotected activists who risked themselves in the open could become super spreaders and endanger their communities. Mr. Vijayan said political parties should ruminate on the destruction wreaked by the virus on the population of developed countries. Doctors there grappled with an alarming death rate. They could not provide beds or ventilators to infected persons. Health workers had to allow the disease to take some persons so they could save a few others by rationing medicines and ventilators. Hospitals became epicentres of infection. Death scythed through the population. Morgues overflowed with the dead. Mass burials were the norm, Mr. Vijayan said. “Do the Opposition parties want to precipitate such a disastrous situation in Kerala? Are they so indifferent to the danger to public health that lies ahead?,” he asked. ‘National adversity’ Mr. Vijayan asked the leadership of the Congress and the BJP to show more social responsibility and civic sense. “We are facing national adversity. Today is not the day for partisan politics. It is the time for unified action against the threat,” he said. Mr. Vijayan said Congress and BJP leaders behaved as if they had some magical armour or talisman that protected them against the virus. He hoped better sense would prevail among the cadres of the Opposition parties. He said he wished they would desist for the time being from street protests wherein physical distancing was the primary causality. The protesters had also put police officials on the front line of the State’s battle against the pandemic in peril. They had attempted to sabotage the State’s disease control protocol. The government respected the right of political parties to protest. It was against using law enforcement to stifle democratic freedom. However, there was a time for electoral politics, he said.
12 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||On health, rights of women and girls||With couples home-bound during the COVID-19 pandemic, the possibilities of unplanned pregnancies have heightened. As women are most likely to suffer the consequences of such an event, the Women and Child Development Department conducted community-based events to create awareness of sexual and reproductive health and rights of women on World Population Day on Saturday. Online awareness classes were held through the 33,115 anganwadis in the State to create awareness among the public of the need for population control as responsible citizens and how to go about it. Bindu Gopinath, Assistant Director, Women and Child Development Department, says there is a women’s rights perspective to the initiative — if a woman needs access to contraceptives for family planning, it should be available to her. There is also a child rights perspective — by adequate spacing between children, not only is the health of mother and children ensured but also that the children get optimal care of parents. Ms. Gopinath says this is the right time to talk about the issue. Unplanned pregnancies may affect a couple’s children and the family’s economic prospects. Older women with children may find another pregnancy daunting or be worried by lack of contraceptive availability during such times of crisis or what to do if they do become pregnant. As part of the community-based events, anganwadi workers reach out to women in the age group of 18 to 49 to get them to open up if they have any such concerns. Besides providing a platform for discussions, these also provide avenues for rapport building with anganwadi workers.
12 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New VC for University of Calicut||M.K. Jayaraj has been appointed as the Vice Chancellor of University of Calicut. He is currently professor in the Department of Physics, Cochin University of Science and Technology (CUSAT). Governor Mohammed Arif Khan, who is also the Chancellor of the university, issued orders on Saturday appointing Dr. Jayaraj as Vice Chancellor for a period of four years. The position has been lying vacant since his predecessor, K. Mohammed Basheer, completed his tenure in November last. Thunchath Ezhuthachan Malayalam University Vice Chancellor V. Anil Kumar has been officiating in the absence of a full-time appointment. A native of Thrikkakara in Kochi, Dr. Jayaraj had worked in Oregon State University, U.S., and Tokyo Institute of Technology. His areas of specialisation include optoelectronic materials, nanostructured devices, laser and RF plasma studies.
12 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Role of science important: Governor||Calling for the development of a ‘Kerala Model’ in higher education, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has pointed out that the role of universities has increased against the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic. He was addressing Vice Chancellors at a two-day online conference for discussing issues in higher education. “The pandemic has led even religious establishments to express trust in epidemiologists and doctors. Today, everyone everywhere is turning to science as the most reliable source of guidance. In this context, the role of the universities, engaged in the pursuit of scientific studies, has become more important. People’s expectations that varsities will find solutions to their problems have increased manifold,”' the Governor was quoted in a statement.
12 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police officer tests positive||A junior sub-inspector deputed for surveillance in the COVID-19-super spreader-hit coastal region of the State capital has contracted the SARS-CoV-2 infection. The officer attached to the Poonthura police station tested positive for the virus on Friday evening. With this, the number of COVID-19 cases among police personnel in the city has risen to five. Earlier, three personnel of the Armed Reserve camp and a civil police officer attached to the Pettah police station were diagnosed with the disease. The Poonthura policeman, who was asymptomatic and did not figure on the contact lists of any COVID-19 patients, was among the many policemen who were subjected to random testing. His swab sample was collected on July 4.
12 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Opposition derailing probe: Kodiyeri||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has accused the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of trying to rake up a controversy to save the real accused when the National Investigation Agency (NIA)has initiated a probe into the gold smuggling case. Mr. Balakrishnan said in a statement here on Saturday that the NIA inquiry had underlined the State government stance accepting a probe by any agency. The perpetrators, sponsors and all those involved in gold smuggling should be brought before law. Unlike in other gold smuggling cases, the NIA probe should not end up without any result. It should extend to other similar cases, he said. When the case surfaced, many people had claimed to profess evidence. They should pass over the evidence to the investigating officers as per the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. If they refused to hand over such evidence, it would be taken that they were raising false claims, he said. A clearing agent who intervened for clearing the diplomatic baggage was a Sangh Parivar activist, he said.
12 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Secretariat to get disinfectant sprayers||The government has decided to equip the Secretariat with two disinfectant sprayers. The rise in the number of patients has necessitated the need for frequent disinfection of the Secretariat premises and nearby regions using sodium hypochlorite solution. A decision was taken to purchase two sprayers to ensure that disinfection of the area was carried out on a regular basis, the government said.
12 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Psycho-social support for children||As many as 68,814 children were provided psycho-social support under the ‘Ottakkalla Oppamundu’ initiative of the Health Department over two weeks, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said. Of this, 10,890 children were provided counselling while 13 others required medical treatment. The initiative is meant to prevent suicidal tendencies in children during the COVID-19 pandemic, she said.
12 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Kurunnukalku Karuthal’ campaign||The Kerala State Council for Child Welfare is organising a public campaign for curbing suicidal tendencies in children and ensuring their safety. The campaign is christened ‘Kurunnukalku Karuthal’. Council secretary Shiju Khan drew attention to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s disclosure that 66 children had died by suicide since March 25. Awareness campaigns will be conducted online as part of the campaign, he said. The public can contact the council on the toll-free number 1517 for conveying matters related to children.
12 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus Two results on Tuesday||The Plus Two higher secondary and vocational higher secondary results will be declared on Tuesday or Wednesday. Though the restrictions in the city have been extended for a week, those responsible for completing the result preparation will be able to reach work, an official said. The Department of General Education had earlier planned to announce the results on July 10 but had to postpone it after the capital city was placed under triple lockdown.
12 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur records highest single-day spike||Anantapur district on Saturday recorded the highest-ever single-day spike in the number of COVID-19 positive cases — 311 — taking the cumulative total to 3,161, just seven cases behind Kurnool district. The number of active cases is now higher than Kurnool, but lower compared to three other districts, thanks to the quick discharge of patients every day. With 1,317 cases, Anantapur district is behind East Godavari at 1,612, Guntur 1,440 and Chittoor 1,364. Testing picked up for the past one week with 2,500 swabs collected and tests each day compared to just 1,000 last month. With the 9 I-MASQ vans deployed all over the district, the number of swabs collected has also gone up, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said on Saturday. On Friday night, 110 patients were discharged from hospitals and COVID Care Centres following their samples testing negative on two consecutive days. They were given Rs. 2,000 and advised to quarantine themselves at home for next 14 days. Lockdown measures The police and revenue department officials have been implementing the lockdown measures in containment zones and the shops are allowed to open only from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m. There are, however, no traffic restrictions and people are allowed to move to reach their place of work, but leisure travelling is being discouraged, Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu said. Mr. Yesu Babu on Saturday visited Ambedkar Nagar, Kovur Nagar, vegetable market on Tank Bund Road and other containment zones in the city and interacted with police personnel regarding the containment operations.
12 July 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plan to set up 250 charging stations in State: NREDCAP MD||A blue and white three-wheeler plying on the National Highway, passing through the city, catches the eye of passers-by as the autorickshaw looks different from the existing yellow-coloured ones. The driver stopped at junctions, but many seemed to wonder whether it was a ‘hire’ auto or a ‘private one’. “The vehicle, christened ‘Treo’, brought out by Mahindra, is designed for four persons, including the driver, and can attain a top speed of 45 km/hr. On a full charge, which takes three hours and 50 minutes, it can travel up to 100 km,” says Jayalakshmi of Neon Motors, one of the two dealers. The lockdown and the economic crisis that followed seem to have an impact on sales. “The sales are dull, but we are confident that they will pick up after the economy returns to normal,” she says. “The lack of charging stations seems to be a hindrance to motorists going for EVs,” says Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam. “The existing charging stations of EPDCL and GVMC in the city can be utilised,” said G. Satyanarayana, District Manager, New and Renewable Energy Development Corporation of Andhra Pradesh (NREDCAP). ‘Concessional rate’ “We are planning to set up 250 charging stations for electric vehicles in Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Tirupati, Amaravati, Guntur, Nellore and Kakinada at an estimated cost of Rs. 20 crore. The Department of Heavy Industries has agreed to provide subsidy for purchase of the charging equipment and some of the government departments have come forward to provide their land at concessional rate for installation of the equipment,” NREDCAP Vice-Chairman and Managing Director S. Ramana Reddy told The Hindu . “We are in the process of identification of sites, preferably government sites, as the land cost in cities is high. We do not anticipate return on investment in the first two years but the availability of charging equipment and greater choice of brands with more manufacturers foraying into EV (Electric Vehicle) segment, would see more buyers of EVs in course of time,” he said. “We are also planning to convert existing diesel autos, which are about five-year-old, into EVs. The battery manufacturers have also evinced interest in providing battery refills, like gas dealers do in the case of gas cylinders. We are planning to open four such battery dealer outlets, two each in Visakhapatnam and Tirupati, on a trial basis. This is an attractive option to drivers as they can do away with comparatively high initial investment cost of EVs,” Mr. Ramana Reddy added.
12 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus spreads to rural areas of Chittoor||After rattling the municipal corporations of Tirupati and Chittoor, and seven municipalities in Chittoor district, the coronavirus is gradually making inroads into the rural areas, particularly in the eastern mandals of Satyavedu, Nagalapauram, Pichatur, Varadaiahpalem and several villages bordering with Tamil Nadu. Of the 2,700 plus cases registered so far in the district, the share of the rural belt is put at more than 30%. According to COVID-19 task force officials, the infection remained considerably under control in the rural areas until June end, with only sporadic cases emerging from here as compared to cluster-like presence in urban areas. The eastern mandals, which showed a sudden spurt in the cases in April and May took a lull in June, are once again on the edge with new cases on the rise since the beginning of the month of July. The officials observed that a majority of the cases from the villages emerged due to lack of adherence to guidelines on people’s part. In a bid to make people understand the importance of the norms, the Chittoor police on Saturday released a short-film titled “No Mask No Entry”, in coordination with the local youth, at Kanipakam. Speaking to the mediapersons, Circle-Inspector C. Lakshmikanth Reddy and Sub-Inspector B. Manohar observed how the mask and hand etiquettes were being flouted. They said penalties would be slapped against errant persons both in urban and rural places.
12 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders worth Rs. 1 crore seized||A combing party of the Andhra Pradesh Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force (APRSASTF) on Saturday seized 1.50 tonnes of red sanders logs at Bhimavaram valley in Seshachalam hills, 25 km from Tirupati. The logs were left behind by around 25 smuggling operatives from Tamil Nadu who managed to escape in the cover of darkness after pelting stones at the raiding team. Addressing a press conference at the Task Force office at Tirupati, Superintendent of Police (Task Force) Ravi Shankar said that acting on reliable information that some Tamil Nadu-based smuggling operatives had entered the Seshachalam hills, a combing party led by Inspectors M. Vasu and P. Bhaskar was pressed into action three days ago. “After a three-day-long operation, the combing party detected movements of the operatives in Bhimavaram valley, carrying 34 red sanders logs and negotiating the forest terrain while exiting the hills,” the SP said. Though the operatives tried to resist the operation by pelting stones at the combing party, they had to finally abandon the logs and flee the valley. The combing party recovered the logs and shifted them to the Task Force office at Tirupati. In view of the police surveillance on highways and curtailing the movement of public from Tamil Nadu, the smuggling operatives reached the Seshachalam foothills on two-wheelers all the way from the north-western districts of Tamil Nadu. The middlemen of the smuggling syndicate would arrange their transport. “Two operatives would be carried on each bike (triple riding) by charging Rs. 2,500 for each person. Upon entering the hills, the batches would linger around for a month with provisions supplied through locally arranged logistics. After a lull of a couple of months, the movement of smugglers has once again commenced,” said Inspector M. Vasu. Meanwhile, the Task Force SP had formed special teams to continue combing operations at vulnerable points in Seshachalam hills to flush out the operatives.
12 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man tries to sexually assault minor||A 45-year-old man allegedly tried to sexually assault a 13-year-old girl at Katiperi village of Chowdepalle mandal of Palamaner police sub-division, 80 km from here, on Friday. Case registered Based on a complaint from the girl’s parents, the Chowdepalle police on Saturday registered a case under POCSO Act and IPC Sections dealing with attempt to rape. According to the police, Nagaraju on Friday night called the girl on the pretext of seeking her help in cooking, as his family members were away. When the girl went in, the accused allegedly tried to sexually assault her, but neighbours rushed in to her rescue after hearing her shouts. Fled from the scene Fearing assault by the neighbours, the man fled the scene. The police have launched a search for the accused.
12 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||More containment zones notified in Guntur||The surge of cases continues in Guntur district with 155 patients identified on Saturday, of which 49 were from Guntur city. The alarming situation has prompted the district administration to impose fresh guidelines, which included asking commercial establishments to close by 12 noon. The district administration has notified the following new containment zones: areas in Brodiepet, Chowtra, Cobaldpet, LB Nagar, Srinagar, Sanjeevaiah Nagar, Srinivasarao Thota, Ramireddythota, IPD Colony, Chowdavaram, Vellaturu, Pedamakkena, Vengalayapalem, Nallapadu, Munnagi, Gorantla, Kothapet, Mandapadu, Modukuru, Dindipalem, Salipet, Sharaf Bazaar and Marispet.
12 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polavaram floodwater level rises||The level of Godavari flood waters touched 20.15 metres at the cofferdam of the Polavaram irrigation project on Saturday evening. However, the first level flood warning will be given only when the discharge touches 10 lakh cusecs at the Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage after lifting all the 175 gates, according to the Godavari Flood Mitigation Plan-2020. The water level at Kunavaram is 6.3 m and old rail bridge 13.34 m as per the latest bulletin.  Authorities are gearing up commence the evacuation process based on the flood situation.
12 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl allegedly sexually assaulted||An eight year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by a 14-year-old boy under Sarpavaram police limits in East Godavari district. Sarpavaram Circle Inspector R. Govinda Raju said though the incident occurred on July 7, the girl’s parents lodged a written complaint on Saturday. Mr. Raju said a case under the Disha Act had been registered in the Kakinada Disha police station and investigation is on.
12 July 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||First-ever plasma therapy done at GGH||The first-ever plasma transfusion, a procedure adopted to treat COVID-19, was successfully performed on a patient at the Kurnool Government General Hospital in the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. Hospital Superintendent G. Narendranath Reddy said on Saturday that all the ICMR guidelines were followed in performing the procedure under the watchful eyes of the hospital’s Ethics Committee. The ICMR has permitted the hospital to perform the procedure as the 60th centre in the country. Patients who have recovered from COVID-19 and are healthy can come forward and donate plasma after 28 days. The procedure was performed on a few others, but these were only trial runs, Dr. Narendranath added. Meanwhile, the rate of infection has not shown any respite in the district. In the 24 hours ending Saturday morning, 229 new cases were recorded, pushing the tally to 3,168.
12 July 2020||MYLAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmer drowns in stream||A farmer, M. Venkateswara Rao (50), drowned in Kakarla Vaagu (stream), at Poratanagar Thanda in Krishna district on Friday. Nuzvid Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) B. Srinivasulu on Saturday said Rao, a native of Yedurubedem Thanda, drowned in the stream which was overflowing due to heavy rains in the upstream areas in the last two days. Body retrieved The farmer was returning from his fields and the incident occurred when he tried to cross the stream. The Mylavaram police retrieved the body at Chandala Cheruvu and handed over it to his family members.
12 July 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe into ‘undignified’ disposal of victims’ bodies||COVID-19 continued to rattle south coastal Andhra Pradesh as two persons succumbed to the virus and 276 patients, 149 in Nellore district and 127 in Prakasam, tested positive in the last 24 hours. The toll rose to nine in Nellore district with two more persons, including a 74-year-old man from Ranganyukulapeta, succumbing to the disease. A prominent petrol outlet owner was the other victim. The tally went up to 1,489 in Nellore district and 1,318 in Prakasam district, health officials said. An MLA’s gunman in Nellore and other staff were among the infected. Health officials were on their toes testing their primary and secondary contacts. Balayapalli, where the disease spread to government staff, including police personnel probing a murder case from four accused persons, accounted for 22 new cases. Meanwhile, District Collector M.V. Seshagiri Babu ordered a probe by Revenue Division Officer Hussein Saheb into the incident of bodies of three deceased patients being allegedly disposed of in a callous manner with an earthmover after it went viral on social media. Meanwhile, Ongole and Pamur registered 12 and 10 fresh cases respectively. The coronavirus continued to spread to far-flung villages in the Prakasam district.
12 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thanks to rains, kharif sowing begins on brisk pace in Prakasam||The onset of southwest monsoon in time has brought cheers to farmers in Prakasam district who have begun cultivation of kharif crops with lots of hopes. Thanks to the recent wet spell across the district, farmers have started preparing their land for sowing various rain-fed crops. Karamchedu has recorded a rainfall of 193 mm so far this month followed by N.G.Padu(171 mm), S.N.Padu(157 mm), Tangutur(130 mm), Parchur(126mm), Singarayaonda(123mm), Ongole(113 mm) and Inkollu(103 mm), according to a report compiled by the office of the Chief Planning Officer. ‘A good demand likely’ Wearing masks, farmers began sowing of coarse grains, pulses and oil seeds across the district. “Though we had faced some problems initially during the lockdown, we could market our produce without much difficulty later. We don’t expect the demand for various crops to dip during the year,” said a group of farmers while preparing their land for cultivation at Motumala, near Kothapatnam. ‘30% excess rainfall’ For the first time after several years, the drought-prone district has received 30% excess rainfall in the month of June and July so far giving impetus to farm operations, said Agriculture Joint Director P.V. Sriramamurthy. With nine rainy days during the period, the district on an average has received 57.5 mm rainfall. Sowing has been taken up in over 3,000 hectares so far, taking advantage of the early rains. Pulses accounted for a crop coverage of 221 hectares, oil seeds 383 hectares and coarse grains 128 hectares. The sowing is expected to go up in the next fortnight or so, department officials said. Expecting the monsoon to bring more rains in the next couple of months, the Agriculture department set an ambitious crop coverage target of 2.44 lakh hectares during this kharif as against the normal acreage of 2.18 hectares.
12 July 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police visit villages on Godavari banks||The police organised flood preparedness meetings in tribal hamlets which are prone to inundation, and alerted the villagers to take precautions to prevent loss of human and animal lives. Following the directions of Superintendent of Police K. Naranyan Naik, police drafted a plan of action to shift the villagers to rehabilitation homes, provide food, medicines and alert them on the flood level from time to time. Polavaram Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) M. Venkateswara Rao, CI Naveen Murthy and SI R. Srinu visited Madhapuram village on Saturday. The police officers put up banners at Kothur and Vadapalli hamlets, which are located on the Godavari bund in the mandal. ‘Collect details’ The DSP alerted the locals over the rising flood level as heavy rains were predicted in the upstream, and urged them to cooperate with the Revenue, Police, Panchayat Raj, Medical and Health and Tribal Welfare department officials in evacuating the villages, if necessary. “Instructions have been given to the police to be alert and collect the details of the pregnant women, elderly, children and patients in each family. The local officials will caution the residents on the flood level from the flood control room,” Mr. Naik said. Mr. Rao said that banners had been put up in the villages to alert about flood situation and preparedness meetings were being conducted in all inundation hamlets. “Based on the previous water levels in Godavari and the flood situation in the bund villages in the last few years, action plan has been prepared. As of now, the flood situation is not at danger level and instructions have been to coordinate with their counterparts in the upstream areas,” Mr. Naik told The Hindu . Transportation The police officials were asked to coordinate with other department personnel in the Agency area in maintaining better supply of medicines, groceries, power supply and rescue the villagers in emergency, he said. Police with the help of ITDA, Anganwadi and health department will shift the pregnant women to rehabilitation centres, Mr. Naik added.
12 July 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curfew-like situation prevails at Srikakulam||A curfew-like situation prevailed on Saturday afternoon in Srikakulam district headquarters, as shops and all commercial establishments downed their shutters by 1 p.m. Paying heed to the suggestion of the district administration, residents confined themselves indoors from 1 p.m. to observe a voluntary lockdown as COVID-19 cases continued to climb in the district. The voluntary lockdown is expected to continue for the next few weeks in Srikakulam, Palasa and Tekkali until cases subside, officials said. Srikakulam district, which was a green zone with zero COVID-19 cases till the last week of April, has registered 1,662 cases so far. Almost 200 new cases are being reported every day, leading to concern among the public. Initially, the cases were of migrant labourers returning home from other States. Now, the virus is spreading among locals with no prior travel history, say officials. Red zones To prevent the spread of the virus, the district administration has classified many areas as red zones. “People’s voluntary cooperation for partial lockdown every day is a welcome step. It will help control the spread of coronavirus. I request all the people not to come out of their homes from 1 p.m. unless there is a valid reason,” said J. Nivas, Srikakulam Collector. The Collector told The Hindu that people with COVID-19 symptoms were being put on observation immediately without waiting for the lab results of their tests. “We don’t want to take any chances regarding the spread of COVID-19. That is why we have ramped up testing significantly. We have conducted 1.04 lakh tests so far, which has helped us detect new cases quickly,” he said. United Forum of Bank Unions convener K. Ch. Venkataramana and All Indian Bank Employees Association leader B. Srinivasulu urged the Collector to restrict banking hours from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. claiming that bank employees were also being exposed to the COVID-19 threat. They urged him to conduct testing for all bank employees. “With the implementation of many government schemes, hundreds of beneficiaries are coming to banks in large numbers. Handling the crowds is a herculean task. The bank staff are worried about their health as they have to interact with customers closely,” they said. The Collector assured them that he would discuss the issue with higher officials and heads of respective bank managements. Meanwhile, District Revenue Officer B. Dayanidhi urged people not to come to the Collector’s office on Monday over their grievances with the implementation of a partial lockdown. “People can register their grievances by calling 9491222122, 08942-240605. We will forward the grievances to the departments concerned immediately for follow-up action,” said Mr. Dayanidhi.
12 July 2020||UPPADA (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic fear keeps fishermen off the sea in E. Godavari village||It has been over a month since fishing activity came to a grinding halt in the State’s biggest fish landing point, Ameenabad Landing Centre (ALC), off the Uppada coast in the district following the spread of COVID-19 in the fisherfolk habitations. In early June, the two panchayats – Ameenabad and Uppada – had voluntarily imposed a ban on fishing as the virus started spreading in their habitations. As on Saturday, 40 persons tested positive in the two panchayats, even as medical reports of some more persons were yet to announced. “We had to stop venturing into the sea for fishing as traders would arrive by vans from Kerala, Karnataka, Odisha, and Kolkata at the ALC. Post the annual fishing ban (that ended this year on June 1 instead of 14), the catch will be abundant till August. However, the spread of COVID-19 is forcing us to remain indoors for a few more weeks,” Vanka Kondababu, former deputy sarpanch of Ameenabad, told The Hindu . The voluntary ban is necessitated as fishing is done collectively by a group on boats, each comprising a maximum of 10 persons. ‘No official ban’ “There is no official ban on any activity of fishing – be it venturing into the sea by boats, trade, and transportation. It is the fear of the spread of coronavirus that forced the fisherfolk at the ALC to stop the activity. Nearly 100 to 150 mechanised boats belonging to the Uppada coast are landing at Kakinada harbour. But nearly 750 to 800 catamarans remain anchored at the ALC,” Assistant Director (Fisheries), Kakinada, N. Srinivasa Rao, said. Fishermen from Uppada, Ameenabad, Moolapeta, and Kontapeta are among the worst-hit. Absence of fishing impacts the local economy and livelihood of small-scale fishermen using fiber boats. Women, who buy fish from the landing centre and sell it in the nearby areas, have also been affected. “We cannot blame anybody for the prevailing situation. However, fishing during the initial weeks after the breeding season (April-June) is lucrative for all kinds of boats that catch Tuna and other species,” said Ch. Sanjeev, a boat operator from Uppada.
12 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State ropes in Facebook, IIT-Tirupati for better management of COVID-19||In the backdrop of spike in COVID-19 positive cases and casualties, the Andhra Pradesh government has roped in social media giant Facebook and IIT-Tirupati for better management of the pandemic. The mapping and analysis of people moving in public places, apparently, has been a big help for the government machinery in its containment measures initiated for the fast-spreading disease. Anonymised data For the record, the State has a total of 27,235 positive cases, including 1,813 reported on Saturday. While 14,393 people have been discharged, 12,533 remain active. The death toll has touched 309, of which 17 were reported on Saturday. While Facebook has provided anonymised and aggregated data on the population density, movement and social engagement, IIT-Tirupati has analysed the data to arrive at figures on how people are moving around hotspots, or red zones, during days and nights. Using the ward-level coordinates from the government, the information is further analysed and feedback given to the government. This mobility of people has helped the government to prioritise the regions of high mobility, especially during nights, for focused surveillance. Speaking to The Hindu , Pratap Bhimireddy, Special Representative, Investment Promotion & Infrastructure Development, who is working on enhancing COVID containment and related infrastructure, said the reports by Facebook and IIT-Tirupati had been of great help in handling the pandemic in the State. Real-time view “Technical reports from Facebook are very helpful as they give real-time view of important correlates of disease transmission and mobility. IIT-Tirupati is supporting us with the analysis from Facebook datasets,” Mr. Bhimireddy said. The data helped the Police Department handle the borders and miscreants indulging in betting and other illegal activities during the COVID days, while it came in handy for the Health Department to fix the locations for containment zones. Besides, the government could also use the Facebook network to get over 10,000 units of blood donations across the State so far. Responding to The Hindu , a Facebook company spokesperson stated over email that disease prevention maps have helped organisations respond to health emergencies for over a year. “In the coronavirus context, researchers and non-profits can use the maps, which are built with aggregated data that people opt to share, to understand and help combat the spread of the virus,” the spokesperson added. Speaking about the data analysis initiated by IIT-Tirupati, Kalidas Yeturu, who led the project, said the data from Facebook provided a better view on the movement of people. “We developed the algorithms needed to provide insights into whether people are staying near home or visiting many parts of the town, and provided information on whether preventive measures are headed in the right direction,” said Dr. Kalidas. Dr. Kalidas and his team have developed a mathematical procedure to determine mobility in and around a given location and for a specific time frame of the day of interest. The automation software generates a report and saves it to cloud and emails it with just a click. The software is made accessible to government officials via IIT-Tirupati.
12 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Top officers polish skills at firing range||Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang visited the Andhra Pradesh Special Police (APSP) 6th Battalion at Mangalagiri on Saturday. The force, along with IGP (P&L) Nagendra Kumar and APSP Battalions IGP B. Srinivasulu, testfired the latest weapons at the firing range at Nulakapeta village, Tadepalli village, in Guntur district. Mr. Sawang handed over Glock-19X pistols as personal service weapons to Additional DGP (Law and Order) Ravi Shankar Ayyanar, Guntur Range Inspector General of Police (IGP) J. Prabhakar Rao, Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) Commissioner Vineet Brijlal, IGP (Training) N. Sanjay, DIGs S.V. Rajashekar Babu and Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu, Guntur Rural SP Vishal Gunni, Urban SP R.N. Ammi Reddy and other officers. Latest weapons The DGP testfired the latest weapons at the firing range and the company representatives explained the features of the new weapons and gave demonstrations of MASADA, UZI PRO, X95 (CQB Carbine), and X95 (Assault Rifle) to the officers. The Head of the Police Force (HoPF) praised the officers who excelled at shooting practice on the firing range.
12 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police chiefs in South discuss security issues||The police chiefs of the southern States have discussed at length coastal security and threats through sea route and decided to ask the Centre for more help to step up security along the coastline. Andhra Pradesh DGP Gautam Sawang, Telangana DGP M. Mahender Reddy, Kerala Head of the Police Force (HoPF) Lokanath Behera, Tamil Nadu DGP J.K. Tripathy, Karnataka DGP Praveen Sood and other officials participated in the webinar on Saturday. Mr. Tripathy, while stating that steps were being taken to prevent terrorist activities in Tamil Nadu, appealed to his counterparts to share information on the terrorists in jails in other States. The top police officers had a discussion on execution of Non-Bailable Warrants (NBWs) and Inter-Operable Criminal Justice System (ICJS) in the southern States. Explaining the steps being taken to prevent drug mafia and peddling of ganja in Andhra Pradesh, Mr. Sawang said that about 20,170 kg of ganja had been seized and many smugglers were arrested in the last 45 days. Mr. Mahender Reddy, Mr. Praveen Sood and Mr. Lokanath spoke on COVID-19 and explained the measures being taken to prevent the spread of the disease. They also spoke on human trafficking, particularly trafficking of children and women, in different States. Commendable job Mr. Sawang said that police stood in the frontline in enlightening the people on the dos and dont’s to prevent coronavirus spread and had been doing a commendable job during the pandemic. HOPFs of Puducherry and Lakshadweep, senior officers of Grey Hounds, Crime Investigation Department (CID), Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and other wings participated.
12 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Decision on CETs tomorrow||The preliminary round of discussions held on Saturday on the possibilities of conducting the Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Tests (APCETs) - 2020 remained inconclusive. Education Minister A. Suresh, however, asked the Andhra Pradesh State Council for Higher Education (APSCHE) and conveners of APCETs to make all arrangements for tests and stay alert to the emerging situation. The meeting discussed in detail the measures to be taken in view of the existing pandemic should the government decide in favour of conducting the CETs. In a statement, APSCHE Secretary B. Sudheer Prem Kumar said a final decision would be taken in the next meeting scheduled on Monday (July 13). Special Chief Secretary, Department of Higher Education, Satish Chandra, APSCHE Chairman K. Hemachandra Reddy and other officials attended the video-conference.
12 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramakrishna Raju files quash petitions in High Court against police complaints||Narasapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju filed separate petitions in the High Court seeking quashing of the police complaints lodged against him by Housing Minister Cherukuvada Sri Ranganadha Raju and Bhimavaram MLA Grandhi Srinivas for reportedly damaging their names and reputation and causing mental agony. Mr. Ramakrishna Raju prayed that while the quash petitions were pending disposal, the station house officers of Poduru and Bhimavaram I-Town police stations be directed not to take any coercive action against him. In the eye of a storm brewing within YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) over his differences with his own party MLAs, Mr. Ramakrishna Raju had a show-cause notice issued by MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy for allegedly indulging in anti-party activities. It was against this backdrop that Mr. Ranganadha Raju and Mr. Srinivas complained to the police that Mr. Ramakrishna Raju insulted them through his media statements for questioning his defiance of the party’s stand on certain important policy matters and some government decisions. Mr. Ramakrishna Raju asserted in the petition that he had the right to criticise the government and that the concept of obeying the party whip would apply to matters enumerated in 10th Schedule of the Constitution. His basic argument was that the police should not have entertained the complaints as there was no criminal offence committed by him, and the alleged defamatory comments which he was accused of making, did not constitute a cognisable offence. The allegations made against him were improbable and hence the complaints were liable to be quashed as per laws laid down by the Supreme Court, Mr. Ramakrishna Raju stated in the petition.
12 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID triage centre opened in Vijayawada||Krishna Collector A. Md. Imtiaz has inaugurated a COVID triage centre at the Bishop Azariah High School here on Saturday. The COVID patients opting for home isolation have to visit the triage centre and pass certain medical tests. The triage centre has a modern ECG, chest X-Ray and other facilities for testing persons suspected to be afflicted with COVID. The officials concerned would permit home isolation after doing a string of tests on such persons and after examining the rooms meant for isolation and other conditions prevailing there. ANMs and ASHA workers would monitor the health of such persons and kits containing medicines would be provided to them. If there were old people and children, home isolation would not be allowed. Mr. Imtiaz said 1.30 lakh COVID tests were conducted so far and about 4,000 samples were being collected every day. Results were being disclosed within 24 hours of testing, he added.
12 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||48 new COVID cases in Vijayawada||Krishna district witnessed 84 new COVID-19 cases, 48 of them in city, on Saturday, Collector A.Md. Imtiaz said. In the city, eight new cases were registered in Patamata and seven each in Siddhartha Nagar and Satyanarayanapuram. Three cases each were detected in Moghalrajpuram, Gandhi Nagar and Maruthi Cooperative Colony and two cases each in Krishnalanka, Governorpet and Machavaram. One case was reported in Ramalingeswar Nagar and 10 cases elsewhere in the city. In the district, 36 new cases were reported in 12 mandals, including Vijayawada Rural. In Kanuru of Penamaluru mandal, 11 cases were reported. Machilipatnam and Gannavaram reported four cases each while Poranki, Tadigadapa and Kanumolu reported two cases each. Ibrahimpatnam, Yanamalakuduru, Telaprolu, Vuyyuru, Nunna, Tiruvuru, Annavaram, Nuzvid, Challapalli, Nidumolu and Mantripalem villages reported one case each.
12 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID test results in 24 hours, says Collector||District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz said that the results of COVID-19 tests being done at the mobile testing centres would be issued within 24 hours hereafter. Mr. Imtiaz inspected the mobile testing centre at IGMC Stadium and interacted with the people who came there for testing. He said the process of sample collection and testing had been speeded up to ensure that results were out within 24 hours. He said the process was being monitored constantly. He asked the people at the test centre to maintain social distance as there was a high probability of COVID infected persons coming for the test. Mr. Imtiaz appealed to the public to maintain social distance and wear masks mandatorily when they ventured out. He said so far 1.30 lakh samples were tested in the district. Krishna district’s tally Meanwhile, the district has reported 123 new cases and two COVID deaths in the past day. The tally has gone up to 2,298 and 781 patients are active while 1,440 have recovered.
12 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||UTF cries foul in teacher transfers||Leaders of the United Teachers’ Federation (UTF) have alleged political clout in teacher transfers. UTF State president Shaik Sabji and general secretary P. Babu Reddy said teachers had been awaiting transfers for the last three years, and the process finally began this academic year. They alleged that the transfer orders of a few teachers who had political influence were being given directly from the Secretariat. The UTF leaders cited G.O. 59 issued on July 4 declaring a ban on all kinds of transfers after July 11, and said that transfers were still being effected in violation of the GO. Such unlawful transfers had taken place mainly in Kadapa, Nellore and Anantapur districts, they said, demanding a halt to the practice.
12 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Surplus water being discharged from Prakasam Barrage||At least four crest gates of the Prakasam Barrage have been lifted to let out surplus water downstream following increasing inflow from upstream areas on Saturday. According to District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz, the surplus water has also been released into the Krishna Eastern and Western Main Canals. Mr. Imtiaz asked the officials to stay alert in view of the increasing inflow. He said that the barrage has received 4,000 cusecs of water each from the Pattiseema and Kesari projects in the morning and 5,276 cusecs have been released towards the eastern delta and 2,519 cusecs towards the western delta. By Saturday midnight, about 14,000 cusecs of water from Pattiseema and Kesari is expected and 6,000 to 7,000 cusecs would be discharged downstream. As of 6 p.m., the outflow is at 3,625 cusecs from the barrage. Mr. Imtiaz asked the Tahsildars of areas of Krishnalanka, Ramalingeswara Nagar, Penamaluru, Kakinpadu and others to alert locals of the discharge from the barrage. He asked the officials to relocate the families living in the vulnerable areas in Krishnalanka.
12 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||696 liquor bottles seized||Sleuths of the Special Enforcement Bureau seized 696 liquor bottles (Non-Duty Paid Liquor) of Telangana being smuggled into the State at Surampalli village on the outskirts of Vijayawada on Saturday. The team led by SEB Additional Superintendent of Police M. Sathi Babu intercepted two autorickshaws and seized the liquor. In another raid, the Krishna district police confiscated 473 NDPL bottles at Gandrayi and Takkellapaduon Saturday, said Krishna district SP M. Ravindranath Babu.
12 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC MD transferred||Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation Vice-Chairman and Managing Director Madireddy Pratap has been transferred as Additional Director-General of Police, APSP Battalions. Principal Secretary, Transport, Roads and Buildings department, M.T. Krishna Babu was given full additional charge as APSRTC VC&MD.
12 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven deaths, 66 new cases reported in the district||The number of COVID-19 cases crossed the 2,000-mark with 66 new cases being reported from various places in the district on Saturday, taking the tally to 2,021. It took just nine days for the last 1,000 cases to report. The district also recorded seven deaths in a single day on Saturday, the highest so far, taking the total death toll to 22 so far. Meanwhile, 22 persons, who were undergoing treatment, have been discharged after testing negative. With the new cases, the total number of active cases stands at 997 and the number of persons discharged is 1,002. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College, P.V, Sudhakar, three new areas — Tekkapalem (Sabbavaram), Old Karasa and Shanthi Nagar (Kailasapuram) — have been declared as new clusters. 6,000 rapid antigen kits There are 84 very active clusters, 190 active clusters and 99 dormant clusters in the district. Already 39 clusters have been de-notified, he said. Meanwhile, District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that the district has received 6,000 antigen kits for diagnosing COVID-19 and it would receive more kits in the coming days. He was speaking during a review meet conducted with medical officers from the district here on Saturday. Addressing the Superintendents, Nodal Officers and senior faculty, Mr. Vinay Chand explained the government strategy to strengthen the testing facilities. He said that the testing kits will be made available to all the peripheral teaching hospitals of AMC — Govt, ENT Hospital, Regional Eye Hospital, Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases, Government Hospital for Mental Care. He said that with the wide availability of testing facility, the advantages will be rapid identification of the positive cases and reduction of burden on the chest hospital. Superintendents and senior doctors gave feedback on the situation. Joint Collector Arun Babu, Dr. P.V. Sudhakar, KGH Superintendent G. Arjuna, DMHO S. Tirupathi Rao and a few others were present.
12 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||HPC recommends shifting of LG Polymers away from city||The High Power Committee (HPC) that probed the styrene monomer vapour leak from the LG Polymers’ plant at RR Venkatapuram in Visakhapatnam, that killed 12 and hospitalised over 580 persons on May 7, in its 350-page report has recommended the shifting of the factory. The report comes as a shot in the arm for many groups who have been demanding the same, on the ground that the chemical factory is listed under category-A of hazardous industries. Basing on the safety considerations and environmental aspects and the feedback received from the public and stake holders, it is suggested to shift the “Hazardous Chemical industry of M/s LG Polymers from the present location and it may be relocated away from the human habitations preferably in the established notified industrial estates”, the committee said in the report. It further suggested that the State government or APIIC may allot suitable land in any industrial estate as per rules, for the smooth shifting of the factory. The land where the factory stands now may be used for either green or white category industries subject to the outcome of environment clearances or it may be converted for residential or commercial purpose, the panel said. Mixed reaction While welcoming the suggestion, rights groups, however, said the HPC had failed to notify the concerned authorities who had changed the profile of land use over the years for reasons best known to them. The report mentions that now LG Polymers is located in a thickly populated area and human habitations have grown exponentially surrounding the industry in the last 15 to 20 years. “Why were human habitations allowed to flourish beside the factory? What were the authorities concerned doing?” asked V.S. Krishna of the Human Rights Forum.  Change of land use The Town Planning Trust (TPT), now Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA), in August 1970 had earmarked the factory area as ‘Heavy Industrial Zone’. Subsequently, a GO in 1987, changed the surrounding area of the factory as ‘Residential Use’. Based on it, in the First Master Plan, the Hindustan Polymers (earlier name) area was earmarked as ‘Industrial Use’ and surrounding lands as ‘Residential land Use’, without leaving any land for ‘buffer zone’. And the VMRDA in its report to the HPC stated that there was no provision to notify buffer zone/no development zone around the major chemical industries, said Mr. Krishna. In the present applicable Master Plan of Visakhapatnam approved in 2006, the existing land area of LG Polymers was earmarked as ‘General Industrial Zone’, and the surrounding lands as residential land use. Accordingly, residential buildings have been permitted there over the years.
12 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man allegedly ends life||A 48-year-old man reportedly ended his life unable overcome depression due to ill-health and financial issues under Arilova police station limits here on Saturday. The deceased was identified as G. Srinu Mahesh, an auto driver of ASR Nagar. According to reports, Mahesh had been in depression for the last six months. According to his family members, Mahesh, was an alcoholic and had given up the habit from October, 2019. He was affected with some health problems a couple of months ago. From March 2020, he was unable to pay EMI of automobile loan. Mahesh was depressed worrying about the hospital expenses and financial problems. For the last of couple of days, Mahesh was not eating food and also not sleeping, his family members said. His son, a second-year B.Sc., student, started to work in a general store and his wife also started to work in a school to reassure him, the police said. However, Mahesh didn’t come out of depression and jumped from a building at Srikanth Nagar, they said. The body was sent for post-mortem and a case was registered. Those who are in distress can contact police helpline No. 100.
12 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kidnap attempt foiled||The Gajuwaka police foiled a kidnap bid here on Saturday. Accoreding to the police, one Augustine Meshach, an accused in alleged job fraud case registered at Indrapalem in Kakdinada, East Godavari, was coming to Visakhapatnam from Kakinada in a car on Saturday. At around 2.30 p.m. a few persons in two cars stopped Augustine near BHPV Junction and forcibly shifted him into one of their cars and started to drive towards Anakapalle. Based on information from the control room, a team from Gajuwaka Police Station, intercepted the two cars near Kurmanapalem and caught all the persons and brought them to the police station. All the accused are reportedly victims of Augustine.
12 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Furniture donated to police stations||Recognising efforts of police during the pandemic, Asian Paints based at Atchutapuram SEZ have contributed Rs. 16 lakh worth furniture (five chairs and a table) to every police station in Visakhapatnam district. Representatives from Asian Paints, Rajeev Gupta, Sanjay and Shiva Prasad handed over the furniture to SP B. Krishna Rao, at the district police office on Saturday.
12 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag student wins drawing competition||A student of Std. VIII of Sri Prakash Vidyaniketan, Ashwika Kundan Vobbilisetti, bagged the first prize in the online art/drawing competition conducted by CSIR-NISCAIR on the theme ‘Coronavirus An Invisible Enemy.’ Her drawing depicted how important it is for all to prioritise social distancing during the COVID -19 pandemic and precautions to be taken against its spread.
12 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||13-year-old boy found hanging from tree||Mystery shrouds the death of 13-year-old boy, who was found hanging from a tree, in interior areas of Sirasapalle under Pedabayulu police station limits in Visakhapatnam district on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Rohith Kumar (13), a Class VII student and a native of Sirasapalle. According to the police, about one week ago, Rohith Kumar had gone out to graze cattle and returned home. After returning home, he found that his mobile phone was missing and went to search for it. However, he did not return. Though parents searched for him, they did not lodge any missing complaint, police said. On Saturday morning, Rohith Kumar’s body was found in decomposed state hanging from a tree. Police registered a case under 174 Cr Pc (Suspicious Death) Body has been sent for post-mortem. Police said that based on the report, the sections would be altered. Investigation is on.
12 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||World Population Day observed||Population Research Centre, Department of Statistics, Andhra University, Visakhapatnam, observed World Population Day in collaboration with the Indian Association for the Study of Population and it was held through Google Meet in the centre. The Vice-Chairperson, Andhra Pradesh State Council for Higher Education & State Nodal Officer, All India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE), T. Lakshmamma, was the chief guest. Prof. Lakshmamma spoke about the historical background of Indian population stages and explained about the present population issues.
12 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||PDS rice seized, two held||The City Task Force (CTF) team conducted a raid at Zinc Gate and apprehended Palla Srinu of Chodavaram and Challa Ashok of Simhadripuram and seized 3.3 tonnes of rice meant for public distribution system (PDS) and two vans from their possession.
12 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||440 kg ganja seized near K.D. Peta, one held||The K.D. Peta police arrested a person who was allegedly transporting 440 kg ganja from interior areas of the Agency to other places, in Visakhapatnam district on Saturday. The seized ganja is estimated to be worth about Rs. 8.5 lakh in the Agency and could be more than Rs. 40 lakh in other States. The arrested was identified as T. Balreddy, a native of Mahabubnagar and resident of Kukatpally, Hyderabad, and driver of the vehicle.
12 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister lays foundation stones for development works in Bheemili mandal||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao laid the foundation stones for various development works in Bheemili mandal here on Saturday. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that Bheemili constituency will be developed since Visakhapatnam has been selected as executive capital for the State.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bundle of joy||
12 July 2020||Bhongir,TELANGANA||Slain girl’s father found dead||Village secretary in Atmakur (M) mandal in the district, Suraneni Kalyan Rao, whose five-year-old daughter was allegedly killed by his wife’s friend in Ghatkesar last week, was found dead on the rail track on Saturday. The 37-year-old man jumped before an unknown train at around 2.10 p.m. Mutilated and dismembered, the victim died instantly, the Government Railway Police (GRP) posted at Bhongir railway station said. Although there were no eyewitnesses, locals said the incident was first reported by children playing on the road along the railway line, to their parents, and further communicated to the Station Manager. According to them, there was no train around the time of the incident, and it was suspected to be a locomotive engine. Family sources told The Hindu that Kalyan Rao, post the incident on July 2 at his Ghatkesar residence, has been staying with his two brothers, one lab technician and another a businessman, who live in Kisan Nagar here in the town. “He stopped attending office. Most of the time he remained silent in thoughts, and was sad that he lost his daughter and his wife too, was being questioned,” a family member said. On Saturday, it was the ninth day of Aadhya’s passing and there were a few rites to be observed. However, Kalyan Rao left home at around 9.40 a.m., and did not return. According to a complaint filed by Kalyan Rao at Ghatkesar police station, on July 2 Karunakar, a friend of his wife Anusha, suspected her intimacy with another Rajashekar. However, to save the situation, Anusha pushed Karunakar into the bedroom, where Aadhya was playing, and bolted the door. After repeated warnings from inside, Karunakar, who was carrying a surgical blade to attack Rajashekar, cut the baby’s throat. Later at a nearby private hospital, she was declared ‘dead on arrival’. At the Bhongir GRP station, Officer Kantha Rao said a case was opened for investigation.  (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: 040-66202000 or 66661117)
12 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No time limit for giving away Rythu Bandhu aid||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has said that the government has not fixed any time limit for extension of assistance to farmers under Rythu Bandhu, an investment support programme for agriculture, as the objective was to reach out to the last farmer. The government aimed to achieve cent per cent coverage of farmers under the programme. Not a single farmer should complain of not getting money. The government will spend any amount, Mr. Rao told officials at a meeting to discuss agricultural activities in the State. He sounded caution about possible obstacles in the release of money to farmers on account of issues concerning ownership rights despite their names figuring in accounts. The Collectors should intervene to resolve the issues. Spot enquiries should be conducted to settle ownership rights in consultation with farmers in neighbouring plots. The assistance of Rythu Bandhu committees and local public representatives should be taken to settle the issues permanently. Mr. Rao sought a report immediately from officials on the number of farmers who received the money and those still left. Cluster-wise details gathered by agricultural extension officers should be included in the report. Land transactions that have taken place in the midst of implementation of the scheme should be recorded. With the intention to help farmers get Rythu Bandhu assistance, the government released funds in spite of a tight financial position on account of coronavirus. As per latest reports, he said 99.9 per cent farmers had received the money He expressed happiness that the farmers cultivated crops as regulated by the government in the current season and said it augured well for future. He announced the government’s decision to construct a mega ultramodern cold storage plant at a cost of Rs. 25 crore to store seed produced by seed development corporation. The meeting halls proposed by government for farmers in all clusters should be completed by Dasara, he said. The government had taken up regulated farming with the intention to ensure remunerative prices for farmers. The farmers did not go for cultivation of maize on government’s advice. This was a great transformation. The reaction of farmers had inspired the government. He asked Collectors to ensure completion of farmers’ meeting halls by Dasara. They would help in consultations among farmers and meetings with agriculture officers. The agriculture university and the State seed development corporation were involved in production of quality seed which required storage facility. Therefore, the government decided to construct a cold storage plant at a cost of Rs. 25 crore which would be released shortly. The meeting was attended by Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy, Roads an Buildings Minister V. Prashant Reddy, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, State president of Rythu Bandhu committee P. Rajeswara Reddy, Agriculture Commissioner B. Janardhan Reddy and other officials.
12 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Crackdown unearths illegal sale, hoarding of oxygen cylinders||A few weeks after the demand for oxygen cylinders shot up in Hyderabad leading to possible shortage at hospitals, the health and police departments have launched a crackdown on illegal hoarding and sale, starting Friday night. While police arrested two persons for illegally selling oxygen cylinders to individuals, the State’s Drug Control Administration (DCA) found discrepancies during inspections at one manufacturing unit and held 14 distributors. Massive hoarding With the spike in COVID cases in the city, family members of patients started renting out oxygen cylinders when the patient developed respiratory distress. A few others booked cylinders and stored in advance, anticipating that their patient might develop respiratory problems. This led to a rise in demand for oxygen cylinders. Speaking to The Hindu , Deputy Commissioner of Police (Task Force) P. Radha Kishan Rao said that on Friday night, sleuths of West Zone team raided a premise near Seven Tombs in Golconda police station limits and apprehended a 34-year-old man, who was illegally selling oxygen cylinders. For the past couple of years, the accused, Mohd Omer, was running the business without a valid licence from the Controller of Explosives and the DCA, Mr. Rao said. Police seized 25 oxygen cylinders, including eight cylinders weighing 70 kg and seven weighing 40 kg. Omer was apprehended and handed over to Golconda police. On Thursday, the Task Force nabbed one Ibrahim with four cylinders, near Niloufer Hospital. “We nabbed Omer through him,” he said. According to the officer, a 10 kg cylinder is sold at Rs. 11,000 and further Rs. 1,100 is needed to refill it. “Many people are hoarding due to the crisis,” he said. “Stringent action will be taken against those selling and buying oxygen cylinders without obtaining permissions from the authorities concerned,” he added. DCA raids Telangana Drug Control Administration (DCA) officials inspected 44 distributors and 14 manufacturers of oxygen cylinders across the State from Saturday morning to evening, to check if the cylinders are supplied only to hospitals and proper licence-holders. “They will be issued showcause notices. If it is a major discrepancy, their licences will be cancelled,” said DCA director Dr. Preeti Meena.
12 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. to set up market intelligence centre||The State government will soon establish a market intelligence centre and a market research analysis committee with agricultural scientists to guide the implementation of regulated farming by studying the new trends in world farming arena and make proper suggestions to farmers on raising crops to help them improve their incomes. This was stated by Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy at Karimnagar on Saturday after inaugurating the new buildings and laboratory of the agricultural research station (ARS) there. Speaking on the occasion, he said the government was continuously working on strengthening agricultural education and research along with agriculture sector in the State with several interventions including the innovate Rythu Bandhu, Rythu Bima 24×7 free power and other schemes. Stating that the government was of the firm belief that employment creation to a majority in the society was possible only by strengthening the agriculture sector, the minister said about Rs. 60,000 crore was being spent on it every year. Complimenting the efforts of the agricultural scientists led by the Vice-Chancellor of Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU), he said they were helping the government with their suggestions on making agriculture profitable. The minister said the ARS at Karimnagar was seven decades old and it specialises in research on maize. He, however, said the Centre was not considering the State’s request to link Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme with agriculture since the sector was facing huge scarcity of labourers, although farm mechanisation was increasing every year. The State government was also giving priority to farm mechanisation and the problem-free harvesting of paddy during the recent Yasangi (Rabi) season with the help of mechanised harvesters during the COVID-19 lockdown period was a proof of it. Minister for Civil Supplies G. Kamalakar, District Collector A. Shashanka, Registrar of PJTSAU D. Sudheer Kumar and others participated.
12 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vijaya Dairy to supply 20 lakh litres milk to ICDS centres||Vijaya Telangana Dairy, the Telangana State Dairy Development Cooperative Federation, is making plans to supply the entire milk needed in 35,500 Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) centres to feed children enrolled in them in the coming years. It will supply about 5.5 lakh litres out of 20 lakh litres annually required for now. A meeting was held here on Saturday by Ministers Talasani Srinivas Yadav (Animal Husbandry) and Satyavati Rathod (Women Development and Child Welfare) to prepare an action plan to supply milk needed for ICDS centres. Secretary (WD&CW) Anita Rajendra, Commissioner of WD&CW D. Divya, Managing Director of TSDDCF G. Srinivas Rao and others also attended. Mr. Srinivas Yadav said the government is committed to transform Vijaya Telangana Dairy to compete with corporate private dairies and by adopting new marketing strategies after formation of Telangana, the dairy was able increase its reach to people considerably. Vijaya Telangana Dairy is supplying milk to various government organisations and directed the officials to chalk-out a plan to supply 20 lakh litres of milk to 35,500 ICDS centres across the State. Stating that Vijaya Telangana Dairy would be able to meet 5.5 lakh litres of milk out of 20 lakh litres required by ICDS centres now, the Minister instructed the officials to improve its capacity and manpower for procurement and supply to meet the demand. The government is creating awareness among people about Vijaya Telangana Dairy and is promoting its products with improved marketing system. Mr. Yadav requested Ms. Rathod to issue orders recognising TSDDCF as a nodal agency to supply the entire quantity of milk needed by ICDS centres.
12 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Health dept. awaits nod for plasma bank||The Health department is awaiting the Centre’s nod for setting up a convalescent plasma bank in the State even as the demand for plasma among COVID-19 recovered people continues to mount. Most requests posted on Twitter are by family members of patients admitted in corporate hospitals. Plasma collected from patients who have recovered from the disease would be infused with antibodies to neutralise the coronavirus. It is expected that the procedure would bring down the mortality rate. However, its effectiveness as a treatment option is yet to be proved. As there is no vaccine to prevent or antiviral to treat the disease, convalescent plasma therapy is being considered a promising option. In Telangana, it was first administered to patients at Gandhi Hospital, which received approval from Indian Council of Medical Research to conduct clinical trials on COVID patients. In fact, the first recipient of the plasma therapy recovered and was discharged in May-end. It is administered only to patients with moderate to severe infection. At least five more people were receiving the treatment there who recovered but their condition was being monitored in June as a caution. While the list of recipients is more, only 15 people donated their plasma. The ‘Updated Clinical Management Protocol for COVID-19’ issued by the Union Health Ministry on July 3 lists convalescent plasma under ‘Investigational therapies’ based on limited evidence. Demand for plasma spiked in the city a few days thereafter. Regarding status of pitch to establish a convalescent plasma bank in the State, provided there are donors, a top official said clarification from the Ministry of Health is awaited. As only 15 people have donated their plasma till date, doctors at Gandhi Hospital have been trying to convince more people to do so.
12 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Telangana lax in checking COVID spread’||Expressing anguish over the rapid spread of coronavirus and accusing the government of lacking seriousness, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka has suggested that the government take over 50% beds in private hospitals for four months and allot them on transparent basis to the patients. Apart from increased testing, creating more beds will infuse confidence among the people, he said, addressing a press conference here. Government hospitals were not admitting unless they were COVID-19 positive while private hospitals were fleecing the patients. The allocation of those beds should be done online with utmost transparency with a dedicated App giving real time information on the vacancies so that people can easily find and visit the hospital. The solution also lies in creating more beds and offering medical care at a far more lesser cost, he said suggesting that hotels and vacant hostels should be used for isolating those with minor symptoms at a nominal charge of Rs. 1,000 per day, which is affordable to many. Mr. Vikramarka also called for a survey on the lines of Integrated Household Survey to identify the affected in the areas where there were high cases. It should be completed within 3 to 5 days, he said, adding it was possible for the government that surveyed entire households in a single day after Telangana formation.
12 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Unlike China, India speaks for others at UN: Syed Akbaruddin||Countries like China and India stand very differently in the United Nations (UN) in terms of their perspective and approach, and China is always quiet and speaks only for itself whereas India always wants to speak for everyone, said Syed Akbaruddin, India’s permanent representative to the United Nations from January 2016 to April 2020. Mr. Akbaruddin was sharing his thoughts at an online interactive session with alumnus of the University of Hyderabad, organised by the Alumni Association of University of Hyderabad (UoH). Responding to a question from Pramod K Nayar, Department of English, Mr. Akbaruddin said “Foreign policy is something we should not take for granted. It is not a private body but a collective government enterprise. We need to give more time and space to the government to act on the foreign policy that has been taking an upward trajectory, however, we as a country always fancy something better than what we own,” he said. To another question from Vinod Pavarala, a professor from Department of Communication on the difference between trained civil servants becoming an ambassador and political appointees becoming an ambassador, he said: If there is better talent available outside the Indian Foreign Service (IFS), we should not shy away because India’s diversity is such that a closed club cannot represent the whole of it. The talent we have today is more diversified and have the potential of bringing a lot to the table. Mr. Akbaruddin, who is an alumnus of the UoH, shared his memories as a student of political science. “My passion for learning and understanding International Relations ignited here in the HCU. For someone like me who always wanted to study about State issues, my professors made me realise that one doesn’t need to feel alienated from their roots when they learn more about international relations. In fact, a better understanding of international relations gives you more clearer world view in understanding your roots.” The 1985 Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer advised youngsters saying, “One should always be confident about their values because your values cannot be crushed under any circumstances. Your intrinsic values always prevail, even when you face difficult situations.” UoH Vice-Chancellor Prof. Appa Rao Podile, Prof. P Prakash Babu, Dean, School of Medical Sciences, and also the general secretary of the alumni association, faculty and students participated in this programme.
12 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Waste management plan received: GHMC||GHMC officials said that they had received proposals from the Roads & Buildings Department for disposal of the construction and demolition waste arising out of the demolition of the old Secretariat buildings. After a PIL has been filed in the High Court with the contention that the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules-2016 were being violated by the government which has not submitted a waste management plan to the local authority and sought its approval, the GHMC officials claimed that a plan was indeed submitted by R&B department in this regard. As per the plan submitted, the waste is to be transported to the GHMC’s C&D waste recycling plant functioning at Jeedimetla, Executive Engineer, C&D Waste Management, Mohan Reddy informed. However, he kept mum about when the plan was submitted and whether permission has been granted for the demolition. If transportation is to be undertaken by the R&B department, Rs. 90 per tonne will be charged by the concessionaire for processing the waste. If the concessionaire is to shift the debris using their own vehicles, the charges will be Rs. 366 per tonne, another official informed, unwilling to be identified. Sources from the concessionaire firm Ramky Enviro Engineers Limited have, however, denied receiving any instructions from government asking them to lift the debris. When sought his version, GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar said R&B department may be contacted over this. Earlier, R&B Engineer in Chief Ganapathi Reddy had said to this correspondent that they were identifying abandoned quarries near the city to dump the debris. According to estimates based on the standard norms for calculation, demolition of the 10 buildings in the Secretariat complex, along with three religious structures and a canteen would generate about 2.2 lakh tonnes of debris, which, if piled up to five to six metres height, would need a minimum of seven acres of land. The facility at Jeedimetla has capacity to process 500 tonnes at its best per day.
12 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Foundation for elevated corridor||Union Home Minister of State G. Kishan Reddy appreciated the State government for taking up the elevated corridor project on the Indira Park Road, and hoped that the project will help resolve traffic issue in this area. Attending the ground breaking ceremony of the elevated corridor between Indira Park and VST as the chief guest on Saturday, Mr. Kishan Reddy said various rounds of requests for the elevated corridor and flyover with the Chief Ministers of the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh State had not yielded result during the last 20 years. He thanked Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao and Minister for Municiapal Administration K.T. Rama Rao on behalf of the Secunderabad constituency, and promised to support the development of Hyderabad irrespective of politics. He laid foundation stone for the elevated corridor and flyover along with Mr. Rama Rao. Mr. Rama Rao, in his turn, thanked Mr. Kishan Reddy for responding positively over usage of land belonging to the Central government in Rasoolpura for developmental works.
12 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Disinfection robot to be deployed at Gandhi Hospital||An autonomous robot ‘UVRova BR’ of Reevax Pharma will be deployed at Gandhi Hospital, which has emerged as a key hospital for treating COVID-19 patients in the State. Chairman Mohan Tayel and senior executives of the Hyderabad-based firm met Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao on Saturday and handed over the disinfection robot. UVRova BR robot will be deployed inside the ICU and disinfect beds once they are vacated and the immediate area surrounding them before their occupation by another patient. The robot disinfects the areas and surfaces, including ICU beds within five minutes.
12 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mishandling of COVID patient’s body: probe ordered||The Directorate of Medical Education (DME) has ordered a detailed inquiry into shifting of the body of a COVID-19 patient from the Government General Hospital at Nizamabad on Friday without following the standard protocol by the mortuary staff. In a statement issued on Saturday, DME Dr. K. Ramesh Reddy said the committee that was tasked to probe the incident had stated in its interim report that the body of the 50-year-old male COVID patient from Bheemgal was shifted out of the mortuary for burial by his relatives in an auto-rickshaw. The hospital authorities explained to the probe panel that the bodies of three COVID patients who died in the wee hours of Friday in GGH Nizamabad were kept at the disposal of mortuary staff after the completion of formalities. As the hospital administration was engaged in managing the COVID in-patients, two COVID patients bodies were shifted in an ambulance and the relatives of another dead patient had forced the mortuary staff for handing over over the body stating that they had their own auto-rickshaw and would take the body in it. Preliminary enquiries by the probe panel found that the body was buried in a graveyard in Nizamabad. The DME stated that show-cause notices were issued to the mortuary staff who handed over the body without following standard protocol for COVID patients and action would be initiated against them after getting the final report. The DME further said Superintendent of GGH Nizamabad Dr. M. Nageshwar Rao had been instructed to file criminal cases on the staff involved in mishandling the patient’s body.
12 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NGOs stop free service||Some voluntary organisations that were providing free oxygen cylinders, have either stopped, scaled down or reconsidering continuation of services, after being contacted by the authorities. The Jamaat-e-Islami Hind (JIH)’s Hyderabad branch in Asifnagar, one of the organisations that was providing oxygen cylinders to those in need, decided to stop it. “The Drugs Control Administration (DCA) had visited our office and spoke to us in detail. There was no raid as is being said. There are no cylinders here now. Their concern was that a licence is needed to stock oxygen cylinders. So, now instead of taking cylinders from us, those in need can take it from the dealer with whom we had tied up,” said JIH’s city president Mohammed Rashaduddin. Further, activist Sai Teja, whose organisation too had embarked upon providing free oxygen cylinders, said that they were deliberating on the next course of action and would come to a decision soon.
12 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gandhi Hospital nurses protest over pay hike, job regularisation||Around 220 nurses employed on outsourcing basis at Gandhi Hospital boycotted their duties on Saturday demanding regularisation of jobs and pay hike. The nurses, who have been attending COVID-19 patients, were employed around 13 years ago. They draw around Rs. 17,500 per month. They said that the protest will continue till a written assurance was provided saying that their demands will be fulfilled. This is not the first time they have staged a protest demanding hike in salaries. They took a similar step more than a month ago. They resumed their duties after Health Minister Eatala Rajender assured them to look into their issues. Saturday’s protest was triggered after more than 100 nurses were appointed on outsourcing basis, a few days ago, with a salary of Rs. 25,000 per month. “They have only around five years of experience. But we are offered only Rs. 17,500 though we have 13 years of experience. And we have been attending COVID patients for the past four months putting ours and our families’ lives at risk. At least two of us have contracted COVID. We want hike in salaries and jobs to be regularised ,” said B. Prameela, an outsourced nurse.
12 July 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Complete Rythu Vedikas before Aug. 15: Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao directed the officials to complete construction of Rythu Vedikas before August 15. The Minister made a surprise visit to Shivampet in Narsapur Assembly limits and examined the ongoing works of Vaikuntha Dhamams and dump yards. Mr. Rao expressed serious displeasure over delay in the construction of bus depot at Narsapur and spoke with the contractor. MLA Madan Reddy and others were present.
12 July 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Man arrested for frying live monitor lizard||A tweet by Forest and Wildlife Protection Society on Friday went viral and led to the arrest of a person who fried a monitor lizard live. In the video, a man hitting a monitor lizard with a boulder and then frying it in fire was seen. It was moving in pain when put on fire. The video was tagged to SP Medak, DGP, Smitha Sabharwal and KTR, TRS. The location was also mentioned as Edupayala Durga Bhavani temple. The accused was arrested by the forest department officials on Saturday.
12 July 2020||Vijayawada,TELANGANA||Social media group’s gesture to jawans||A WhatsApp group, Palakarimpu, has donated Rs. 11,111 to the Army Battle Casualties Welfare Fund online on Friday. The group comprises 200 members across the globe from different sectors, and aims to extend financial aid to poor Brahmins for education, medical, and marriage purposes, said group admin D. Parvathipathi. Members extended financial help to many priests in AP and Telangana during global health emergency, he added.
12 July 2020||Mumbai,||Disburse crop loans under waiver scheme immediately: HC to bank||In a welcome relief to farmers, the Aurangabad Bench of the Bombay High Court directed the Aurangabad District Central Cooperative Bank to disburse crop loans to eligible agriculturists under the loan waiver scheme immediately, without insisting on the payment of interest on the loan amount till the actual benefit is given to the agriculturists. A Division Bench of S.V. Gangapurwala and R.G. Avachat was hearing a public interest litigation filed by RTI activist Kishore Ashokrao Tangade. Advocate Satish Talekar, appearing for Mr. Tangade, contended that despite the government order of January 17, 2020, directing the bank to not charge interest from October 1, 2019, till the actual benefit is given to those who are entitled to it under the Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Shetkari Debt Waiver Scheme, 2019, the bank has not disbursed the loan amount to the eligible agriculturists on the ground that interest from October 1, 2019, has not been paid. Mr. Talekar said, “Fortunately, this year, the agriculturists benefited by the timely rains. Sowing season has commenced from the month of June. However, because of non-disbursement of the loan by the bank, many agriculturists are not in a position to sow the seeds.” He said loans have been disbursed only to 49.62% of the agriculturists and that too to those who have paid the interest amount calculated from October 1, 2019. Such agriculturists have paid the interest amount by selling their gold ornaments and other articles. The government scheme, under order dated January 17, 2020, is not implemented by the bank in its true letter and spirit, Mr. Talekar said. The lawyer representing the bank said considering the financial position of the bank, a conscious decision has been taken by the board, to not grant waiver of interest from October 1, 2019. He said the bank would lose the interest amount, if the loan is disbursed without recovering the amount of interest from October 1, 2019, and it will affect the financial condition of the bank. However, the court said the bank was bound by the directions of the State and directed the bank to disburse the amount to eligible farmers without insisting on the payment of interest.  Because of non-disbursement of the loan by the bank, many agriculturists are not in a position to sow seeds Satish Talekar Advocate at Bombay High Court
12 July 2020||Mumbai,||Height of Ganapati idols cannot exceed 4 feet: Maharashtra govt.||The Maharashtra government on Saturday directed Ganesh mandals to restrict the height of idols to four feet during Ganesh Chaturthi this year. A notification issued by the Home Department said even idols installed at home cannot be taller than two feet. The notification comes amid a spike in COVID-19 cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Pune. The 10-day Ganesh Chaturthi will begin from August 22. The notification asked people to install metal or marble idols at home. “If clay idols are installed, they should be preferably immersed at home or in nearby artificial ponds,” it said. The government has also asked the mandals to consider immersing the idols during Maghi Ganesh Chaturthi in February or next year’s Ganesh Chaturthi. There won’t be any processions to mark the arrival and immersion of idols this year. ‘Prevent crowding’ The notification mentioned that there should be no aarti at immersion venues, no crowds during daily aarti and noise pollution norms must be followed. “The need of the hour is to prevent crowding and ensure the health and safety of people,” it said. Ganesh Mandals have been asked to accept only voluntary donations and ensure that advertisements focus on spreading awareness and social messages. “Instead of cultural programmes, health camps, and blood donation drives should be organised. Awareness should be created about infections such as the novel coronavirus, malaria and dengue,” it said. Darshan facility should be provided online through Facebook or other media or through cable networks, the notification said. Pandals should have sanitisation and thermal screening facilities and organisers should ensure that devotees follow the hygiene protocol.
12 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Teen accuses father of molestation||A 16-year-old girl, who was recently traced to Pune by the Anti Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU) of the Navi Mumbai Police, has said she fled from her house because her father molested her. Senior police inspector Arjun Garad said the girl went missing on July 7 after telling her mother that she was stepping out to buy a chocolate. The police registered a kidnapping case the next day. Mr. Garad said, “We got some leads while the FIR was being filed. We traced her to a friend’s house in Pune. A team was then sent to pick her up.” Mr. Garad said the girl has two sisters and they have denied having been molested by their father. “Due to the allegation, we have handed her over to a children’s home. After recording her statement before the child welfare committee, we will hand her over to her parents. It is a serious allegation and we are investigating it. No FIR has been lodged against the father yet,” Mr. Garad said. The AHTU has traced five missing children over the past 10 days.
12 July 2020||Panaji,||Goa tests inmates after jailor contracts COVID-19||The Goa government has started testing all inmates of the central jail at Colvale for COVID-19, after a jailor tested positive for the virus, a health official has said. State Health Secretary Nila Mohanan said testing of all inmates began on Friday. She said the exercise was launched as a precautionary measure. “A couple of days back, we received information that one of the jailors has tested positive. After that we took samples of 42 others, including jailors, staff members and two-three jail inmates, who had come in contact with him. But all of them tested negative,” Ms. Mohanan said on Friday. “Health authorities then began large-scale testing at the jail,” she said, adding, “a total of 161 samples have been tested so far and all of them were found negative.” Till Friday evening, a total of 221 samples were collected and the exercise would continue for the next couple of days. ‘No further lockdown’ Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has ruled out the possibility of imposing further lockdown in the State, which is grappling with rising COVID-19 cases. Speaking to a TV channel on Friday, Mr. Sawant said the process of unlocking has started and priority should be given to resume economic activities. “The lockdown was initially imposed to create awareness and educate people about COVID-19. That phase has passed now,” Mr. Sawant said. Plasma donation drive On Saturday, the State government said it would launch a campaign to encourage recovered patients to donate their plasma for treatment of others. State Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said the awareness campaign would start from Sunday. He said, “We will be encouraging the recovered COVID-19 patients to come forward and donate their plasma. It will save lives of other people.” An apheresis machine, which is required for the plasma therapy, would be installed at the State-run Goa Medical College and Hospital by Monday. “We will do whatever is required to save lives of the people,” Mr. Rane said.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The spy who came in from the cold||Earlier this year, National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval walked through the narrow lanes of northeast Delhi that just witnessed one of the worst communal riots in more than three decades. With television cameras milling around, the 75-year-old Mr. Doval, a former Intelligence Bureau (IB) Director, marched and stopped to speak to residents, assuring them of peace and justice. On February 26, as TV channels beamed the visuals and social media was agog with praises for the septuagenarian, reporters were duly informed that it was Home Minister Amit Shah’s idea to send Mr. Doval to the riot-hit areas. On March 11, Mr. Shah himself informed the Lok Sabha that it was on his request that the NSA visited northeast Delhi so that the latter “could motivate Delhi Police”. The police were criticised for being mute spectators as rioters burnt houses and went on a killing spree. Ever since Mr. Doval was reappointed NSA in the second Modi government and Mr. Shah moved to North Block, there has been discussion on the power equation at play. The question often asked: whose words on internal security weigh more to the Prime Minister? Both have responsibilities and roles that often overlap. Mr. Doval had an amiable working equation with Rajnath Singh, Mr. Shah’s predecessor. After Article 370 was diluted last August and Jammu and Kashmir was placed under an unprecedented lockdown and a communication blockade, photos and videos of Mr. Doval eating chicken curry and rice with local people in southern Kashmir’s Shopian emerged. With the local cable channels snapped and the phone and Internet lines down, the video was played on loop on Delhi-based satellite news channels, the only connect Kashmiris had with the outside world. Cooped in their homes, with concertinas ringed at every lane, Kashmiris watched as Mr. Doval spoke of the benefits (of reading down Article 370 and turning the State into a Union Territory) and the bright future that awaited them. Officials say Mr. Doval is heavily invested in the security affairs of Kashmir. Rise of a cop Born in 1945 at Pauri Garhwal in the erstwhile United Provinces, now in Uttarakhand, Mr. Doval grew up in Ajmer, Rajasthan. His father was an officer in the Indian Army. After graduating from Agra University, he joined the IPS in 1968 in the Kerala cadre. He cut his teeth in anti-insurgency operations in Mizoram and Punjab, including undercover missions. In 1999, Mr. Doval was one of those who negotiated the release of passengers from the hijacked Indian Airlines flight IC-814 in Kandahar. In July 2004, he was appointed Director of the IB. After retirement in 2005, Mr. Doval retreated to his private life, often contributing to the national security discussions through commentaries and talks. When Mr. Modi came to power in 2014, the former spymaster returned to the government, as the country’s fifth NSA. On June 3 last year, when Mr. Doval was reappointed, the NSA’s post was upgraded from the rank of Minister of State to Cabinet Minister in the table of precedence, a first since the post was created in 1998. The decision was reportedly taken as Mr. Doval was also leading strategic dialogues with many countries. A case in point being the talks between ‘Special Representatives of India and China on the Boundary Question.” While China was represented by the State Councilor with a Cabinet rank, India was represented by the NSA with a Minister of State rank. The mismatch in hierarchy had raised protocol issues with the Chinese. The leg-up was also accelerated by the appointment of S. Jaishankar, a retired Foreign Secretary who was much junior in service to Mr. Doval, as the External Affairs Minister. In the first stint of the Modi government, the two differed on various foreign policy matters. Mr. Jaishankar, then Foreign Secretary, had shot off a terse letter to the Home Ministry and the NSA in 2016 after Chinese Uighur activist Dolkun Isa was granted a visa to attend a conference at Dharamsala in Himachal Pradesh. In the letter, Mr. Jaishankar asked both to consult the Ministry of External Affairs to “better manage the political and media fallout from such decisions”. To address the ongoing Chinese troops build-up at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, Mr. Doval quietly revived the China Study Group (CSG). An informal group constituted in 1997, the CSG comprises the Cabinet Secretary, Secretaries of Defence and Home, Army chief and Director of Intelligence Bureau, among others. The group has met at least on three occasions since May. The government had initially denied any serious crisis on the LAC. The extent of the Chinese build-up was later established through satellite images. On July 5, Mr. Doval held talks with China’s Special Representative Wang Yi on the disengagement plan at all the confrontation points, including the Galwan Valley where 20 Indian soldiers were killed in violent clashes with the Chinese on June 15. Before he sat for the talks on the phone, the ground commanders were sent again to check if the Chinese had indeed moved back 2 km as agreed during the June 30 Corps Commander level talks. As per the agreement, Indian troops also pulled back 1.5 km from India’s perception of the LAC with a 30-day moratorium on foot patrolling. Two days before the Doval-Wang meeting, Prime Minister Modi made a surprise visit to Ladakh. Mr. Doval did not accompany the Prime Minister as he was in self-isolation due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Advisory group Though he has an office in South Block, in 2018, Mr. Doval ensured that the Sardar Patel Bhavan at Parliament Street in New Delhi was taken over exclusively for the functioning of the National Security Council Secretariat (NSCS). The NSCS, headed by Mr. Doval, works as an advisory group, comprising various experts on security related matters. Several Ministries and departments were moved out of the five-storeyed building to make space for the NSCS. Last August, the Cabinet Secretariat amended the Allocation of Business Rules, 1961 to include the NSCS, granting it a constitutional authority. Through the order, the NSCS has been empowered to generate Cabinet notes, a role till now reserved for the concerned Ministries. The order said the Secretariat would “assist the National Security Adviser, the Principal Adviser on National Security matters to the Prime Minister; and the National Security Council”. The Hindu has learnt that the NSCS has so far not generated a single proposal for consideration of the Union Cabinet. The oft-repeated tales of his undercover operations in Pakistan have helped craft his image as a “super spy” among the common people. When the NSA enters a government building, security personnel and civilians stand in reverence, a gesture duly acknowledged by Mr. Doval.   In focus  Doval joined the IPS in 1968 in the Kerala cadre  In July 2004, he was appointed Intelligence Bureau Director  In 2014, when Modi came to power, Doval was picked as the country's fifth NSA    On June 3 last year, when Doval was re-appointed, the National Security Adviser’s post was upgraded from the rank of Minister of State to Cabinet Minister
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The spectre of U.S. sanctions||The ‘Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act’ (CAATSA) was passed by a Republican-controlled U.S. Congress in July 2017, in part to tighten the screws on President Donald Trump’s ability to lift sanctions on Russia or alter the U.S.-Russia dynamic significantly without Congressional review. Mr. Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign was at the time being scrutinised for any Russian links. CAATSA’s stated purpose was to provide “congressional review and to counter aggression by the Governments of Iran, the Russian Federation, and North Korea, and for other purposes”. Mr. Trump reluctantly signed CAATSA into law in August 2017, calling it “seriously flawed” because it “encroaches on the executive branch’s authority to negotiate”. The sanctions against Russia, as per Congress, were for its interference in the 2016 U.S. elections, its military aggression against Ukraine, including the annexation of Crimea, as well as for human rights violations. Section 231 of the law provides for secondary sanctions on persons that engage in “significant transactions” with Russian defence and intelligence sectors. In September 2018, the U.S. invoked secondary CAATSA sanctions on a Chinese military department and its head for the purchase of 10 SU-35 Russian combat aircraft in 2017 and S-400 equipment in 2018. CAATSA and India India and the U.S. have had a growing defence relationship — from “near zero” in U.S. arms sales to India in 2008 to $15 billion in 2019, as per the State Department. India was designated a “Major Defence Partner” of the U.S. in 2016 and it was granted Strategic Trade Authorization tier 1 status in 2018. These designations allowed India easier access to sensitive U.S. defence technology. With this context in mind, then Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, joined by lawmakers from both parties who favoured a close U.S.-India relationship, made a strong case on Capitol Hill for a CAATSA waiver for countries like India (and also Vietnam and Indonesia), which had historically bought Russian arms but were now buying more U.S. arms. At a Congressional hearing in May 2018, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo asked lawmakers to ensure “sanctions don’t hit folks that were not intended to be harmed by these sanctions”. Consequently, in the summer of 2018, the U.S. Congress passed a CAATSA waiver as part of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2019. For it to apply, Congress required the President to certify that the waiver was, among other things, in the U.S.’s national security interest, the entity in question was reducing its reliance on Russian weapons and that it was cooperating with the U.S. on security matters critical to America’s security interests. In the months since then, the U.S. administration, across departments, has reiterated that CAATSA waiver language is not country-specific and that India should not rely on getting a waiver. These comments were made repeatedly in the context of India’s October 2018 decision to purchase a $5.4 billion long-range surface-to-air missile defence shield from Russia, the S-400. Last week, the U.S. put out the same message after the Defence Acquisition Council approved the procurement of 21 MiG-29 fighter jets for the Indian Air Force (IAF), an upgrade for 59 of these and the acquisition of 12 Su-30 MKI jets — with an estimated bill of Rs. 18,148 crore. Example of Turkey CAATSA can be understood more by examining the case of Turkey. “You can look at the very serious conversation that’s taking place with our NATO partner Turkey. And the same concerns will apply should India proceed with an S- 400 purchase,” a State Department official told  media in May 2019. The U.S. had expelled Turkey from its F-35 fighter jet programme following Turkey’s receipt of the first shipments of the S-400 in July 2019, over American concerns that system might compromise its F-35 jets. Turkish pilots are no longer allowed to train on the F-35 and the NDAA for fiscal year 2020 prohibited the sale of these jets to Turkey. In December 2019, Chris Van Hollen, a Senate Democrat, and Senate Republican and Trump ally Lindsay Graham urged Mr. Pompeo to invoke CAATSA against Turkey. That has not happened yet.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The museum of conflicts||An Eastern Orthodox patriarchal cathedral for about 900 years, an imperial mosque for 482 years and then a museum and a famed tourist spot starting 1935. This is the short history of Hagia Sophia, the sixth century Byzantine structure that has survived natural calamities, imperial invasions, crusades and a World War. The architectural marvel in Istanbul, which is revered by both eastern Orthodox Christians and Muslims, is now being turned into a mosque by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Hagia Sophia (literally ‘Holy Wisdom’) was built by the Byzantine Emperor, Justinian I, in the first half of the sixth century. This was the third cathedral being built at the site. The first one, with a wooden roof, is believed to have been commissioned by Emperor Constantine I in AD 325 on the remains of a pagan temple. This was burned down by rioters in 404. The second church, ordered by Constans I, was also destroyed in a fire during the Nika riots of 532 that saw widespread fire and destruction in Constantinople (today’s Istanbul). After establishing order in the city, Justinian found the fire an opportunity to rebuild the cathedral with his stamp on it. The basilica, designed by mathematician Anthemius of Tralles and physicist Isidore of Miletu, was completed in five years by more than 10,000 labourers. The Emperor reopened it in 537. While entering the church, he is reported to have said, “Solomon, I have surpassed you!”, in a reference to King Solomon’s Great Temple in ancient Jerusalem. The first religious service in the rebuilt Hagia Sophia was held on December 27, 537 in the presence of the Emperor. The Ottoman era Barring a few years after the Fourth Crusade, Hagia Sophia had been the cathedral of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople until the fall of the city in the 15th century. Several earthquakes damaged it partially, leading to restorations. In early 13th century, crusaders looted the building and turned it into a Roman Catholic cathedral. But after the Byzantines recaptured the city from the Venetian crusaders, they restored the cathedral and it continued to remain the seat of the Patriarch until the Ottomans came. On May 28, 1453, when Constantinople was under siege and the Ottomans were making steady advances into the Byzantine defence lines, Emperor Constantine XI entered the basilica to pray. After prayers, he returned to the city walls to coordinate the war efforts. But the Byzantine defence lasted only one day. On May 29, the Ottomans, under the command of Mehmed II the ‘Conqueror’, entered the city. Mehmed is said to have been mesmerised by the architectural beauty of the basilica. The Sultan decided to turn the basilica into a mosque. The Ottomans later commissioned the renowned medieval architect Sinan to renovate the structure. They built massive buttresses to support the walls. A mihrab (a semi-circular niche on the wall that indicates the qibla , the direction of Mecca) and a minbar (pulpit) were installed. New minarets came up. The Ottomans covered many of the Byzantine mosaics with Islamic calligraphy. The images of Jesus, Mother Mary, saints and angels were either destroyed or plastered over (Some mosaics were restored when the mosque was converted into a museum). The mosque, called Ayasofya in Turkish, remained the centre of power throughout the Ottoman rule. A secular museum After the collapse of the Ottoman Empire following the First World War, secularists, under the leadership of Mustafa Kemal (who was later called Ataturk, the father of Turks), came to power. Ataturk, who abolished the Caliphate, closed down Hagia Sophia in 1930. Five years later, the building was reopened as a museum. Since then, Hagia Sophia, a Unesco World Heritage site, has been one of the most visited monuments in Turkey, and more importantly, an emblem of Christian-Muslim co-existence. Turning the monument back into a mosque has been a growing demand from the Islamist sections of Turkish society. On Friday, a Turkish administrative court cancelled the museum status of the monument. Mr. Erdogan moved fast, issuing a decree, transferring the management of Hagia Sophia from the Ministry of Culture to the Directorate of Religious Affairs. With this, Turkey’s Islamist politics has taken a new turn.
12 July 2020||Colombo,||Poll nears, campaigners play up India rhetoric in Sri Lanka||With the campaign for Sri Lanka’s August general election heating up, India and its role in resolving the lingering national question have begun figuring prominently in the election discourse, especially in the Tamil-majority north and east. Addressing a recent public meeting, the Tamil National Alliance’s (TNA) former parliamentarian S. Shritharan said: “India is watching us closely, pointing to inadequacies in our campaign, they tell us you should be a formidable force, and work with hill-country Tamil leaders, only then we [India] will be able to pressure Sri Lanka.” To be such a “force”, the TNA needs to garner at least 20 seats, he said. His remark comes at a time when the alliance is grappling with visible tensions within. India has not commented on Sri Lanka’s general election. Asked about his remark, Mr. Shritharan said: “I said that in Jaffna. I was making a point about the need for the TNA to stand united and emerge legitimate representatives of the people again, for us to be able to engage with India.” In the August 2015 parliamentary polls, the TNA secured 16 seats in the 225-member legislature. Its leader R. Sampanthan was the Leader of Opposition until December 2018, when current Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa succeeded him, after the then-President Maithripala Sirisena triggered a constitutional crisis by abruptly sacking former Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe. Currently campaigning in the eastern Trincomalee district, Mr. Sampanthan recently told Tamil media that the international community and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi are “standing behind us [TNA]”. Referring to External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar’s visit to Colombo immediately after President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s big win in the November 2019 presidential election, and to the President’s and Prime Minister’s respective visits to New Delhi, Mr. Sampanthan said India had, on all three occasions, underscored the need for the Sri Lankan government to resolve the Tamil question, based on “justice, equality and dignity”. Talks in Delhi TNA spokesman and former legislator M.A. Sumanthiran has also been referring to India in his pocket meetings — the Election Commission has banned big rallies due to COVID-19 — in the Northern Province, comparing the current poll context with that in 2010. “At that time, the TNA fought the election after the candidate we backed for Presidency [Sarath Fonseka] lost, just like this time. But we won 14 seats and were subsequently invited to New Delhi to hold talks with the then-Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. In that meeting, PM Singh advised us and the Rajapaksa administration to hold discussions and we held at least 18 rounds of talks after that,” he said. However, rivals and critics of the TNA have criticised the alliance’s contestants for “misleading” the Tamil people that the international community or India would “back them”. The sentiment — shared by some on social media — is in line with a growing view among sections that New Delhi has been less vocal about Tamil concerns, and more preoccupied with its own geopolitical interests in the island. On the other hand, citing the 13th Amendment to Sri Lanka’s Constitution — born out of the Indo-Lanka Accord of 1987 — that remains the only substantive legislation on power devolution to the provinces, the TNA maintains that New Delhi’s role is crucial.  Meanwhile, India also figured in a recent controversy in the south when Colombo port unions and Opposition party JVP objected to Sri Lanka “giving away” the East Container Terminal to India. “Ceding control” of national assets to “foreign countries” has been a recurring concern voiced by nationalist groups in the Sinhala-majority south. Speaking at campaign meeting, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa said his government had conveyed to New Delhi that the southern Mattala Airport will not be jointly developed with India, as had been proposed by the previous government.
12 July 2020||Phoenix,||Foreign students in U.S. weigh options following order||International students worried about a new immigration policy that could potentially cost them their visas say they feel stuck between being unnecessarily exposed during the COVID-19pandemic and being able to finish their studies in America. Students from countries as diverse as India, China and Brazil told they are scrambling to devise plans after federal immigration authorities notified colleges this week that international students must leave the U.S. or transfer to another college if their schools operate entirely online this fall. “Shame on the Trump Administration for risking not only the education opportunities for students who earned the chance to go to college, but now their health and well-being as well,” California Attorney General Xavier Becerra said Thursday. Some said they may return home, or move to nearby Canada. “I’m generating research, I’m doing work in a great economy,” said Batuhan Mekiker, a Ph.D. student from Turkey studying computer science at Montana State University in Bozeman. He’s in the third year of a five-year programme. “If I go to Turkey, I would not have that,” he said. “I would like to be somewhere where my talent is appreciated.” Worries and concerns Mathias, a Seattle-based student, said he is set to sell his car, break his lease, and get his cat Louis permission to fly back to his home in Paris in the next two weeks. “Everyone’s very worried,” he said. “We have our whole lives here.” Seven students from China and Germany who attend universities in California sued on Friday to block enforcement, alleging potential threats to their health and “financial calamity.” Many American universities have come to depend on the revenue from more than one million international students, who typically pay higher tuition. Suit by Harvard A day after Harvard sued, the university notified the court that immigration authorities appear to be already enforcing the policy. A lawyer for Harvard urged the judge to suspend the rule, saying that a first-year student from Belarus was turned away from his flight at a Minsk airport. Jasdeep Mandia, a doctoral candidate from India studying economics at Arizona State University, said he has breathing problems that could worsen if he gets sick from COVID-19. Mr. Mandia, 35, originally planned to conduct all his fall studies online. He says the Trump directive puts the shaky standing of international students on display. “It has never been a level-playing field,” he said. “But this makes it more apparent.” Natalia Afonso, a Brooklyn College student from Brazil, said she hopes the school will adopt a hybrid model of remote and in-person classes — but she fears riding the subway to campus could increase her chances of catching the virus. “I don’t see myself moving back to Brazil at this point,” said the 27-year-old, who is studying education and just finished her first semester. “It’s very unfair.”
12 July 2020||Geneva,||WHO calls for ‘aggressive action’ and ‘global solidarity’||The World Health Organization (WHO) has urged countries grappling with COVID-19 to step up control measures, saying it is still possible to rein it in, as some nations clamp fresh restrictions on citizens. With case numbers worldwide more than doubling in the past six weeks, Uzbekistan on Friday returned to lockdown and Hong Kong said schools would close from Monday after the city recorded “exponential growth” in locally transmitted infections. WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called on countries to adopt an aggressive approach, highlighting Italy, Spain, South Korea and India’s biggest slum to show it was possible to stop the spread, no matter how bad the outbreak.  The health agency’s comments came as U.S. President Donald Trump was forced to cancel an election rally in New Hampshire, citing an approaching storm. Mr. Trump has pushed to hold large gatherings against health advice as epidemiologists warn of the dangers posed by the virus moving through the air in crowded and confined spaces. Trump hits out at China On a visit to Florida on Friday, Mr. Trump hit out at Beijing over the pandemic. “(The) relationship with China has been severely damaged. They could have stopped the plague.. They didn’t stop it,” he told reporters. The virus has killed at least 5,56,140 people worldwide since it emerged in China last December. More than 12.3 million cases have been registered in 196 countries and territories, triggering massive economic damage. The U.S., the country worst hit by the illness, reported almost 64,000 new cases on Friday and the death toll now stands at just under 1,34,000, according to Johns Hopkins University. Brazil, the second-hardest hit, surpassed 70,000 deaths and reported 45,000 new infections, the Health Ministry said. “Across all walks of life, we are all being tested to the limit,” the WHO’s Mr. Tedros told a virtual news conference in Geneva. “From countries where there is exponential growth, to places that are loosening restrictions and now starting to see cases rise. Only aggressive action combined with national unity and global solidarity can turn this pandemic around,” he said. In Australia, meanwhile, authorities said they would slash by half the number of people allowed to return from overseas. From Monday, only 4,000 Australian citizewill be permitted to enter each day.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Amazon revokes ‘ban’ on TikTok in five hours||Roughly five hours after an internal email went out Friday to Amazon employees telling them to delete the popular video app TikTok from their phones, the online retailing giant appeared to backtrack, calling the ban a mistake. “This morning’s email to some of our employees was sent in error,” Amazon emailed reporters just before 5 p.m. Eastern time. “There is no change to our policies right now with regard to TikTok.” Company spokeswoman Jaci Anderson declined to answer questions about what caused the confounding turnaround or error. ‘Security risks’ The initial internal email, which was disseminated widely online, told employees to delete TikTok. The email cited the app’s “security risks.” Amazon is the second-largest U.S. private employer after Walmart. Moving against TikTok could have escalated pressure on the app in a big way, particularly if other companies did the same. The U.S. military already bans TikTok on employee phones. U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said this week that the government was “certainly looking” at banning the app, setting off confused posts as well as jokes by TikTok users.
12 July 2020||Washington,||Trump working on new immigration Bill: officials||U.S. President Donald Trump is working on an executive order to establish a merit-based immigration system, the White House has said. The White House statement came soon after Mr. Trump, in an interview with Telemundo News channel, said he is working on an executive order on immigration that will include a “road to citizenship” for recipients of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) programme. Responding to a question, Mr. Trump said his action on the DACA is going to be part of a much bigger Bill on immigration. “It’s going to be a very big Bill, a very good Bill, and a merit-based Bill and it will include DACA, and I think people are going to be very happy,” he said.  “As the President announced today, he is working on an executive order to establish a merit-based immigration system to further protect U.S. workers,” the White House said in a statement. During the interview, Mr. Trump alleged that the Opposition broke the deal with him on the DACA. Mr. Trump said the recent Supreme Court ruling gave the President tremendous powers when they said that “you could take in, in this case, 7,00,000 or so people.” “Based on the powers that they [Supreme Court] gave, I am going to be doing an immigration Bill. One of the aspects of the Bill that you will be very happy with will be the DACA. It will give them a road to citizenship,” said Mr. Trump.
12 July 2020||Brasilia,||Brasţlia, July 11, 2020 (AFP) -||President Jair Bolsonaro on Friday named an evangelical pastor as his fourth Education Minister in 18 months. Milton Ribeiro replaces Carlos Alberto Decotelli, who resigned on July 1 after admitting to having lied on his CV.AFP
12 July 2020||United Nations,||UNESCO regrets Turkish move to convert 6th century iconic museum Hagia Sophia into mosque||The UN’s cultural agency, UNESCO, has voiced deep regret over Turkey’s move to convert Istanbul’s iconic sixth-century Hagia Sophia into a mosque, saying its status as a museum reflects the universal nature of its heritage and makes it a powerful symbol for dialogue.PTI
12 July 2020||Southampton,||Chase double checks England’s progress||Roston Chase proved a thorn in England's side once again as West Indies strengthened its grip on the first Test here on Saturday. England was 168-3 in its second innings at tea on the fourth day, 54 runs ahead after West Indies made 318 in its first essay. Chase had two for 45 off 19 overs after both Rory Burns and Joe Denly ‘gifted’ their wickets to the off-spinner. In between their exits, Dom Sibley — bowled off a no-ball immediately after completing his half-century — fell for exactly fifty when he was caught down the legside off Shannon Gabriel. Zak Crawley was unbeaten on 38, with England captain Ben Stokes yet to get off the mark. The latter, leading the side in the absence of Joe Root, had top-scored with 43 in England’s first innings total of 204. He led from the front with the ball too, finishing with four for 49. England resumed at 15 for no loss in sunny conditions on a placid pitch. West Indies was without a frontline spinner after omitting Rahkeem Cornwall. But it could call upon Chase, who although a batting all-rounder took a Test-best eight for 60 when West Indies beat England at his Barbados home ground last year en route to a 2-1 series win. And having already made 47 in this match, Chase removed the well-set opener Burns for 42 when the lefthander cut the ball straight to backward point, ending a first-wicket stand of 72.  England 265 for six England was 265 for six in 95 overs in its second innings. Crawley (76), Stokes (46) and Buttler (9) were dismissed after tea.
12 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Dutee puts her BMW up for sale||Sprinter Dutee Chand put on sale her BMW car to raise funds to take care of training expenses. “It is a very costly car which I bought at Rs. 30 lakhs and its maintenance has become an issue for me. Moreover, I don’t have the parking slot too to keep it as I have two more cars. “So, I have decided to sell it off so that the money raised can be handy to continue training,” the 24-year-old Dutee, who has been training in Bubaneshwar, told The Hindu on Saturday. “I have to spend about Rs. 1 lakh alone on diet and then have to pay salaries to my support staff including trainer and physio. “It has become very difficult for me to sustain the training,” she said. Difficult to sustain “I spent most of the cash incentives which the Odisha Government have given to me and with the postponement of the Olympics, it has become even more difficult for me to fund my training,” Dutee explained. What about salary? “I get only Rs. 60,000 per month being on the rolls of Odisha Mining Corporation which is obviously not sufficient in these times,” she said. “Definitely, I can understand these are challenging times for anyone to extend financial assistance. But being an athlete aiming to win an Olympic medal, I just cannot afford to sit back and watch in disappointment with the way things are unfolding around me,” says the athlete, the only Indian to win a 2019 Universiade gold in sprints. Biggest jolt “For me, postponement of the Olympics is the biggest jolt as I was preparing with all seriousness and intensity. “The lockdown because of COVID-19 virus has put all my planning in jeopardy and I am desperately hoping for a turn-around in the fortunes to be back on track at the earliest,” she said.  I have to spend about Rs. 1 lakh alone on diet and then have to pay salaries to my support staff including trainer and physio
12 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Albino Gomes eyes a place in Indian senior team||Former India under-23 goalkeeper Albino Gomes, who was signed early this week by Kerala Blasters, is looking for an injury-free and fruitful stint with the Kochi side. The former Odisha FC player said his aim this season is to help the Kochi side win the ISL title and get himself a place in the Indian senior squad. In an Instagram chat with Kerala Blasters’ assistant coach Ishfaq Ahmed, the 26-year-old Albino said he has fully recovered from the injuries which saw him miss a major part of last season’s ISL. “My goal this season is to keep 10 to 12 clean sheets, and hopefully, it will be enough for Kerala Blasters to win the title. I also hope to impress national coach Igor Stimac and gain a place in the senior Indian team. “Wearing the national colours is the ultimate dream of any footballer. I want to play for India,” Albino said. “I suffered back-to-back injuries and it was frustrating to miss a major part of action last season. But I kept myself mentally strong and have slowly worked my way back to fitness.” Dream On his decision to accept the Blasters’ offer, Albino said it was his dream to play in front of a passionate crowd. “I had heard of ‘Manjappada’, the passionate fans of Kerala Blasters, and always wanted to play in front of them. Moreover, Kerala has many similarities to Goa and it’s like playing at home.” Unforgettable Albino said the biggest moment of his career was winning the I-League with Aizwal FC. “Nobody gave us any chance at the start. I played my part by keeping eight clean sheets. “Winning the I-League title is easily the biggest moment of my career.”  Wearing the national colours is the ultimate dream of any footballer. I want to play for India
12 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ramesh brings chess issues to Ministry’s notice||“For years, chess players have suffered immensely due to lack of recognition from the Union Sports Ministry. My attempt is only to help undo the injustice and pave the way for a clear-cut policy for future players to get their dues.” On Saturday, these words from the country’s most respected chess coach Grandmaster R.B. Ramesh were laced with pain and a hope that things would get better. Having resigned as the chief selector of All India Chess Federation earlier this week, Ramesh took to twitter on Saturday and highlighted several issues hurting chess players and coaches. Denied what is due Talking to The Hindu , Ramesh said, “In my conversations with champion players I realised they all have been victims of the government’s indifference. Silently, they feel denied their rightful due. “I have repeatedly tried for an appointment with Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju, but never got one. I am sure, once he becomes aware, things will improve.” Earlier, Ramesh’s pain was evident when he tweeted, “Regarding awards for being coach of Indian team or Indian players from Central government, less said the better. Last 15 years or so, I (and most other Indian coaches barring a few) have not received ANY award from the Central government for (helping win) medals or producing talents. “No Arjuna awards to chess players (since 2013). 16 Grandmasters from Tamil Nadu in the period 2010-2020. Number of Arjuna Awardees — 0. In fact, Ramesh’s students have won 34 medals in World Youth Championships, 40 from Asian Youth, 23 from Commonwealth, 36 from Nationals and five from Asian meets. He was also coach of India’s only bronze-medal men’s team in the 2014 Chess Olympiad. When Ramesh applied for the Dronacharya Award, in 2015, he received 0 out of 100 points! With such being the background, Ramesh asked in his tweet, “Is there a sports policy?” “Sports Ministry should circulate a questionnaire among the top 50 Indian players and get direct information from them about who deserves Arjuna and Dronacharya awards and take them into consideration as well to undo injustices done in the past,” he suggested.
12 July 2020||Liverpool,||Burnley ends Liverpool’s perfect run at Anfield||Liverpool failed to win a Premier League game at Anfield for the first time since January 2019 as Burnley ended a run of 24 straight victories for Jurgen Klopp’s men on home soil, thanks to Jay Rodriguez’s strike in a 1-1 draw on Saturday. Andy Robertson’s first-half header had the champion on course to maintain their perfect home record and close in on a record points tally for the English top flight. But Liverpool was made to pay for a host of missed chances when Rodriguez’s fine finish earned a point to further Burnley’s late push for a place in Europe next season. Earlier, Norwich was condemned to a record fifth relegation from the Premier League as Michail Antonio’s four-goal blitz fired West Ham to a 4-0 win at Carrow Road. A seventh successive league defeat for Daniel Farke’s side sealed its fate as Antonio’s ruthless display boosted West Ham’s own survival bid.  The results:   Premier League: Liverpool 1 (Robertson 34) drew with Burnley 1 (Rodriguez 69); Norwich 0 lost to West Ham 4 (Antonio 11, 45+1, 54, 74); Watford 2 (Deeney 52-pen, 82-pen) bt Newcastle 1 (Gayle 23).   LaLiga: Real Sociedad 2 (Merino 47, Oyarzabal 83) lost to Granada 3 (Puertas 21, Soldado 43, Duarte 88); Real Madrid 2 (Benzema 11-pen, Marco Asensio 50) bt Alaves 0.   Serie A: Verona 2 (Lazovic 2, Veloso 86) drew with Inter Milan 2 (Candreva 49, Dimarco 55-og).
12 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Terry Phelan remembers Charlton’s abiding legacy||It was a dream come true for Terry Phelan when he received his maiden Republic of Ireland international call-up from childhood hero, Jack Charlton, in 1991. Charlton, who was part of the victorious 1966 World Cup England team, passed away on Saturday. South United FC Technical Director Phelan spoke to The Hindu on Charlton’s lasting legacy. Excerpts:   Leeds United legend  I started my career with Leeds. Jack — by then a legend at Leeds (with over 600 appearances for the club) — would come to watch the young lads like myself train and play reserve team matches.  Ireland call up  He would come into our dressing room and tell us stories from his playing days. As a youngster, that was extraordinary. I’ll never forget receiving my debut international call-up from Jack. He wanted the Ireland team to feel like a family. There were wonderful players like Roy Keane, Denis Irwin, Andy Townsend and Jason McAteer in the national team, but Jack left no place for egos in the dressing room. Jack, a World Cup winner, didn’t have an ego himself. By just lifting one finger, Jack could get his message across. Jack would always say — ‘do your jobs, and you will be folk heroes in Ireland’.  Legacy  He was right. Today, I can walk anywhere in Ireland and people will show me love. And that’s thanks to the great Jack Charlton. If he wanted, Jack could have been the Prime Minister of Ireland for a million terms.  Jack would always say — ‘do your jobs, and you will be folk heroes in Ireland’
12 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jitu puts serving the country and Army above sports||Asian Games gold medallist and Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna awardee Jitu Rai is on national duty. Promoted to the rank of Subedar Major in the Army, Jitu has flown to the North-East to be with his regiment. “There is no sport happening. I thought, why waste time. It is the best time to serve the Army and the country. “That is my priority ahead of sports,” says Jitu, who moved from his family base in Indore. On reaching his destination and his unit, Jitu had to be in quarantine for 21 days, before reporting for duty and getting the promotion. “I never ignore shooting. I am carrying my gun and get to practice dry-firing for about one or two hours every day,” says Jitu, who had made the Olympic final in Rio. He has won World Championship silver, apart from a bunch of medals at World Cups and Commonwealth Games. “I know that I can come back into the national team and aim for an Olympic medal again,” says Jitu, who married Sushmita after the Rio Olympics and has a one-year-old son Jishu. “Whether it is sports or the Army, I will do my job with the same devotion and concentration,” says the 32-year-old Jitu.
12 July 2020||Spielberg,||F1 teams risk prison term||F1 drivers and teams have been warned they risk prison sentences and fines if they ignore strict lockdown measures at the Hungarian Grand Prix next weekend. An announcement by the Hungarian Government, with special focus on people from Britain and non-EU countries, has been sent to the teams,, according to Autosport.  The report said that those who break the lockdown rules would face imprisonment, or a fine of €15,000. The warning comes as FIA is investigating Charles Leclerc and Valtteri Bottas for leaving the Formula One ‘bubble’ at Spielberg.
12 July 2020||Kochi,||Indian basketball team captain Jeena ties the knot||Indian basketball captain P.S. Jeena tied the knot with Jackson C. Johnson, an engineer, at Meloor, Thrissur, on Saturday. A few hours earlier, Jeena’s KSEB teammate and former junior international E. Amrutha married former volleyball international K.G. Ragesh, a former Kerala captain, at Thriprayar in Thrissur. Ragesh is also from the KSEB.
12 July 2020||Kingston,||May be ‘tempted’ out of retirement, says Bolt||Jamaican sprint king Usain Bolt has hinted he could be tempted out of retirement if former coach Glen Mills asked him. The World 100m and 200m record-holder and eight-time Olympic champion told Variety magazine he had no plans to resurrect his sprinting career. However the 33-year-old told Variety: “If my coach came back and told me, let's do this, I will, because I believe so much in my coach,” Bolt said. “So I know if he says we're going to do this, I know it's possible. Give Glen Mills a call, and I'll be back.” Bolt said he does not visit the track any more. “My coach gets too excited when I come to the track, so I stay away,” he said.AFP
12 July 2020||London,||Jack Charlton passes away||Jack Charlton, a member of the England 1966 World-Cup winning side and elder brother of the legendary Sir Bobby, has died aged 85, his family announced on Saturday. Charlton was an integral part of the great Don Revie-managed Leeds United side that won the 1969 League title and the 1972 FA Cup. Charlton also enjoyed a fairytale spell as manager of the Republic of Ireland guiding it to several major finals as well as the 1990 World Cup quarterfinals and last 16 in 1994. He was awarded the Republic's most distinguished award, honorary Irish citizenship, in 1996.
12 July 2020||CHENNAI,||SRFI looks for a foreign coach||Squash Rackets Federation of India (SRFI), through the Sports Authority of India, has invited applications from foreign coaches for the Indian teams from October this year, for the 2022 Commonwealth Games and Asian Games. Eligibility The candidates are required to be below 50 years of age and be able to travel with the team for major events. The applicant should also have good knowledge about doubles.” The coach will be recruited for a period of two years. The last date for submission of entries is July 22. “We spoke to SAI about a foreign coach and they said that an advertisement needs to be put up. Only those who apply will be considered,” Cyrus Poncha, secretary of SRFI told The Hindu on Saturday.
12 July 2020||New Delhi,||Boxers’ alleged quarantine violation: SAI forms panel||The Sports Authority of India (SAI) on Saturday formed an inquiry committee to investigate three boxers’ alleged violation of COVID-19 quarantine norms at the National Institute of Sports (NIS) in Patiala. The four-member probe panel is headed by SAI secretary Rohit Bharadwaj and includes Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS) CEO Commander Rajesh Rajagopalan, former hockey coach A.K. Bansal and SAI Deputy Director (Personnel) Dandapani. SAI was forced to form the committee after Commonwealth and Asian Games gold-winner Vikas Krishan, Neeraj Goyat and Asian Games bronze-winner Satish Kumar allegedly violated quarantine rules by mingling with fellow-athletes during their isolation period. Vikas (69kg) and Satish (+91kg) have qualified the Tokyo Olympics.  The inquiry committee will look into circumstances that led to the incident and submit its report at the earliest. It has been learnt that NIS Executive Director Raj Singh Bishnoi is also under the scanner for his role in the incident. “The committee will conduct a thorough investigation as to what led to such a violation and lay down strict guidelines to ensure this is not repeated in a SAI campus again,” a SAI source said.
12 July 2020||New Delhi,||India’s tiger census of 2018 sets a Guinness world record||India’s tiger census of 2018 has set a Guinness record for being the world’s largest camera-trap wildlife survey. The fourth cycle of the All India Tiger Estimation 2018 counted 2,967 tigers, which is about 75% of the global tiger population. The Guinness World Records website said, “The fourth iteration of the survey — conducted in 2018-19 — was the most comprehensive to date, in terms of both resource and data amassed. Camera traps (outdoor photographic devices fitted with motion sensors that start recording when an animal passes by) were placed in 26,838 locations across 141 different sites and surveyed an effective area of 1,21,337 sq.km.” It added, “In total, the camera traps captured 3,48,58,623 photographs of wildlife (76,651 of which were that of tigers and 51,777 of leopards; the remainder were other native fauna). From these photographs, 2,461 individual tigers (excluding cubs) were identified using stripe-pattern-recognition software.” Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar tweeted, “The All India Tiger Estimation is now in the Guinness World Records for being the largest camera trap wildlife survey, a great moment indeed and a shining example of Atmanirbhar Bharat.”
12 July 2020||Mumbai,||Bachchan tests positive for COVID-19, hospitalised||Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan on Saturday said he had tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to the isolation ward of the Nanawati hospital. The 77-year-old actor announced on Twitter that his family and staff members had been tested for COVID-19 and the results were awaited. “All [those who] have been in close proximity [with] me in the last 10 days are requested to please get themselves tested,” he said. The actor’s latest outing was in Shoojit Sircar's Gulabo Sitabo , which released on Amazon Prime Video last month, marking Mr. Bachchan’s entry in the OTT space. The film was released directly on the streaming platform due to the COVID-19 outbreak.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 07:37 IST,||Sudoku - July 12, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Business at the border||Business communities in India have their own ways of gauging potential partners and rivals, just as they have phrases for describing people and interactions such as monetary negotiations, deal-making, pulling the wool over competitors’ eyes and so on. For instance, when a young businessman starts to taste success, one could say, “Ah, now he’s got strength in his legs,” literally meaning that the novice has found his feet, or to use an American Mafia term, “made his bones”. Or, in the past, when trying to figure out how some business concern might behave, a businessman would ask an associate, “Who’s sitting in the gaddi?” — the gaddi being the back office — literally the command centre — from where key decisions were made. Depending on who was seen to be in charge, the questioner might have reacted with a snort of derision, the widening of a wolf smile or a nod of respect, perhaps not dissimilar to the way a 17th century Japanese warlord might have responded after seeing who his counterpart was, sitting on the general’s chair behind the ranks of opposing soldiers. Checking the pulse  Of late, we’ve been reading a lot about how Chanakya and Machiavelli both tell us that in diplomacy there are no friends, just potential allies and enemies, both usually temporary. Obviously, all sorts of factors come into play when the representatives of any modern state try to calibrate how to behave (overtly and covertly) with another country. There is, of course, the history between the two nations; there would be the awareness of the shifting landscape of international relations in which the two countries find themselves; there would be political, economic and often military considerations; there would be the long-standing areas where goals are common or where conflicts range from mild to intractable. With most countries led by teams of ministers and bureaucrats, the meetings between the top leaders are important but the flanking personnel usually act as shock-absorbers. Boss to Boss With countries that are led by Strong Men (or Strong Women), the personal interactions between the 'Boss' figures of each country take on extra weight. In many ways, these face-to-face exchanges assume the characteristics of an exploratory, probing meeting between two seths who might choose to go into partnership or into deadly competition or change course in some way following their interaction. One phrase used by Indian businesspeople is “he checked out his pulse”, meaning one seth (or sheyth in Gujarati) assessed the strengths and weaknesses of his opposite number’s character during a meeting. Recently, in Galwan, we’ve seen the result of Xi making a businesslike assessment of Modi after their several meetings. It would seem that Xi “took the pulse” of Modi and decided that his overtures of friendship with Pakistan and China were insincere and his martial posturing was macho bluster. He also appears to think that Modi’s ability to block or counter Chinese manoeuvres is hobbled by many things, not least his obsessive one-point agenda of turning India into a Hindutva Patal Lok.    Reading the signs The Chinese are not given to brash, impulsive moves. Xi’s assessment, according to some reports, is that his Indian counterpart has committed skulduggery in Jammu & Kashmir, with a gambit that has forced him to keep the region under lockdown for nearly a year, with no end in sight — a sure sign of the Centre’s fear and the absence of popular support in the area. Xi is also calculating the additional stress this puts on the Indian army as it is forced, more than ever, to look in two opposing directions, ahead and behind. He would also have factored in the huge countrywide protests against the CAA/NRC. Just because the Chinese government doesn’t like democratic protests doesn’t mean its leaders don’t recognise their potential to destabilise a government. Finally, helping Xi make up his mind would have been the massive botch-up of the Modi government’s response to COVID-19, the (second) self-torpedoing of the economy, and the huge crisis this has let loose upon the people. Alongside this, the Xi regime would also have seen that India has no viable allies to speak of: Putin, China’s new, warm associate, is nobody’s friend; Trump is busy sinking his country as he tries to save his own skin; Johnson is in the position to scupper Britain without currently having to worry about his own survival; the Europeans are all caught up in their own micro-dramas; the Australians and the Japanese don’t matter much. Xi doesn’t need to be in Modi’s vicinity to smell the fear coming off the Indian leadership. A canny businessman sensing the opportunity of a monopoly can put moves in place and bide his time.             Just because China doesn’t like democratic protests doesn’t mean its leaders don’t recognise their potential to destabilise a government
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||‘My selection should not be viewed from a ghettoisation perspective’||It’s rare that the appointment of a university vice-chancellor stirs up much discussion, outside of high-profile, highly politicised environments such as Jawaharlal Nehru University. But it is rarer still to see a woman from a tribal background appointed to such a post. So when in May, Raj Bhavan in Ranchi issued a notification naming Sonajharia Minz to the position of vice-chancellor of the little-known Sido Kanhu Murmu University (SKMU) in Jharkhand’s Dumka district, her name immediately caught the eye of academicians, tribal rights activists, and the intellectual world. “We have a woman like her who marks the beginning of the representation of tribals in important academic positions. It is a moment for celebration. Her achievement will be helpful in motivating and boosting the confidence of students from backward and marginalised communities to enter the world of education,” says Swapnil Dhanraj, an assistant professor at O.P Jindal Global University in Haryana. For her part, the 57-year-old wasn’t expecting it. “I was very surprised to be selected as VC. During my student and teaching career, I have seen people with excellent academic careers becoming VCs. It may have so happened that my academic achievement was good enough for a State university,” says Minz, with disarming modesty. Weighty responsibility Did her tribal ancestry and non-academic activities bolster her candidacy? While Dumka is indeed the heartland of Jharkhand’s tribal-dominated Santhal Pargana, where the brothers Sidhu and Kanhu Murmu — SKMU’s namesakes — once led the Santhal Rebellion (1855-56) against British colonial authority and the zamindari system, Minz prefers to point to the academic ladder she has had to climb, and the challenges she faced while doing so. “My selection vindicates social justice. But it should not be viewed from a ghettoisation perspective because I am a tribal and woman and I have to work in a tribal-dominated region. The appointment is not a challenge for me, but a responsibility,” she says. Minz, who comes from the Oraon tribe in the Gumla district — one of the least developed districts in the country — was fortunate in that her father Nirmal Minz, a Lutheran Bishop Emeritus and social thinker who has worked for the development of tribal languages, had made her realise the importance of education very early on. But her journey was not without its share of hiccups brought on by prejudice. As a second-generation learner, she was conversant in English but couldn’t get admission to an English-medium school. She was forced to study in a Hindi-medium school in Ranchi despite having trouble following the language. Nevertheless, being a bright student, she excelled in every subject. However, non-tribal teachers did not encourage her. “My mathematics teacher once told me not to study mathematics for graduation despite knowing well that I was strong in the subject. It made my resolve stronger. I chose mathematics for my higher studies,” she recalls. Facing prejudice Apart from academic challenges, Minz was wary of the discrimination she could face for her skin colour and ethnic identity. After she finished school, she moved to Bengaluru to complete a pre-university course in 1980, and then to Chennai the following year. “One of the pertinent reasons behind my shifting out of Bihar was that the discrimination was more blatant in north India. We were subjected to humiliation for our identity, our physical features. I did not face discrimination in Chennai,” she says. Minz got a mathematics degree from Women’s Christian College, Chennai, then an MSc from Madras Christian College, and went on to complete her M.Phil and Ph.D. in computer science from JNU. She was a professor at JNU’s School of Computer and Systems Science for 28 years before taking charge as SKMU’s VC. She has never been one to confine herself to purely academic activities, however, and has raised her voice on a host of issues. When the nation went into lockdown with the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, she entered the Twitter sphere for the first time — not to engage in intellectual or academic discourse, but to help coordinate the safe return of Jharkhand’s stranded migrant labourers. She remained on the site only for as long as it took for their return to be streamlined. And in 2018-19, when she was president of the JNU Teachers Association, her vociferous protest against the introduction of seat cuts, compulsory attendance and online entrance examinations was well known. The new VC, however, insists that she should not be bracketed in any ideology. “I believe in working for the marginalised without affiliation to any ideology,” she says.  Mathematics degree from Women’s Christian College, Chennai; M.Sc. from Madras Christian College; M.Phil. and Ph.D. in computer science from JNU Played hockey at college in Chennai, was selected for the university team and considered for the State team, but chose to focus on academics Brief teaching stints at Bhopal’s Barkatullah University and Madurai Kamaraj University before JNU Served as local guardian in Delhi for many students from eastern India   The discrimination was more blatant in north India. We were subjected to humiliation for our identity, our physical features. I did not face discrimination in Chennai
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Minerva’s owl flies at dusk||Sab hi ka khun hai shamil yahan ki mitti men/ Kisi ke bap ka Hindostan thodi hai (Everyone’s blood is present in this earth/ India is not anyone’s personal property) Inscribed on the first pages of Ali Khan Mahmudabad’s latest book, Poetry of Belonging: Muslim Imaginings of India 1850-1950 , this couplet from Rahat Indori’s iconic performance at a musha’irah (poetry reading) is also the book’s pièce de resistance . Indeed, the enunciative force of Indori’s words is consonant with the tenor of the book, for Mahmudabad’s pen never runs demurely: his book is a sharp riposte to the sovereigns who regard India as their ‘personal property’, the frequent references to the ruling party and the RSS leaving little about the identity of the sovereigns to readerly imagination. Alternative history Here Mahmudabad is in august academic company. In South Asia, history has not only followed the Hegelian labour of expressing and interpreting the political present but also found itself tasked with the burden of dispelling a diverse assortment of claims upon the past — colonial, nationalist and, more recently, those peddled by votaries and organisations united by a commitment to the ideology of Hindutva. This has been productive, even necessary, and yet, in so far as it magnifies the discursive presence of the disputed object, stultifying. But more on that later. Because majoritarian projects can only regard the Muslim, à la Faisal Devji, as “the symbol of national frustration and insecurity” whose loyalty to the nation is hopelessly divided and ever suspect, Mahmudabad takes the recovery of an alternative history as his endeavour. This is a history located in the trajectories of the musha’irah and locked in a time when the nation-form was yet to colonise the political wholly. We meet a galaxy of figures remarkably akin to Indori in their use of a modernised poetic medium, the musha’irah, to debate and reinscribe conceptions of qaum , millat , ummah and watan (people or nation, religious fraternity, community of Islam, homeland)  and thus contest the parochialism of the nation state. The latter is, it seems, deducible only retrospectively: to go back to Hegel, only with the coming of dusk does Minerva’s owl spread its wings. Much of Mahmudabad’s effort is devoted to demonstrating that the colonial encounter and developments such as print and sound technologies, produced significant transformations in the performative site of the musha’irah that had hitherto been opaquely metaphysical. Thrown open to different audiences and compelled to surrender its other-worldly poeticism to contemporary issues, the musha’irah fashioned a liminal space that sought to bridge linguistic and political chasms. Thriving subculture Drawn to its political elegance, several thinkers courted the musha’irah in long, mostly unrecorded, and truly illustrious careers. These individuals brought their selves to bear upon the expressive capacities of a thoroughly transfigured creative vehicle that produced ‘a view of the Muslim as a political subject’. Corporate selfhoods were reforged as musha’irah poets eschewed nationalist insularities for transnational cosmopolitanisms. Mahmudabad could certainly have explored the musha’irah’s transnational economies in richer detail. There is another problem worth considering. Mahmudabad’s musha’irah is a pirouetting article in an entropic world whose conqueror is never inexorable until the nation-form, at Independence/ Partition, assumes a restrictive presence. For Mahmudabad, this presence is epitomised in Hindutva’s intolerance of any political or identitarian recalcitrance. The nation-form need not have been inescapably Procrustean, but it was perhaps not avoidable either. Indeed, for much of the 19th century, the ‘nation’ remained the most concrete mode of organising the political, one that was and is, like most hegemonies, strengthened by questioning. Few could settle the question of the nation, but fewer still could deny the existential basis of its being one, as Mahmudabad establishes when he quotes a poet from Anjuman-e-Punjab, the literary society founded in Lahore in 1865: ‘ qaum se janta ka zizna ho, qaum say badhkar koi chiz na ho ’ (Life should not be as precious as the nation, nothing should be more important than the nation.) In South Asia, national imagination was coterminous with the making of ‘Hinduism’ as national religion. This renders the political assaults of the right wing today fully intelligible while also revisiting the position of Independence/ Partition as a definitive historical juncture. Perhaps the musha’irah was not an alternative culture but a subculture, and although responding to the present is crucial, perhaps the proverbial rot runs far deeper than the RSS and BJP. There is, however, little doubt about the accomplishment ofPoetry of Belonging . Mahmudabad’s command over his sources is impressive and his writing is as cogent as immersive. The book will, in its liberal employment of tweets and audio-visual data as serious source material, ruffle orthodoxies. And this is only the first of many feathers — and orthodoxies — that the monograph will ruffle. The writer is a history student in the University of Delhi.  Thrown open to different audiences and compelled to surrender its other-worldly poeticism to contemporary issues, the musha’irah fashioned a liminal space that sought to bridge linguistic and political chasms
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The smuggled smell of home||There is a scene in Nicholas Kharkhongar’s Axone where a landlady screams at her tenants from the Northeast for being audacious enough to cook their “stinky” food, something she had specifically told them not to do. The pungent smell of axone (pronounced ‘akhuni’) — fermented soya bean — that the girls were discreetly using to cook a traditional pork curry, had reached every nostril in the building and raised a storm. This scene took me straight back to my own Delhi days years ago. It was 2006. I was straight out of college and had landed an internship at a media house. I decided to move out of the hostel and get a place of my own. I had my carefully rehearsed lines ready in mind to negotiate the rent. But bafflingly, the first question a house-owner asked me was, “No stinky food, I hope?” Taken aback, I mumbled a feeble “no”. The broker with me felt the need to be more vociferous on my behalf. “ Arre nahin , she is from Assam. They don’t cook all that there. Does she look like them?” The house-owner gave a half-convinced nod. I turned and left. Three days and countless such visits later to matchbox buildings in Kingsway Camp, Mukherjee Nagar, Indra Vihar and other nagars in north Delhi — which, ironically, is full of students from the Northeast who come to study at Delhi University — I finally made peace with the comments and found a place. For the first couple of months, I adhered strictly to my own rule of minimum interaction with the landlord and his extended family, including the daadi who always lay sprawling on her khatiya at the entrance of the house, keeping an eagle eye on the tenants. Trouble began when I returned after a visit back home. Packed in my suitcase, wrapped in layers and layers of polythene bags, was a bottle of khorisa. Versatile ingredient For the uninitiated, khorisa is fermented, tender bamboo shoot, which is widely used in Assamese cuisine — as in other parts of the Northeast — for its distinct and tangy/ sour/ acidic taste and strong flavour. The shoots are first defoliated, then pounded in a dheki (a leg-operated pounder) or scraped and ground. It is then left to ferment for about two weeks until it turns sour. Once ready, it can be used in vegetable dishes, with fish, chicken, and pork, or just pickled with oil and chillies. Like axone, khorisa’s nemesis too is its smell — unabashedly full-bodied and pungent. I was not brave enough to use it. Like a thief keeping stolen treasure close to his heart, I held the bottle gingerly in my hands and then pushed it into the darkest corner of the kitchen cupboard. But the heart won over the head and like Upasana (Sayani Gupta) and Chanbi (Lin Laishram) in the film, I decided to take the risk. And so, one fine Sunday afternoon, I dived into the mission. Ideally, I would have loved khorisa maas — fresh river fish cooked with khorisa — but settled for chicken, which also tastes divine with this magic potion. Daring escapades I took the usual precautions to prevent the ‘smell’ wafting down the staircase. Deodorant spray cans were emptied in the rooms and in the balcony for added effect, and after what seemed like an extraordinary feat, my sister and I finally savoured the taste of success. That evening, my heart skipped several beats when the landlord stopped me on my way down the stairs to ask, “Did you have a party? Perfume ka smell yahan tak aa raha tha . (I could smell the perfume down here.)” I smiled and almost ran out. I did ‘dare’ to use khorisa many times afterwards. Grind it a little in a mortar, add a spoonful in curries and dal, sometimes with a dash of mustard oil, a little onion and some chilli for a lethal chutney. That momentary authentic smell — before it’s drowned in ‘perfume’ — felt like home. For many of the thousands of Northeasterners in Delhi, it is still a struggle to accept it as home. In 2007, the Delhi Police issued a booklet titled ‘Security Tips for Northeast Students/ Visitors in Delhi’ in the backdrop of a spate of violent incidents against the community. Under ‘Food Habits’, the booklet said ‘Bamboo shoot, akhuni and other ‘smelly’ dishes should be prepared without creating ruckus in the neighbourhood’. Naturally, this invited a backlash. But life is not all black and white and despite those crude, racist remarks passed casually, Delhi has given many of us at least a couple of well-meaning ‘Hyper Shiv’ pals in our lives. I have a bunch of them and hold them closely, like my bottle of khorisa. The writer is a Gujarat-basedfreelance journalist.     My heart skipped several beats when the landlord stopped me on my way down the stairs to ask, “Did you have a party? I could smell the perfume down here.” I smiled and almost ran out
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The life, death and resurrection of memory||The murder of a black man named George Floyd by a police officer in Minneapolis, U.S., on May 25, 2020, has compelled the world to revisit a large swathe of its past, stretching over half a millennium. An examination of how public memory has recollected this past over centuries has led the world to discover how unbearably weighted and dishonest this recall has been and to seek its swift replacement with a more honest recollection. It was as if the world was waiting for just such a cue to rise in fury against the long history of enslavement and the murder of millions of not just black people but people from indigenous communities, tribes and oppressed castes. As the #BlackLivesMatter protestors defied the pandemic and lockdown to rise in rage across the world, they found a target in the statues of slave owners, traders and colonial despots. While there have been earlier protests against statues of infamous historical figures in public squares, universities and government campuses, the move to remove them took on an urgency this year that seemed to eerily echo the disturbed times. Sensing the public mood, several institutions took proactive action. Princeton School of Public and International Affairs no longer bears former President Woodrow Wilson’s name after the university’s trustees concluded he was a racist and did not deserve the honour. Yale University recently renamed one of its undergraduate colleges after a distinguished alumnus, Admiral Grace Murray Hopper, replacing John Calhoun, an unrepentant slave-owning white supremacist. In Antwerp, Belgium, a statue of King Leopold II, who brutalised Congo in the late 19th century, was removed from a public square. Temples of worship Statues of powerful people are seldom just about art. They are calculated to evoke awe, gratitude, and genuflection to power. In a paper on British symbols of authority, Paul M. McGarr of the University of Nottingham says that around 170 statues were brought into India from England to “make the capital a new temple of empire, the quintessential statement of what British imperial rule had meant and continued to mean for Britain and for India”. India, however, has always been fairly relaxed about the whole business of colonial statuary. Despite sporadic moves to change street and city names, there has never been a nationally coordinated move to dismantle statues from the Raj era. While a few ‘beheadings’ have taken place in the past — the statues of Lord Cornwallis and Arthur Wellesley in Mumbai lost their heads in 1965 — others, like those of Queen Victoria and Edward VII in Bengaluru or Queen Victoria outside Victoria Memorial in Kolkata — stand where they have always stood. In fact, some are even being carefully restored by the state. The case can be made that such symbols of past oppressors must stay on the ground, that history is not about erasing our past but contextualising and interpreting it. It is also, as many thinkers have pointed out, never a good idea to view the past through the eyes of the present. Famous British historian Mary Beard noted: “Too much of this debate has traded on a view of history that divides it into goodies and baddies. It has surveyed the past, and given it a good ticking off, according to our own present values.” Others disagree. African-British writer Annie Olaloku-Teriba, writing in a recent issue of the art journal Frieze , states that the toppling of the merchant and slave owner Edward Colston’s statue in Bristol “has reignited a debate about which (or whose) histories public art should commemorate”. She approves the single-mindedness with which disparate people, with no central coordination, are forcing the erasure of the rogues of history from public memory. “The real debate,” Olaloku-Teriba writes, “is about where power lies. It is about who gets to decide what we are confronted with in public space and, more importantly, what kind of society we are.” Gandhi under fire Sadly, popular ire has now claimed what could be its most undeserved victim — Mahatma Gandhi. His statues have been vandalised in Johannesburg, Washington and London, the last two as part of the ongoing #BlackLivesMatter campaign. There is a demand that the one in Leicester be removed, while in Ghana, a statue presented to the University of Ghana in Accra has been taken off its plinth and stashed away. The last is a mystery. Ghana University’s decision to keep a statue of Gandhi, presented by the President of India, on its premises was consciously taken. As its then Vice-Chancellor, Professor Ernest Aryeetey, recollected, a consensus had been reached within the university community that Gandhi‘s early racist ideas had given way to a recognition of the equality of all races, and that placing his statue in the university premises was perfectly in order. While some African thinkers have initiated fresh critiques of Gandhi and his role as a possible proto-racist or colonial collaborator during his early days in South Africa, the writings of Marxist historian Perry Anderson and writer Arundhati Roy, who have selectively interpreted his life and work to cast him as relentlessly racist and casteist despite the existence of evidence to the contrary, have also contributed to this. It has coalesced now into the demand to remove his statues along with those of people whose racism has never been in doubt. It is true that Gandhi made derogatory references to black people while in South Africa. He protested being imprisoned alongside Africans (employing the racist term ‘kaffirs’ prevalent at the time) and wrote a letter to authorities demanding a separate cell. However, the fact that his views changed, not after he left South Africa but while he was still there, a full seven years before he returned to India, must be acknowledged, as indeed Joseph Lelyveld has in his sensitive yet controversial biography of Gandhi, Great Soul: Mahatma Gandhi and his Struggle with India (2011). He writes that Gandhi, speaking at the YMCA in Johannesburg in 1908, “makes it plain that he is speaking of Africans as well as Indians when he states, ‘We can hardly think of South Africa without Africans’, and that ‘they are able-bodied and intelligent’, ‘entitled to justice’ and what he calls ‘a fair field’; thus “implicitly acknowledging for the first time that Indians and Africans came into the colonial labour market as equals”. There is enough material in Gandhi’s writings and speeches to show how he evolved from his early positions to learn and grow as a non-racist thinker as well as to record his deep appreciation for the black cause in the U.S. In his essay, ‘Gandhi’s West and the West’s Gandhi’, Professor Vinay Lal of UCLA talks of Gandhi’s sustained engagements with black leaders from the U.S. over the years. In fact, there is no doubt that Gandhi inspired black people in America. Lal points out that Howard Thurman led the first African-American delegation to India in 1936 to meet and converse with Gandhi. This was followed by the visits of Benjamin E. Mays of Morehouse College the same year and of Mordecai Johnson, President of Howard College, in 1947. These men were, according to Lal, among many other prominent African-American clergymen, educators and public figures who succeeded in placing before the public a narrative of the freedom struggle in India; and who followed Gandhi’s Satyagraha campaigns, fasts, calls for mass mobilisation, and jail terms with unstinting interest. The Ambedkar connect In the same essay, Lal also writes of how, in response to repeated requests from the famous black intellectual, W.E.B. Du Bois, to contribute to his journal Crisis , Gandhi sent across a “little love message” for African Americans: “Let not the 12 million Negroes be ashamed of the fact that they are the grand-children of slaves. There is no dishonour in being slaves. There is dishonour in being slave-owners.” In today’s context, Gandhi is best understood through his relationship with Ambedkar. Their acrimonious interactions masked extremely productive outcomes, none more so than the Poona Pact of 1932. At that time, and even later, Ambedkar saw the Poona Pact as a successful blackmail manoeuvre by Gandhi. The Pact’s positive impact, however, became obvious only when the Indian constitution — Ambedkar was Chairman of the Drafting Committee — was adopted, giving India’s historically marginalised and discriminated-against sections a huge political voice. Today, 84 seats in the Lok Sabha are reserved for the Scheduled Castes and 47 for the Scheduled Tribes. That an affirmative action programme, which in range and magnitude is unsurpassed in the world, matched such political empowerment makes the Poona Pact a foundational document for the empowerment of the underprivileged and a model of its kind. Fortunately, a realisation is dawning in some circles of how important Gandhi and Ambedkar together were for India, and how relevant their joint contributions were for the making of this country. One of the early voices to recognise and reflect upon this was Riyas Komu, a leading artist and thinker, whose artworks reflect the joint contributions of Ambedkar and Gandhi towards the upliftment of India’s poor and marginalised. “These works,” says Komu, “may also be conceived of as conversations with history, a return to a possible exchange of words between Gandhi and Ambedkar in a journey in search of a Dhamma Swaraj. It’s also a reminder of social action by marginalised communities against atrocities of various kinds.“ One of Komu’s signal achievements is to have introduced Ambedkar to a South Africa that only knew of Gandhi. Two statues of Ambedkar, gifted by Komu, stand in the open ground of the Nirox Foundation near Johannesburg, bringing to the attention of Africans that the India story had more than just Gandhi to it and that there were individuals who matched and even surpassed some of his achievements. This effort from Komu represents a small start to unravelling, as much for India as for the rest of the world, the full magic of a country that debates, discusses and accepts transformational societal changes with dramatic, albeit raucous, panache. As the #BlackLivesMatter movement gathers momentum, its followers — spread across the world now — would do well to pause and take a relook at Gandhi while discovering Ambedkar. In so doing, they will be pleasantly surprised to find that the former was no racist and the latter was a remarkable personality they could lean on for inspiration. After his near-death at the hands of a movement he would have enthusiastically backed, Gandhi needs a resurrection now just as much as Ambedkar deserves to be better known outside of India. The writer teaches at the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru.    “The real debate,” says African-British writer Olaloku-Teriba, “is about where power lies. It is about who gets to decide what we are confronted with in public space”
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||On the margins of the city||Social welfare isn’t a given for the poor. Resources are limited and unevenly distributed. There are other factors: limited state capacity, archaic procedures, corruption, discretion. Even in everyday dimensions like drinking water, food, housing, healthcare, and education, social welfare has to be actively pursued and claimed by citizens. Claim-making differs in rural and urban India. This has to do with the 73rd and 74th Constitutional Amendments.  In the villages In a study in Rajasthan, researcher Gabrielle Kruks-Wisner ( Claiming the State: Active Citizenship and Social Welfare in Rural India , 2018) found that with social and spatial exposure, even marginalised citizens could find ways to engage public officials in the pursuit of basic services. The gram panchayat was the first port of call. With the institutionalisation of elected panchayat bodies for local governance, the state’s reach into the lives of rural citizens broadened. Citizen-panchayat interactions increased over the years. In a late 1990s study, less than 20% of respondents mentioned contacting the gram panchayat for local issues; but by 2010-11, Kruks-Wisner found that this had increased to over 60%. It is different in urban India — 65 million of India’s urban population live in slums. They live precariously, with insecure property rights, informal employment, little social security, and constant threat of eviction. They are often derisively referred to as “vote banks”. Yet they are not merely passive recipients of political largesse during elections. Slum dwellers have political agency. They are constantly making claims on the state for the provision of public services. Through fieldwork in Jaipur and Bhopal, Adam Auerbach shows that these claims are made through informal local leaders who have the advantages of literacy, some formal education, and the ability to speak up. They typically become local workers for political parties. As party workers, they look upwards to their political party networks to deliver on local issues; parties in turn expect electoral mobilisation when required. Missing in action While India has been urbanising, institutional mechanisms for the provision of public services have not kept pace. There has been a steady growth of slums and squatter settlements in cities, typically on riverbeds, next to landfills, and along railway tracks. However, the formal presence of the state is often elusive in these locations. Services have to be demanded through informal local leaders in a politically mediated manner. Slum leaders emerge in the informal space between slum and political party. Auerbach finds that a greater number of slum leaders in a settlement leads to informal accountability based on their responsiveness. Different ethnic groups often choose leaders across ethnic lines based on how effective they are. There are thus robust forms of local leadership inside the slum for dispute resolution, organising work, and systematic collective action. The implications for policy are clear. During the COVID-19 pandemic, it has become painfully clear that to prevent the spread of the virus, we need bottom-up, community-driven and community-managed solutions to the very real tasks of tracing, quarantining, and protection of the vulnerable. Gram panchayats in rural India have stepped up. Disseminating science-based information; preventing stigma; ensuring physical distancing; running shelters, community kitchens and quarantines; distributing masks, soap and essentials — through all this, gram panchayats have demonstrated their capacity to care for their local communities. Rural local bodies are designed both for everyday service delivery and as first responders in a disaster. They are also structured to represent different groups and give citizens a deliberative role in local development. Citizens can participate in deliberations formally through the gram sabha or village assembly, as well as other field-level committees such as those of anganwadi, school, or health centre. Lack of accountability The situation on the ground is vastly different in urban India. The reasons are systemic and several, as decentralisation expert T.R. Raghunandan tells me: incomplete devolution; the absence of inclusive hyperlocal structures for people’s participation; the absence of socio-economic planning for urban settlements; and the existence of multiple parastatals and parallel institutions, leading to a lack of accountability. In the matter of representation and participation, too, there is a fundamental disconnect. Urban wards cater to larger populations than small and nimble gram panchayats. It is crucial to activate the “area sabha” for every thousand urban residents. Informal authority within the slum can be channeled into these formal urban area assemblies, while also ensuring participation of those groups who are excluded. However, unless area sabha representatives can participate as members of ward committees, the structures remain ineffective. Institutional design requires care and attention. This is so, not only for an adequate COVID response, but also to respond to the urgent challenges of providing urban livelihoods, improving urban early childhood and healthcare services, especially for the most vulnerable; and for ecologically sustainable local development. Perhaps the pandemic will help us find our way to more inclusive urban local governance. The reviewer is in the IAS.  Demanding Development: The Politics of Public Goods Provision in India’s Urban Slums Adam Michael Auerbach Cambridge University Press  Rs. 665 (Kindle price)    While India has been urbanising, institutional mechanisms for the provision of public services have not kept pace
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Rider on a storm||Karimul Haque’s house in Jalpaiguri’s Dhalabari village was a flurry of activity when two men came looking for him one sunny June morning. Haque was busy overseeing breakfast preparations for some 200 people — a new normal for his family during the pandemic. The two brothers said their mother, Gyaneshwari Rai, an asthma patient, had died in their sister’s house some 15 km away, and they were not able to get her body back for the last rites. Everyone had turned their backs on the family, fearing the septuagenarian had died of COVID-19. With no transport, not even an ambulance, their only hope was Haque, the ‘Bike Ambulance Dada’. Within hours, Haque had sped off on his bike ambulance with its customised hospital cot attached as a side-car, and had brought the body to the Rais’ house for the final rites and cremation. “We were not with her when she passed away,” said Bhim, one of the deceased woman’s sons. “The least we could do was send her off with dignity, with full Hindu rites as she would have wished. Thanks to Karim- da , we could perform our final duty towards our mother.” Lifelong pursuit Ferrying people to and from the hospital on his motorbike has been Haque’s pursuit for many years now. His ailing pillion riders live in far-flung places, tea gardens and villages in forests that are often not connected to roads; marginalised people who would have remained without access to healthcare if not for Haque’s free transport. One phone call and he sets off on his TVS 110cc. In the past 20 years, he has helped, by his estimate, close to 5,500 people, a feat for which he was awarded the Padma Shri in 2017. Haque lost his mother, in 1995, due to the lack of transport. “She suffered a heart attack at midnight, but we could not take her to the hospital,” he says. “We watched helplessly as she passed away by dawn.” Four years later, at the tea garden where he worked part-time, a co-worker fell ill. Haque borrowed his manager’s bike and took him to hospital. “To be able to save a life is heartening,” he says. Slowly, he began ferrying the sick to hospital on his cycle or in cycle-rickshaws. In 2007, he borrowed Rs. 7,000 from his neighbour to buy a second-hand motorbike and continued the job. Two years later, he took a bank loan to finance a TVS110. In 2016, Bajaj gifted him a bike with a side car. Now, thanks to donations, he also owns two regular four-wheel ambulances for which patients pay a minimal fare to meet fuel costs. The bike, however, which Haque himself rides, is a free service. Standing together Just from experience, after dealing with patients for so many years, and from interactions with doctor acquaintances, Haque, a school drop-out, has trained himself to conduct basic examinations such as measuring temperature and blood pressure and giving first aid. Now, in these times of the pandemic, his calling continues uninterrupted. It has, in fact, brought new responsibilities for Haque. “We have to be more careful and take all precautions,” he says, when asked about the stigma that led to Gyaneshwari Rai being abandoned. “But this is not the time to abandon our friends and relatives. We have to stand by each other.” Last month, the Jalpaiguri zilla parishad appointed him the district’s health ambassador for COVID-19 as part of its public awareness programme at the grassroots level. This means Haque must travel to villages along with panchayat representatives, civic police volunteers and ASHA workers and interact with local people. He tells them about the novel coronavirus, and what they should and should not do. “I try to dispel myths; I tell them to be governed by science and science alone,” says Haque. Since the lockdown was announced, Haque has been distributing food and rations to the poor and the now unemployed migrant workers returning from other places. With the help of donations, Haque provides dry rations to around 1,000 people and cooked meals to 200 quarantined migrant workers. He has hired people to cook at his own house. Haque, his sons, and some 35 relatives who live in the neighbourhood, have all come together in this endeavour. “We have a core team of 10-12 cousins who do most of the legwork, while father oversees everything,” says Raju, Haque’s elder son, who also helps in the ambulance service. “It feels like the family has suddenly become bigger.” Haque gets generous financial backing from both NRIs and locals. Kazi Iqbal Hussain, a Kuwait-based businessman and philanthropist with roots in West Bengal, has donated Rs. 2 lakh for a clinic that Haque has begun constructing near his house, as well as over Rs. 4 lakh towards pandemic relief work. The U.S.-based Kalyan Debnath, an aviation sector professional, and his brother Rabi, have donated Rs. 1.75 lakh for the hospital and supplied Haque with dry rations, sanitary napkins, hand sanitisers, masks, gloves, and more. “It is the donors who are the main force, helping me help thousands of needy people,” says Haque. “I’m only a foot soldier.” The Siliguri-based independent journalist writes on politics, culture and other things (after the kids go to sleep).  In the past 20 years, he has helped, by his estimate, close to 5,500 people, a feat for which he was awarded the Padma Shri in 2017
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Sowcarpet chronicle||The wealth of contemporary Tamil literature has always been tantalisingly out of reach for readers like me who speak their mother tongue well but tend to stumble over the printed word. But you do not need Tamil roots to appreciate this delightful new book of short stories, translated from the Tamil original, Kadavu , published two decades ago. In fact, the author, Dilip Kumar, is not a native speaker of the language. In the title story, we meet Babli Patti, a devout old Gujarati lady who wants to get rid of a stray cat that has taken to raiding her flat to lap up milk meant for the god Krishna. It’s real Her son asks their godless relative, Surendran, “the one-man kangaroo court for all of the wrongdoing in the Agraharam.” This hooligan, who can swear fluently in both Gujarati and Tamil, breezily says, “Consider the job done!” Eventually, this humane layabout ends up saving the cat from the clutches of his pious aunt. Unlike R.K. Narayan’s Malgudi, the agraharam of the title is a real place on the map. Ekambareshvarar Agraharam is a set of three-storey buildings around the 350-year-old temple of the same name in Sowcarpet, an old neighbourhood of north Chennai. The translator, Martha Ann Selby, an American scholar of Tamil and Sanskrit at the University of Texas in Austin, provides the context in the introduction. The Gujaratis of Sowcarpet come alive for us, in English, via Tamil. Sowcarpet has been a stronghold of north Indian immigrants for centuries. As Chennai burgeoned into a centre of commerce in the 17th century, Gujarati weavers from in and around Madurai took up residence near the Ekambareshvarar temple. Then came the Gujarati merchants or sowcars , who gave the neighbourhood its name. They were soon joined by Rajasthani traders. These relatively affluent immigrants are known as saits in local parlance. In Tamil films, the stereotypical sait is often a moneylender who speaks broken Tamil interspersed with nonsense words like ‘ nambal, nimbal’ . Dilip Kumar’s ancestors moved from Kutch in Gujarat to South India nearly a century ago. He belongs to a family of rich businessmen and has relatives in Sowcarpet. Following the early death of his father, he dropped out of school and took up jobs to support his family. These difficult circumstances gave him plenty of experiences to draw on later. His humanistic, hyper-realistic fiction is laced with gentle humour. Pitch perfect Ekambareshvarar Agraharam teems with relatable characters. My favourite is Gangu Patti who makes “beautiful use of vast numbers of Gujarati swearwords, turning them into cubes of jaggery.” Young women seek her advice on everything, “including sex, religion, pickle-making, and the nature of time and god.” As Patti holds court, her tragic backstory is narrated through a series of conversational vignettes. The hardest part of translation, Selby says, is rendering dialogue correctly. These conversations sound pitch perfect. Indeed, the best of the 14 stories are those set in Sowcarpet. But other stories too have their own appeal. Selby points out that a few stories have autobiographical elements: the young worker in ‘The Bamboo Shoots’, the suicidal poet in ‘The Scent of a Woman’ and the letter writer in ‘The Letter’ are all versions of the author. (A Tamil film, Nasir , which premiered and won an award at this year’s International Film Festival Rotterdam, is based on Dilip Kumar’s ‘A Clerk’s Story’, not a part of this collection.) ‘The Miracle that Refused to Happen’ is the Indianised version of Ibsen’s A Doll’s House . In all likelihood, this book will whet your appetite for stories by other Tamil masters. In that case, pick up a copy of Dilip Kumar’s comprehensive anthology, The Tamil Story: Through the Times, Through the Tides, which traces the evolution of modern Tamil short fiction through 88 stories. Or you may want to read more of Dilip Kumar. Selby points out that the author, who taught himself Tamil by reading newspapers, writes in short, “almost telegraphic” phrases. This suggests that even an intermediate reader of Tamil like me can hope to read his work in the original. It is an unexpected but inspiring takeaway from this book of superbly translated stories. The reviewer is a Boston-based science journalist.  Cat in the Agraharam and Other Stories  Dilip Kumar, trs Martha Ann Selby Northwestern University Press  Rs. 2,500    Unlike R.K. Narayan’s Malgudi, the Agraharam of the title is a real place on the map
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Time for the piggy bank||A penny saved is a penny earned. Maybe now is the time to draw inspiration from the adage, considering our encounter with the coronavirus, which has shut away most sources of income. However, before lamenting the shut doors, blame ourselves for growing our wants during the good times under pressure to keep our social status. Some had even borrowed heavily to win this rat race. Rewind yourself to those old simple days when every effort was made to avoid spending. Siblings and even cousins passed hand-me-downs from the eldest to the youngest. Same for textbooks. Farmers borrowed tractors and other agricultural implements from each other. For weddings and other social functions, utensils were borrowed from the neighbours. Everything was repaired rather than simply thrown away. Shoes and sandals went to the cobbler, who would swell with elation seeing someone coming to get those repaired. But today, all that is forgotten and considered “old-fashioned”. Save for a rainy day. Hence, I would never get rid of my miserly traits. While travelling, I had often skipped meals to use that money to buy a museum ticket or visit other attractions. In Switzerland for higher studies, I always took night trains since they were free for students. Long ago, I gave up materialistic wants, maybe because I pay little heed to social status. Even exciting sales, however low the prices, fail to attract me. Benjamin Franklin said, “Be aware of little expenses; a small leak will sink a great ship.” Hence, saving is one of the best self-helps. rameshinder.sandhu@gmail.com
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||A minefield of empty hopes||Their faith in me was making me impatient, and my guilt pangs were making me anxious. It was January 2018, and I was on fieldwork as part of my curriculum. The village I went to was suffering from a seasonal irrigation problem, and the people wanted the government to construct a small check dam. I was staying with them and discovering how the “water stress” magnifies during the summers and how it affects everyday life. A check dam could have helped in the drought-prone region. One day, the sarpanch came and requested me to do something to build the dam. I told him that I was a student and nobody would pay heed to me. He said, “No! You write it in your report that the dam ‘must’ be built.” I assured him I would do that, but still, he should not have any hopes, as I knew my report was worth nothing more than 100 marks. Anyway, he was happy to know that somebody is going to document their woes. I met several other village folks who told me that the rich had dug borewells and raised lucrative water-intensive crops. They charge for using the water from their borewells. A small dam would be free to use, besides it would save groundwater. The poor farmers had small plots of land and bought water and rented tractors for farming. They worked in the fields of the rich to supplement their income. Some of them were women whose husbands had left for the city to earn. Misplaced optimism They used to see me wandering in the village. Often, I used to go to them while they were working in the fields and they would offer me a banana or a sugarcane piece. For them, I was an outsider who had come to “inspect” things. They had high hopes of me. They thought when I went back, the Sarkar would listen to me and construct the dam. I tried my best to make them understand that I had come here as part of my studies and that I had no business with the government. Some of them understood this, but most did not. This made me anxious. When you fail to live up to someone’s expectations, it feels bad. In the words of Voltaire, “Every man is guilty of all the good he did not do.” They were not the “poor farmers” who were showering me with whatever they had. It was me who was poor, who had nothing to give them back. It was me who was helpless and not the farmers, who were fighting poverty in the best way they could. Academia has documented a lot of problems as “data”, but could not solve them. Nobody is to blame. The fieldwork got over and I got an emotional farewell from the villagers. I got 84% marks, but they got nothing. emailtoaakashbajpai@gmail.com
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The caste paradox and its echoes in modern education||A couple of years ago, at the Chennai book fair I stumbled upon an interesting hardbound. At a stall I found The Making of the Madras Working Class by D. Veeraraghavan. Curious, as the book’s title was inspired by E.P. Thompson’s epic work The Making of the English Working Class , I glanced through the first few pages and was smitten by the book’s prose and presentation. Impressed, I searched for more works from the author, but couldn’t find any. I soon came to know that Veeraraghavan, former faculty at IIT Madras, had passed away in 2009. The Making of the Madras Working Class is a meticulously researched and compiled work, chronicling the history of working class movements in India, starting with the first organised labour union in India — the Madras Labour Union, founded in April 1918. Controversial reform  Half a Day for Caste? Education and Politics in Tamil Nadu, 1952-55 is the second book from ‘Dilip’ Veeraraghavan (1958–2009). Like his articles and teachings, this short book also has reflections of a rare genius. The book, edited by his friend A.R. Venkatachalapathy, is part of the scholar’s doctoral work at IIT Madras. It tracks a sociologically unique and politically significant period in Tamil Nadu’s history — 1953-54 — in which the State witnessed one of the most radical education reforms in its history. Till date, the Modified Scheme of Elementary Education in rural schools in Madras State (dubbed ‘Kula Kalvi Thittam’ in Tamil, which literally means Hereditary Education Policy) remains one of the most controversial political decisions ever taken by a Tamil Nadu government. In 1953, chief minister C. Rajagopalachari (Rajaji) introduced Kula Kalvi Thittam arguing it was based on the Gandhian model of Basic Education. The scheme basically meant children in villages should use the second half of their day to nurture their parents’ traditional jobs (read caste-based jobs); and attend classes in the first half of the day. Marxian analysis The Thittam triggered a giant controversy. The Dravidian parties vehemently opposed it, saying the scheme would only end up cementing the archaic caste system by denying children from lower-caste segments the opportunity to pursue other vocations since they are bound by law to practise their hereditary jobs. The widespread protests that followed vertically split the Tamil Nadu legislature and culminated in the scrapping of the scheme a year later.   Veeraraghavan dissects the subject with dedication and curiosity and his analysis, anchored on robust Marxian grounds, goes beyond the obvious and treats the education reform as an epochal socio-political phenomenon capable of offering long-lasting insights into India’s caste politics, the Brahmanisation of Indian sociosphere and the way education is seen, reformed and executed in post-Independent India. Veeraraghavan offers great insight into Rajaji’s persona, analysing how megalomania, ideological tenacity and an archaic sense of nationalism propelled his political and personal actions. Rajaji was no exception. Casteism and elitism continue to power political programmes even today, and several ‘visionaries’ champion such causes overtly and covertly. Even seemingly progressive leaders fall into this trap. An example is the Kerala government’s reported suggestion to change timings of colleges to 8.00 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. to help those students who want to do part-time jobs. It can be alleged that the move will end up creating a divide between students from affluent sections of the society (who do not need to go for such jobs and hence can enjoy their campuses and education longer) and their counterparts from poor households. Veeraraghavan’s book can be a good starting point for those who want to look into the issue.  Half a Day for Caste? Education and Politics in Tamil Nadu, 1952–55 D. Veeraraghavan, Edited by A.R. Venkatachalapathy Leftword  Rs. 250
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1On July 12, 1776, Captain James Cook started a final voyage around the world with naturalists who collected thousands of animals and plants, and reported back to Europe. One of their most valuable trips was to New Zealand, where they introduced a certain animal as a food source to the country. Recently, during the lockdown, a group of these animals have even been terrorising a suburb called Titirangi. What animal is this that was given as a gift by James Cook, which then grew in numbers, thereby answering an age-old question in New Zealand? 2In the 1950s, vast stretches of Australia was covered with cattle droppings, in contrast to the fields of Europe. This was due to the action of a certain animal that removed and recycled the dropping back into the soil. The existing species could only break down Kangaroo and Wombat droppings which were hard and dry. To break down the moist soft droppings of the cattle, which were introduced by Europeans, they had to import the tiny animal as well. What animal was thus introduced to clean up after the cattle? 3The Africanised bee is a hybrid bee that came about because 26 swarms escaped quarantine in 1957 and spread throughout the Americas. The bee has a common name, for since the 1990s they have caused the death of more than 1000 humans, besides horses and other animals. They are highly defensive and can chase an intruder up to half a kilometre. What is the scary name given to the bee which refers to its hostile disposition? 4The ____ Toad is the world’s largest toad and is toxic as it has poisonous glands. Due to its voracious appetite it has been introduced in many places, where it is not native, as a type of agricultural pest control. Its name comes from the fact that it preys on a beetle which damages a particular valuable crop. The name of the crop comes from the sweet product we get from it and that it is a long straight tube. What is the name of this toad which is a major issue in Australia leading to the death of a lot of wildlife? 5Herpestes javanicusis native to South East Asia. It was introduced to Hawaii, the Caribbean islands, and some islands in Japan to control a certain animal which it is known to be the enemy of. Unfortunately, in all these places, these animals being opportunistic feeders also attacked native birds and small mammals and have become responsible for multiple species becoming endangered. What animal is this, and what is its natural prey, both having been featured in thePanchatantra? 6Burmese pythons are apex predators native to South Asia, where they live in grasslands and swamps as they are excellent swimmers. Another place where they rule is in a particular state in the U.S. It started because of two issues. First was in the 1970s when irresponsible owners released them into the wild and then in 1992 when Hurricane Andrew destroyed a zoo leading the pythons to escape. Which state is this which has a perfect ecosystem for these animals? 7The Lyall’s wren was a small flightless bird, living on only one island, as it had been killed by rats in neighbouring New Zealand. In 1894, a lighthouse was built on this island. One theory is that a pregnant animal was accidentally brought on a supply boat and escaped on the island. In less than a year, that animal’s family killed the entire Lyall’s wren species rendering it extinct. What invasive animal was this that committed speciocide? 8The Chesapeake Bay in the U.S. is an important estuary between the two states of Maryland and Virginia. In the 1970s it became so polluted that more than 75,000 tonnes of fauna died. Recently they have reversed and cleared the pollution by introducing a certain mollusc from Asia which is excellent at filtering the water. What are these, which are harvested for either food, precious stones, or for making decorative objects? 9Some non-native species have functions that can keep an ecosystem functioning properly without collapsing. One of them isAldabrachelys gigantea, which is the largest of its kind and acts as a giant seed disperser. They perform a role similar to that of the elephant on the islands they were introduced in, as their vigorous search for food fells trees and creates pathways used by other animals. What animals are these that live to be more than 200 years old? 10The Mealy Bug is a small sap-sucking insect which causes immense damage to tropical fruit trees and various ornamental plants. Originally native to the Carribeans it has now spread across Asia. This species has caused immense damage to a certain fruit in South India, which gives it its common name. Which fruit is this, known as pawpaw in its native Central America? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Getting invited inside out||Now that teleconferencing has become a part of my everyday routine, the one thing I can’t help but notice is the inside of people’s homes. Or rather, the little bit that the camera offers a view of; glimpses of curtains and tables and windows and coffee mugs that I have now begun to see as a synecdoche for people’s private lives. Here, there is a resplendent lapis lazuli wall in the home of a person known in public life for a predilection for beige; there you see toys lying around in the home of someone you thought lacking in all manner of joy; everywhere you see signs of individuals as persons and not merely what the corporations call “Key Resource People”. I must confess to some voyeuristic pleasure, but that’s not all. For when I think about it, such brief moments also inspire in me the same kind of thrill I used to feel as a child when invited to my friends’ homes or on the rare occasions when teachers hosted us as a special treat. You felt included, welcomed, embraced, as if the admittance to an inside also signified a moment of trust and belief, an invitation into lives otherwise only available as inaccessible edifices. People’s homes say things about them. The choices they make are performances of self. Anthropologist Daniel Miller speaks about this access to selfhood that things provide — what he calls, “the comfort of things” — even as such access testifies simultaneously to “the sadness of lives”. Marxists have spoken often of the ways in which relations between people have now become relations between things, condemning us all to an inescapable alienation from life and self. More hopeful, really However, my glimpses into people’s homes sometimes tell me something perhaps a bit more hopeful. For as long as I can remember, the inside of my home has been to me both an area of refuge and one of continuity with who I imagined myself to be. Even if limited by student budgets, and second-hand linen, I curated things — keepsakes, pictures, glassware, charms, rugs — intended to signify to myself the heft I was gathering as I moved through life. I daydreamed about my curatorial faculties featuring on the cover ofBetter Homes(better than what, we don’t know) and obsessed over that perfectly tucked bedcover, otherwise alarmingly called a hospital corner. Over the years though, I have let go of apprehensions of disorder and embraced (mildly) the aesthetic of the carefully careless home. I have also realised that what I call my aesthetic is merely what anthropologist Claude Levi-Strauss termed bricolage, a making do with whatever is at hand, a devious use of existing material in new ways. And such deviousness is of particular use in a virtual world. Be it in the halving of the body into the camera-ready face and the home-appropriate shorts, or the segmentation of the home into the well-lit, Instagrammable corner and the cluttered everywhere else. We dress up for that meeting and that discussion, ironing only half a dress and leaving feet happily bereft of footwear. We mute our voices and faces at will, appearing and disappearing like so many stars in a cloudy sky. Seen and unseen The divide between the inside and the outside, the private and the public, the seen and the unseen, characteristic of all of modern life, is now shrinking. And in this shrinking space, we are free to enjoy our artifices knowing fully well that they are such. In such a scenario, it is not that the divide breaks down but that it loses power. No longer need we pretend that people who work do not have rich, inner, private lives that they must subsume to the project of work and money. No longer need we expect our public faces to be flawless and invulnerable to climate, despair and disease. We can be all of the above and then some. We wink at each other’s carefully coiffured faces on the screen, and bear testimony to children, dogs, families, and household activity in the background. This brief interlude of glimpses into our variously bedecked homes, I venture, may well give us the capacity to recognise, include, and revel in the fullness of our carelessly careful lives.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Fathers and children||While everyone sings paeans to motherhood, not too many people worry about fathers. I remember my teachers being horrified at the fact that my father would do my hair as best as he could when mum was not around and insist on redoing it “properly”. Twenty-odd years later, people expressed surprise and shock that my husband was carting our two-day-old son around quite confidently. “Are you sure it’s safe?” asked one nervous friend. Hundred milestones Going through Rob Kemp’s Dadding It: Landmark Moments in Your Life as a Father... and How to Survive Them makes me wonder if even now involved dads are a minority. Kemp divides fatherhood into 104 milestones ranging from pre-birth to becoming a grandfather. From holding the baby right and getting a decent night’s sleep through fussy eating and bike riding to teenage rows and love life and marriage, Kemp offers short and pithy advice. The majority of these points are covered in around two pages each. Of course things like childhood illnesses get a little more space. A table that lists common complaints along with symptoms and treatments makes an excellent guide. Any dad trying out the jokes at the ‘Using and perfecting your dad jokes repertoire’ probably does so at his own peril. Unless it’s a male thing. I showed them to my son and was threatened with murder. Stuck in the middle is a chapter called ‘13 facts on how dads do things differently’. This is a listing of studies showing how important fathers are in a child’s life. Though very different from the other chapters, it makes for some interesting reading. For example, did you know that “fathers of daughters sang more, used more language related to the body and to sadness, were more attentively engaged, and used more analytical language. Fathers of sons engaged in more rough-and-tumble play and used more achievement-focused language.” Or that “dads who work out, play sport and generally keep themselves ﬁt and active boost their offspring’s brain power.”Apparently a father’s fitness has an effect on the baby’s neurons. Learning to handle situations There is a lot that an average Indian parent will probably scoff at or even feel outraged about — for example ‘Kid coming home late’ or ‘Kid comes home drunk’ or ‘Meeting your teenager’s special one’ — but these are realities in India as well. And the sooner we learn to deal with it, the better it is for both the parents and the kids. Kemp sums up what the book is about in his Introduction: “This book is designed to prepare you for some, if not all, of what lies ahead for many years to come, because no matter if your kid is three months, three years, 13 or 33 and living far away, you’re still ‘Dad’. It’s a job for life... bet you hadn’t thought about that when the stars all aligned to bring your little wonder into the world!” I couldn’t help wishing that I could reach out to my dad and ask him what he thought of it all.  Dadding It! Landmark Moments in Your Life as a Father... and How to Survive Them Rob Kemp Bloomsbury  Rs. 479
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||No such thing||North’s three-spade bid showed a heart fit with a hand too good to just bid four hearts. This is a common treatment in today’s tournament world. The opening 10 of hearts lead gave South some options. No one would lead from the queen of trumps against a slam, so East surely held the queen. Was it singleton or doubleton? South should play low from dummy in either case. Maybe South should cover with dummy’s jack and guess what to do about the nine later. Not wanting the opening lead to create a trump loser that wasn’t there before, South played low from dummy and won with the ace in his hand. He next cashed the king of hearts and was disappointed that the queen didn’t fall but pleased that the suit split 3-2. Declarer was in no rush to take the diamond finesse. He cashed three top clubs followed by three top spades. He was in good shape as he cashed dummy’s last spade. East chose to discard a diamond, but it didn’t matter. South exited dummy with a heart to East’s queen, and East was forced to lead a diamond and give South his contract. We are reminded of a quote from the late Terrence Reese: “There is no such thing as a blind opening lead, only deaf opening leaders.” South made a control bid in clubs and East hadn’t doubled the artificial threespade bid. The winning diamond lead shouldn’t have been too hard to find.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Serial surprise||Respected Madam/ Sir,  How are you? Tensiononly no? Everyday Corona number is increasing and increasing like anything. What to do? Bad time for whole world. But on top of one bad time is there any need for another bad time? Never. But that only happened to Mr. Mathrubootham. Latest bad time started three-four days ago. At 2 o’clock in the morning Mrs. Mathrubootham is taking my shoulder and shaking and shaking as if checking coconut in grocer shop. Wake up, she said. Wake up immediately. I jumped out of bed and said, my god is it burglar or medical problem or whether Prime Minister is putting new announcement whether this fellow can keep quiet for two weeks or no? She said, calm down, you will get heart attack. Just that I have seen one amazing TV programme called Tiger King . Have you heard? I said, no. I have heard of Chennai Super King and Tiger Balm but never Tiger King. It is sounding like a mixie company. Can we talk about mixie in the morning? Mrs. Mathrubootham said, “Old man this is the problem. Whole day you sit in front of TV watching samejambuvanera films. Whether you have ever seen any programme produced after 1990? No. Never. Whole day you will watch Mannangkatti of Navarone and Day of the Muttal that’s all.”  Tiger King is latest superhit production from Netflix company, she said. Whole world is watching like anything. You please also watch so we can discuss. I said, “Kamalam what is the need to see programme? I will read Wikipedia page in the morning. Then we can discuss like anything.” Immediately she switched off light and went to sleep. Next day pindrop silence from Mrs. M till lunch time. I said, “Kamalam, I am sorry.” She said in whole married life how many times I have told you to watch any programme? Less than 10 times. You think my programme is stupid? I said, what nonsense! Within three days I will watch all episodes of Tiger King . Then we will discuss like anything ok? Ok. Madam/ Sir, that night I sat in front of TV after dinner. After Mrs. Mathrubootham is sleeping I put on Netflix. Then I thought, what is big hurry. Let me watch little bit of superhit film Maltese Falcon . By mistake I saw full film. No problem, I thought. Three days are there no. Next evening I again put Netflix and started Tiger King . Then I thought long time since I saw Casablanca . If I watch 10 minutes whether sky will fall? Never. Again by mistake I saw full film totally by accident. I am human being, accidents will happen. Finally third night I watched Tiger King full to full. Madam/ Sir, what can I say? Within five minutes I fell asleep. At 3 o’clock Mrs. M came and said, please come to the bed. Did you finish it? I said, 100%. Today after lunch she asked me what are your thoughts about show? I said, it is a masterpiece. Never I expected so much suspense and thrills in one programme. She said, who is your favourite character? I said, Joe Exotic. Unbelievable fellow. Who is your second favourite? I said, Carole Baskin. She asked me did you like 11th episode or 12th episode? I said, 12th is very exciting, but 11th is best for suspense. She got up from table and said, you are hopeless. Whole show is only eight episodes. Also, on computer in the bedroom Tiger King Wiki page is still open. Now please go back and read page fully to tell lies properly. Hopeless. Yours in humiliation, J. Mathrubootham
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Climbdown||Indian and Chinese forces in Ladakh drew back by more than 1 km each from their earlier positions in the Galwan Valley, Gogra and the Hot Springs sector — though there were reports that Chinese troops had not yet withdrawn from the Pangong Tso area — creating a temporary buffer zone to avoid further clashes. Neither side will patrol this area until tensions have abated. This is in line with the agreement reached in talks between corps commanders, and further high-level discussions are expected in mid-July.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Line in the sand||Eight lakh Indians may be forced to leave Kuwait if a Bill imposing quotas on expatriates becomes law. Expats currently make up 70% of the country’s population of 43 lakh, and the Bill, already cleared as constitutional, aims to reduce that figure gradually. Specifically, it stipulates that Indians, the largest expat community, should not exceed 15% of the population; currently, they make up slightly more than a third.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Morricone no more||Oscar-winning Italian composer Ennio Morricone, who created the sparse and haunting soundtrack for the 1966 spaghetti westernThe Good, the Bad and the Ugly, died at 91. Best known for his scores for Sergio Leone’s Dollarstrilogy, including the 1966 classic that catapulted Clint Eastwood to fame, Morricone composed scores for 500 films, includingThe UntouchablesandOnce Upon A Time In America.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Hunted down||Vikas Dubey, the leader of the gangsters who shot dead eight policemen in a recent ambush in Kanpur’s Bikru village, was arrested in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh, after six days on the run. The Uttar Pradesh police department had posted a Rs. 5 lakh bounty on Dubey, and he was recognised by a guard at Ujjain’s Mahakal temple, who contacted the police. Two of his associates, Bittu and Suresh, were also arrested.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Undignified rush||The Indian Council of Medical Research’s push to launch a vaccine for the novel coronavirus for public use by August 15 drew a slew of criticism, including from the the premier Indian Academy of Sciences (IASc), which called the timeline ‘unreasonable’. “While there is an unquestioned urgent need, vaccine development for use in humans requires scientifically executed clinical trials in a phased manner,” IASc said in a statement.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Nine Shiny Objects||Brian Castleberry  Custom House $27.99 The sighting of nine strange lights travelling at unbelievable speed over the Cascade Mountains unites a group of American dreamers and sets off a quest for a utopia of idealists where divisions of race, ethnicity, sexuality are absurd. But this is a dream, soon corrupted by the base instincts.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Once There Was Me||Bobby Sachdeva  Pan Macmillan Rs. 450 Bobby Sachdeva’s life has been scarred by communal violence. Then he tastes life without religious animosity in the U.S. and China. He finally submits a PIL for religious institutions to give away their excess income to the disadvantaged, thus incurring the wrath of bigots.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Hiranyakashyap||Kevin Missal  HarperCollins India Rs. 250 In the second book of the Narasimha Trilogy, Hiranyakashyap seeks to destroy Indra’s kingdom. His son, Prahlad, opposes him. Narasimha tries to find Prahlad but meets with hurdles. Holika too is hunting for her nephew, seething with anger. Can the questors fulfil their destiny?
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Memoirs and Misinformation||Jim Carrey and Dana Vachon  Knopf Rs. 2,323 In this semi-autobiographical novel, Jim Carrey is an actor battling the blues and looking for his Oscar break. Suddenly he meets the love of his life besides getting a movie offer that has the potential to become the apogee of his career. This meta story is all about acting, celebrity and career crisis.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Bad News: Why We Fall for Fake News||Rob Brotherton  Bloomsbury Rs. 599 A psychologist and science writer delves into the psychology of news, reviewing how the latest research can help navigate this post-truth world. Which buzzwords describe psychological reality, and which are empty sound bites?
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Venture Capital Investments||Raj Kumar, Manu Sharma  Sage Rs. 395 This volume gives readers a fundamental understanding of various aspects of venture capital, covering the nature of investments, deal evaluation, structure, economics and fundraising. It discusses the challenges a venture capitalist faces from raising funds to exit valuation.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Shaheen Bagh: From a Protest to a Movement||Ziya Us Salam, Uzma Ausaf  Bloomsbury Rs. 599 This is an account of the women of Shaheen Bagh who raised their voice against the Citizenship Amendment Act and National Register of Citizens. The authors spent time with protesters, recapturing the cry for democracy.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Overdraft||Urjit Patel  HarperCollins Rs. 599 The bad debts of government banks landed on the table of Urjit Patel when he became Governor of the Reserve Bank of India in September 2016. He explains the problem, and claims it could have been solved if he had not been stopped from completing the task.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3108||Across  1 Idiot to listen to Observer bigwig (not really listening) (5-5) 6 Extraordinary power sees prison term reduced, twice (2-2) 9 ‘Substance’ and ‘limitless mass’, we’re told; time will tell (4,3,3) 10 Notion discovered in review of encyclopaedia (4) 12 Frantic Met’s about to save people offering defences (11) 15 One of two footballers, calm, returning with malice concealed (7) 16 Bathroom features: abrasive hard sponges, primarily? (7) 17 Some narwhal I butchered to get seafood (7) 19 Wood that sang, perhaps (of birth, that is) (7) 20 Hansel and Gretel running with wobbly legs away from brute (11) 23 Flower taken from Fair Isle (4) 24 Company minutes with potential to settle (10) 25 Primarily, geriatric and getting asinine? (4) 26 One who looks at signs: ‘logo-starer’, fancifully (10)  Down  1 Bullies those with beef? (4) 2 Road signs every so often involved God (4) 3 Star perhaps loved by any he moved (8,4) 4 German car tooted endlessly within earshot (7) 5 Timeless English aquatic bird on a lake (7) 7 Danube and Nile flowing? That’s beyond doubt (10) 8 Nudist’s sea-swimming without support (10) 11 What’s produced by conversion of us immoral lot? (8,4) 13 Wench wanting to repeatedly lose weight to become delightful (10) 14 Reckoning essence of native language is translated (10) 18 Stimulants: great amounts vessel contained (4-3) 19 Nary a little laugh for a loser (2-5) 21 Unpleasant odour of ancient pottery (4) 22 Poet to look like a wolf, reportedly (4)
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Sunday Recipe||
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Exhaled breath of COVID-19 patients can contain novel coronavirus, study finds||Not just talking, singing or shouting, as the World Health Organization indicated on July 9, but even breathing may spread novel coronavirus into the air. A study published in Nature had earlier found airborne coronavirus in a patient’s breath. A couple of more studies found airborne transmission of the virus during breathing and speaking. A new study posted on July 2 in preprint server MedRxiv has again found virus spread while breathing. Preprints are yet to be peer-reviewed and published in a scientific journal. The study adds to the existing body of evidence that suggests airborne transmission of the virus can play a role in virus spread. The study found that breath contained the virus, “especially during the early stages of the disease”. On July 9, WHO acknowledged that coronavirus can be airborne in closed settings that lack good ventilation, and it can spread from one person to another in such settings on prolonged exposure. Airborne transmission The study found that COVID-19 patients exhaled coronavirus into the air at an estimated rate of 1,000-1,00,000 RNA copies/minute. The authors write that the virus levels in exhaled breath could reach 1,00,000 to 1,00,00,000 copies per metre cube at an average breathing rate of 12 litres per minute. This would mean that a COVID-19 patient can exhale millions of virus particles per hour. “Our data reveal direct evidence of airborne transmission of SARS-CoV-2 via breathing,” Maosheng Yao from Peking University, who led the team, writes. Key influences The emission rate of the virus was found to be influenced by a few factors such as disease stage, patient activity and, possibly, age. “We found that the SARS-CoV-2 breath emission rate into the air was the highest, up to 1,00,000 viruses per minute, during the earlier stages of COVID-19,” they write. However, the virus emission was not found to be continuous or at the same rate, but was rather a “sporadic event”. For instance, two breath samples collected from the same patient on different dates returned different test results. The researchers collected exhaled breath condensate samples from 27 COVID-19 patients. The time intervals from symptom onset to the sample collection were all less than 14 days. Of the 27 patients studied, they could detect the virus in the exhaled breath of five patients aged under 50. In these five patients, the emission rate in exhaled breath was 1,000-100,000 RNA copies/minute. While the hands of all the five patients did not have any virus, two of 22 phone samples tested positive, and the toilet pit surface tested positive for virus in the case of one patient. Virus in the exhaled breath could be “partially responsible” for the contamination on the surfaces, they say. The researchers also collected samples from various surfaces and tested them for the presence of the virus. In all, 242 surface swab samples were collected and 13 tested positive for the virus. The virus was found on five categories of surfaces — toilet pits (16.7%, n = 12), hospital floor (12.5%, n = 16), other surfaces (7.4%, n = 27), patient-touching surfaces (4.0%, n = 149), and medical-touching surfaces (2.6%, n = 38). No virus was found on handles. “The overall SARS-CoV-2 positive rate for the surface swabs was 5.4% (n = 242). These observations do not support the widely-held belief that direct transmission by contact with surfaces plays a major role in COVID-19 spread,” they write. Meanwhile, WHO classifies contact with contaminated surfaces as the second most common route of virus transmission. Low probability Large respiratory droplets and direct contact with contaminated surfaces are currently considered dominant routes of virus spread. But the present study has found that frequently touched surfaces like mobile phones have very low probability of virus presence. “Measures such as enhanced ventilation and the use of face masks are essential to minimise the risk of infection by airborne SARS-CoV-2,” they write.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Assam keelback spotted for the first time in 129 years||The Assam keelback snake has been sighted by a team from the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, for the first time since 1869. This snake was spotted in 2018 by zoologist Abhijit Das when he, along with a team, was retracing the Abor expedition – an iconic expedition that took place from 1911-1912 that had yielded a rich list of flora and fauna of the Assam region. After due identification, the find has been described in a paper published recently in the journal Vertebrate Zoology.  Rewarding expedition The Abor expedition had covered a 130 km stretch along the Siang river from the base camp at Kobo Chapori (elevation approximately 121 metres above sea level) to the head quarter at Yembung ( about 3,500 metres above sea level) and beyond. “The staggering zoological result includes description of 244 species and 14 genera new to science,” says Dr Das. In the latest expedition which traced out the route of the earlier one, too, the researchers were not disappointed. As Dr. Das recounts, “We recorded 400 plants, 270 butterflies, 66 odonates, 25 amphibians and 44 reptiles, 239 birds and at least 20 mammals.” The survey started from Poba reserved forest located at the interstate border of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh on September 30, 2018. “I spotted the snake as I was following a small muddy stream deep inside evergreen forest,” says Dr. Das. “Generally, in a forest you have a forest floor with leaf-litter, but here was a special habitat, consisting of stream and swamp within the forest, which attracted me.” Unlike other snakes, this one took shelter under water, below the fallen leaf-litter, a very special way to avoid attention. Preserved specimens First known as Hebius pealii this snake was named after Edward Peal, a British tea planter who first collected two specimens of this snake from upper Assam, 129 years ago. Of the two collected specimens, one was preserved in the Zoological Survey of India, Kolkata, and the other was kept in the Natural History Museum in London. Since the former specimen had disintegrated, the team had to compare the present specimen they found with the one kept in the Natural History Museum, London. Had that specimen gone bad, making the identification would have been that much more difficult. The Assam keelback is so far known only to inhabit Sivasagar in Upper Assam and Poba in Assam-Arunachal border. So, as far as present knowledge goes, it is an endemic snake of Upper Assam. Through a molecular study, the team has shown that this snake belongs to the genus Herpetoreas, which has only three other known members, and not Hebius. This is also the first description of a live snake and its colouration. This is the first female Assam keelback to have been found. “So, we now know how male and female may differ in morphological characters,” says Dr Das.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Understanding forest fires and their effect on carbon emissions||“Growing up in Uttarakhand, forest fires were a common sight every year. I’ve woken up with smoke hovering around,” says Sandeep Bhatt from IIT, Roorkee, who spent years tracking these fires and has now reported, along with an international team, their effect on carbon emission and the ecosystem. During 2003–2017, a total of 5,20,861 active forest fire events were detected in India, and according to the report of the Forest Survey of India, over 54% of the forest cover in India is exposed to occasional fire. The study published in Science of the Total Environment used remote sensing–based models to measure primary productivity over an area and also looked at burn indices, which help to demarcate the forest fire burn scars using satellite imagery. Common index “The normalized burn ratio is an effective burn index commonly used to identify burnt regions in large fire zones. In normal conditions, healthy vegetation exhibits a very high reflectance in the near-infrared spectral region and considerably low reflectance in the shortwave infrared spectral region. These conditions get dismantled and reversed if a fire occurs,” explains Srikanta Sannigrahi, the first author of the paper in an email to The Hindu . He is a postdoctoral researcher at University College Dublin, Ireland. Promising tool He adds that the spectral differences between healthy vegetation and burnt forest areas can easily be identified and highlighted byremote sensing burn indices. It can be a promising tool for land resource managers and fire officials. The team notes that the States of northeast India, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand are the most fire-prone in India. Previous studies using forecasting models and in-situ observations in western Himalaya have shown a sharp increase of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides and ozone during high fire activity periods. The current paper noted very high to high carbon emissions in the eastern Himalayan states, western desert region and lower Himalayan region. They note that the occurrence of high fire intensity at the low altitude Himalayan hilly regions may be due to the plant species (pine trees) in the area and proximity to villages. Villages make them more susceptible to anthropogenic activities like forest cover clearance, grazing and so on. Studies have shown that the sharp increase in average and maximum air temperature, decline in precipitation, change in land-use patterns have caused the increased episodes of forest fires in most of the Asian countries. The team plans to further work on the prediction of forest fires with the support of advanced machine learning models and AI-based techniques. “Identifying the forest fire hotspots and forecasting the fire location and time accurately is the need of [the hour]. We, therefore, seek many scholarly scientific contributions to mitigate this concurrent issue in a smarter way,” adds Prof. Sandeep Bhatt.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Unexposed people may have COVID-19-specific memory T cells||At least five studies (one of which has been published in Cell and the remaining are pre-prints yet to be peer-reviewed) have shown that people unexposed to and not infected with novel coronavirus may still exhibit T cell responses specific to this virus. An overwhelming percentage of adults are exposed to four different coronaviruses that cause common cold. It is thought that SARS-CoV-2-specific T cell responses seen in healthy people might arise from memory T cells derived from exposure to ‘common cold’ coronaviruses. The studies found 20-50% of healthy people display novel coronavirus-specific memory T cells. Whether the presence of pre-existing immunity from memory T cells offers clinical relevance — to protect or even harm people — when exposed to novel coronavirus is not known. The healthy people studied were those tested prior to the pandemic or have not been infected with novel coronavirus. A few studies used peripheral blood mononuclear cells and plasma samples collected from healthy donors years before the coronavirus outbreak occurred in Wuhan. T cell immunity “Pre-existing T cell immunity to SARS-CoV-2 could be relevant because it could influence COVID-19 disease severity. It is plausible that people with a high level of pre-existing memory CD4+ T cells that recognize novel coronavirus could mount a faster and stronger immune response upon exposure to the virus and thereby limit disease severity,” notes a Comment published in Nature Reviews Immunology. Alessandro Sette and Shane Crotty from La Jolla Institute for Immunology, La Jolla, say that T cells could “potentially facilitate an increased and more rapid neutralizing antibody response” against the virus. Revealing correlations One of the ways of ascertaining the role of pre-existing immunity in protecting against SARS-CoV-2 virus is by measuring such immunity and correlating with infection and severity of disease in such people when they are exposed to the virus. The relationship between infections by common cold coronavirus and age is not well established and so, too, the immunity caused by infections by the four coronaviruses that cause the common cold. This becomes particularly important as children do not show severe symptoms, while older people often do. “The reasons for both are unclear,” they write. “These considerations underline how multiple variables may be involved in potential pre-existing partial immunity to COVID-19”, they say. They also caution that it is important to “avoid over-generalizations or conclusions in the absence of data”. Vaccination outcomes There is a possibility that pre-existing T cell memory might influence vaccination outcomes. Pre-existing immunity could help elicit better immune responses against novel coronavirus, and these responses can manifest faster. Meanwhile, pre-existing immunity could be mistaken as enhanced efficacy of the vaccine in eliciting immune responses. This could be particularly confusing in Phase-1 trials where the vaccine is tested on a small group of healthy participants. “This could be avoided by considering pre-existing immunity as a variable in trial design. Thus, we recommend measuring pre-existing immunity in all COVID-19 vaccine phase I clinical trials,” they write. This could also have drawbacks. For instance, the pre-existing immunity can reduce the immune responses that the vaccine causes through a mechanism called the “original antigenic sin”. It can also lead to antibody-mediated disease enhancement, where antibodies present at sub-neutralising concentrations can actually augment virus infection and cause more severe disease. This is seen in chikungunya and dengue. In the Philippines, post vaccination with a dengue vaccine, people with no prior infection with the virus came down with severe illness when they were later exposed to the virus.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Bracing for COVID-19 surge in south India||It’s like a relay race in India, with each State and city taking its turn for a COVID-19 surge. The States which seemed to have novel coronavirus under control when Mumbai and Delhi were surging are running in the next leg. For now, it is Karnataka’s turn to lead the pack with a high average growth rate of 8%. Bengaluru, once lauded as a model, accounts for 45% of the confirmed cases. The hard reality is that no city is immune to COVID-19 infection, and the virus reminds us that the battle in tackling the pandemic is still in the initial stages. Karnataka, in general, and Bengaluru, in particular, was an exceptional performer among all its peers by implementing one of the most stringent lockdowns. Hence, implementation of lockdown was completely successful in limiting the speed of the transmission. As a testimony, most of the cases in Bengaluru were traced to other States after the lockdown was lifted. Each country and State will have an initial circulation due to import of cases from elsewhere. Citing that as a reason for the surge in cases is only reactionary. The other aspect of the lockdown was to prepare to be ready for handling the surge in cases. That is where the success of every model is tested. Bearing the brunt Urban areas in India are particularly prone to bearing the brunt of most infectious diseases that propagate in close-contact settings. Besides, urban areas have the disrepute for neglecting public health actions. The pandemic in the metros is a proxy for the devastating effects of most infectious diseases and inappropriate health system responses in urban areas. Bengaluru is no exception to this — centralisation of pandemic responses and use of technology could only mask this in the initial phase of the epidemic. This turned out to be inadequate as the cases started surging with no prior plans to engage and strengthen the urban primary healthcare system consistently. With restrictions lifted, the public too assumed the worst phase was over. The newfound freedom was exercised with little attention to physical distancing or wearing masks, which resulted in the city corporation collecting more than half-million rupees in fines. It does not mean that calamity is waiting for Bengaluru city; it is among the foremost cities to detect cases, especially due to strong initiatives of improved surveillance for SARI and ILI during the lockdown. Need of the hour What is needed now is to reduce the gap in the time lag between the onset of symptoms and isolation of cases. Isolation of cases as early as possible, close to the day of symptom-onset, through better communication to the people and use of antigen testing should be the mainstay of decelerating the spread. This will be successful only if primary health care is supported by additional workforce and logistics. The success of quarantine, too, relies on a strong primary healthcare system. Reorienting the primary healthcare staff with immediate hiring or repatriating the health volunteers will be pivotal in the success of this phase of the relay. Use of technology can, at best, be complementary in nature and definitely cannot replace the presence of a strong public-health workforce. Barring Telangana, the story in other southern States is similar to that of Karnataka, with some variance. Andhra Pradesh witnessed the surge due to import from other districts and foreign returnees, but local circulations seem to be sustained, including spikes in the temple cities. The State had the highest tests per million and the highest recovery rate compared with other States. In Tamil Nadu, Chennai accounts for 58% of the total cases, while cases in other urban areas are fast-increasing. Tamil Nadu’s surge is attributed to inter-State and inter-district travel, enhanced by super-spreaders, crowd and close-contact settings. The case fatality seems to be similar in all these States except Kerala. Kerala has an intricate task of sustaining its track record of 0.43% of reported cases ending up in deaths. Widely lauded for its management globally, Kerala’s infallible image is at stake due to spike in cases. With the return of a large number of non-resident people, Kerala has started taking precautionary steps for preventing super-spreading events in the State. Act now Once the metros start saturating, the next leg of the relay will be in other urban areas and dense settings. The natural progression will manifest as spikes in every neighbourhood. The pandemic necessitates phenomenal leadership; adamant or complacent systems will crumble faster and steeper. The public health system in urban areas needs rehabilitation, nurturing and strengthening to tackle the rest of the pandemic and future challenges. Having a primary health centre in every ward, recruiting two medical officers for each centre and strengthening them with required field staff and logistics is the first step. Developing the skills and competencies of workers is the next step to be battle-ready for managing any epidemic. Inability to act now will soon lead to running out of excuses during the next wave or the next pandemic.  (Giridhara R. Babu is Professor, Head at Lifecourse Epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health, PHFI, Bengaluru, and a member of the Karnataka COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee.)
12 July 2020||New Delhi,||The men who wear care on their sleeves||Vicram Sharma says he enjoys holding his almost-five-month-old son up after a feed to burp him. “I do it because I enjoy it, and I want to be hands-on,” says the 44-year-old former “party boy” who always wanted to be a father, but was waiting for “the right time” until he was “completely, completely ready”. Currently in Anand, Gujarat, where Dr. Nayana Patel facilitated the surrogacy process, Mr. Sharma, who is one of the directors and owners of the Baidyanath Group, got stuck there in the lockdown, rented a farmhouse and is now enjoying time with his son. “There is a day nanny and a night nanny,” he says. His mother and niece are with him, but he likes to be around even when Shivay is sleeping, watching over him or working; or taking him out to the garden to absorb the sights and the sounds. Men at work Far away from the promise of gurgles and a long, healthy life, of well-trained staff and the advantages of social and economic capital, R. Jai Krishna says he has still not grieved for his father. N. Rangaraj died of COVID-19-triggered complications, at 70, and as Mr. Krishna, 42, himself recovers from the illness, somehow managing to perform the last rites amid the pandemic and the lockdown, he has been beaten down by years of almost single-handedly caring for his father. When Mr. Krishna’s mother passed away in 2011, his father found it difficult to manage alone in his Chennai home, his heart problem, diabetes and asthma sometimes acting up. Mr. Krishna, who was living in Delhi and working as a journalist, shifted his father to the city and tried to find help. “But caretakers are not really caregivers,” he says. He adds that he tried several permutations and combinations, including hiring a couple to take care of his father and getting someone who would speak Tamil so that Mr. Rangaraj was comfortable. Nothing worked. Eventually, they settled into a pattern where Mr. Krishna would get up in the morning, get his father coffee, cook breakfast and leave for office to be in by 9.30 a.m. “There was a circle of guards, so I knew he was safe. What I didn’t realise was that he was slipping into depression, after access to his grandchild was denied,” he says, of his separation with his wife. “One day, he said he was lonely, and wanted to go back home.” On the day that he was to put his father on a flight to Chennai, while he was to take one to Mumbai for a board meeting, Mr. Rangaraj left home at the crack of dawn and went missing. He had slipped into psychosis, a condition characterised by delusions and disordered thinking. Over the years, Mr. Krishna travelled between Delhi and Chennai every week on red-eye flights, staying with his father in a psychiatric ward. His employers were supportive, but sometime last year, he decided to quit full-time employment, try the gig economy for work, and move to Chennai. He acknowledges letting go of a few offers, but adds: “I don’t know how many opportunities he must have let go in bringing me up. Fathers don’t say many things; a father’s love is not seen.” Men also face caregiver burnout, much like women do, says Hena Faqurudheen, a psychologist who works with the Hank Nunn Institute in Delhi, an organisation that raises awareness around mental health and aims to make treatment affordable. “Men will admit to it, but what keeps them from accessing counselling is the stigma around that,” she says, adding that it could also be the problem-solving, solution-oriented mindset that men have that puts the focus on the situation at hand, rather than their own well-being. Mr. Krishna though says he knows he has depression and has reached out for help. Choice matters In the world of primary caregivers, relationships are built on hidden work that often centres around the care of children or the elderly. Most often, it falls to women, who are pushed into it through societal conditioning or family choice or circumstance. It isn’t common to find men who grow into it, who are emotionally available and physically involved with those they care for, while holding office jobs and making difficult decisions about career progression. After he lost his wife three years ago, Piyush Saxena, 40, an IT professional, decided to stay put in Gurugram, where he lives in a joint family with his five-year-old daughter Aarya. He is supported by his mother and his brother’s family, but works from home most afternoons (in pre-lockdown times) and has turned down a few international job offers because he would like to give his daughter a sense of stability and family. “You get a new perspective when you’re single parenting,” he says. “If I’d had a partner, I wouldn’t have realised a lot of things.” Things like attending parent-teacher meetings solo, playing with dolls, taking his daughter down to play, reading the same story book each night, even answering questions about death. “I’m developing a lot of patience.” Mr. Saxena shares a YouTube video of his daughter saying in her primary-school-goer voice, “When the coronavirus is gone, I am going to find a mom for me.” Aarya has developed her own understanding of god: the “bad god” took her mother away and the “good god” lives in the temples she visits with her father. Mr. Saxena doesn’t try and change the narrative with his daughter, listening to her and answering as many questions as he can. It is hard, he admits, “but at the end of the day, when she hugs me and sleeps, it is a rewarding experience”. This open display of emotions and high engagement, unfamiliar a generation ago to many, is something that now has social sanction, says Gayathri Sreedharan, an applied anthropologist in Delhi. “Men have traditionally expressed emotional intimacy in terms of working towards giving their children a better life, whether through a job or even giving up a support system in a smaller place in favour of a bigger city.” While this continues to be the case, what has changed is that where men would be available to their families when they wanted to, it’s possible that now they make themselves available when dependants need them. It’s okay for a man to say he needs to leave early to take his mum to the doctor or watch his child’s band performance.  Help at home Rajesh Lala, 53, who lives in Vasant Kunj, does not see himself as a procreator, provider and protector, traditional roles associated with masculinity. He describes his relationship with his mother, in her late-70s, and his son, now 18, as one of companionship. “My mother lives in her own home, and other than paying her bills and doing a few online transactions for her, she’s fairly independent,” he says. Mr. Lala lost his wife four years ago, and scaled back his travel and even closed a branch office of the education consultancy he runs, but says even in the hard times, his son was a support to him and vice versa. It’s something Suman Tarafdar, 49, who lives in Janakpuri, agrees with. His mother, Shefali, now in her mid-80s, and he had “transitioned to being friends” a long time ago. “We would go out a lot. We share of lot of interests: art, books, gardening.” Five years ago, his mother had a stroke, and while he says “it’s sometimes melancholic” at home because she is often frustrated by her physical limitations, the only way their relationship has changed is that “I have to be responsible and think ahead to anything she might need”. As a travel writer, who needed to go out of town, he says a cook and caregiver are in place. With shrinking families and single children, help is a necessity, and Viraj Mahajan accepts it gladly. As a single parent to two boys — Aaryan and Jai, 7 and 6 respectively — he’s happy for basic discipline to be enforced by anyone from the gardener to the cook at his home off MG Road. This doesn’t mean he’s giving up the responsibility, he’s clear: “There’s no question of me partying the whole night and my mother or father getting the kids ready in the morning. I am the parent. They’re the grandparents – they’re supportive, but there is no confusion in the parent role.” Even as school has begun with Zoom classes, he says, “I’m running between two children; it’s madness.” He monitors the homework, cooks with them, nudges the children into not prolonging a five-minute shower into a half-an-hour bath-time game, while also helping form an opinion on respecting women. “When they were younger, they would playfully pull at the help’s chunni. I told them that was absolutely not allowed,” he says. “It’s very similar to what all parents do for their children. The difference is that I’m solely responsible.” He says that all the work and responsibility is balanced by the hugs and kisses, a lot of which he has received from his own father. “When we were growing up, we knew we needed IQ, but now we know that in our day-to-day living, at home and at work, EQ will get you more friends, help you achieve more, make you a better person.”
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping up With Kwan||In 2018, Kevin Kwan’s bestseller, Crazy Rich Asians , transformed into a watershed moment for Asians in Hollywood. A film adaptation with an all-Asian cast, Asian director and writers, luring white audiences to the cinemas, where franchise movies reigned supreme in the summer, was previously unheard of. Kwan, the brain behind it all, found unprecedented fame, propelling him to an enviable New York City (NYC) clique of celebrity writers. But he doesn’t consider himself as one. “Celebrity is such a strange word,” he says, over a long-distance phone call from the Big Apple. “I have friends who are actual celebrities and to me that is a very special condition, which I wouldn’t wish on anyone.” The one-percenters Kwan says he is very much a “writer in a room who lives a normal life”, and is eager for his latest book, Sex & Vanity , to release. It is his first novel after the big Hollywood success and the Crazy Rich Asians trilogy ended. But the essence of his writing and universe carries on in his latest — one occupied by the filthy rich. A modern-day rendition of EM Forster’s A Room with a View , the novel’s writing is over-the-top and impudent, the characters (mostly Asian or Asian-American) are among the top 1% (as Bernie Sanders would disdainfully call it) and romance drives the plot through exotic private islands and uppity venues in NYC. But the book has something previously unexplored: the rift between old and new money. To most, the wealthy are a homogeneous and cloistered group but Kwan, whose lineage can be traced to the upper-class establishment of Singapore, knows the finer differences. After spending over two decades in NYC, the 47-year-old author not only understands the lives of the wealthy Asians but also the East Coast elites. “In New York, I could be a fly on the wall and observe how the elites treated people they perceived as new money,” he recalls, adding, “No matter how privileged you are, there’s always going to be someone who will think you are not good enough. The snobbery never ends.”  Fight to fit in In Sex & Vanity, the tussle between heritage and newly-acquired richness manifests itself in Lucie Churchill’s relationship with her fiancé, Cecil Pike. In a bid to fit in, he is flashy, opulent and eager to please, while she is a goody-two-shoes who only wants to chase personal gratification. In a way, they embody Kwan’s observation of the differences between the elites in the East and the West. While the former project their affluence with big houses, cars and jewellery, the latter have made a shift towards satiating private experiences like lavish holidays, golf, collecting art or even philanthropy, he says. It is not just Kwan’s interactions with the crème de la crème, but also his personal struggle for self-identity in the US that finds its way into the novel. Lucie, ahapa— half Chinese, half American — spends her life reconciling with her dual racial heritage, a struggle that not only impacts her self-esteem but finds pertinence in a racially-divided America of late. “This is something I have had much experience with,” says Kwan, who spent his adolescent years in Texas, before moving to New York. “No matter what, you are always going be an outsider, whether it is the world of privilege in Houston or in NYC; you are always an interloper.” Asians on the map Representation in mainstream cinema and literature, therefore, is imperative to trigger change. “ Crazy Rich Asians started a revolution,” he declares. “It took me by surprise how much it affected white Americans, and not just Asians.” In the last two years, Kwan has witnessed a gradual, if not a tectonic, shift in narratives and casting. He counts films like The Farewell (2019) and actors like Awkwafina as examples of breakout successes, and Mindy Kaling’s Never Have I Ever among his current favourites. “I do see that Crazy Rich Asians has opened the eyes of Hollywood that our stories are financially viable,” he says. But the progress may be slower in the casting department. “The instinct for big players in Hollywood is to be as risk-averse as possible and that entails casting well-known stars and, unfortunately, there are a lot more well-known stars who are not Asians.” Currently working as a creator and co-writer on a television series for STX Entertainment, Kwan informs that Sex & Vanity is the first in a trilogy. While the first novel is an homage to Manhattan, the second and third will be an ode to London and Paris. He is open to optioning the book for an adaptation, but says he didn’t write it with a movie in mind. “If you think about a possible film while writing, you are setting yourself up for disaster,” he says. The novel, though, reads quite like a romcom, rife with mushy dialogues and sweeping descriptions of panoramas waiting to be filmed. “I try to stay in the literary world and evoke a story visually. At the same time, I am very influenced by movies,” concludes Kwan.  “...whether it is the world of privilege in Houston or in NYC; you are always an interloper.”
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Turn back the clock||Marie-Cécile  Cisamolo is no stranger to exquisite craftsmanship. “I love my job, even on a Saturday,” goes an Instagram post, as she tries out a Bulgari ruby ring, a Cartier panther bangle-watch and other glittering pieces from the current Christie’s Hong Kong Magnificent Jewels sale. But the auction house’s jewellery specialist is visibly excited when she presses a tiny moonstone button on an Art Deco table clock and it chimes. Cisamolo is on a webinar about an ongoing collection of Cartier clocks, where each of the 101 pieces on sale features the French house’s mastery in enamelling, engraving and gem setting. And as she pulls out an agate and purple enamel number with a little agate door to reveal a meticulously designed clock face, or exclaims over the feminine colours or quirks of some of the clocks, Francesca Cartier Brickell, her co-host, provides the inside story. From the family album Sharing details from a decade of research spent on her recent book, The Cartiers , Brickell talks about the journey from Belle Epoque to Art Deco, mystery to prism clocks. About how Louis Cartier was surrounded by great inventors, including Edmund Jaeger. How he loved to visit Chinese antique shops in Paris to buy lacquer panels. And the trend for all things Chinese in the 1920s, as seen in vanity cases, jewellery and art. Sitting in her grandfather Jean-Jacques Cartier’s library (he ran Cartier London till the business was sold to Swiss luxury conglomerate, Richemont), Brickell points to a design aesthetic that was also inspired by the splendour of Russia’s royal House of Romanov. She reminds us of clockmaker Maurice Couet’s contribution to Cartier and presents original drawings and letters from that time. When Brickell refers to how Louis Cartier’s jewellery designs, in the Garland Style, inspired his clocks, Cisamolo picks up a 1904 creation in dark-blue opaline glass and white enamel from a shelf behind her. In the catalogue of clocks, all from a private European collector who had amassed them over three decades, the starting bid for this urn clock is CHF 40,000. The collection is estimated to sell above $5 million. Christie’s says the clocks, even if over a 100 years old, are in working condition. The mystery continues While the sale does not include a mystery clock — Cartier’s tour de force of illusion, where the hour and minute hands float free inside what appears to be a crystal ball, with no clockwork showing — they do have a few semi-mystery clocks. Cisamolo’s favourite, a day and night clock made in 1913, comes with the Latin inscription: “I do not count the hours if they are not brilliant.” Previously owned by aristocrats, heiresses and politicians, these horological creations are a reminder of beauty and opulence from another era. As Cisamolo puts it, now let’s hope they find the right homes.  The sale at christies.com closes on July 21, 2020.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Finding calm in chaos||“Ifeel like my songwriting is prophetic,” says Raja Kumari, about her latest single ‘Peace’, that was released last week. A laid back R&B number, it is a departure from the rapper-singer-songwriter’s usual hip-hop style. Recalling that she had co-written the song (with friend and collaborator Elvis Brown) in early January, she says, “I’d been going through a lot, missed my family as I’d been in India for quite some time, it was lonely… So I wanted to say something positive.” However, it is also relevant to the current state of the world, offering an escape with her smooth vocals and calming visuals. Chatting on Instagram Live earlier this week, she is impeccably turned out as always, although it is late night in California, where she has been quarantining with her family for the past few months. There is plenty of love in the comments for her work, especially the new single. Even her mum is a fan, says Raja Kumari. “It is her favourite because it is so peaceful and she can send it to all her friends. In the other songs, when I drop an F bomb, she can’t share it. So we have issues,” she laughs. The lockdown has taught her many things, including the true meaning of self-care, she says. Apart from going vegan and making other health-related changes, she explains, “I was going 20 million miles per hour and did not realise that self-love is sleeping on time, staying hydrated, choosing happiness and joy in every moment. Becoming my own support system has become the most important thing.” It is something she learnt through her career as well, getting into an industry where “no one looked like [me]”. To make Indian culture as mainstream in America as Latin culture is, she feels will take more than one artiste. “I believe we have a lot of talent. So if we keep elevating our quality, we can have a renaissance,” she says. This desire is why she partnered with Bumble’s ‘Levelling the Charts’ initiative to mentor upcoming young artistes in India. Her advice? “Perseverance, belief in self, consistency, manifestation, setting intentions, removing limiting ideas and beliefs, and having the audacity to believe in your dreams. These are the things that create superstars,” she says.  With half a million followers on Instagram, Raja Kumari has never shied away from activism on her social media page. Having grown up in the US, she says the current political situation and the Black Lives Matter movement has shaken many people “out of their slumber”. Counting herself one among them, she says, “I was affected by this idea of being a model minority, understanding my privilege and re-educating myself, and unlearning things. If I can bring in alternate information that my followers can research on their own to make a decision, I think it is my duty and responsibility to share it.” And to the haters, she simply says, “I wish them the best.”
12 July 2020||New Delhi,||Active cases fall below 20K; govt. plans to test all health workers||The number of active COVID-19 cases in Delhi has dropped below 20,000, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. As many as 1,781 new cases were reported in 24 hours, taking the tally to 1,10,921. Of the total cases, 87,692 people have recovered and there are 19,895 active cases. Also, 34 more deaths have been reported in a single day, taking the toll to 3,334, read the bulletin.  Though the total cases in Delhi have been increasing, the active cases have been decreasing since July 1. The number of active cases was 27,007 on July 1 and has decreased by 26.3% to reach 19,895 on Saturday.   The positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive, was 8.2% on Saturday — the lowest since July 1. The number of containment zones was 639.  The Delhi government is also planning to test all healthcare workers for COVID-19 using antibody testing kits. Similar tests have already begun in multiple Central-run hospitals, according to officials. Antibody testing “The Delhi government will test all healthcare workers, numbering at least 40,000-50,000, for COVID-19 using antibody tests. The government is in talks with the Centre and ICMR on whether to procure the kits or if the ICMR will provide the kits,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu . A positive result in an antibody test means that the person has developed antibodies against the virus, which implies that the person was infected at some point. The official said that the idea is to understand how prevalent the virus is in healthcare workers. “We are planning to start testing before July 20,” the official said, adding that the plan is to first test workers in COVID-19 treatment facilities and then the rest. Minakshi Bhardwaj, Medical Superintendent of Central government’s RML Hospital, said that the process has already begun. “We have been testing our over 4,000 employees using antibody testing kits. We had procured the kits and the process will take at least one more week,” she said. The Centre’s Lady Hardinge Hospital is also in the process of starting the tests, according to officials. “A communication has been sent to the Union Health Secretary with request for initiating Rapid Antigen Test for high-risk group of individuals in health facilities of Central government,” the bulletin added.
12 July 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. plans to convert police housing into temporary jail||The Delhi government is planning to convert a newly built police housing complex near Mandoli jail into a temporary prison with a capacity to hold 1,800 inmates, said officials. “New inmates will be put up at the facility for two weeks before they are moved to the jail complex to make sure that COVID-19 does not spread in the prison,” an official source told The Hindu . Inmates already lodged in jails across the city who present symptoms of infection or are suspected of carrying the virus will also be moved to the new facility. Once the Minister concerned approves the plan, the housing complex will be notified as a temporary jail. Currently, the housing complex is functioning as an 850-bed COVID Care Centre, and about 600 infected people are being treated at the facility. The district officials have been directed to vacate the complex. “The patients will be moved to the Yamuna Sports Complex, which is also a COVID Care Centre. They will be shifted after an order is issued. The process of moving them will take only two days,” said an official of Shahdara District. The government is also looking into the possibility of shifting some inmates from other jails to the new facility, as the total number of inmates in the 16 jails of the city is still more than their combined actual capacity of 10,026, said officials. The decision to turn the housing complex into a temporary jail was taken by a committee looking into decongesting prisons in the city, following a Supreme Court order. On March 16, the Supreme Court took suo motu cognisance of the risk of COVID-19 infection spreading within and from overcrowded prisons. On March 23, it asked the State governments to consider giving parole to inmates facing up to seven-year jail term in a bid to decongest prisons on account of the COVID-19 outbreak. Parole extended Following the court order, the Delhi government amended the Delhi Prisons Rules, 2018, and inserted a clause for ‘emergency parole’ and started granting paroles of eight weeks each. The Delhi government recently issued on order to extend emergency parole for a second time. Emergency parole of all convicts whose current parole is going to expire by July 31 is extended by eight weeks, said an order issued on July 7.  The Hindu had reported on June 30 that the government was planning to extend emergency parole. A total of 1,108 convicts have been released on emergency parole till now and this parole period will be counted as part of their sentence. The government had first extended the parole by eight weeks on May 22.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Should Kuwait’s draft expat bill worry India?||The story so far: The Kuwait National Assembly (NA) is discussing several proposals to reduce the share of foreigners in the country’s population, which is now pegged at 70%. There are many proposals under consideration, and one is to put country caps on the number of emigrants in the country. In this, the plan is that Indians should not exceed 15% of Kuwaiti citizens, while Egyptians, Bangladeshis and Filipinos among others must not each exceed 10% of Kuwaitis. The head of the Parliamentary Human Resources Development Committee, MP Khalil Al-Saleh, is pushing for a drastic reduction in the number of expatriates. Assembly Speaker Marzouq Al-Ghanim and the government believe that such drastic measures are impossible, though everyone appears to agree in principle that the proportion of foreigners in the population must be reduced. The Speaker has said this week that he and other MPs would submit a new draft law aimed at binding the government to gradually reduce the number of expats, according to Kuwait Times . Kuwait’s Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Of Interior and State For Cabinet Affairs Anas Al-Saleh had also promised last week to send a draft law to the NA within two weeks. Where is the proposal headed? Kuwait’s Prime Minister Sheikh Sabah Al-Khaled Al-Hamad Al-Sabah had said, “the ideal population structure is to have 70 per cent Kuwaitis and 30 per cent non-Kuwaitis”. Said Reaven D’Souza Managing Editor, The Times, Kuwait , currently, it is the other way around. Such a turnaround will require a drastic and impossible reduction in the country’s total population and the concerns about the proposal are overhyped. “It is difficult to foresee any law on this being made during the current term of the NA. If and when it is made, there could be measures to gradually reduce the proportion of foreigners. The concern that there could be mass deportation has no basis.” The full draft of the proposal has not been published. Why has this proposal come up in the middle of a pandemic? Kuwaitis are a minority in Kuwait. Of the total population of 4.3 million, Kuwaitis are 1.3 million, which is less than one third. There are more Indians than Kuwaitis in Kuwait — 1.45 million, according to one account. However, statistics available on the website of the Indian Embassy in Kuwait puts the number at above a million. If Indians cannot exceed 15% of Kuwaitis, the cap would be around two lakh. Migration studies experts warn that calculations regarding the potential numbers that could be affected by the law are based on estimates which are various. “Gulf countries are not very open about population data because citizens are a minority,” an Indian working with a Gulf Cooperation Council government said. This has been a lingering concern in all GCC countries — Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates — but the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic renewed the debate. Said Ginu Zacharia Oommen, who conducted a post-doctoral field study among Indians in Kuwait, “In the past, high unemployment among the natives, economic crisis and demographic imbalance had triggered movement for nationalisation of the workforce. Arab Spring added a new concern of political stability among the regimes. COVID-19 exposed the huge concentration of certain populations among the expatriates, and the resulting imbalances.” “The current debate in the context of COVID-19 must be distinguished from the nationalisation debate. This one is about diversification of the expatriate community,” the official cited above said. What is the profile of the Indian community in Kuwait? According to the Indian Embassy in Kuwait, besides the million-plus who are in the country as legal workforce, there are about 10,000 Indian nationals who have overstayed their visas. The Indian community in Kuwait has been growing at 5-6% per annum until the economic crisis triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic put an abrupt stop to immigration to the country. Indians are the largest expatriate community and Egyptians are the second largest. Three fourths, or about 7.5 lakh Indians are males as against only 2.5 lakh females. It is estimated that 5.23 lakh Indians are deployed in the private sector, as construction workers, technicians, engineers, doctors, chartered accountants, IT experts, etc. About 1.16 lakh are dependents and there are about 60,000 Indian students studying in 23 Indian schools in the country; about 3.27 lakh are domestic workers (i.e. drivers, gardeners, cleaners, nannies, cooks and housemaids) who are not allowed to bring their spouses/children into the country. About 28,000 Indians work for the Kuwaiti government in various jobs such as nurses, engineers in national oil companies, and a few as scientists. In 2018, India received nearly $4.8 billion from Kuwait as remittances. What has India’s response been? India’s Ministry of External Affairs spokesman Anurag Srivastava said the Foreign Ministers of India and Kuwait discussed the issue over the phone. “We share excellent bilateral ties which are deeply rooted in people-to-people linkages. The Indian community in Kuwait is well-regarded in Kuwait and elsewhere in the Gulf region and their contributions are well recognised. We have shared our expectations that Kuwait’s decision will take into account,” Mr. Srivastava said. What happens now? Around eight million Indians work in the GCC countries. Around 2.1 million of them are from one State — Kerala. Other major contributors to the Indian expatriate communities in GCC countries are Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, West Bengal, Punjab and Rajasthan. A renewed push for nationalisation of jobs and diversification of expatriates is possible. However, the structure of the GCC economies makes any dramatic change unlikely. Nationalisation of government jobs can be achieved to a significant extent, but the private sector will continue to draw the majority of its workforce from abroad. “The costs associated with hiring a citizen are too prohibitive for the private sector, which will leave the country if it is forced to,” an official admitted. There is a social stratification in GCC countries that has natives at the top, followed by white professionals from the U.S. and Europe, immigrants from other Arab countries and then others including workers from India. “There is a division of labour among these classes and that cannot be changed in a hurry. Replacement of Indian or Asian workers on a large scale is not possible, and native Arabs will not do certain categories of work,” said the official.  The structure of the Gulf Cooperation Council economies makes any dramatic change unlikely. Nationalisation of government jobs can be achieved, but the private sector will continue to draw the majority of its workforce from abroad
12 July 2020||Lucknow,||Shops, offices shut in Uttar Pradesh||Shops and business establishments, other than those dealing with essential services, remained closed in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday after the government reimposed on Friday lockdown-like restrictions across the State. The government on Thursday had announced that restrictions will be reimposed from 10 p.m. on Friday to 5 a.m. on Monday following the surge in coronavirus cases. However, the functioning of essential services and opening of religious places were allowed during this period. Roads wore a deserted look on Saturday as tempos, taxis and government buses did not operate. Only vehicles carrying essential goods were plying. Police personnel were posted at all prominent crossings in Lucknow and maintaining a close watch on the people moving on two-wheelers. Since it is the second Saturday of the month, the government and private offices remained closed across the State. Markets in prominent areas of Lucknow such as Hazratganj, Aminabad, Chowk, Gomtinagar, Indiranagar, Latouche Road, Alambagh, Hewett Road, Aliganj and Gudumba remained shut. However, the shops selling essential items were open. In Kanpur, Naveen Market, Somdutt Plaza, Civil Lines, Meston Road, Panki, Chamanganj, Kidwainagar and other areas remained closed. In Prayagraj, the main markets in Civil Lines, Mutthiganj, Lukerganj, Badshahi Mandi, Ashoknagar and Nawab Yusuf Ali Road also remained closed. Before the restrictions were imposed, people were seen crowding shops to buy essential items. Additional Chief Secretary Awanish Awasthi on Friday had said that directives have been issued to the police to strictly enforce restrictions and deal strongly with violators.
12 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Doctor arrested for issuing fake certificates to prisoners||The Delhi police have arrested a doctor and his accomplice for allegedly issuing fake medical certificates to family members of prisoners to get favourable bail order, they said on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime Branch) Rakesh Paweriya said that the accused have been identified as Gajendra Kumar Nayyar (61), a resident of Uttam Nagar, and his accomplice Mukesh Sangwan (38), a resident of Pankha Road. While the doctor ran two nursing homes and issued fake medical documents, Sangwan brought him clients, the police said. On June 29, the High Court had ordered Crime Branch to probe the matter after South-East district police found the doctor indulging in malpractices. During the probe, Crime Branch officers found that the doctor, registered with the Delhi Medical Council, is placed under suspension till November this year. The accused were then arrested on July 7, the police said. MBBS degree During interrogation, it was found that Dr. Nayyar completed his MBBS from Maulana Azad Medical College in 1979 after which he went abroad and worked there. He also holds an FRCR (fellowship of the Royal College of Radiologists) degree from the U.K. In 2006, he returned to India and worked in various hospitals, the police said. According to the police, accused doctor met Sangwan’s wife Sunita in 2015 and prepared fake medical documents for her for Sangwan’s bail in a rape case. “He prepared fake medical certificates/documents and charged Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 25,000. Presently, he was running two hospitals K.S. Nursing Home in Greater Noida and N.S. Hospital at Dwarka Mod, Uttam Nagar, and using them for the purpose of issuing fake certificates,” the officer said.
12 July 2020||New Delhi,||No deaths in home isolation in July first week: govt. study||Zero deaths took place among COVID-19 patients in home isolation in the first week of July; and the total number of daily deaths has also shown a sharp decline, according to findings of a Delhi government study. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had directed the Health Department to study all deaths in the last fortnight to understand what steps could be taken to reduce deaths. The department presented the findings to the Chief Minister on July 10. Death ratio Mr. Kejriwal held a review meeting on Friday to discuss what measures were needed to further reduce mortality. According to the Delhi government, the CM has asked for the ratio of deaths to the total number of patients discharged from each hospital. Hospitals with low ratio would mean better management. Good practices in these hospitals will be studied and improvements will be made in hospitals where more deaths are taking place, the government said. According to the government, a total of 691 deaths were reported in the city between June 24 and July 8 — an average of 46 deaths per day. All these deaths were studied and analysed by the Health Department. The report stated that the number of daily deaths had been reducing over the last few days — from a high of 101 in mid-June to around 46 now. The overall death rate has also come down to 3.02% from 3.64% in Jun Oximeters helped Of the 691 deaths, only seven happened in home isolation, between June 24-30. Not a single death occurred in July of any patient under home isolation, according to the report. This was attributed to the distribution of oximeters to all such patients. The report stated that as per the Centre’s Paul Committee, 45% of deaths in India occur during the first 48 hours. In Delhi, this had come down to 15%. Delay in admission Of the 691 deaths, the report stated 505 patients were in serious condition when admitted to hospitals, 291 were already in hospital when they tested positive and “everyone else got timely admission into the hospital”. The study found delay in hospital admission in 28 cases. The Delhi government stated that testing has been increased; an emphasis on home isolation of asymptomatic and mild symptom patients had released a large number of hospital beds; there was better ambulance response time; the admission process for patients at hospitals was quicker; and that the capacity of ICU beds had been increased. The country’s first plasma bank in the city may further bring down mortality rate in Delhi, it added said.
12 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Reopened monuments see low footfall||Iconic historical monuments in Delhi that used to see between 5,000 and 10,000 visitors every day received well under 100 visitors on average this week as the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) opened its sites from Monday after an almost four-month closure due to the COVID-19 outbreak. The numbers went up slightly on Saturday and officials expect the footfall to increase on Sunday. Union Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel had announced on July 2 that all Centrally protected monuments under the ASI would open from July 6, subject to rules of local administrations and guidelines of the Union Health and Home Ministries. The number of visitors was capped between 2,000 and 5,000 daily for different monuments and ticket sales moved to online-only mode. Low footfall According to the ASI’s online ticket portal, Qutub Minar had the highest number of visitors from Monday to Friday, with 100 to 125 tickets being sold daily on an average. An official said the monument used to see around 10,000 visitors daily. On Saturday evening, just 174 tickets out of the 1,500 available for the slot of 12 p.m. till 6 p.m. had been sold as of 5 p.m. Similarly, Humayun’s Tomb, which used to receive 6,000-7,000 daily visitors, got 50 to 75 this week, with 132 tickets out of 1,000 being sold for the afternoon slot on Saturday by 5 p.m., according to the official. The Red Fort, which normally gets around 8,000-12,000 visitors on holidays, received just 30-40 daily visitors this week. Of the 1,000 tickets available on Saturday afternoon, just nine had been sold for Purana Qila, which used to see about 5,000 to 6,000 visitors daily, the official said. While the ASI has made arrangements for temperature checks, hand sanitisation and online booking of tickets at entry points of monuments, officials said the number of visitors was unlikely to bounce back till public transport, particularly the metro, restarts.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Jyotsna Bhatt: the high priestess of fire and clay||When Thomas Gray penned “Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard”, he used the lines:  “Full many a gem of purest ray serene,   The dark unfathom’d caves of ocean bear …”  These words exemplify the life and work of ceramic artist and mentor Jyotsna Bhatt, who passed away in Vadodara on Saturday. In her more than 50-year career, Bhatt upgraded, refined and ennobled her art and created an original repertoire. Simplicity and vividness were the best attributes to describe her art and ceramics. Simplicity, for her, meant silent sophistication. Nature was her leitmotif. She framed forms through her own understanding of nature and human experience. She glazed her ceramics in such an inimitable way, giving them evocative rugged and rough surfaces. Jyotsna behen , as she was popularly called, considered Ira Chaudhri as the Guru of the Indian ceramic movement. Her  intrinsic understanding of the relationship between form and the ferment became her signature. Her sculpted entities around nature, the spontaneity of clay and the marvels of expression speaking through her plant forms, owls and smiling cats. Born Jyotsna Shroff in 1940 at Mandvi in Kutch, she lost her father early but her uncle saw her aptitude in fine arts and encouraged her to pursue it. Her journey at the wheel began in the 1960s in Vadodara. A high priestess of the world of minerals and fire and clay, she looked around her garden at Vadodara for stimulus and inspiration. Her sensitivity and her distinct sensibility was born of a deep understanding of the arts and crafts heritage of Gujarat. Her journey saw the genesis of a silent yet robust modernist potter, who was at home in the contemporary world and comfortable in her own skin, sharing secrets as she went along. Jyotsna behen had been a part of several group exhibitions, workshops, art camps, and solo shows. Her last shows at Kolkata and Vadodara showcased a deluge of delightful creations. In her agile hands, inert matter like stoneware, signature matte glazes and minerals seem to awaken, smoke, stretch and settle into a position of poise and reflective reverie. In Delhi, most of her shows were held at Art Heritage, Triveni. She was also particular about her prices; didn’t want to get into the elitist markets and kept her prices reasonable. Stoneware was her preferred medium. More than just a ceramic artist, she was a mentor, a pedagogue exemplifying humility, grace and wisdom.  India has lost a fine practitioner and doyenne in the world of ceramic art practices.  (The writer is a senior art critic)
12 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man killed by daughter, wife and her partner||A 25-year-old man was allegedly killed by his daughter, wife, her partner and daughter’s friend in South Delhi’s Maidan Garhi. The accused have been held, the police said on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said that the victim identified as Sanjay Tanwar alias Mahendra was strangulated to death by his wife, her partner Manoj, the couple’s minor daughter and her classmate. Body in drain The police said that they received a call on July 2 stating that a man’s body was lying in a drain near Bhati Village. A tattoo with ‘ST’ written was found on the body. The police also found a car abandoned about a kilometre away from the drain. When ownership of the car was checked, it was found to be in the name of Mahender alias Sanjay, a resident of Dera Village. The tattoo also helped identify the victim. The police then questioned Sanjay’s brother. The brother also allegedly told the police that the couple wife often quarrelled over a person named Dalchant alias Dalu alias Manoj who often came to their house. During the probe, Manoj allegedly confessed to the crime which he claimed he had committed with the victim’s wife. The wife was held and the two minor girls were also apprehended. Manoj allegedly revealed that he was in a relationship with the victim’s wife for the last nine months and when the victim got to know about the two, he started beating the wife and daughter.
12 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Five new courses at AUD for upcoming session||Ambedkar University Delhi on Saturday announced the introduction of five new programmes, including vocational courses and M.Phil in Disability Studies, for the upcoming session. The administration said that a timeline for the admission process is likely to be finalised within a week depending on guidelines issued by the Centre, State government and the University Grants Commission. The process will be completely online. AUD Vice-Chancellor Anu Singh Lather said, “Admissions to undergraduate courses will be on the basis of merit while a decision is yet to be taken on the process for postgraduate and M.Phil courses. It will depend on what the government says. If need be, it can also be on a merit basis where the marks obtained in the last qualifying examination will be considered.” “They will be given a provisional admission and documents will be re-verified once students return to campus,” said Ms. Lather. The university added that students who are awaiting their results can also apply and update their results once declared. Online classes from Aug. 1 Online classes for second and third year students are likely to begin from August 1. The V-C said, “We would like to begin with online classes first and a blended learning till the lockdown gets lifted.” Among the new programmes introduced by AUD, 35 seats each have been allotted for BBA, B. Voc in Accounting and Finance, and MBA (IEVD); 42 seats have been allocated for MA (Hindi); and eight seats for M.Phil in Disability Studies. While the M.Phil in Disability Studies will be an inter-disciplinary course, including theory and field engagement; the MBA in Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Venture Development and B. Voc in Accounting and Finance will provide skill development and internship opportunities.
12 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Cancel final-year exams in Central universities too’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to personally intervene and cancel final-year exams across all centrally-administered universities, including Delhi University. Earlier in the day, Delhi Education Minister Manish Sisodia announced that upcoming written exams, including final-year exams, at all State-run universities have been cancelled and students will be promoted on the basis of the results of previous exams, semesters or other modes of evaluation. “For the sake of our youth, I urge Hon’ble PM to personally intervene and cancel final year exams of DU and other central govt universities and save the future [sic.],” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted, with a copy of his letter to the Prime Minister. The directions issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC) to universities and colleges across the country to undertake written final- semester exams angered lakhs of students, teachers and parents, and they were demanding that it be rolled back, he stated. When prominent universities such as IIT and NLU can give degrees to final-semester students on the basis of internal evaluation, why can’t others, he asked, adding that many prominent universities across the world had done the same owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. The extraordinary circumstances brought about by the unprecedented pandemic necessitated unprecedented decisions. Many States, including Delhi, have decided to cancel exams at their universities, but in DU’s case, a decision in this regard is the Centre’s prerogative, he said further. “The Ministry of Human Resource Development and the UGC are not ready to change their mind regarding this decision. It appears only your [PM Modi] personal intervention can solve this issue,” he stated. “I humbly appeal to you, in the overall interest of students, that the Centre and the UGC amend their decision, cancel final-semester exams and save the future of our youth,” he also stated.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||IAF on a buying spree||The story so far: On July 2, the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh approved defence deals worth Rs. 38,900 crore which includes procurement of 21 MiG-29 fighter jets for the Indian Air Force (IAF) along with upgradation of 59 existing MiG-29 jets in the IAF inventory and procurement of 12 Su-30MKI aircraft from Russia. What are the major deals approved? The Defence Ministry said the MiG-29 procurements and upgradation from Russia are estimated to cost Rs. 7,418 crore while the 12 Su-30 MKIs, which will be licence-produced by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), are estimated to cost Rs. 10,730 crore. Other deals approved by the DAC include Pinaka rocket ammunition, long-range land attack missile system of over 1,000 km range and close to 250 Astra Beyond Visual Range (BVR) air-to-air missiles for the IAF. The Astra Mk-1 has been integrated on the Su-30MKI jets and is being inducted into the force. An ungraded variant, the Astra Mk-II is under development by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). What are the new fighter jets for? The Defence Ministry said in a release after the DAC meeting that these decisions will address the long-felt need of the IAF to increase its fighter squadrons. The IAF currently has 30 fighter squadrons against a sanctioned strength of 42 squadrons and is set to phase out its MiG-21 fighters in the next few years further reducing the strength. As seen during the Balakot air strikes (Pakistan) in February 2019, air power will be key to swiftly respond to any short escalations and especially relevant amid the ongoing stand-off with China on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The 21 MiG-29s to be procured from Russia have already been manufactured for an unfulfilled order and will now be upgraded and delivered to India. These will add to the three MiG-29 squadrons in service with the IAF which are already undergoing an upgrade. The 12 Su-30 MKIs are meant to make up for the gaps in the Su-30MKI squadrons caused due to crashes over the years. India has contracted 272 Su-30 jets from Russia in different batches, a majority of which are being licence-manufactured by HAL. What other steps is the Indian Air Force taking to address the shortage? In July-end, the IAF will start adding the first batch of the 36 Rafale multi-role jets contracted from France. Another deal for 83 Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Mk-1A estimated to cost Rs. 38,000 crore is expected to be signed in the next two months which the IAF Chief Air Chief, Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria, termed as “top priority”. The deal has assumed even greater importance with the emphasis on indigenisation in defence advocated by the Finance Minister recently. The IAF currently has one squadron of LCA in initial operational configuration (IOC) and in May, it constituted the second LCA squadron with one aircraft in the final operational clearance (FOC) configuration. It is scheduled to get 20 IOC aircraft and 20 FOC aircraft in all and will eventually operate 123 LCA including the 83 Mk-1A aircraft. The more capable and larger LCA Mk-2 is under development which the IAF is keen to add in large numbers. An indigenous fifth generation advanced medium combat aircraft (AMCA) is also under development and is expected to make first flight by 2032. There is also a tender for 114 fighter jets that has been floated to global aircraft manufacturers to be manufactured in India under technology transfer. The IAF is also upgrading all aircraft in its current inventory to make up for the shortfall. The Jaguar, Mirage-2000, MiG-29 fighters are all being upgraded and negotiations are on with Russia for a major upgrade of the Su-30MKI fleet. What about budgetary allocations? The defence budget has been going down as a percentage of the GDP, and the novel coronavirus pandemic has put further budgetary constraints on military modernisation. For instance, the defence allocation for 2020-21 is pegged at Rs. 3.37-lakh crore excluding defence pensions which accounts for 1.5% of the GDP. There is a steep rise in defence pensions, 13.5%, from Rs. 1.18-lakh crore in revised estimates of last year to Rs. 1.34-lakh crore this year. The Rs. 3.37-lakh crore allocated is 5.67% higher compared to the budget estimate of last year and just 1.8% higher compared to the revised estimates of 2019-20 which stood at Rs. 3.31 lakh crore. Of the total capital allocation of Rs. 1.13-lakh crore, the IAF got 38% which comes to Rs. 43,281 crore, but in real terms the capital allocation for IAF has gone down from the revised estimates of 2019-20 which was Rs. 44,869 crore. In comparison, last year, the IAF had committed liabilities, payments for deals already signed for, of over Rs. 47,000 crore which was more than its entire capital allocation. The IAF has signed several major deals which include 36 Rafale jets from France, S-400 air defence systems from Russia, Apache attack helicopters and Chinook heavy lift helicopters from the U.S. among others.  The Indian Air Force is also upgrading all aircraft in its current inventory to make up for the shortfall
12 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||E-conversion of plots on DDA portal soon||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is set to launch a portal for the e-conversion of plots in the city in a bid to facilitate stakeholders to complete the entire process online. Senior officials said that the portal, which was in the pipeline for long, will also help customers to complete formalities online without stepping out amid the prevailing COVID-19 outbreak. The portal, to be launched soon, will also have facilities to get Extension of Time (EOT) online as well. Commissioner, Land Disposal Subu R. said: “This is the first time that end-to-end computerisation will be there for a facility at the DDA. Even the output will be electronic and people will be informed of every step through online modes. They will not be required to visit the DDA office for initial formalities, unlike usual times.” Biometric stage Only at the biometric stage, the stakeholders will be required to visit the centre, Mr. Subu said. “However, even at that stage, people will be free to choose a slot according to their availability instead of a designated time provided by the DDA,” he said. Senior officials also added that the portal will help customers avoid middlemen and complete the process of converting plots from leasehold to freehold electronically.
12 July 2020||New Delhi,||Tablighi Jamaat case: 75 foreigners granted bail||A Delhi court on Saturday granted bail to 75 foreign nationals from Thailand and Nepal, who were chargesheeted for attending a Tablighi Jamaat congregation here allegedly in violation of visa norms, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government guidelines issued in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gurmohina Kaur granted the relief to the foreigners on furnishing a personal bond of Rs. 10,000 each. Till date, 445 chargesheeted foreign nationals from 33 different countries, have been granted bail. The police had in June filed 59 chargesheets against 956 foreigners belonging to 36 different countries in the case.
12 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||2 more die as Assam flood situation worsens again||Two people drowned in Assam on Saturday as the flood situation deteriorated after improving over the week, affecting more than 6 lakh people. The number of affected people was 1.82 lakh two days ago. Officials of the Assam State Disaster Management Authoritysaid a person each died in western Assam’s Kokrajhar and Dhubri districts taking the death toll to 42 since May 22. Landslides during this period killed another 24 people. An incident of landslide was reported in Guwahati as well as in Dima Hasao district. Officials said no one was injured and five families were shifted to safety. “Heavy rainfall over the past 48 hours has led to the inundation of 1,109 villages and localities across 20 of the State’s 33 districts. The Brahmaputra and nine of its tributaries are flowing above the danger mark,” an ASDMA spokesperson said. Till Saturday evening, 8,474 flood-affected people moved into 72 relief camps, up from some 1,000 two days ago. Floodwaters have started to enter the Kaziranga National Park with 46 of the 223 anti-poaching camps being inundated overnight. Park officials said so far 41 animals have died during the onslaught of monsoon. Nine of the animals – all hog deer – were run over by vehicles while trying to cross a highway along the southern edge of the park. Animals escape the flooded park to the relative safety of the hills of Karbi Anglong district beyond this highway.
12 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder seeks PM’s nod to cancel final exams||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking permission to let the State government adhere to its decision on cancellation of university-college examinations in view of the rising COVID-19 cases. In his letter, the Chief Minister has urged the Prime Minister to advise the Ministry of Human Resource Development and the University Grants Commission to reconsider its decision on mandatory conduct of final term exams by September. “UGC may be asked to reiterate its earlier issued guidelines of April 29, 2020, wherein it had been clearly mentioned that the guidelines were advisory in nature and each State-university would chart out its own plan of action taking into consideration the issues pertaining to COVID-19 pandemic,” he wrote. Capt. Amarinder wrote that the State government had on July 3, 2020, decided to cancel all pending UG and PG final term examinations and to promote the students on the basis of performance in previous years-semesters. “Conducting online examination for such a large number of students, majority of whom reside in rural areas without assured access to computers-laptops and internet, is also not possible,” he added.
12 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Youth succumbs to stab injuries||A 21-year-old youth succumbed to his injuries in a city hospital on Thursday, eight days after he was stabbed during a robbery bid near Pratap Nagar metro station, the police said. A senior police officer said that a sub-inspector has been suspended and Station House Officer of Gulabi Bagh police station has been sent to district lines in a disciplinary action for not registering an FIR into the incident after being informed that the victim, Lakhan, a call centre employee who was also pursuing graduation from University of Delhi, that he had been robbed of Rs. 1,200 and had been stabbed multiple times. The police said that Lakhan, a resident of Shastri Nagar, was returning from work on July 1 when he was robbed and stabbed.
12 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Expedite compensation process of Delhi riots victims’||Citing complaints from many people over not receiving compensation in connection with the north-east Delhi riots, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia sent a note to District Magistrate (north-east) Shashi Kaushal asking the latter to expedite the process. Action plan “The authorities concerned are directed to provide a status report on the above mentioned issues along with a plan of action and timeline to complete the process of compensation as early as possible,” the note read. Four kinds It mentioned four types of pending compensation. First, compensation which had been sanctioned as early of March 6, but which are yet to be credited. Second, forms received  on the last few days before the lockdown which have been digitised, but not processed further. Third, riot victims who had taken refuge at a relative’s place and missed filing the application for compensation within the prescribed time. Had filled applications on March 20, but not able to submit it at respective SDM offices, which have been brought to the notice of SDM concerned. Lastly,  under assessment or under compensated applications. Many died and several were injured in the north-east Delhi riots that broke out in February this year.
12 July 2020||July 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Fun on the run||
12 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||IIT-Bhubaneswar exam results out||IIT-Bhubaneswar, which was among the first institutes to conduct online examinations in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, concluded the process by declaring end-semester examinations. “It is gratifying that the institute could fully organise the lectures and laboratory sessions without any loss, the students have fully earned their degree as per the IIT standards by appearing in conventional examinations using online mode,” said R.V. Rajakumar, Director of IIT-Bhubaneswar Of the 448 students who participated in online examinations, 385 cleared their end-semester examinations. Encouraged by 100% participation in online examinations, the IIT-Bhubaneswar has scheduled comprehensive online examinations for junior students from July 22.
12 July 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan to adopt T.N.’s model for road safety||Tamil Nadu’s model for reducing fatalities in road accidents will soon be adopted in Rajasthan with the emphasis on addressing the local traffic issues. Road safety education is also proposed to be included in the school curriculum in the State. The Tamil Nadu model involves combined efforts of all stakeholders for enforcing traffic rules, ensuring access of accident victims to emergency trauma care services, improvement of roads , among other features.
12 July 2020||Agartala,||Tripura may take stricter measures||Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Saturday hinted at taking harsh measures like the imposition of a lockdown in the wake of a surge in coronavirus cases in the State. He also expressed displeasure over violations of health protocols and curfew restrictions. “I am receiving proposals from the districts. We may even enforce lockdown,” he said. Later, the Chief Secretary ordered a change in the night curfew timings from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. instead of 10 p.m. to 5 a.m.
12 July 2020||New Delhi,||BJP leader wants to discuss complaints over electricity bills with CM||BJP state president Adesh Gupta wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal here on Saturday seeking to discuss complaints over electricity bills. Mr. Gupta claimed that power bills were being sent without subsidy to entrepreneurs, businesspersons, common man and even schools. “The people of Delhi are being asked by this to give a fixed charge for the electricity they did not even use,” Mr. Gupta stated in the letter.
12 July 2020||New Delhi,||2 arrested for killing vagabond||Two persons have been arrested for allegedly killing a man because he bullied them and also sold one of their crutches to buy liquor, the police said on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Monika Bhardwaj said that the accused have been identified as Karan and Satish who allegedly killed one Anil, a homeless man.
12 July 2020||New Delhi,||2 realtors arrested for duping man of Rs. 2 crore||Two realtors have been arrested for allegedly duping a man of Rs. 2 crore on pretext of investment, the police said on Saturday. Joint Commissioner of Police (Economic Offences Wing) O.P. Mishra said, “One Rajesh Kumar Garg was induced to invest in a project called Airwill Intellicity, developed by accused persons, in Greater Noida on the pretext of fixed return in the form of add on profits of 3% per month on an investment of Rs. 2 crore,” Mr. Mishra said.
