12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM flags need for more testing, tracing in 10 affected States||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the fatality rate from COVID-19 in India has to be pushed below 1%. He stressed that 10 States which account for 81% of the cases and 82% of the fatalities need to step up testing, contact tracing within 72 hours of testing and isolation of those infected. Mr. Modi’s observations came during his closing remarks at a video conference with the Chief Ministers of 10 States — West Bengal, Gujarat, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Punjab — with high COVID-19 levels. “A view has emerged that if we manage to defeat coronavirus in the 10 States that account for over 80% of our cases and 82% of our fatalities, India will win the war against the disease,” Mr. Modi said. “We need to follow the new mantra — to step up testing, contact tracing of all those who have come into contact with anyone diagnosed as positive for COVID-19 within 72 hours of diagnosis and isolation of such patients.” “It has emerged from our discussions that there is an urgent need to ramp up testing in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat and West Bengal,” he added. “Experts now say that if we identify COVID-19 cases within 72 hours, the rate of infection slows down greatly. Our experience so far is that containment, contact tracing and surveillance are the most effective weapons against COVID-19,” he said. Appeal for funds The Chief Ministers of the 10 States gave details of the measures taken by their governments in combating the disease, but almost all of them said more funds from the Central government were required as their coffers were empty because of the loss of economic activity and concomitant revenue. Punjab Chief Minister Capt. Amarinder Singh asked that the current cap of 35% on COVID-19 related expenditure on State Disaster Relief Fund be lifted as it was not sufficient to meet current requirements.
12 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||1,417 test positive, 1,426 recover in State||Kerala reported 1,417 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. While the State’s case graph is still on the ascending scale, the recovery of 1,426 persons on the same day brought some relief as far as capacity management issues are concerned. With community transmission being fairly well-established, 90 % of the new cases on Tuesday – 1,280 out of 1,417 cases – reported were locally acquired infections. Of these, no epidemiological link could be established in 105 cases. The number of health-care workers who tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday was 36. The Health Department has added five more deaths – three in Thiruvananthapuram and one each in Ernakulam and Kannur – to the State’s COVID toll, taking the cumulative figure to 120. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 36,932. The number of patients currently undergoing treatment in various hospitals in the State is 12,721. The total number of recoveries reported so far is 24,042. Thiruvananthapuram with 297 cases and Malappuram with 242 cases topped the list of districts with maximum new cases. In Thiruvananthapuram, all except six cases are locally acquired infections. Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, briefing the media , said that with rains intensifying in all districts, the State was having to amp up preventive and control measures against dengue and leptospirosis infections also. He said that COVID transmission was continuing in the coastal belt of Alappuzha in six clusters, at Athirampuzha and Ettumanoor clusters in Kottayam and Fort Kochi belt in Ernakulam. New clusters were forming in Thrissur. He said that the police would implement containments measures more strictly in Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha and Malappuram districts. The State has tested 21,625 samples in the last 24 hours. The number of hotspots in the State now is 523.
12 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Fire accident: police on lookout for hospital MD, hotel owner||Special teams have been formed to track down the Managing Director Ramesh Hospitals and the owner of Hotel Swarna Palace, the main accused in the fire accident in which 10 COVID-19 patients died and 20 others were injured. The fire broke out at the hotel-turned-COVID care centre at around 4.45 a.m. on August 9 and the flames engulfed three floors of the building on Eluru Road. “Six teams have been formed to arrest the prime accused in the case. Searches are on to trace Ramesh Hospitals Managing Director P. Ramesh Babu and the proprietor of Hotel Swarna Palace. The police have already arrested three persons,” Police Commissioner Bathina Srinivasulu told The Hindu on Tuesday. The arrested hospital officials were produced before a court and remanded in custody. The representatives of the hospital or the hotel were not available for comment. The special teams comprise the Krishna District Collector and the officials of the Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Response and Fire Service Department among others. Raids conducted The teams visited Hotel Swarna Palace, Ramesh Hospitals and the COVID care centres run by the hospital in other hotels in the city. The inquiry officers examined various documents such as the building plan, fire NOC, agreement letter between Ramesh Hospitals and the hotel management, and the permission from the government for converting the hotel into a COVID care centre among others. Doctors, part of the special team, inquired about the number of patients admitted to the centre, treatment provided to them, and the number of persons present at the time of the accident.   The teams conducted raids on Ramesh Hospitals’ main branch and verified case sheets of the patients, seized documents and agreement papers and questioned the administrative staff.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Airport fire team averted inferno||A swift response from the fire fighting team at Calicut International Airport was crucial in averting a major tragedy and minimising fatalities after last Friday’s crash of Air India Express flight IX-1344. The Boeing 737 aircraft that overshot the runway and broke up could have exploded as its metal surface was extremely hot and covered with aviation fuel — a deadly combination that could lead have led to a fuel-fed inferno within minutes of a crash, an airport official said. “Oil from the wings of the aircraft, where the fuel tanks are located, was not just leaking but gushing out like flood waters,” the official said.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||J&K to get 4G access in a limited manner||Attorney General K.K. Venugopal informed the Supreme Court on Tuesday that 4G Internet access will be opened up after Independence Day in one district in each of Jammu and Kashmir’s divisions. The Centre, however, said a blanket removal of the 4G ban was not possible now, considering the “overall situation” and “threat perception” to national, border and local security. Appearing before a three-judge Bench led by Justice N.V. Ramana, Mr. Venugopal read out from an additional affidavit that the “carefully calibrated” opening up of 4G access would be on a trial basis. The access will be limited to specified areas that are not adjacent to the international border and have seen “low intensity terrorist activities”. Access will be strictly monitored to protect national, border and local security. The decision is based on the recommendations made by a Supreme Court-constituted special committee, headed by Union Home Secretary A.K. Bhalla, which met on August 10. The panel will review the situation every week and meet again after two months. Landline and 2G services are still available in Jammu and Kashmir.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||COVID deaths drop to single digit in Delhi||After months, Delhi reported single digit COVID-19-related deaths on Tuesday. A total of eight patients succumbed to the complications triggered by the virus in the past 24 hours, said a health bulletin released by the city government. In all, 1,257 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the city in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,47,391. The total number of deaths stood at 4,139. Of the total cases, 1,32,384 people have recovered and 10,868 are active cases. “Doubling time in Delhi at this point is over 50 days compared to the national average, which is around 20 days. The condition is better when the doubling time increases. There was a time when the cases were doubling in seven days in the city,” Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said. He also said that one-third of patients in city hospitals are from outside Delhi.
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||KCR says need for boosting medical infra||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has stressed the need for enhancing medical facilities and infrastructure in the country with lessons learnt from the experiences in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic. There is need for improving the medical facilities and there should be vision in planning for future in this direction. Comprehensive planning should go into strengthening the existing facilities and the State and Central governments should work hand in hand in their implementation, he said. Mr. Rao, along with other CMs, participated in the video conference conducted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss measures taken to tackle COVID-19.
12 August 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 case count in WB crosses 1 lakh||West Bengal on Tuesday reported 2,931 new COVID-19 cases taking the total number of cases to 1,01,390. The count of active cases stands at 25,846. As many as 49 deaths pushed the number of mortalities in the State to 2,149. Of the 49 fatalities, 20 were recorded in Kolkata and nine were recorded in North 24 Parganas, taking the death toll to 980 and 499, respectively. Kolkata and North 24 Parganas together account for 68 % of all deaths due to COVID-19. The State’s discharge rate has increased to 72.39%. The State tested 27,015 samples in the last 24 hours, with the total number of samples tested so far reaching 11.59 lakh. Meanwhile, irregularities in treatment of COVID-19 patients have come to fore. Family members of a patient alleged that a private hospital in Kolkata refused admission because they failed to deposit the entire fees in advance. In Howrah, a patient took to social media alleging lack of facilities at a COVID-19 centre while in Tamluk, a patient had to wait for hours before getting admitted.
12 August 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata seeks funds, more ventilators||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide more ventilators for the State and release its share of funds pending with the Centre to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. Ms. Banerjee also sought to know the details of vaccine development in the country. “Central government should authorize which vaccine to be procured and used. They must issue guidelines in this regard,” a statement shared by the Chief Minister’s Office, quoted her as saying. Ms. Banerjee said the Centre owes the State Rs. 53,000 crore, of which Rs. 4,315 crore is the share of GST compensation. The CM also spoke of the patient management system introduced by the State Health Department. “It identifies critical, moderate, mild and asymptomatic patients on a real time basis for immediate medical attention,” she said.
12 August 2020||BENGALURU,||State seeks mandatory govt. service for medicos||The Karnataka government on Tuesday appealed to the Centre to make one year of government service mandatory for fresh medical graduates and postgraduates so that their services can be utilised in fighting COVID-19. This appeal was made by Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar during a videoconference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi who reviewed the COVID-19 situation in 10 most-affected States, including Karnataka. Dr. Sudhakar represented Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who is undergoing home isolation after receiving treatment for COVID-19, along with Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan. He sought doubling of medical seats and Centre’s assistance in setting up liquid oxygen units in the State. The Medical Education Minister also appealed to the Prime Minister to initiate measures for immediate commencement of final year medical and paramedical courses so that students could be used in COVID-19 services in areas outside of the designated hospitals. He also sought that both graduate and postgraduate medical seats in Karnataka be doubled so that the State has adequate number of doctors to handle any emergency situation. Presently, the State has 10,000 medical seats and 2,000 postgraduate medical seats. Dr. Sudhkar told mediapersons after the videoconference that Karnataka’s appeal for increasing medical seats had been supported by Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao. Dr. Sudhakar also talked about shortage of liquid oxygen units due to high demand and sought the Centre’s assistance in setting up these units in the State. He said that testing facilities had been ramped up from the earlier 20,000 per day to nearly 50,000 now. It has been planned to further increase it to 75,000 a day, he explained. The Minister said the State had realised the importance of medical oxygen in treating mild and moderately symptomatic patients. By way of quick execution, it had added 1,600 oxygen supported beds to the already existing 5,500 oxygen beds in Public Health Institutions. Another 5,000 beds would be available by the end of August. Totally, more than 20,000 oxygenated beds would be available by the end of September, he said.  The Prime Minister suggested to the States work towards reducing mortality rate with respect to COVID-19 from the present 1.99% to below 1%. Pointing out that 80% of the country’s active cases are from the 10 States, including Karnataka, the Prime Minister told the representatives of these States that efficient combating measures would play a key role in the country’s efforts to prevent the spread of the pandemic. He also asked the authorities concerned to trace the primary and secondary contacts of infected people within 72 hours of them testing positive.
12 August 2020||Chennai,||‘Fund 50% of tests using PM-CARES’||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to use the PM-CARES fund to meet 50% of the cost of RT-PCR tests. Noting that the State Disaster Response and Mitigation Fund (SDRF) had been exhausted, he reiterated his appeal for an immediate ad hoc grant of Rs. 1,000 crore from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to fight the pandemic. The State was conducting the maximum number of RT-PCR tests in the country, he said. “Tamil Nadu presently has 130 labs for COVID testing, including 61 government and 69 private labs, with an average testing capacity of 65,000 per day. These tests cost nearly Rs. 5 crore a day,” Mr. Palaniswami said. Mr. Palaniswami requested the Centre to provide funds for procuring high-end ventilators.
12 August 2020||Srinagar,||Army probing July’s Shopian encounter||The Army has started an investigation into the killing of three alleged militants in an encounter in south Kashmir’s Shopian on July 18, after three families from Rajouri claimed that the deceased may be their missing kin and demanded DNA testing. “We have noted the social media inputs linked to the operation at Shopian on July 18, 2020. The three terrorists killed during the operation have not been identified and the bodies were buried based on established protocols. The Army is investigating the matter,” a Srinagar-based Army spokesman said. However, the families claimed they lost contact with their kin, who were labourers, on July 18 when “they were on the way home and were stationed in Shopian for a night”. The missing youth were identified by the families as Ibrar Ahmad, Imtiyaz Ahmad and Muhammad Yousuf, all residents of Rajouri.
12 August 2020||MOSCOW,||Putin declares world’s first COVID-19 shot||President Vladimir Putin said on Tuesday that Russia had become the first country to grant regulatory approval to a COVID-19 vaccine after less than two months of human testing, a move Moscow likened to its success in the Cold War-era space race. The vaccine, to be called ‘Sputnik V’ in homage to the world’s first satellite launched by the Soviet Union, has, however, not yet completed its final trials. Moscow’s decision to grant approval before then has raised concerns among some experts. Only about 10% of the clinical trials are successful, and some scientists fear Moscow may be putting national prestige before safety. Mr. Putin and other officials, however, have said it is completely safe. The President said one of his daughters had taken it as a volunteer and felt good afterwards. The Russian business conglomerate Sistema has said it expects to put the vaccine, developed by Moscow’s Gamaleya Institute, into mass production by the end of the year. Officials said it would be administered first to medical personnel, and then teachers, on a voluntary basis.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||We did not meet or speak with BJP: Pilot||As the month-long rebellion in Rajasthan ended in a truce with the announcement of a three-member committee to look into the ‘grievances’ of the dissidents, Congress leader Sachin Pilot rejected allegations that he had been hobnobbing with the BJP to topple the Ashok Gehlot government. “Not one of our MLAs have met or spoken with any BJP leaders. The Opposition [BJP] may have tried to do politics seeing the situation and take advantage of the fault lines. I repeat, not one of our MLAs spoke to them,” Mr. Pilot said in an interview to The Hindu . On allegations of the rebel MLAs accepting the BJP’s hospitality, he said, “As far as our hotel bills and legal fees are concerned, we pooled our resources and paid them.”
12 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||People’s poet Rahat Indori passes away||Eminent Urdu poet Rahat Indori succumbed to COV-ID-19-related complications on Tuesday. He was an unwavering light who kept the ‘mushaira’ poetry alive for generations, a fearless voice who showed a mirror to the establishment. Known for his sharp visual imagery, the poet wor-ked as an Urdu professor in Devi Ahilya Bai University.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pranab Mukherjee’s health worsens||The condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee has worsened and he remains on ventilator support, the Army’s Research and Referral Hospital said on Tuesday, a day after he underwent a brain surgery. Mr. Mukherjee was admitted in a critical condition. He was also found to be COVID-positive.
12 August 2020||GUNTUR,||Jagan seeks PM’s help to scale up health infrastructure||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide a substantial assistance to scale up health infrastructure in the State. Sharing his views during a video conference with the Prime Minister on Tuesday, Mr. Jagan said the State was lagging behind in the quality of health infrastructure when compared to bigger cities such as Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai. Mr. Jagan said the aggressive testing strategy adopted by the State government had been instrumental in COVID-19 containment strategy. Stating that the State had adopted the model of aggressive testing, isolation and treatment, he said treatment was being given to those who tested positive. Infrastructure in government run hospitals had been scaled up.
12 August 2020||mumbai,||Efforts on to prevent second wave: Thackeray||The Maharashtra government is striving to see there is no second wave of COVID-19 in the State, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray told Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video conference on Tuesday. Mr. Thackeray also said hospitals will be set up in all districts to control the pandemic. The CM urged Mr. Modi to announce cancellation of final year university exams of non-professional courses. While informing the Prime Minister on the steps taken by Maharashtra to control the spread of COVID-19, Mr. Thackeray also asked him to come up with a national policy on conducting final year university examinations. “Students are the future of this country. We cannot jeopardise their health. I sincerely demand that final year university examinations of non-professional courses be not held,” the Chief Minister said.
12 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Violence over social media post||A tense situation prevailed in Kaval Byrasandra, DJ Halli, after a mob gathered in the area protesting against an alleged inflammatory social media post on Tuesday late night. The mob threw stones and attacked the house of Akhanda Srinivas Murthy, MLA, whose relative allegedly made the post. He has since claimed his Facebook account was hacked. The mob went on a violent spree, torched a few cars, and pelted stones. The police used tear gas to quell the violence. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the nature of the incident indicated a conspiracy.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||City police chief transferred||City Police Commissioner Rajeev Kumar Meena has been transferred and directed to report to the Police Headquarters at Mangalagiri, on Tuesday. He will be replaced by Manish Kumar Sinha, who is now posted as IG Intelligence.
12 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Law admission test to be held on September 7||The Common Law Admission Test for undergraduate and postgraduate candidates for 2020 will be held on September 7 from 2 to 4 p.m., a communique from the Consortium of National Law Universities said on Tuesday.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||MoU signed with IIT-B for smog tower in CP||The Delhi government has signed an MoU with IIT-Bombay and Tata Projects Limited to construct a smog tower in Connaught Place following the Supreme Court orders, officials said. The smog tower will be a 20-metre-high structure fitted with several air purifiers.
12 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||Two men arrested for assaulting cattle traders||Two cattle traders from Nuh’s Ghasera village were brutally beaten up with sticks, slapped and abused at Begumpur Khatola village here on Tuesday. Two persons — Adesh and Dilbagh — have been arrested in this connection, said the police.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Daughters have equal right on property: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday held that daughters have an equal birthright with sons to inherit joint Hindu family property. The court decided that the amended Hindu Succession Act, which gives daughters equal rights to ancestral property, will have a retrospective effect.
12 August 2020||Mumbai,||COVID: 31 employees of ONGC’s offshore facility test positive||As many as 31 of 91 employees of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) working at its offshore facility near Mumbai have tested positive for COVID-19, a civic body official said on Tuesday. “These 31 employees had spent 15 days at the facility. They were found positive in a test conducted at a hospital in Mahim,” said assistant municipal commissioner Kiran Dighavkar, G North ward. The ONGC has an offshore oilfield in the Arabian Sea, approximately 160 km off the Mumbai coast.PTI
12 August 2020||Mumbai,||11,088 new cases take State tally to 5,35,601||Maharashtra reported 11,088 COVID-19 new cases on Tuesday, taking its tally to 5,35,601. There were 256 more fatalities, taking the death toll to 18,306, a State health official said. The number of recoveries rose to 3,68,435, with 10,014 patients being discharged on Tuesday, the official said. Mumbai reported 917 new cases and 48 deaths, taking total cases to 1,25,224 and the death toll to 6,893.
12 August 2020||HUBBALLI,||Nine deaths in Dharwad||Among the districts in Bombay Karnataka, Belagavi recorded the highest single-day spike of 575 cases on Tuesday taking the tally to over 6,000 cases in the district. The district also recorded four deaths, while 444 patients were discharged bringing the number of active cases down to 3,324. Dharwad district recorded 276 cases and nine deaths, while 436 patients were discharged on Tuesday. There are 2,224 active cases. Meanwhile, Davangere district recorded 172 cases and four deaths, Bagalkot 135 cases and one death, Vijayapura 121 cases and two deaths, Gadag 78 cases and two deaths, Uttara Kannada 73 cases, Chitradurga 47 cases and Haveri registered 36 cases and three deaths.
12 August 2020||Chennai,||Bus services unlikely to resume before August 31||The State government appears disinclined to go for early resumption of bus transport services. As of now, they remain suspended till August 31. The services were allowed in a limited way for three weeks in June, but suspended since June 24.
12 August 2020||Chennai,||‘Govt. hospitals treated over 5 crore outpatients’||Since March, government hospitals in the State have treated nearly 5.09 crore outpatients and 27.3 lakh inpatients, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said. As patients could not access private hospitals owing to the pandemic, government hospitals took the workload of the private sector as well, he said in a release.
12 August 2020||Chennai,||T.N. sees 5,834 new virus cases, 118 deaths||Tamil Nadu recorded 5,834 new cases of COVID-19 and 118 more deaths on Tuesday. The total number of persons discharged so far is 2.5 lakh. The State’s case tally climbed to 3,08,649, of which 52,810 are still under treatment.
12 August 2020||HYDRERABAD,||Kerala battles monsoon diseases and the virus||It was a rise of 1,896 cases in Telangana, pushing up its COVID-19 tally to 82,647 on Monday. Around 18,035 tests were done on August 10 and the results of 959 were awaited. Eight more patients died, taking the toll to 645, in data released on Tuesday. Of the 1,896 new cases, 338 were from Greater Hyderabad, 147 from Rangareddy, 121 from Karimnagar, 119 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 95 from Warangal Urban. Of the total 22,628 were active cases, while 59,374 had recovered and 645 deaths were recorded. The total for tests offered stood at 6,42,675. The tally in Andhra Pradesh was close to the 2.5-lakh-mark on Tuesday, with 9,024 new infections and 87 new deaths. The Health department bulletin said total cases stood at 2,44,549 and the death toll at 2,203. Recoveries were put at 1,54,749 including 9,113 during the past day. There were 87,597 infected persons under treatment. The State had tested 25,92,619 samples, with a positivity rate of 9.54%. During the past day, 58,315 samples were tested and 15.47% were positive. Anantapur and Chittoor reported 13 and 12 new deaths respectively. They were followed by Guntur with nine deaths, Visakhapatnam and Prakasam with seven each, West Godavari, Kadapa and Srikakulam with six each, East Godavari, Vizianagaram and Nellore with five each and Kurnool and Krishna with three each new deaths. Kerala reported 1,417 new cases on Tuesday. Again, 90% of new cases – 1,280 out of 1,417 – were locally acquired infections, 105 with no epidemiological link established. Also, 36 health care workers tested positive. The Health Department added five more deaths – three in Thiruvananthapuram and one each in Ernakulam and Kannur – raising the toll to 120. The cumulative case burden stood at 36,932. Thiruvananthapuram with 297 cases and Malappuram with 242 cases topped the list of districts. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the media that with rains intensifying, the State was ramping up measures against dengue and leptospirosis infections also. Some 68 migrant workers who had reached the State for fishing had tested positive.  Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu recorded 5,834 new cases of COVID-19 and 118 more deaths. The total number of persons discharged after treatment so far touched 2.50 lakh. The State’s overall tally climbed to 3,08,649 of which 52,810 were under treatment. Another 6,005 persons were discharged on Tuesday while State’s toll rose to 5,159. In Chennai, 986 persons tested positive and 23 persons succumbed to the infection. In the last 24 hours, 67,492 samples were tested in the State. This took the total number of samples tested so far to 33,60,450.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, and Chennai bureaus)
12 August 2020||JAIPUR,||Pilot lands in Jaipur to a rousing welcome||Nearly a month after he broke ranks with Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and staged a rebellion, Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Tuesday returned to Jaipur to a tumultuous welcome by his supporters. Having struck a peace deal with the party leadership in Delhi, Mr. Pilot said he had not demanded any post and there was no scope for “vendetta politics”. Mr. Pilot, accompanied by several dissident MLAs, drove from New Delhi to his official residence in the State capital’s Civil Lines, where a large number of party workers gathered and garlanded him, while raising slogans in his support. Firecrackers were also burst outside the Congress office in Tonk, which is Mr. Pilot’s Assembly constituency. ‘BJP conspiracy’ Even before Mr. Pilot reached here, Mr. Gehlot left for Jaisalmer to preside over a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting at a resort where the MLAs supporting him have been sequestered. While attacking the BJP for “hatching a conspiracy” to topple his government, Mr. Gehlot said it was his responsibility to win back the hearts of the rebel MLAs. Mr. Pilot’s meeting with the top leadership on Monday had led to a truce between the rival factions in the party and signalled an end to the month-long political turmoil ahead of the crucial Assembly session beginning on August 14. Mr. Pilot said the issues raised by him related to the government’s functioning, workers’ participation and dignity and self-respect of those who had worked hard to bring the party to power in 2018. “If I have reservations about the working style of someone, I have a right to complain about it,” he asserted. Earlier, Mr. Gehlot told reporters here before leaving for Jaisalmer that the BJP’s attempts to topple his government had failed because all the Congress MLAs remained together.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||Deliver ration in areas hit by floods: Paswan||Union Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan has appealed to State governments to carry out doorstep delivery of ration to those eligible under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana in flood-affected areas. “Floods and heavy rain in many States of the country have resulted in catastrophic conditions. People are leaving the village and taking shelter elsewhere and it is not possible for people to reach the ration shops,” he said in a series of tweets. Parts of Bihar, Kerala, Karnataka, Assam and other northeastern States have been affected by severe flooding. “I urge the State governments to arrange doorstep delivery of ration for those who are not able to get ration from the ration shop under the flood affected National Food Security Act and the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana,” Mr. Paswan said. He stressed that the timely distribution of grains during a calamity became even more critical and that State governments have to step in. Through the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana and the National Food Security Act, the Central government is giving 10 kg of food grains a month to more than 80 crore beneficiaries of NFSA from April to November. This, the Ministry estimates, in case of a family of four amounts to three quintals in eight months.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||IAF to get 106 trainer aircraft||The Defence Acquisition Council (DAC), chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, on Tuesday approved defence procurements worth Rs. 8,722.38 crore, including 106 HTT-40 Basic Trainer Aircraft (BTA) for the Indian Air Force (IAF) built by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), the Ministry of India (MoD) said. “With Hindustan Aeronautics Limited having successfully developed HTT-40 prototypes and certification process underway, the DAC approved procurement of 106 BTA from HAL to address the basic training requirements of the IAF,” the Ministry said in a statement. “Post certification 70 BTA will be initially procured from HAL and balance 36 after operationalisation of HTT-40 fleet in IAF.” The DAC also approved the procurement of an upgraded version of Super Rapid Gun Mount (SRGM), which is fitted as the main gun onboard Navy and Coast Guard warships from Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL). The upgraded version of SRGM has enhanced capability to perform against fast manoeuvring targets such as missiles and fast attack crafts and increase the maximum engagement range, the statement stated. In addition, the DAC approved procurement of 125 mm APFSDS (Armour Piercing Fin Stabilized Discarding Sabot) ammunition for the Army as a ‘design and development case’. “The ammunition being procured will have a 70% indigenous content,” it said. The DAC also gave approvals that are likely to speed up the procurement of AK-203 assault rifles from Russia and Unmanned Aerial Vehicle upgrades.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||Truce offers lessons to Congress||The end of the month-long rebellion in Rajasthan is a strong comeback by the Congress to upset the BJP’s “dream” of forming a government in the State despite being in a minority, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted on Tuesday. “Congratulations to the eight crore people of Rajasthan. Mr. Rahul Gandhi’s vision and resolve to take everyone along and Ms. Priyanka Gandhi’s support bore results. The solution could be found because of the maturity shown by Ashok Gehlot [Chief Minister] and the faith of Mr. Sachin Pilot,” Mr. Surjewala tweeted in Hindi. Tackling dissidence early For the Congress party, insiders said, there are key takeaways that could help in dealing with factional fights within the party. Until it blew up and threatened the stability of the government, the central leadership chose to either ignore the friction between Mr. Gehlot and Mr. Pilot or play it down because of the stature of the Chief Minister. A similar tension is growing in Punjab but the central leadership is yet to adopt a pro-active approach to bring together the warring parties. Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and Rajya Sabha member and former Pradesh Congress Committee chief Partap Singh Bajwa have been openly trading charges. “From Sidhu [Navjot Singh Sidhu] to Bajwa, there are leaders who have questions regarding the style of functioning of the government. Ms. Gandhi should intervene and bring all the parties on the same page,” said a senior Congress leader, who did not wish to be named. Role of the Gandhis Unlike Madhya Pradesh, where the Congress’s top leadership, including the Gandhi family, seemed too slow to react and failed to stop Jyotiraditya Scindia from joining the BJP, the party’s first family stepped in early in Rajasthan. Despite bitter statements from both camps, the party leadership, including Ms. Vadra, kept channels of communication with Mr. Pilot open. “In M.P. too, if Sonia ji had met all the MLAs as soon as the first attempt to break them away by bringing them to the Gurgaon hotel took place, our government may not have fallen. We were too slow to react,” said a Rajya Sabha member. The Congress is said to have “exploited” the divisions in both the BJP as well as the Pilot camp. While former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje’s reservation about the move to topple the government is believed to have slowed down the BJP’s plan, the Congress managed to divide the Pilot camp by persuading eight-term MLA Bhanwar Lal Sharma to break ranks. Mr. Sharma later met party general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal on Sunday. That meeting, a senior leader camping in Rajasthan argued, was the turning point to put pressure on Mr. Pilot to resolve the dispute. Though Mr. Gehlot will continue as Chief Minister, the party is likely to find a mechanism where there is devolution of power and make the governance structure more “participative” to involve the elected MLAs, said another leader.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Not one of our MLAs spoke to BJP leaders’||With the month-long rebellion in Rajasthan ending in a truce and the announcement of a three-member committee to look into the ‘grievances’ of the dissidents, Congress leader Sachin Pilot stresses that he has always stood by the party and none of his supporters had engaged with the BJP even as he expressed anguish at the personal attacks he was subject to.  What role do you see for yourself in the party now that the truce has been announced? After I met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi ji and Priyanka ji [Priyanka Gandhi Vadra], the party announced a three-member committee and we have been assured of time-bound resolution of the issues that we raised, including the style of leadership. The issues that we raised and whatever stand we took were principled issues and we didn’t have any personal interest. Going forward, there should not be any vendetta against the MLAs and there should be participation from them in the government as well as the party. As for myself, I have never asked for any position and left it to the party. I have had many posts and performed many roles. Whatever role the party decides, I am happy to accept it. Rajasthan is my karmabhoomi and I will continue to work for the people. You talked about participation in government and party but there are reports that MLAs in the Gehlot camp don’t want any sops for the rebel MLAs. I have not heard anything like this but we have all raised issues related to the people. After all, in three years, we will go back to the people. We had raised issues about accountability on the promises that we made to the people and getting answers. None of us has ever uttered one word against the party. I don’t think there can be two views on the question of having a more participatory government. There have been very bitter exchanges and the Chief Minister once referred to you as nikamma . When I was called those names, as a human being, I must say I felt very bad. I was deeply saddened and hurt by the language used. Even my fiercest opponent had not used such language for me. I don’t think that two wrongs make a right. We must show some dignity of discourse in politics. So, will you be able to work together by putting this bitterness behind you? In politics, there should not be any place for personal animosity and enmity. We should be able to steadfastly hold our views for the sake of the people who elected us. In my opinion, there is no place for personal attacks and animosity. There is a view within the Congress that you were left with no option but go for a truce as your ‘camp’ was breaking up. First of all, there was no ‘camp’ and all of us were together. Last night, except Bhanwar Lal Sharma ji , all of us met senior leaders and Priyanka ji . Bhanwar Lal ji told me that he is not going as he had a stomach infection. Look, the MLAs were from 14 districts, representing different communities. There was a former Speaker, former Cabinet Ministers and people who went to jail in 1977 in support of Indira Gandhi ji . Do you think they can so easily leave the Congress? From day one, I have been saying that I am not going to the BJP. In fact, it is from the other side that action started with SOG [Special Operations Group] notice, suspensions and so on. After 27 days, I am vindicated as we are where we were and have raised issues concerning the people and the party. You were accused of hobnobbing with the BJP to topple your own government and taking hospitality from their government. Not one of our MLAs has met or spoken with any BJP leaders. The Opposition [BJP] may have tried to do politics seeing the situation and take advantage of the fault lines. I repeat, not one of our MLAs spoke to them. As far as our hotel bills and legal fees are concerned, we had pooled our resources and paid them.  None of us has ever uttered one word against the party. I don’t think there can be two views on the question of having a more participatory government
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Strong case for probe by us: CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that both the Maharashtra and Bihar governments make a “strong case” for the Central agency taking over the probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, for the CBI, said Bihar had raised allegations about the “involvement” of the Maharashtra Chief Minister’s son in the case while Maharashtra, in turn, had accused Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar of “influencing” his police to file an FIR in the case. “Both Maharashtra and Bihar have made a strong case for the CBI takeover of the case,” Mr. Mehta addressed Justice Hrishikesh Roy on the Bench. To this, Maharashtra’s government counsel, senior advocate A.M. Singhvi, said he had never seen the CBI so interested in taking over a case. “The CBI’s interest is itself a rare occurrence,” Mr. Singhvi said. “You may have screaming anchors, screaming reporters, but sensationalism or sensitivity does not change the law ... The kind of sensationalism seen here is alarming. Every reporter, anchor, lawyer has turned judge, jury, executioner. I don’t know whether his death was murder or suicide. But I can say the murder of Cr.PC is being attempted here,” Mr. Singhvi submitted. The court was hearing a plea made by actor Rhea Chakaraborty to transfer the case to Mumbai. Justice Roy, at one point, pointed to documents filed by Ms. Chakaraborty herself indicating that she too wanted a CBI probe. The court reserved the plea for orders after a half-day hearing. ‘No active probe’ During the hearing, the CBI submitted that there had been no active investigation by the Mumbai police into the death. “Unless an FIR is registered under Section 154 Cr.PC, there is no investigation in the eyes of the Code ... The CBI investigation will be fair, free and truth-eliciting oriented,” Mr. Mehta submitted. The Bihar government, represented by senior advocate Maninder Singh, said the Mumbai police were acting out a “facade” of an investigation without even having registered an FIR.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Panel to discuss vaccine logistics||The Health Ministry said on Tuesday that an expert committee on vaccine administration, under NITI Aayog member V.K. Paul, will meet on August 12 to consider the logistics and ethical aspects of procurement and administration of the COVID-19 vaccine. The committee would engage with all stakeholders, including State governments and vaccine manufacturers, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said at a press meet. He was replying to a question on Russian President Vladimir Putin’s announcement that his country had successfully registered its vaccine. Mr. Bhushan said, “Questions about India procuring vaccine from Russia cannot be answered at this stage.” He said three proposed vaccine candidates were currently under trial in India. Advising State governments not to be “overawed” by the number of positive cases every day, he said the Health Ministry had told various stakeholders that the country had to work towards achieving less than 1% fatality rate. Guidance note “Currently, less than 1% of hospitalised people are on ventilators, less than 3% are on oxygen and less than 4% of active cases are in ICU. A committee under the Health Ministry is formulating guidelines on treatment and protocol for those experiencing complications after recovering from COVID-19. This is after cases of respiratory problems and heart ailments are coming to light after COVID patients are discharged. The guidance note will be made available soon,” he said. Speaking on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s interaction on Tuesday with the Chief Ministers of 10 States that were showing an increasing COVID-19 trend, he said: “States like Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar participated in the discussion, and they were told that they make up for 80% of the cases currently and 81% of fatalities due to the virus. The States have been told that containment, contact tracing and surveillance are the most effective tools.”
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army ready for the long haul at LAC: Rawat||The stand-off on the border with China in eastern Ladakh is likely to go longer and the Army is prepared for the long haul through the winter, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat told the Public Accounts Committee (PAC), a defence source said on Tuesday. The PAC meeting was held on Monday to discuss issues related to the Siachen glacier. The PAC had met with the agenda to discuss accommodation, clothing and ration for troops on the glacier which was discussed earlier too. One of the members had asked about the situation along the LAC, the defence source said. The CDS replied that the Army was fully prepared to meet any challenge, the source said. Unilateral aggression Last week, the Defence Ministry took down a document uploaded on its website that admitted Chinese transgressions in eastern Ladakh beginning early May. The report had said that the present situation arising from “unilateral aggression” by China continues to be sensitive, requiring close monitoring and prompt action based on the evolving situation and that the present stand-off “is likely to be prolonged”. India has demanded that status quo ante of pre-May positions be restored along the LAC. China had massed troops all along eastern Ladakh and occupied positions in India’s perception of the LAC. With a resolution no where in sight, the Army has been preparing for extended deployment and stocking up for the harsh winter in the high-altitude region.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear ‘merger’ case again tomorrow||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) said in the Supreme Court on Tuesday that the move of its six Rajasthan legislators to “merge” with the ruling Congress “wiped out” the party in the State. One of the MLAs, represented by senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, retorted that the BSP “had no control of their own party” in the State. The verbal sparring occurred in a hearing of a petition filed by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar against a Rajasthan High Court Division Bench order of August 6 refusing to immediately stay Assembly Speaker C.P. Joshi’s recognition of the “merger” of the six MLAs with the Congress. Mr. Dilawar maintained that the Speaker, instead of accepting the “merger” on September 18 last, should have disqualified the MLAs for defection. But a Bench, led by Justice Arun Mishra, stalled the hearing in the top court till August 13. This was done after it learnt that a Single Bench of the High Court was scheduled to hear and decide Mr. Dilawar’s plea on Tuesday. “Let the High Court proceedings continue. Let the Single Bench hear the case today. All of you can argue your points in the case before the High Court today... We will list this petition before us on August 13,” Justice Mishra said. The Bench, however, allowed the six MLAs to withdraw their plea to transfer the case from the High Court to the Supreme Court. They had separately approached the top court to shift Mr. Dilawar’s case for their disqualification to the SC. Shocking, says Salve Senior advocate Harish Salve, for Mr. Dilawar, said Speaker Joshi, by recognising the “merger”, acted in a partisan manner when he was not supposed to take sides. “He had to conduct himself as a tribunal... This is shocking,” he submitted.
12 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Law admission exam to be conducted on Sept. 7||The Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) for both undergraduate and postgraduate candidates for 2020 will be held on September 7 from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m., a communique from the Consortium of National Law Universities said on Tuesday. The CLAT 2020 was scheduled to be conducted in May earlier this year but was postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown. The general body of the consortium met on Monday and assessed the prevailing lockdown situation in various parts of the country as well as the health and safety protocols necessary to conduct the examination before deciding on the date. As notified before, the exam will be conducted through a centre-based, online computer-based test. Medical and safety measures being adopted will be as per those outlined in the consortium’s notification on June 30, said the release. “No candidate will be allowed to enter examination centre without a mask. Appropriate respiratory etiquette will also be maintained at all times. Detailed instructions in this regard will be notified on the consortium website,” it read. Review locations The earlier notification on safety precautions included social distance, thermal screening and isolation labs for candidates who show COVID-19 symptoms. The consortium will review centre locations on an ongoing basis to ensure that students and staff are protected at all times. The consortium is in the process of securing further permissions so that admit cards of candidates can be considered as movement passes by local authorities to allow them to move between containment zones and travel to their examination centres. These admit cards — indicating the roll number and the centre — will be available for download from the website (consortiumofnlus.ac.in) in two weeks.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED records statements in Sushant’s death case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) recorded the statements of two persons on Tuesday in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput case. Shruti Modi, former manager of Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty, appeared before the ED for the third round of questioning under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The agency sought some documents from her for verification. Sushant’s sister Mithu Singh, who had reached his residence on the afternoon of June 14, shortly after his body was found, also recorded her statement. Ms. Singh was one of the five persons present in the house when the police reached the spot. In the case alleging abetment of suicide, criminal conspiracy, cheating, wrongful restraint and confinement, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has started its probe and recorded the testimonies of Sushant’s father and a few other relatives. The CBI team is reconstructing the sequence of events leading up to the incident and is also consulting with forensic experts to examine all the evidence. If necessary, the agency may resort to a dummy test to verify the statements of witnesses pertaining to the position in which the body was found. The doctors who had conducted post-mortem may also be examined.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indian, Afghan officials discuss Loya Jirga||Indian and Afghan officials in Delhi and Kabul discussed the outcome of the Loya Jirga, or grand assembly, in Afghanistan that advised the release of 400 Taliban militants convicted of serious crimes. According to officials, the two sides discussed the likelihood of intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha, Qatar, which have been put off to next week, as well as the hopes for a permanent ceasefire, in a briefing two days after the Jirga’s decision. The intra-Afghan talks could now take place on August 16-17 in Doha, once President Ghani’s government releases all the men, bringing the total number of Taliban fighters released to about 5,500. The officials said the release was conditional, and contingent on a reduction in the level of violence by the Taliban as well as a “humanitarian ceasefire” for civilians to be transported during the coronavirus pandemic without fear of the Taliban. The Taliban is also required to guarantee that none of the men being released will return to combat. Sources also told The Hindu that once the talks in Doha, between government representatives, civil society members and the Taliban take place, another round of talks could be scheduled in Germany, which has offered to host them. According to an official, talks are also on for the release of the last of the group of seven Indian hostages still held by the Taliban following their abduction in 2018. Two hostages were released and returned to India last week, while four others had returned earlier. It is hoped that the release of the Taliban prisoners will include those demanded in exchange for the release of the Indian hostage, who was an employee at a power plant project run by Indian engineering company KEC. He was abducted at gunpoint by Taliban militants in Afghanistan’s Baglan province two years ago.
12 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||A fearless voice and people’s poet||Eminent Urdu poet Rahat Indori who succumbed to COVID-related complications on Tuesday was an unwavering light who kept the ‘mushaira’ poetry alive for generations, a fearless voice who unfailingly showed a mirror to the establishment. A people’s poet, he was not meant to be read in literary journals; he was made to be experienced in poetic ‘soirees’ where his unique style of delivery kept the audience hooked for hours. Sharp imagery Known for his sharp visual imagery, the poet, who grew up in Indore and worked as a Urdu professor in Devi Ahilya Bai University, knew how to reach out to the last man in the row without undermining the presence of the purist. “If I recite five couplets in a soiree, you may not like all of them but each of them will find an audience. And it is a matter of satisfaction for me,” he once said. He didn’t consider it as dilution and maintained poetry should be done in the language of the generation that one is catering to. Rahat was against all kinds of inequality, including intellectual inequality. Son of a mill worker, he had pain and pathos integral to his romantic poetry but maintained that it didn’t reflect his personal pain. Instead, he would say it reflects the pain of the world and changed with time. So he wrote “ Bichhad Ke Tujhse Kisi Doosre Se Milna Hai, Yeh Faisala Bhi Isi Zindagi Main Karna Hai ”, which captured the fickleness of modern-day love as the practical lover wants to move on. Contemporary issues There was more to his poetic universe than just love and longing. He wrote extensively on contemporary issues such as globalisation, the status of women in society and communalism that reflected in his literary collections such as Rut , Mere Baad and Do Kadar Aur Sahi . His couplet, “ Mujhe Khabar Nahin Mandir Jalein Hai Ya Masjid Meri Nigaah Ke Aage To Bas Dhuaan Hai Miyan ”, continues to live on. Here without taking sides he talks of the damage that communal fire could cause to society. He dabbled into Bollywood as well and stitched a successful partnership with Anu Malik and Mahesh Bhatt with songs such as Aaj Humne Dil Ka Har Kissa ( Sir ) and Dil Ko Hazar Baar Roka ( Murder ). In the last few years, he became an independent voice who mirrored the feelings of those who wanted to talk against religious polarisation. His “Kisi Ke Baap Ka Hindustan Thodi Hai” became a popular hashtag during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Daughters have equal right to inherit property, says SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday held that daughters have an equal birthright with sons to inherit joint Hindu family property. The court decided that the amended Hindu Succession Act, which gives daughters equal rights to ancestral property, will have a retrospective effect. “A daughter always remains a loving daughter. A son is a son until he gets a wife. A daughter is a daughter throughout her life,” Justice Arun Mishra, heading a three-judge Bench, authored the judgment. The judgment agreed with lead arguments made by senior advocate Bishwajit Bhattacharya that the substituted Section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 confers the status of ‘coparcener’ to a daughter born before or after the amendment in the same manner as a son. Coparcener is a person who has a birthright to parental property. Overrules 2015 decision Since the right to coparcenary of a daughter is by birth, it is not necessary that the father should be alive as on September 9, 2005. The court has thus overruled an earlier 2015 decision. The court, in its 121-page judgment, said the statutory fiction of partition created by proviso to Section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 as originally enacted did not bring about the actual partition or disruption of coparcenary. It also clarified that an unregistered oral partition, without any contemporaneous public document, cannot be accepted as the statutory recognised mode of partition. “However, in exceptional cases where plea of oral partition is supported by public documents and partition is finally evinced in the same manner as if it had been affected by a decree of a court, it may be accepted,” the Bench held.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||NSCN-IM releases details of 2015 pact||The National Socialist Council of Nagaland-IM has for the first time released the details of the 2015 framework agreement and has accused interlocutor R.N. Ravi of deleting a key word from the original document and sharing the modified version with other Naga groups. The agreement released by the NSCN-IM stated “sharing the sovereign power” and provide for an “enduring inclusive new relationship of peaceful co-existence of the two entities”. The NSCN-IM claimed on Tuesday that Mr. Ravi, also Nagaland Governor, “craftily deleted the word new from the original” to justify his own narrative and circulated to the other Naga groups including the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs). The NSCN claimed that the word ‘new’ is politically sensitive as it goes to define the meaning of peaceful co-existence of the two entities (two sovereign powers) and it strongly indicates outside the purview of the Constitution. The NSCN-IM, one of the largest Naga groups, signed a framework agreement on August 3, 2015 to end the decades old issue. Mr. Ravi signed the agreement on behalf of the Centre in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The other two signatories were Isak Chishi Swu, who died in 2016 and Thuingaleng Muivah, 86, who is leading the talks. The framework agreement shared as part of a detailed press statement issued by the NSCN-IM on Tuesday said, “Both sides have understood each other’s respective positions and are cognizant of the universal principle that in a democracy, sovereignty lies with the people. Accordingly, the Govt. of India and the NSCN, respecting people’s wishes for sharing the sovereign power as defined in the competencies reached an agreement on the 3rd August, 2015 as an honorable solution.” As reported by The Hindu, the Naga talks have hit rough weather as the NSCN-IM has demanded that he be removed from the position. ‘Undue advantage’ In Tuesday’s statement, the NSCN-IM said Mr. Ravi insulted the NSCN negotiating team by using unparliamentary language when he said “this can be understood even by Class VII students that it means acceptance of the Indian Constitution”. The NSCN said till now it had refrained from publishing the agreement respecting the “tacit understanding reached between the two sides not to release to the public domain for security reasons of India”. It said Mr. Ravi took undue advantage and started modifying and manipulating the agreement to mislead the Nagas and the Centre.
12 August 2020||IDUKKI,||3 more bodies recovered, Idukki landslip toll hits 52||With the recovery of three more bodies on Tuesday, the death toll in the Pettimudy landslip, near Munnar, rose to 52. The landslip had hit the estate lane area of Nayamakkad on Thursday night. A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) with the support of non-governmental organisations and other agencies continued the search for missing persons from Tuesday morning. Two bodies were recovered in the morning and one by afternoon. The bodies recovered were identified as that of Chelladurai, 55, Rekha, 7, and Rathayya, 55. They were located from the Kanniyar river, a revenue official said. As per the official estimate, 18 persons are still missing. Four estate lanes were completely buried in the landslip debris. 18 missing Devikulam Subcollector S. Premkrishnan said nine of the 18 missing were children. The administration had shifted 65 families, including one family at the landslip site, to a camp. It was expected that more bodies swept into the river would be recovered on Wednesday, he said. With electricity and communication facilities remaining cut off, information on the search operations were being transferred to the collectorate at Painavu with a mobile tower set up by HAM radio operators at Pettimudy. The bodies recovered were buried after post-mortem examination at a makeshift mortuary there.
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana performs 2.55 lakh rapid antigen tests in a month||Of 5,90,306 tests performed in Telangana till August 8 to detect COVID-19, at least 2.55 lakh were conducted using rapid antigen test (RAT) method that was introduced in the State on July 8. Of those, the results of 1,536 symptomatic persons turned up negative and were followed up with Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR). Till early February, samples collected from COVID suspects in the State were sent to National Institute of Virology-Pune for tests. From mid-February, the tests were performed in various labs in Hyderabad using RT-PCR method exclusively till July 7 to detect the infection. People had to wait for two to five days for the results. Following a growing clamour for more tests, the State government finally scaled up testing from June 16. The number dramatically shot up from July 8 when the Health department utilised RAT kits. In this case, the results are achieved in just 30 minutes to an hour. Between 3,000 and 6,500 RT-PCR tests were performed on a daily basis from June 20 to July 7. After RAT kits were put to use, the testing capacity increased to up to 20,000 per day. From July 8 to August 7, a total of 4,61,868 tests, both RAT and RT-PCR, were performed. Swab samples are collected for the two methods of tests. “Around 2.55 lakh tests were conducted using RAT kits,” said senior officials from the Health department. However, since there could be false negative results using RAT, it must be followed up with RT-PCR, as prescribed by the Indian Council of Medical Research. Though the number of tests performed, cumulative numbers and pending results are mentioned in daily media bulletins, the distribution of tests between RT-PCR and RAT and results from the two are not mentioned. There is also no information on how many RAT-negative tests are followed up with RT-PCR which can help people understand the rate of accuracy of tests. Lab empanelled The National Reference Laboratory of Apollo Diagnostics, the diagnostic division of Apollo Health and Lifestyle Limited (AHLL), got empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (ABPM-JAY) for coronavirus RT-PCR testing for the beneficiaries of Ayushman Bharat. With this development, patients enrolled under the Ayushman Bharat scheme could be benefitted. However, in Telangana, only the State government’s Aarogyasri health scheme is implemented.
12 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Former ISRO scientist gets Rs. 1.3 cr. extra compensation||Nambi Narayanan, former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) scientist of the infamous ISRO spy scandal case, was given Rs. 1.3 crore additional compensation by the government on Tuesday. The money was transferred from the treasury to Mr. Narayanan’s bank account in accordance with the December 2019 Cabinet decision to settle the case he had filed against the State in the Sub-Court in Thiruvananthapuram. Sources said the additional compensation was made available from the police account. This is in addition to the Rs. 50 lakh given by the State on a Supreme Court order and the Rs. 10 lakh recommended by the National Human Rights Commission. The additional compensation was approved by the Cabinet on the recommendations of a report submitted by former Chief Secretary K. Jayakumar. A three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court had, in September 2018, found Mr. Narayanan to be a victim of trumped-up case. It ordered Kerala to pay him Rs. 50 lakh as compensation for loss of his fundamental right to live with dignity and self-respect.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||BJP, Oppn. MPs spar over J&K Net curbs||The shut down of hi-speed Internet in Jammu and Kashmir was debated between MPs of the BJP and the Opposition for more than two hours at a meeting of the Standing Committee of Parliament on Information and Technology on Tuesday, sources said. The Committee was to have a briefing by the representatives of the Ministry of Communications (Department of Telecommunications) on the subjects of suspension of telecom services/Internet and its impact and India’s preparedness for 5G. Fundamental right Chairman Shashi Tharoor, according to sources, read out the Supreme Court judgment of January this year which said that access to Internet is a fundamental right. He asked pointed questions on how the country could be prepared for 5G considering that J&K doesn’t even have 4G. He was countered by BJP MP Nishikant Dubey who pointed out that India got mobile phone by 1995 but it reached J&K only some years later. Mr. Dubey’s claim was countered by a Congress MP who said the Committee should concern itself with the present situation alone. Officials of the Telecom Ministry told the committee that they had written to the Ministry of Home Affairs and the J&K administration on the issue. As per the laid down procedures, the District Collector can take the first call to shut down Internet, based on the law and order situation. However, the decision has to be vetted by a review committee within five days. The opposition members pointed out that this review committee entirely consists of bureaucrats alone. They pressed that there was a need for public representatives to be part of such a review committee to ensure public participation in the decision-making process. They also insisted that the review should be held in a time-bound manner.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||Rajya Sabha output up, says Venkaiah||Speaking at an event marking the completion of three years in office as Vice-President and Chairman of the Rajya Sabha, M. Venkaiah Naidu said on Tuesday that the functioning of the Rajya Sabha has shown certain “winds of change”, with consistently higher level of productivity and increased legislative output over the last few sessions. The attendance in the meetings of the Committees of the Upper House has also for the first time crossed the 50% mark, the Vice-President added. Publication released A publication titled “Connecting, Communicating, Changing” was also released by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh at the event organised by the Ministry of Information and Public Broadcasting at the Vice-President’s residence. Presenting the context of his assumption of responsibility, Mr. Naidu said research and analysis commissioned by him had revealed that the productivity of the House had been declining over the last 25 years, with the House reporting annual productivity of 100% only once in 1999 in the last 20 years. 65.5% productivity However, the overall productivity of the last eight sessions presided over by him during the last three years has been 65.50%, the Vice-President said, despite the intervening election year seriously impacting the functioning of the House for three sessions. Referring to the improvement in legislative output as yet another indication of change, Mr. Naidu also referred to the 93 Bills passed by the Rajya Sabha during the last three years of his chairmanship.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||B.Arch. students to get 3-year exit option under new norms||Undergraduate architecture students could soon have the option to exit the 5-year degree programme after three years with a basic degree, according to the Council of Architecture’s (CoA) new norms released on Tuesday. The Council is also considering the possibility of a professional qualifying exam for architecture to license practitioners. The Minimum Standards of Architectural Education Regulations (MSAR), 2020, released through a webinar by Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, are being revised after 37 years. “There are cases where a student realises partway through the course that they don’t have the aptitude or interest for the programme and wants to change fields. Also, there may be financial or other compulsions where a student needs to exit. The framework of the National Education Policy providing exit options and credit security allows us to make this viable,” CoA president Habeeb Khan told The Hindu . He said universities could choose what to call the 3-year degree — a Bachelors in Draftsmanship, Building Science, or Architectural Science were some options. Asked if these degree holders would be allowed to practise as architects, Mr. Khan said the Council was planning to conduct an exit examination, which would be a professional qualification test.
12 August 2020||KALABURAGI,||Back with the family, but as a wax statue||It was the occasion they always wanted to celebrate together, and it could be no other way. When Shrinivas Gupta, a well-known entrepreneur in Koppal, conducted the house-warming ceremony for his big villa, it was with his ‘wife and daughters’ as she had dreamt of. What made the event different was that his wife, Venkatanaga Madhavi, was present not in reality, but as a likeness. No one who looked at the images of the celebration could tell that it was a wax statue of Madhavi on the sofa. The industrialist had decided that the ceremony could not be held without her presence. She had passed away in a road accident in July 2017. Mr. Gupta, an international hair trader, built the villa after the accident claimed his wife, and took care to incorporate her wishes. But her absence at the ‘grahapravesha’ ceremony would be strongly felt. He decided to commission her statue for the occasion. He scoured the Internet, used his contacts and visited experts to zero in on someone who could translate his idea into a proper statue. He found a sculptor in Bengaluru, who used rubber, silicon, wax, and other materials to produce the life-size image. Mr. Gupta was satisfied with the result. On the big day, the statue, dressed in a pink sari was placed on a sofa in the villa, and family pictures were taken. The couple’s daughters stood on either side, gazing fondly. “If I had the power to infuse life into the statue, I wouldn’t waste a single moment,” he said.
12 August 2020||Chennai,||CISF to deploy more personnel with ‘working knowledge of local language’ at airports||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) will deploy more personnel with “working knowledge of the local language” at airports to deal with passengers. The move follows DMK MP Kanimozhi’s complaint alleging that a CISF officer at Chennai airport had asked her if she was Indian after coming to know that she was not conversant in Hindi. The CISF would try to deploy as many personnel familiar with the local language on screening, frisking and other frontline duties. Since the job involves technical and behavioural skills, it would not be possible to achieve 100% deployment of men/women familiar with the regional language on such duties, a senior CISF officer said. When contacted, Ms. Kanimozhi told The Hindu that she had spoken to a senior CISF official in Chennai and had requested him not to take any stringent action against the woman officer in question, but to sensitise her to the seriousness of the issue. “We take utmost care to respect the sentiments of passengers and extend due courtesy. For two decades now, we have been involved in providing internal security and [ensuring] compliance with safety protocols at airports. Be it VIPs, elected representatives or others, we deal [with] everybody with dignity while ensuring [adherence to] security norms,” Anil Pandey, DIG and Chief Public Relations Officer, CISF, told The Hindu on Tuesday. He acknowledged the possibility of misunderstandings occurring during an interaction between individuals. “We have now taken steps to make sure that there is no such gap in communication, to the extent possible,” he said. Airport sources said such problems could be avoided if more staff with knowledge of the local language are deployed. “There is hardly any need for any conversation between the staff and the passengers. There may be exchanges only in cases where a passenger’s belongings need to be checked and queries need to be raised in this regard. But even then, the staff would ask only basic questions. If the passenger doesn’t know Hindi, it would be easier for him/her if the staff speak English or the local language,” an official said. Nathan S.P., an air passenger, recalled that his father, a senior citizen and a first-time flyer, had felt intimidated and lost when a CISF staff, who wanted to carry out a security check, spoke only Hindi at Chennai airport a few years ago. Premium trains The Indian Railways is also facing similar communication issues on premium trains like the Rajdhani, Shatabdi, Duronto and Tejas, where catering and housekeeping staff normally tend to be contract workers from outside south India. Following complaints, the IRCTC has had to take steps to ensure that staff with knowledge of the local language are posted to handle passenger services. Airport sources said such problems could be avoided if more staff with knowledge of the local language are deployed. “There is hardly any need for any conversation between the staff and the passengers. There may be exchanges only in cases where a passenger’s belongings need to be checked and queries need to be raised in this regard. But even then, the staff would ask only basic questions. If the passenger doesn’t know Hindi, it would be easier for him/her if the staff speak English or the local language,” an official said. Nathan S.P., an air passenger, recalled that his father, a senior citizen and a first-time flyer, had felt intimidated and lost when a CISF staff, who wanted to carry out a security check, spoke only Hindi at Chennai airport a few years ago. The Indian Railways is also facing similar communication issues on premium trains like the Rajdhani, Shatabdi, Duronto and Tejas, where catering and housekeeping staff normally tend to be contract workers from outside south India. Following complaints, the IRCTC has had to take steps to ensure that staff with knowledge of the local language are posted to handle passenger services.
12 August 2020||Kozhikode,||NIT-C beats COVID-19 blues in placements||Brushing aside the disruptions of COVID-19 pandemic, the NIT-C has recorded the best placement in its history with 647 students getting offers from India and abroad and with an average salary of Rs. 11.58 lakh per annum. Last year, the number of offers was 643 with an average salary of Rs. 9.56 lakh. The placement session of three months (March to May) sessions were lost due to the lockdown. “But, an aggressive approach undertaken right from the first schedule helped to achieve the placement record,” S.M. Sameer, Professor and Head, Centre for Training and Placement, NIT-C, said. He said that the highest annual package was Rs. 50 lakh per annum offered by Atlassian Corporation, an Australian enterprise software multinational, which visited the NIT-C for the time. Also, for the first time in recent years, ISRO decided to visit two or three top institutions in the State and selected NIT-C as one of the institutes and offered placements to six students. Similarly, the Indian Air Force also visited the campus for recruitment, he said. Dr. Sameer said that the B.Tech Computer Science and Engineering branch continued to be at the top with all 125 eligible students getting placed with an average salary of Rs. 18 lakh. The average salary the previous year was Rs. 15 lakh.
12 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Senior citizens allege bid to undermine judiciary||As many as 175 senior citizens, including former officials, judges, servicemen and intellectuals, have written to President Ramnath Kovind seeking action against “attempts to undermine the judiciary and constitutional bodies.” The representation signed by former Kerala Chief Secretary C.V. Anand Bose and others was submitted in the wake of the mounting protests over the contempt of court proceedings initiated by the Supreme Court against lawyer and activist Prasanth Bhushan for airing his views on the functioning of the apex court in the recent past. It accused Mr. Bhushan of using pressure tactics to bridle the Supreme Court. The other signatories include former IAS officer Sharvesh Kaushal, Major General Dhruv Kathoch, Lt. Gen. V.K. Chaturvedi, former Sikkim Chief Justice Permod Kohli, poet Akkitham, former Kerala Chief Secretary R. Ramachandran Nair, former DGP M.G.A. Raman, former Intelligence Bureau chief Harisena Varma and former Vice Chancellor of Calicut University Abdul Salam.
12 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Don’t discriminate on risk incentive, says HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday told the State government that it cannot discriminate amongst Group D employees, who are required to work by compulsorily wearing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits for COVID-19 health management, with regard to the payment of COVID-19 risk incentive of Rs. 10,000 a month. The court made this observation on noticing that the risk incentive is being offered only to Group D employees of the Health and Family Welfare and the Medical Education Departments who have been deployed at designated COVID-19 health centres, care centres and hospitals. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar pointed out that similarly placed Group D employees like pourakarmikas and sanitary workers, who are deployed in thousands of containment zones across the State are also required to compulsorily wear a PPE kit and they cannot be deprived of the risk incentive. As the government said that the proposal to increase the accidental insurance cover from Rs. 30 lakh to Rs. 50 lakh for all categories of pourakarmikas, police personnel, anganwadi workers, on a par with health care workers is under consideration before the Finance Department, the Bench asked the government to expedite the process. Meanwhile, the State government informed the Bench that 120 pourakarmikas working in the 285 urban local bodies across the State have been tested COVID-19 positive and 58 of them have recovered completely and the remaining 59, with not serious symptoms, are under treatment. It also told the Bench that it has modified norms on handling of dead bodies in the context of COVID-19 and recording of cause of death based on the observations made by the court earlier. Also, it was told to the court on behalf of the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) that 12,512 pourakarmikas along with supervisors, drivers, and helpers of garbage collection vehicles have been tested for COVID-19 using the Rapid Antigen Test kits as on August 10 and 535 of them tested positive. Similarly 3,739 pourakarmikas and supervisors, drivers, and helpers of garbage collection vehicles been tested using RT-PCR and 32 of them have tested positive for COVID-19. However, the Bench asked the BBMP to clarify data while pointing out the inconsistencies in the number of Rapid Antigen Tests and the RT-PCR tests.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||3 A.P. policemen booked in cricket betting case||The CBI has booked three police officers of Guntur in Andhra Pradesh on the charge of illegally detaining three persons to extract confession related to a cricket betting racket. The accused have been identified as Inspector N. Venkata Rao, head constable Sambasiva Rao and constable Veeranjaneyulu. The agency had earlier instituted a preliminary inquiry into the allegation, following a direction from the Andhra Pradesh High Court on petitions filed by the wives of the detainees. ‘Forced to confess’ It was alleged that Nala Bolu Adinarayna, Rayidi Srinivasa Rao and Thumati Srinivasa Rao were illegally kept in confinement by the police officers from October 14 to 31 last year. According to the CBI, its inquiry revealed that the three were indeed illegally detained. They were allegedly forced to confess to their involvement and that of their associates in cricket betting.
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Pilots protest against DGCA’s statements||The Indian Commercial Pilots Association and the Indian Pilots Guild have written to the Union Minister of Civil Aviation demanding the removal of Director-General of Civil Aviation Arun Kumar, an IAS officer, for his comments post the tragic accident of Air India Express Flight No IX 1344 in Kozhikode on August 8. In the letter — which was also marked to Prime Minister Narendra Modi — on Tuesday, the association/guild said that Mr. Kumar, in a televised interview moments after the accident, had made an “inappropriate” reference to the two deceased pilots. In another interview, they said Mr. Kumar had mentioned that the “landing was not smooth” and said the remarks “only go to reveal his total lack of technical knowledge and amateurish view of the unfortunate accident”. ‘Casual remarks’ It was an established scientific fact that so called “smooth” touchdowns could be counterproductive in certain adverse weather conditions and may pose a significant risk to safety. Whether a landing technique is appropriate or a contributory factor to a mishap could only be ascertained after a thorough, evidence-backed investigation and not by speculative, casual remarks, they said.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Calicut airport fire team averted inferno||“The four crash fire trucks were able to reach within three to five minutes; had they been delayed, any spark from metal parts rubbing against each other or from the electrical system could have caused a deadly explosion,” the official said. Many rescue personnel who climbed on to the wrec-kage to bring out survivors also experienced minor electric shocks. The 14 fire personnel who reached the site immediately used foam to cover the fuel tanks as well as well the area on the ground where the fuel had spilled. The foam, or aqueous film-forming foam, helped to cool the aircraft surface and suppress the vapours. “The circumstances for a sudden deflagaration [combustion through a gas or across a surface driven by the transfer of heat] or a sudden explosion were there due to the huge quantity of fuel turning into vapour due to the heat. This happened because the wreckage was extremely hot due to friction produced from different metal parts colliding against each other as well as rubbing against the runway surface on which the plane landed,” an official said on condition of anonymity. Investigators and aviation experts attribute the timely prevention of a fire as the reason why many of the 191 persons on board escaped with injuries. In a similar accident in 2010 in Mangaluru when the aircraft overshot the runway and plunged into the adjacent gorge, 156 persons lost their lives with only 8 survivors as fire tenders were unable to reach the site on time because of the rough terrain. According to the eye-witnesses, as the crash fire trucks rushed to the accident site, they saw 10-15 passengers lying on the road, while many others had climbed onto the wings to get out of the stricken aircraft. “Inside the aircraft, the seats were mangled, and the passengers were crushed under the combined weight of the debris and hand baggage. It was a difficult task to remove many passengers as they were unconscious and secured with seatbelts,” sources said.
12 August 2020||MYSURU,||Body of Talacauvery temple priest recovered||The body of the Talacauvery temple priest Narayana Achar was recovered close to Bhagamandala in Kodagu district on Tuesday by the search and rescue team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF). The body was found about 2.5 km from the place where the landslip hit and reduced his house to a rubble, Kodagu Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy said. He was among the five persons missing when the landslip from Brahmagiri Hills flattened their house on Thursday, following which a search and rescue operation was launched by the authorities amidst pouring rain. The body of his brother Anandatheertha was recovered on Saturday. The search team also recovered a few belongings suspected to be that of the family. Efforts are on to trace three others who are still missing. Two daughters of Narayan Achar reached Madikeri on Monday. Meanwhile, rains across Kodagu was light and intermittent on Tuesday.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||PM flags need for more testing in 10 States||However, almost all of them said more funds from the Central government were required as their coffers were empty because of the loss of economic activity and concomitant revenue. Punjab Chief Minister Capt. Amarinder Singh asked that the current cap of 35% on COVID-19 related expenditure on State Disaster Relief Fund be lifted as it was not sufficient to meet current requirements. Capt. Singh also requested that looking at the rising number of cases in the State, the University Grants Commission’s (UGC) decision to hold mandatory exams for exit classes by September 30 be reviewed. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister E.K. Palaniswami said his State required more ventilators and at least Rs. 1,000 crore more from the NDRF for its fight against COVID-19. The Prime Minister also lauded Union Home Minister Amit Shah for his intervention to handle the situation in the National Capital Region of Delhi-Haryana-Uttar Pradesh as the situation began worsening in Delhi and surrounding districts in the other two States. “A new committee was set up and they did very pointed interventions, along the lines mentioned earlier and have managed to bring the situation under control,” Mr. Modi said.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||J&K to get 4G access in a limited manner||Access will be strictly monitored to protect national, border and local security. The decision is based on the recommendations made by a Supreme Court-constituted special committee, headed by Union Home Secretary A.K. Bhalla, which met on August 10. The panel will review the situation every week and meet again after two months.  The Centre, in its affidavit, said the restrictions on 4G neither hampered COVID-19 preventions and treatment nor affected business in the Valley. Landline and 2G services were still available. Senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, assisted by advocate Shadan Farasat, appearing for Foundation for Media Professionals, said the opening up of 4G in select areas was a “good step forward”. The Foundation had filed a contempt petition against Mr. Bhalla and the J&K authorities for not following a May 11 judgment of the court, which required the committee to meet weekly to review the 4G ban and publish their orders in the public domain. But Mr. Venugopal submitted that “every single order of the review ofthe4G ban by the special committee in J&K has been uploaded on the website. But we surely cannot put out the deliberations made [minutes of the meetings] in the public domain”. The court said the government’s move was a “good step forward” and disposed the contempt petition. “There is no need to keep the contempt pending any more,” Justices R. Subhash Reddy and B.R. Gavai, also on the Bench, agreed. In the last hearing, the court asked the Centre to explain whether 4G network could be restored in select areas of Jammu and Kashmir where there was no trouble.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Army starts probe into Shopian encounter||The missing youth were identified by the families as Ibrar Ahmad, Imtiyaz Ahmad and Muhammad Yousuf, all residents of Rajouri. “We have already lodged a missing report. The families should be allowed to identify the bodies,” Hussian Ahmad, a relative of a missing youth, said. The families have demanded DNA matching. Saleem Ahmad, a relative of Ibrar, said he spotted the face of his cousin in the pictures uploaded online of the slain militants killed in the encounter on July 18. According to a July 18 police statement, the Army’s 62 Rashtriya Rifles started an operation on a specific input about the presence of militants in village Amshipora area of Shopian district. “During the search, militants fired upon Army personnel and the encounter started. Later on, police and CRPF also joined. In the encounter, three unidentified militants were killed,” the statement read. Parties demand probe Regional parties in Kashmir have demanded a probe into the incident. “[I am] Shocked to hear about reports of three missing labourers reportedly killed in a staged encounter at Shopian. Armed forces have a free hand to operate with impunity. [This] Explains why bodies are allowed to decompose at unknown locations. Probes into recent encounters must be ordered,” Iltija Mufti, daughter of Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti, said.
12 August 2020||Patna,||Preparing hard for Bihar Assembly poll, says Azad||Bhim Army chief and Azad Samaj Party national president Chandrashekhar Azad, alias Ravan, announced on Tuesday that his party was preparing hard to contest all the seats in the upcoming Assembly election in Bihar. “In view of the upcoming Bihar Assembly election, our party has been making strong preparations... This time, our party will play an important role in the Bihar election,” the ASP president told mediapersons.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Don’t call judge biased on basis of media reports: SC||A judge cannot be considered biased merely because his relatives are members of a political party in power, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday. The remark from a Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde came on a plea to disband an inquiry commission chaired by former Supreme Court judge, Justice B.S. Chauhan, to look into the Uttar Pradesh police encounter of history-sheeter Vikas Dubey. The Commission was set up by the Uttar Pradesh government after the court’s approval. The applicant, advocate Ghanshyam Upadhyay, referred to articles published about some relatives of Justice Chauhan who are with the ruling BJP in the State. Mr. Upadhyay said there was a conflict of interest issue involved. “There are judges whose father, brothers, relatives, etc, are Members of Parliament... If your relatives belong to a party, that means you are biased?” Chief Justice Bobde asked Mr. Upadhyay. Reserved for orders The CJI said the court would not allow aspersions to be cast on a former Supreme Court judge on the basis of a media report. “Are any of these relatives even remotely involved in the incident or in the inquiry in question? This application should be dismissed even without seeking a reply [from the U.P. government]... You are making all kinds of allegations against a respected judge of this court,” Chief Justice Bobde told Mr. Upadhyay during the virtual hearing. The court reserved the application for orders. The other members of the Commission are Justice (retd) Shashi Kant Agarwal and former Uttar Pradesh DGP K.L. Gupta.
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Inflammatory’ hoarding removed||An alleged inflammatory hoarding installed near the Moazzam Jahi Market in connection with Ram Mandir construction was removed late on Monday night. Majlis Bachao Tahreek (MBT) leader Amjed Ullah Khan and former Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM) worker Syed Abdahu Kashaf had raised the issue with the police claiming that the slogan on it was provocative in nature. “Police should not take any chances. The hoarding has photos of political leaders on it,” Mr. Khan said.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pranab Mukherjee’s health worsens||The condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee has worsened and he remains on ventilator support, the Army’s Research and Referral (R&R) Hospital said on Tuesday, a day after he underwent a brain surgery. Mr. Mukherjee was admitted to the hospital at 12.07 p.m. on Monday in a critical condition. “The former President who underwent lifesaving emergency surgery for a brain clot on August 10 has not shown any improvement and his health status has worsened. He remains on ventilatory support,” the hospital said in an evening health bulletin. He was also found to be COVID-19 positive, it added. Mr. Mukherjee had tweeted about his infection on Monday afternoon.
12 August 2020||GUWAHATI/IMPHAL,||Six Congress MLAs resign in Manipur||Six Congress MLAs in Manipur submitted their resignation hours after the BJP-led coalition government, headed by Chief Minister Nongthombam Biren, won a trust vote on Monday Speaker Yumnam Khemchand accepted their resignation on Tuesday.  “We tendered our resignation to protest against the State party leadership,” said one of the MLAs.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chinese hawala racket unearthed||The Income Tax Department has unearthed a major racket allegedly involving Chinese companies that used shell entities for “hawala” operations in India. Searches have been conducted on the premises of suspects at 21 locations in Delhi, Ghaziabad and Gurugram. The agency has also zeroed in on a Chinese national been living under a pseudonym, Charlie Peng. The accused, who held a fake Indian passport purportedly issued from Manipur, has been identified as Luo Sang. He allegedly used about 10 bank accounts opened under fictitious names. He represented many Chinese firms for “hawala” operations. “Based on information that a few Chinese individuals and their Indian associates were involved in money laundering, a search was mounted,” said the department.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ministry of Textiles plans to close 2 PSUs||The Union Textile Ministry has abolished five advisory boards, withdrawn officers from industry bodies and is planning to withdraw its representatives from export promotion councils as well as shut down two public sector undertakings (PSUs) as a part of a rationalisation exercise, according to a top official. The Ministry wound up the All India Handloom Board on July 27; the All India Handicrafts Board and the Cotton Advisory Board on August 3; and the All India Powerloom Board and the Jute Advisory Board on August 4. Textile Ministry Secretary Ravi Capoor said the decisions were a part of a larger Ministry-wide rationalisation exercise. Two PSUs under the Ministry — the British India Corporation and the Handicrafts and Handlooms Exports Corporation of India Ltd. — have been proposed to be shut down. According to sources, a Cabinet note has been circulated for the same. Laila Tyabji, founder of the NGO Dastkar, had termed the move to abolish the handicrafts’ board ‘worrying’ as it had been a forum for craftspeople to communicate directly with the government. Mr. Capoor said the Ministry was reaching out to craftspeople and weavers through its 100 field offices. He said a special two-month programme was held where officials visited villages near their respective field offices to interact with craftspersons.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Decide Kafeel Khan case soon, says SC||The Supreme Court requested the Allahabad High Court on Tuesday to decide on the question of the release of Kafeel Khan, who was arrested in connection with the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests in December 2019, as early as possible. “This court has always prioritised personal liberty, even during hard times,” Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, heading a three-judge Bench, remarked. Dr. Khan’s family decided to withdraw from the apex court and approach the High Court. Giving them liberty to withdraw, the CJI Bench asked the High Court to decide Mr. Khan’s case within 15 days from the date the parties appeared before it. Dr. Khan was booked under the National Security Act in December last.
12 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||TDB to ease curbs on darshan from August 17||The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) has decided to grant entry for darshan for devotees in all temples under the board, except Sabarimala, from August 17 in line with the COVID-19 protocol. The board that met here on Monday decided to permit five persons each to have darshan at a time. Children below the age of 10, pregnant women, those with ailments, and elders above 65 will not be permitted. Devotees will not be permitted before 6 a.m. and between 6.30 p.m. and 7 p.m., during deeparadhana . All devotees will have to wear masks. Permission for darshan will be on a first-come-first-served basis.
12 August 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra govt. accords state funeral for pilot Deepak Sathe [Or] Pilot Deepak Sathe cremated with state honours||Wing Commander Deepak Sathe (retd.), pilot-in-command of the Air India Express plane that crashed in Kerala last week, was cremated here on Tuesday with State honours. Several mourners lined up the road as the funeral procession started from his residence in Chandivli. The number of people allowed to attend the last rites was restricted in view of the COVID-19 outbreak. Earlier in the day, the Maharashtra government decided to accord a State funeral, and said his life shall inspire young pilots.PTI
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre releases Rs. 6,195 cr to 14 States||The Union government on Tuesday released Rs. 6,195 crore to 14 States as grants-in-aid to cover the deficit on post devolution revenue, as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission. The money will provide the States with additional resources during the COVID-19 crisis, tweeted Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. This is the fifth monthly instalment for the 2020-21 financial year. Kerala got the largest chunk, receiving Rs. 1,270 crore, followed by Himachal Pradesh, which got more than Rs. 950 crore.
12 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||112 services in U.P. shut for two days after staff test positive||The headquarters of the Uttar Pradesh police 112 dial emergency services in Lucknow was forced to shut on Tuesday after 12 staff members tested positive for COVID-19. The premises would be shut for 48 hours and sanitised, said Aseem Arun, ADG, of the 112 services. However, the services will operate in a restricted manner, the officer said. Citizens will have to wait for 4-5 minutes when they call the number, the 112 services said, adding that people could also register their complaints on their website. The sub-centres in Ghaziabad and Prayagraj would continue to function.
12 August 2020||Mumbai,||HC asks Maharashtra to reply to Saibaba’s emergency parole||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed Maharashtra to reply to plea for emergency parole filed by wheelchair-bound G.N. Saibaba, convicted of Maoists links. Saibaba, 50, is incarcerated at the Nagpur Central Jail. Last week, prison authorities rejected his parole application for attending the last rites of his mother. The Bench directed the government to reply to his plea and adjourned the matter to August 18.
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Admissions to classes 1, 6 and 9 from Aug. 17||Admissions for the2020-21academic year to classes 1, 6 and 9 will begin in schools from August 17, the School Education department announced on Tuesday. Minister for School Education K.A. Sengottaiyan said that the guidelines issued by the State Government, which include physical distancing and other safety measures, should be strictly adhered to. “The Directorate of Matric Schools will also take steps to initiate the online admission process for entry level classes through the Right to Education (RTE) act in private schools from August 17,” he said. Keeping in mind the need to follow physical distancing and other safety norms, the department has announced a staggered schedule for admissions. With the Class 10 results having been announced on Monday, admission for students who will join Plus 1 will begin on August 24 across schools. These students are expected to receive their provisional mark sheets from August 17 to 21 from their schools. Textbooks The School Education Minister said that government schools can also distribute free textbooks to students on the day they come for admissions. Students from government schools who wish to change their schools and need to get admission into classes 2 to 10 can also begin their admission procedure from August 17. When asked if a decision had been taken regarding the reopening of schools in the State, Mr. Sengottaiyan said that a call would be taken on this only after the number of COVID-19 cases decreased. “When the impact of COVID-19 reduces, a decision will be taken by the Chief Minister only after we consider the views of parents, teachers, academicians and other stakeholders,” he said.
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2.5 lakh people have been discharged so far in State||On a day when Tamil Nadu recorded 5,834 new cases of COVID-19 and 118 more deaths, the total number of persons discharged after treatment so far touched 2.5 lakh. The State’s tally climbed to 3,08,649, of which 52,810 are still under treatment. Another 6,005 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total number of persons discharged so far to 2,50,680. The State’s toll rose to 5,159. In Chennai, 986 persons tested positive for COVID-19 and 23 persons succumbed to the infection. The city accounted for a total of 1,11,054 cases, of which 11,130 remain active. Chennai saw 2,350 deaths. The northern districts continued to see a surge in cases — Chengalpattu 388, Tiruvallur 362, Ranipet 333 and Kancheepuram 330. Cases increased in Coimbatore, as another 324 persons tested positive, taking the district’s tally to 7,296. While Madurai saw a dip with 90 cases, three districts had 200-plus cases — Cuddalore 281, Salem 205 and Theni 297. Nine districts, including Virudhunagar, Vellore and Kanniyakumari, recorded 100-plus cases. Twenty returnees also tested positive for COVID-19. Of the 118 deaths (71 in government hospitals and 47 in private ones), 13 persons died in Kanniyakumari and eight each in Coimbatore, Tiruvallur and Thoothukudi. Eleven persons who died did not have co-morbidities. While 10 persons aged in their 40s succumbed to the infection, a majority of those who died were aged over 50. In the last 24 hours, 67,492 samples were tested. This took the total number of samples tested so far to 33,60,450. One more private lab — the Vivekanandha Medical Care Hospital in Tiruchengode — was approved for COVID-19 testing. There are a total of 61 testing facilities in the government sector and 70 in private.
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Families now get daily updates on patients’ health at RGGGH||Isolation is a mainstay in COVID-19 management. With family members not allowed to stay beside patients in hospitals, getting to know their health status has turned relatives an anxious lot. After a number of family members flagged concerns, authorities of Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) have decided to share the information with them, on a daily basis. Now, several family members of COVID-19 patients gather under a tree near the Rheumatology Block, where seating arrangements have been made, for updates on the health condition of those under treatment. “No attender is allowed inside the wards. We realised that many family members of patients were anxious to know how they were. Some patients do answer phone calls or video calls but there are patients who are in respiratory distress and cannot speak over phone. Many relatives stand outside the block, waiting for updates on the patients,” said E. Theranirajan, dean of RGGGH. To provide daily updates on the health status of patients, including their oxygen saturation levels, the hospital has put up boards outside COVID-19 wards with fewer patients. The boards have the names of patients, in-patient numbers and dates of admission, along with the oxygen saturation levels (SpO2). Updated thrice a day “These boards are updated thrice a day, at 9 a.m., 2 p.m. and 8 p.m. Relatives come and take a look at them to know the patient’s health status,” he added. As over 100 patients are admitted at the Rheumatology Block, the hospital has made a seating arrangements for family members. “We asked the floor nurses to make an entry of the health status of all patients, especially their SpO2 levels, in a book. They come down and meet the family members and explain the patients’ conditions between 8.30 a.m. and 9 a.m. every day. Many ask for the oxygen saturation levels. So we tell them if they are on room air, or if they require nasal oxygen or if they are on C-PAP machines,” Dr. Theranirajan said. As a result, complaints on not being able to get updates on the health status of patients have reduced in the hospital. “During the rest of the day, they can approach the ‘May I Help You’ desk near the block. We have posted two volunteers and provided them a mic. They will call the nurses in the wards to get updates and inform the families. The desk functions from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.,” he added.
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EC mulling remote voting||Developing technology and processes to enable remote voting for those who are not in their constituencies can significantly help improve voter participation, said Umesh Sinha, Secretary-General, Election Commission of India, on Monday. Addressing a webinar organised by Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency and the EC, Mr. Sinha said that despite all efforts, voter participation had remained only around 67% in general elections. A key factor contributing to this was the inability of the people, who had migrated from their native constituencies for various reasons, to vote. Unless structural changes in the election processes were made, it would be difficult to increase participation. He said that while remote voting could help such people, including those outside the country, to vote from wherever they were, such a system must satisfy the highest standards of security and trustworthiness. Highlighting how technology had been adopted in the election process, he pointed out how electoral rolls were in physical ledgers at the sub-district level just a decade ago. “Today, we have electoral rolls of 90 crore voters in a single portal and online services are provided for registration,” he said. ‘Vote from anywhere’ Bhaskar Ramamurthi, Director, IIT Madras, stressed on the need for the new remote voting system to not deviate much from the present electoral process followed. He said the system must have mechanisms to gain confidence of not only the voters, but booth agents of parties and independent candidates as voters would be allowed to vote from anywhere. Stating that a remote voting system would be a major step forward in enabling franchise for migrant population, he pointed out how students of his institution often expressed dissatisfaction over their inability to vote as they were away from home. Rajat Moona, Director, IIT Bhilai, explained about the architecture of a remote voting system that could be developed, by using blockchain technology as well. Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary, Information Technology department, Telangana, spoke on the system implemented in his State to eliminate the need for pensioners to show up physically in a government office every year to show they were alive. “The artificial intelligence, machine learning and face recognition tools used by us could possibly be of use voter verification as well,” he said.  Today, we have electoral rolls of more than 90 crore voters in a single portal
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bus services unlikely to resume before August 31||The State government appears disinclined to go for the early resumption of bus transport services. As of now, they remain suspended till August 31. The services, that were allowed in a limited way for three weeks in June after the imposition of the first phase of lockdown on March 25, have remained suspended since June 24, after the rise in COVID-19 cases. Even in June, bus services in Chennai and its neighbouring districts of Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu were not permitted. In the remaining districts, 50% of the fleet of transport corporations was allowed in six zones, with 60% seat occupancy. The services were operated by the government-owned transport corporations only in sections with high demand. Private operators also reportedly provided skeletal services. The combined fleet strength of the transport corporations is around 21,500, including vehicles belonging to the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (Chennai) and the State Express Transport Corporation. Improvement in Chennai In terms of public health, even though the situation seems to have improved in Chennai, that isn’t the case in several other districts. A perusal of the medical bulletin for Tuesday reveals that about 34% of fresh cases is from 10 districts other than Chennai and its three neighbours. Those 10 districts include Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Theni, Salem and Ranipet. Needless to say, the resumption of bus services will only add to the situation of surge in cases. It is for these reasons that the top brass in the government does not want to take chances. “Chief Minister [Edappadi K. Palaniswami] wants to approach the matter in a cautious manner,” a senior official pointed out. Another official said there would not be any change in the situation till the end of the month. He added that keeping the diesel-run buses idle did not pose any issue, as maintenance of battery was important and this was being done by removing and charging them.
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ministers debate over party’s Chief Ministerial candidate||The ruling AIADMK, battling the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in the State, is also hit by a debate over who should be the party's Chief Ministerial candidate in the next Assembly elections, slated for April-May next year. The debate was triggered by the observation of Cooperation Minister and Madurai city district secretary Sellur K. Raju on Monday that the issue of the next Chief Minister would be resolved at a meeting of the AIADMK legislature party [which would meet the polls]. However, he hastened to add in his interaction with journalists that both the party coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister and Chief Minister respectively, were steering the affairs of the party well. He recalled that in the 1967 Assembly elections, DMK founder C.N.Annadurai, who had won from a parliamentary constituency then, became Chief Minister after he got elected as leader of the legislature party of the DMK. Even though AIADMK founder M.G. Ramachandran and his successor Jayalalithaa, while facing Assembly polls, did not declare themselves as Chief Ministerial candidates, it was the people of the State who identified them as those who should occupy the post of CM. But, on Tuesday, Dairy Development Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, also in-charge of the party’s Virudhunagar district unit, in a tweet, made it clear that Mr. Palaniswami was the Chief Ministerial candidate. "Let us face the fray after fixing the target. Let us project Edappadiar [Mr. Palanswami] and take the field. Let us strengthen the base! Let us work for success! 2021 is ours!” Later, in a chat with a Tamil television channel, he maintained that his tweet was not in response to Mr. Raju's observation, as he did not know what his colleague had spoken. “Today, being the auspicious day of Krishna Jayanthi, I posted the tweet. It is my view that it would be proper for the the party to face the election by projecting Edappadiar, who has been the lieutenant of Amma [Jayalalithaa] in carrying out welfare measures for the people." Two senior leaders of the party feel that the whole controversy is “unnecessary” at this point of time. Both Mr. Raju and Mr. Rajenthira Bhalaji could have avoided indulging in making the point and the counterpoint. One of them says that even though the legislature party elects its leader, its decision is guided by the direction of the party's leadership. Another points out that it would not reflect well on the party well if the organisation does not project the sitting Chief Minister as the next CM, as otherwise this means that the party has conceded defeat, even before the commencement of the electoral battle. Considering the sensitivity of the matter, the party leadership is said to have asked its spokespersons not to make any response to the debate.
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||When Chennai’s firefighters turned musicians for a cause||Dousing fires, rescuing animals and people during disasters, disinfecting public spaces to prevent the spread of COVID-19 — these are some of the many tasks the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) has taken up during the pandemic. However, more recently, the firefighters have donned a new avatar — musicians for a cause. Their band goes around slums and congested localities in Chennai, raising awareness about the pandemic. On Tuesday morning, it was the turn of residents of the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) tenements in Kannagi Nagar, Chennai, to listen to their music and learn of the safety measures to arrest the spread of the virus. The band, comprising six members dressed in maroon ceremonial uniforms, arrived in the locality with the musical instruments, including drums, a keyboard, clarinet and trombone. Holding a mike, K. Balaji, a fireman, started singing, “ Kai kulukadhe, kai eduthu kumbidu, otti nikkadhe nalladhilla nambidu” (Don’t shake hands, welcome with folded hands, don’t stand too close to others, it is not good). The song was penned by band master D. Manoharan, who played the keyboard. “We have played for parades and at other government functions. This is the first time we are doing an awareness programme,” said Mr. Manoharan, who has worked in the TNFRS for 25 years and with the band for 18. From April, members of the band have been going around the city creating awareness. “We have gone to Todd Hunter Nagar, J.J. Nagar, Mint and other parts of the city. We play three COVID-19 awareness songs and then our officers and Greater Chennai Corporation officials speak to the residents about precautionary measures. We also distribute masks among the people,” said Syed Mohammed Shah, district fire officer, south, the band’s coordinator. “We are doing this based on directions from our director, C. Sylendra Babu. The band is accompanied by fire tenders,” said Priya Ravichandran, joint director, northern region, Chennai. “Creating awareness is also a form of service,” added Mr. Manoharan.
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A COVID-19 care centre for terror suspects at Puzhal||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday issued orders establishing a COVID-19 care centre (CCC) for prisoners detained under the National Investigation Agency (NIA) Act and the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, life convicts and remand prisoners on the Puzhal prison complex in Chennai. The Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, in association with the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) and the Tiruvallur district administration, will deploy adequate manpower and infrastructure at the CCC being set up at the Borstal School on the campus. While asymptomatic prisoners and others with mild symptoms will be referred to the centre, those requiring oxygen support or critical care will be sent to the Stanley hospital, sources in the Prison Department said. The proposal to establish the CCC was initiated by the dean of the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, P. Balaji, and approved by the GCC, with a request that an adequate number of doctors and paramedical staff should be posted there for monitoring of COVID-19 patients and sending daily reports on their health status. The Puzhal central prison and the Perurani district jail (Thoothukudi district) were in news in recent weeks after several inmates tested positive for COVID-19. When contacted, DGP, Prison and Correctional Services, Sunil Kumar Singh said that all convicts had recovered and there was not a single positive case now. “But some of the new inmates (remand prisoners) are testing positive for the virus. The results of 15 prisoners in Cuddalore returned positive on Monday. We have implemented a procedure where all accused remanded in judicial custody will undergo a test for COVID-19. The need for a COVID-19 Care Centre in Puzhal was necessitated after some NIA case suspects lodged in the Poonamallee Sub-Jail tested positive...,” he said. Mr. Singh said that online yoga classes were being conducted for the benefit of the prisoners in all Central prisons and special prisons for women across the State, in association with Isha Yoga. The customized yoga programme, being conducted through videoconferencing, is aimed at building the overall fitness of the inmates.
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Proactive approach led to cases declining in the city, says CM||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday said a proactive and aggressive approach had resulted in a declining trend of new COVID-19 cases in the city and that a similar approach would be adopted in the rest of the State. Participating in a virtual meeting of Chief Ministers chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Palaniswami said the Greater Chennai Corporation was carrying out an intensive door-to-door survey. “Around 550 fever camps are conducted daily. So far 33,000 camps have been conducted and 17 lakh people have been screened. We have also established 34 fixed and 10 mobile sample collection centres. So far, 8 lakh RT-PCR tests have been done,” he said. With the help of 10,000 field workers, 93 NGOs and 2,700 volunteers, symptomatic cases were being identified and vulnerable people were being provided with necessary support. Ministers deputed Apart from deputing IAS and IPS officers’ teams for all 15 zones of the Greater Chennai Corporation, six Ministers were also involved in coordinating and supervising COVID-19 prevention and relief activities. The Greater Chennai Corporation has distributed free reusable masks to 47 lakh slum dwellers to ensure compliance and to prevent the spread of the infection. “We have placed orders for the supply of 4.5 crore free reusable masks in other Corporations, Municipalities and Town Panchayats and have started distribution,” the Chief Minister said.
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New stormwater drains are working efficiently, says Corpn.||Senior officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation are confident of a flood-free northeast monsoon, particularly in south Chennai, because of the efficient working of the stormwater drains (SWD) constructed under the Smart Cities Mission. In the past few weeks when there were heavy rains in the southern parts of the city, some arterial roads, including GST Road, were flooded but the interior streets were free of inundation. The civic body received only three complaints of water stagnation in Perungudi. A senior official of the Corporation said despite the heavy rain on Saturday, where southern suburbs experienced nearly 40 mm of rainfall, the interior areas remained flood-free. Localities such as Nanganallur, Madipakkam, Ullagaram-Puzhithivakkam, Velachery, Taramani, Pallikaranai, and Perungudi, where SWD facility have been constructed, saw fewer complaints of rainwater stagnation. The official said the stormwater drain network constructed in Alandur, Perungudi and parts of Velachery, could accommodate nearly 70 mm of rain per hour.  With the civic body completing the SWD and linking it to the micro canal at Puzhuthivakkam, which flows into the Veerangal Odai at Vanuvampet, there has been no water stagnation during the southwest monsoon. Corporation officials are hopeful that the SWD network established under the Smart Cities Mission, at a cost of Rs. 120 crore, stretching for over 400 km, will not go waste when the northeast monsoon arrives this year.
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The Music Academy to take virtual route to entertain rasikas||Since its launch in 1928, the December music festival of the Music Academy has remained an integral part of Chennai’s cultural milieu. It went on uninterrupted even during the Second World War and the tsunami that struck Tamil Nadu in 2004. This year, however, the COVID-19 pandemic and the resultant restrictions on public gatherings have made it impossible to conduct the festival in its physical form, prompting the Academy to take the virtual route instead. “This is an extraordinary situation as the pandemic is raging and uncontrollable. We do not know what the regulations will be, and we cannot expose musicians and rasikas to the dangers of the disease. We cannot be expected to organise physical concerts, especially in an air-conditioned auditorium,” said N. Murali, the president of the Academy. Some of the features of a regular, full, physical season would have to be forgone. But the Academy does not want this year’s Margazhi season to be a washout, and has been actively considering ideas to organise the festival through a digital platform. Discussions are at an advanced stage. It is expected that the length of the concerts would be curtailed. “We have decided to do it imaginatively. We will record the concerts, live-stream them and upload them on digital platforms for free listening. Obviously, it (the festival) will not run for the full duration between December 15 and January 1, as has been the case all along,” said Mr. Murali, pointing out that the Academy already had a YouTube channel. On the bright side, this means the concerts could reach a wider, global audience who thus far couldn’t attend kutcheris confined to the four walls of an auditorium. Othersabhas Other sabhas , including the Brahma Gana Sabha, Hamsadhwani, Karthik Fine Arts, the Narada Gana Sabha, the Rasika Ranjani Sabha, Sri Krishna Gana Sabha, Sri Parthasarathy Swami Sabha and Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha, which are part of the Federation of City Sabhas , will together organise a virtual festival. “We will use the digital platform to preserve this tradition amid the pandemic. The festival will be held for 10-12 days during the third and fourth weeks of December,” said K. Harishankar, secretary of the Federation. “The Federation will work out the details and organise support for artistes who have been financially affected during this period. All the members of the sabhas have expressed their support towards making the annual festival a success in this challenging environment, and have reaffirmed their commitment to promoting arts and culture in a sustained way,” he said.
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ambulances from other States not needed due to fall in cases’||The additional ambulances requisitioned for by the Greater Chennai Corporation are likely to be sent for other districts where the numbers have gone up, owing to the decrease in number of COVID-19 cases in the city. The positivity rate has reduced to 8% in the city, according to official data. The Corporation was expected to get 30 ambulances from States such as Kerala in addition to 80 ambulances in the 15 zones of the city. Officials are planning to divert the additional ambulances for containment activities in other districts. Most zones, including Royapuram, Tondiarpet, Tiruvottiyur, Teynampet, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar and Adyar, have been registering a decrease in number of cases for the past few days. As a result, 80 ambulances in the city have been found adequate for transportation of patients to hospitals, officials said. However, zones such as Ambattur, Anna Nagar and Kodambakkam have registered a rise in number of cases in the past few days. Most ambulances used in wards of north Chennai have been proposed to be used for transportation of patients from such zones. “We have increased oxygen support system in all 80 ambulances. Earlier we had only 40 ambulances with the facility,” an official said. Officials said the additional ambulances would be sent to the city in the event that cases began rising after the three lakh guest workers return to the city. The case fatality rate in the city is 2.1%. Zones such as Teynampet and Tiruvottiyur have registered a higher case fatality rate of around 3%. Over 600 patients have reportedly died because of a delay in reaching the hospitals.
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Withdraw e-pass system: Murugan||BJP Tamil Nadu president L. Murugan on Tuesday requested Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to cancel the e-pass system, as Tamil Nadu was the only State with such a process and lockdown relaxations were already in place. In a statement, Mr. Murugan said, “No other State in the country has this system. The relaxations from the lockdown have only increased, but people are suffering due to the process.” He said that as people now had to travel for work within the district or outside their districts, many were unable to get e-passes, even for necessities. “Some people are trying to get e-pass through fraudulent means. Instances of fake e-passes being procured have also surfaced. Married couples are unable to meet each other, parents are unable to meet children and such instances have come up,” he said. He requested Mr. Palaniswami to withdraw the system.
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Activist seeks lower fee in Annamalai varsity, IRT med colleges||The State government must reduce the tuition fee in Annamalai University’s medical and dental colleges and at the Indian Road Transport-run medical college in Perundurai, the Doctor’s Association for Social Equality has said. The government had taken over the university through a resolution in the Assembly in2013and it is currently functioning as a government college in Cuddalore district. Yet, the fee for the medical college is 2.5 times more than what is charged in a government college, pointed out G.R. Ravindranath, association general secretary. An MBBS student pays Rs. 5.54 lakh, whereas in a government college a student pays only Rs. 13,000, he said. Dental college students pay Rs. 3.40 lakh and the fee for postgraduate medical courses ranges from Rs. 8 to Rs. 9.8 lakh per year, he pointed out. Whereas in the government dental college students pay Rs. 11,600 annually and PG students are charged Rs. 32,000, Dr. Ravindranath said. Also, IRT college continued to charge the old rate of Rs. 3.8 lakh despite being taken over by the government. The association also wanted to cancel the proposed exams for dental students, and they must be promoted to the next year as had been advised by the Dental Council of India. The exams should be conducted only after normalcy had returned after the COVID-19 threat had passed, he added.The fee levied from PG students should be waived considering that they had been working hard to treat patients with COVID, Dr. Ravindranath said. If fee had been collected then it should be refunded, he suggested. The government should pay Rs. 2 lakh to students who had contracted the viral infection during duty, the activist demanded.
12 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||State’s two-language policy not restrictive, says Prof. Ramasamy||Tamil Nadu’s two-language policy cannot be dubbed restrictive as it does not prevent anyone from voluntarily learning an additional language, including Hindi, Prof. A. Ramasamy, academic and historian, said on Monday. The former vice-chairman of Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education told The Hindu that any advocacy for the three-language formula, proposed by the National Education Policy, would only impose an additional burden on rural students. Students from poor families will be forced to learn a third language, which they may not need for practical purposes. Countering former Anna University vice-chancellorE. Balagurusamy’s views in a letter to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswamiopposing the two-language policy, he said it was erroneous to argue that learning Hindi was required as a link language within India. The former Alagappa University vice-chancellor, who authored the book, ‘Struggle for Freedom of Languages in India’, said lakhs of people in Tamil Nadu have learnt Hindi in CBSE schools and Dakshina Bharat Hindi Prachar Sabha. “How many of them have gone outside Tamil Nadu for work? In fact, people from other States are coming here in search of jobs. So one cannot argue that Hindi must be learnt from an employment perspective,” he said. Tamil Nadu is not the only State to shun the three-language policy. Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand predominantly have Hindi as the medium of instruction, as they feel that is sufficient, he contended. “Dravidian leaders were never against learning Hindi; they only opposed its imposition. Even DMK founder and former Chief Minister C. N. Annadurai had purchased a book ‘Tamil-Hindi Suyabodhanai’ (self-learning) for 50 paise. But he wrote that he gave it up as he did not find time to learn it beyond a point,” he recalled. Prof. Ramasamy, a student-leader during the anti-Hindi agitation, said Prof. Balagurusamy was way off the mark in his assumption that if Annadurai was alive, he would support the three-language formula.
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Twelve more containers of ammonium nitrate moved out||Amidst tight security, 12 containers carrying 229 tonnes of ammonium nitrate left for Hyderabad from a container freight station in Manali on Tuesday. As much as 740 tonnes of ammonium nitrate, which was illegally imported by a Karur-based company, was seized by Customs in 2015 and was lying idle for five years at the facility in Manali. After the recent explosion in Beirut, authorities have been moving the seized item. A total of 10 containers, carrying around 180 tonnes of the compound, was sent to Hyderabad on Sunday.
12 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Adyar police help abandoned septuagenarian find a job||A septuagenarian, who was allegedly abandoned by his family during the COVID-19 lockdown and did not have a job, has been helped by the Adyar police to earn his livelihood again. The man, who lost his job as a security guard at a private company that shut down during the lockdown, was staying at a friend’s house in Velachery as his family did not take care of him. According to Deputy Commissioner of Police, Adyar, V. Vikraman, the man approached the local police and told them about his predicament of being jobless. “He and his friend had heard about our initiative to help people contacting us through video calls on WhatsApp. That’s how he got in touch with us,” Mr. Vikraman told The Hindu . The DCP said the man did not wish to depend on anyone for a living and wanted to lead a life of dignity. “He was reluctant to share details about his family members. He did not want free food. All he wanted was a job,” he said. Following this, Mr. Vikraman asked Adyar Inspector Christin Jayasil to look for a job for the elderly man. Two options “We had two options — place him in an old age home or get him a job. But old age homes are hesitant to admit new residents during the pandemic. Besides, the petitioner also did not wish to go to a home,” Mr. Jayasil said. “We spoke to a couple of private security agencies and finally a security agency in Kotturpuram agreed to give him a job with food and accommodation,” he added. The petitioner thanked the Deputy Commissioner and his subordinates for their help and has joined duty with the security agency.  The man and his friend had heard about our initiative to help people contacting us through video calls on WhatsApp. That’s how he got in touch with us  V. Vikraman Deputy Commissioner of Police, Adyar
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thermal plant gets three-year extension||The Environment Ministry’s Expert Appraisal Committee has recommended extension of the environment clearance granted to the Udangudi supercritical imported coal based thermal power plant for a period of three years. The committee has recommended the extension of the EC till October 13, 2023 after the project proponent Udangudi Power Corporation Ltd sought an extension. The company said physical progress of the thermal power plant that was initially proposed to be 2 x 800 MW and was later revised to 2 x 660 MW, has been completed up to 39%. “An amount of Rs. 7,359 crore has been spent till date towards construction, out of total revised project cost of Rs. 13,076.70 crore.” Funds earmarked “Further, funds have been earmarked for Flue Gas Desulphurization (FGD) installation to meet revised emission norms,” the company said. It further informed the committee that quotations have been received for FGD installation and evaluation of techno-commercial bids was under process and expected to place the orders by October 2020. “The completion of project construction activities and the Commercial Operation Date (COD) of the first unit is expected by May 2023. The COD of the second unit is expected by June, 2023,” the company said and sought and extension of the EC that is set to expire on October 14, 2020.  An amount of Rs. 7,359 crore has been spent till date towards construction
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Laptops stolen from government school in Pulicat||Unidentified persons on Monday assaulted the watchman of Government Higher Secondary School in Pulicat and stole seven laptops from the premises. According to the police, Mukundan works as a security guard in the government school. Late on Monday, a few mask-wearing persons assaulted and tied him up. They cut open the lock to the room where the laptops were being kept and fled with the gadgets. “The laptops were meant to be given to students. A complaint has been lodged in the Thirupalaivanam police station,” a teacher said. Police said the school did not have CCTV cameras. Special teams have been formed to nab the accused.
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Funds sought from NABARD for opening Pulicat bar mouth’||The Director of Fisheries has sent a proposal to National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) for sanctioning funds to open the bar mouth at Pulicat lake permanently at an estimated cost of Rs. 27 crore, the Madras High Court has been told. A Bench of Justices Vineet Kothari and Krishnan Ramasamy were told by Additional Government Pleader J. Pothiraj that the Pulicat lake in Tiruvallur district was the second largest brackish water lagoon in the country spread over 760 sq.km. The lake gets fed by River Arani which emanates in Andhra Pradesh and flows for about 66.40 km in Tamil Nadu before joining the Bay of Bengal. The Pulicat lake acts as a buffer to retain accumulated flood water till it gets discharged into the sea during the monsoon period and cyclones. It, being an estuary, has a bar mouth which was nothing but a natural opening that helps in the flood water getting drained into the sea. The bar mouth of the lake gets closed almost every year due to sediment drift, making it difficult for the fishermen to fish either at the lake or in the Bay of Bengal.
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Over 5.09 cr. outpatients treated in govt. hospitals’||Government hospitals in the State have been providing uninterrupted healthcare to non-COVID-19 patients during the pandemic. Since March, the hospitals have treated nearly 5.09 crore outpatients and 27.30 lakh inpatients, according to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. In a release on Tuesday, he said that during the pandemic, government hospitals continued to provide medical services, including emergency care round-the-clock, for patients other than those who were infected. As patients could not access private hospitals due to COVID-19, government hospitals also took over their workload. As a result, government hospitals have recorded an increase both in the number of outpatients treated and deliveries. He said 5,09,02,193 outpatients and 27,30,864 inpatients were treated in government hospitals in the State. Since March, a total of 1,80,571 deliveries and 68,479 caesarean sections took place in the hospitals, while a total of 1,29,206 deliveries took place in the 126 Comprehensive Emergency Obstetrics and Newborn Care Centres. Meanwhile, the Federation of Government Doctors’ Association requested the State government to immediately grant the one-month incentive for front-line staff involved in COVID-19 work, and a solatium of Rs. 50 lakh, as announced earlier, for families of those who died while on COVID-19 duty.
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police thwart burglary near Neelankarai||Police arrested two accused, including a juvenile, after the duo tried to burgle the house of a businessman in Chinnandi Kuppam, near Neelankarai, recently. E. Kannan woke up on hearing noises in his room and noticed the presence of the intruders. He went to the room where his wife and daughter were sleeping in another room and locked themselves in. His wife managed to call the police control room with her mobile phone. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Adyar, V. Vikraman said, “Within three minutes or four minutes of being alerted, the patrol team reached the house and called other nearby patrols nearby for assistance. The teams apprehended the accused.” The Neelankarai police arrested M. Arjun, 20, and his juvenile accomplice.
12 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Kallar-Kadar tribal families evicted from ATR await recognition of their rights||The 23 Kallar-Kadar tribal families, who were evicted by the Forest Department from the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) on August 20 last year, continue to stay in a tea estate quarters at Thaimudi near Valparai. Many of them had come out of their forest dwellings for the first time and feel dejected as they have not seen any concrete effort by the Forest Department, Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department and the district administration to accord them rights promised under the Forest Rights Act (FRA), say the tribal people. Their plight started on August 11, 2019 when their huts in the Kallar Kadar settlement inside the ATR, which is located around 25 km from Valparai town, were damaged in rain and landslips. “The 23 families were evicted and shifted to a new environment at Thaimudi. One elderly tribeswoman and a partially-paralysed tribesman, who could not go to Thaimudi estate, are being taken care in a temporary shelter at the old settlement for a year,” says tribal rights activist S. Thanraj. Though Coimbatore Collector had promised to issue patta to 18 tribal settlements of ATR that come within the limits of Coimbatore district under provisions of the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act at a meeting of various departments and members of the settlement held in the city in December last year, the assurance did not come true. According to Mr. Thanraj, the native tribes are denied of individual rights and community forest rights under the FRA. “Community forest rights give them collective rights to control, manage and use forests resources (except hunting) as common property. This is very important for any tribe to protect their identity and preserve their unique traditions, social life and value systems. Though Forest Department had said that an alternative land was marked for them at Theppakulamedu in ATR, there is no progress yet,” he added. Rajalakshmi Jayapal, a young tribeswoman and a mother of three, said over the phone from Thaimudi estate that life at the quarters was difficult for them as they feel detached from their traditional land and environment. “We are ready to move to Theppakulamedu if authorities allot land for us. It is learnt that the Forest Department was opposing the proposal,” she said. The residents have planned to lay siege to the Forest Range Office on August 15 to condemn the inaction by Forest Department and to highlight their rights.
12 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Dashboard to monitor water supply getting ready at Coimbatore Corpn.||Coimbatore Corporation is readying a dashboard to monitor water distribution in the city. As a first step the Corporation had fixed sensors and data relying equipment as a part of its Pilloor drinking water distribution system that is relaying information to the offices of a few senior officers at the main office in Town Hall. The Corporation has installed the supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system at the raw water pump house near the Pilloor Reservoir, pre sedimentation tank at Velliangadu, water treatment plant, clear water pumping house and at the master storage reservoir at Ramakrishnapuram. At the raw water pump house near the Reservoir, the Corporation will get to know how much water is drawn on an hourly basis and pump wise at that, the inflow and outflow at the pre sedimentation tank and similarly at the water treatment plant it will get know the water pumped hour-wise and pump-wise. And from there, the Corporation will also get to know the water flowing into the master storage reservoir as it has installed a flow meter on the main water line, say sources, adding that the senior officers will also get to see the current water flow rate, previous day’s flow and the day’s cumulative flow. The sources say that aside from monitoring the chlorination level in water the senior officers will also be alerted to any problems in that part of the system that has SCADA. As for monitoring the distribution system, the sources say it will be ready once Suez India Pvt. Ltd. completes the 24x7 drinking water distribution improvement project as it includes installation of such equipment to monitor water distribution across the 60 wards that form part of the old city. And as and when that comes to fruition, the Corporation will equip water supply engineers with such a system that they will get to see street-wise, ward-wise and service reservoir-wise data to take timely action, the sources add.
12 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Special classes begin for school students in tribal settlement||Officials from the Department of School Education on Tuesday arranged special classes for students of Puliyankandi tribal settlement in Kottur Town Panchayat, who were unable to access online classes or televised lessons due to lack of electricity. According to Pollachi District Educational Officer (DEO) S. Subramanian, five teachers from various government schools will be teaching the Class X students at a panchayat union primary school on weekdays from 10 a.m. for about two hours. “The teachers will come in their own vehicles to the school. A minimum of one teacher will take the class on one subject every day," he said. A total of seven students studying Class X from Puliyankandi tribal settlement attended the class on Tuesday. All COVID-19 precautionary measures such as physical distancing and wearing of masks would be adhered to during the special classes, the DEO said. Nearly 20 school students in Puliyankandi were unable to access online classes or Kalvi TV as the schools remain closed amid the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. While the focus initially would be on students entering Class X, special classes for other students would be arranged soon. District President of Tamil Nadu Tribal Association V.S. Paramasivam welcomed the decision. “This step will ensure that their education continues uninterrupted,” he said. In a petition to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani on July 28, Mr. Paramasivam sought special classes for school students from various tribal communities who were unable to access online classes. Mr. Paramasivam said school education officials must soon arrange special classes for students from other tribal settlements in Pollachi taluk, particularly in the settlements in Anamalai Tiger Reserve.
12 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Labour shortage slows down flyover, road works||With several migrant workers in Coimbatore district returning home when the nation-wide lockown was enforced, flyover and road works are said to have slowed down in the district. Officials in the Department said the workers started leaving after April 20 when the lockdown restrictions were relaxed. “The contractors are willing to spend even up to Rs. 10,000 a worker to bring them back. Most of them have to return from Bihar or West Bengal. But, the workers and their family members are reluctant. They ask a lot of questions - will they get the full wages when they come back and will they have to be under quarantine.,” says an official. Most of these workers were technically skilled. Hence, it was difficult to replace them with local workers, the official added. The Highways Department had sought traffic diversion to complete the Kavundampalayam flyover. The existing road would be closed only after the contractor mobilised all the resources. The contractor planned to employ labourers in the day time and night hours so that the work could be expedited. But, he needed resources for this, an official said. Another official said the works were on with the labourers who did not go home and with some local workers. “We are just continuing the works so that there is some progress,” the official added. “Be it road works or flyover projects, the progress was smooth even in January. Now, there are no bidders from some projects,” an official said. The Ukkadam flyover, which is under construction, will have to be extended to cover the Aathupalam junction. But, there are no bidders and the Department has gone for a second tender. Construction firms are concerned about a host of issues - mobilising resources, especially workers, time to complete the project and cost escalation. The Ukkadam flyover extension work is a Rs. 164 crore project and should be completed in 2.5 years. The contractors were finding it difficult to get workers from other districts of Tamil Nadu too. The workers were reluctant because they fear spread of COVID-19 in Coimbatore, the officials added.
12 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs demand extension of moratorium||Industrial associations in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts have demanded extension of moratorium for repayment of loans. Raja. M. Shanmugham said, in a press release recently, that as the financial situation of Tirupur knitwear garment units had not improved, the units were not in a position to repay the loan and interest. The moratorium should be extended till the end of this financial year, he said. Negative growth In the first quarter of the current financial year, the all-India knitwear exports clocked Rs. 5,355 crore against Rs. 13,570 crore recorded in the corresponding period of last year, with a negative growth of 60.54%. MSME units that had credit exposure of more than Rs. 25 crore were deprived of receiving the Emergency Credit Line Fund now, Mr. Shanmugham said. By denying the benefit, the real intention of the government to extend crucial support to all MSMEs, to bailout the units from the impact of COVID-19 pandemic would not be realised. Hence, the RBI should relax the condition and permit even those MSMEs that had credit exposure of more than above Rs. 25 crore to get 2 0% of outstanding credit by keeping a maximum limit of Rs. 25 crore, he said. The Coimbatore and Tiruppur District Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association also demanded extension of the moratorium till the end of December this year. The Association said the MSME units were not in a position to repay the loan and interest now. They needed more time to resume the repayments. Association president C. Sivakumar said, in a press release, that industries that had current account or no loan account should be given Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh collateral-free loan. Only industries with cash credit or over draft accounts received 20 % additional loan. The units that had current account or were without bank loans were in need of finance now and they had no option but to go to private money lenders. The banks said they could not extend support to these units as there was no such instruction. Hence, the RBI and the Central Government should issue the guidelines, he said.
12 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man injured while escaping from elephant||A 75-year-old man was injured while attempting to escape from the attack of a wild elephant near Pilloor on Monday. C. Rangaresan of Kadamankombai tribal settlement was injured in the incident that took place when he was returning to his settlement after visiting a relative. He suffered injuries on hip, leg and shoulder. He was taken to the Government Hospital at Mettupalayam and later shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. Man held with ganja The Kuniyamuthur police on Monday arrested a 34-year-old man on charges of possessing and attempting to sell 1.25 kg of ganja. A. Firthoush was arrested by the police from near Karumbukadai.
12 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Orientation programme||Computer Society of India will organise an orientation programme on August 16 on online counselling guidelines for Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions. The virtual programme will be held from 10 a.m to noon. The meeting link will be shared with those who register. For details, write to office@csi-cbe.org or dial 0422-2200695 or 9489831307
12 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||PPEs sent to New Delhi||Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) made in Tiruppur were sent by three SpiceJet flights to New Delhi on Monday from the Coimbatore airport. According to an official source, the total weight by volume was 32 tonnes. On the same day, one more flight transported perishable cargo - fruits and vegetables - to Kuwait from Coimbatore International Airport. The total volume sent was nearly 17 tonnes.
12 August 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||94% young entrepreneurs prompt in repayment in Dindigul district||In the last four years, the District Industries Centre (DIC) here has given loans to 72 neo-entrepreneurs to the tune of Rs. 40 crore through banks with subsidy component of Rs. 9 crore, according to Collector M Vijayalakshmi . Speaking to The Hindu here on Tuesday, the Collector said that youngsters, who had a good academic track record, were given exposure on setting up industries by the DIC and became proud entrepreneurs in the district. With the objective of encouraging the young generation to become entrepreneurs, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had accorded advances under the NEEDS (New Entrepreneur Cum Enterprise Development) Scheme with financial incentive. Over the last four years, the beneficiaries have set up manufacturing facilities to produce engineering goods, textile products, weaving, agro-related products such as milk processing among others in a small way. “Close to 1000 people were directly benefited through these 72 beneficiaries,” the Collector said. According to P. Rajasekaran, who has established his own milk processing unit at Siluvathur - Adigaripatti here, says, he has taken a loan of Rs. 1.81 crore with Rs. 30 lakh subsidy from the Tamil Nadu government a year ago. “I have big players in the milk sector in the market. Hence, I decided to directly sell my produce to end users. Today, I sell 3000 litres directly to end consumers without any middlemen or vendors in the district daily. The remaining of about 5000 litres of milk, I transport it to coastal areas, where the market has not been tapped yet by existing players. Hence, after the overheads, I still have a margin,”he says and adds that he has a good market for his paneer, ghee and other additions too. Another neo-entrepreneur Muthuvenkatesh says that the fire to become an entrepreneur was sown in his mind when he was pursuing his MBA in Coimbatore. After his classmate Vinod Kumar's father encouraged them to become job givers, the two came together and set up a weaving unit at East Palamarathupatti here. Taking a loan of about Rs. one crore and subsidy of Rs. 25 lakh, the two have installed imported machinery about six months ago. “We have about 10 workers in the plant. We get yarn and after sizing them, give it back in a finished form in the market...,” he adds. The District Industries Centre General Manager S. Marudappan says, despite COVID-19, the neo-entrepreneurs have shown extra ordinary skills and patience. Training-cum-awareness programmes, to the selected applicants under the NEEDS, by roping in experts include tapping the markets for them, giving them guidance on return on investments and repayment and legal procedures. The swift approvals and single window clearance had helped the first-time entrepreneurs to face the market with confidence, he pointed. A public sector undertaking banker in the district says the advances were issued to the applicants based on the project reports. Repayment schedule has been encouraging that 94 % of the borrowers have been prompt in their repayment. Despite COVID-19, the readiness to work for extra hours showed that the entrepreneurs were eager to keep up their deadlines with their customers, DIC officials here said. The neo-entrepreneurs do have grievance with the district administration. They want the officials to be liberal in issuing e-passes for faster mobility of finished goods and transportation of raw materials. The government can consider relaxing small and tiny units to work on Sundays as the lockdown affects their production.
12 August 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Structure with idols removed following protest in Erode district||Faced with protest, civic body workers removed a temporary structure with idols installed in it at a bus stop near Kalaimadu Silai in the city on Tuesday. A temple with idols of Vinayaka, Amman and Murugan were installed inside the Corporation’s officers quarters at the rear side of the bus stop where the civic body was constructing a shopping complex. The contractor, who is executing the project, had obtained permission from the civic body for constructing a temporary structure outside the premises to install the idols. On Tuesday, a structure was constructed and the idols were installed. However, members of Dravidar Kazhagam and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi opposed the structure. They said that the bus stop should not be converted as a place of worship. They staged a sit-in-protest and the Surampatti police held talks with them. Later, corporation workers removed the idols demolished the structure.
12 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Poor condition of Kollampalayam bypass road causes concern||People put to hardship by the poor condition of Kollampalayam bypass road want the half-km stretch that was dug for drainage works to be re-laid at the earliest. The road connects Erode Main Road near Railway Colony Municipal Higher Secondary School with Karur Bypass Road, and is one of the busiest stretches round-the-clock. The underground drainage works began in March, followed by works to provide house service connections and to lay pipelines for the dedicated water supply scheme. All the works were completed last month. Though the road remains in a bad shape, vehicles continue to use it and accidents happen frequently. With no restrictions on the entry of four-wheelers, people riding two-wheelers are put to risk on the stretch that has turned slushy. “Passing through the stretch is unsafe and the Corporation should immediately relay the damaged road”, said V. Barath of Kollampalayam, pointing out that rain would only worsen the situation. Four-wheelers should not be allowed on the road till the damaged stretch is relaid, he said.
12 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Commercial vehicles used to transport workers||In the absence of public transportation, civil contractors here are engaging commercial vehicles to transport workers from the plains to Kadambur Hill, where a lot of construction activities are under way. Due to the COVID-19 lockdown, bus service remains suspended in the hill for the last four months. People who own two-wheelers continue to go for jobs in the plains, while those without vehicles are forced to depend on commercial vehicles for transportation. The situation is worse for those living in remote hamlets as they have to trek five to 10 km to reach the main roads and then hop on to a vehicle. At present, construction of buildings, bridges and roads are under way on Kadambur Hill. Workers from the plains are transported in pick-up vans and tempos to the hill every day. Workers, mostly from villages in Sathyamangalam and T.N. Palayam blocks, gather in a particular spot from where the vehicles ferry them to their workplace on the hill. In the evening, they return to their native in the same vehicle, said a contractor involved in constructing culverts on the hill.
12 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Water level rising at Bhavani Sagar Dam||The water level at Bhavani Sagar Dam stood at 100.89 ft at 6 p.m. on Tuesday, against the maximum reservoir level of 105 ft. The level is expected to touch 102 ft on Wednesday, after which surplus water will be released into River Bhavani. The inflow was 3,549 cusecs and the outflow 1,200 cusecs. The storage was 29.428 tmc, against the capacity of 32.80 tmc. Public Works Department officials said the average inflow on Monday was 6,506 cusecs. But it dropped to 3,200 cusecs on Tuesday owing to a decrease in rain in the catchment areas and reduction in discharge from Pilloor Reservoir in Coimbatore. Wall collapse Meanwhile, 28,000 sand bags were placed along Bhavaneeswarar Temple at Sathyamangalam, located along the banks of the Bhavani. A portion of the temple wall collapsed during heavy rain in 2018. The bags were placed now to prevent soil erosion and damage to the wall in the event of a spate in the river.
12 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Work to create two new ponds begins in Erode||The Olirum Erodu Foundation has begun works to create two ponds at a cost of Rs. 10 lakh here on Monday.  Under its “Orrukku Oru Kulam” scheme, which aims at creating ponds and desilting water bodies in each village in the district, the foundation had so far desilted, deepened and renovated 49 water bodies and constructed check dams in many villages. On Monday, MLA K.V. Ramalingam inaugurated the works at Siruvankattu Valasu and Raakisam Palayam villages in Chennimalai Panchayat Union.
12 August 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Pvt. hospitals cannot turn away patients for want of COVID-19 negative certificate’||When Hosur resident Pavithra’s 90-year-old grandmother developed cold and chest congestion and her family contacted a private clinic in Denkanikottai, they were advised to get a COVID-19 test done on her. In the meantime, the family doctor said it was only a normal cold and she might need oxygen support for a brief time. Pavithra said the family struggled to find a private hospital that would take her grandmother for respiratory support without the test report. She said her grandmother had to be wheeled into the government swab collection centre in Seetharam Nagar, where they were told the results would take three days to come. With no private testing lab in the district, families of patients with other health issues were facing problems. “There are no standard operating procedures for private hospitals to deal with cases such as that of my grandmother,” said Pavithra. When contacted, Deputy Director of Health V. Govindan said the standard protocol was “universal precaution just like for HIV patients”. All hospitals were required to exercise precautions on the assumption that every patient was a potential infected patient, but provide the same treatment irrespective of a COVID-19 test report considering the emergency, he said. Joint Director of Health Services Paramasivan, in-charge of the functioning of both government and private hospitals in the district, said two meetings were held with the Indian Medical Association, Krishnagiri and Hosur, in which private hospitals were directed to provide treatment to patients without any demands. All government hospitals and Primary Health Centres were ready to take patients and no private hospital could turn away a patient for want of COVID-19 negative certificate. The test could not be made a precursor to admission and treatment by hospitals, said Dr. Paramasivan. “Aggrieved public may contact me, and we will issue a memo to the hospitals,” he said. On the time taken by the government labs in Krishnagiri GH and Hosur GH in declaring the results, Dr. Paramasivan said the test results were given in 24 hours unless there was a delay in transport. However, the COVID-19 patients The Hindu spoke to said they received the results in two to three days. “The doctors told us the test takes only eight hours, but they should run two confirmatory tests before declaring the results,” said Bharathi, an employee in a pharmaceutical unit, who had recovered from COVID-19. Public may contact the Joint Director of Health Services on 9444982670.
12 August 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Skin disease affects 250 heads of cattle||The Animal Husbandry Department is conducting special camps to control lumpy skin disease in cattle. The viral disease surfaced in Karaikal after a gap of five years. The department, backed by the district administration and ATMA (Agriculture Technology Management Agency), has been conducting camps to administer antibiotic injections to the cattle in order to prevent secondary bacterial infection due to the abscess caused by the virus on the skin, udder, knee and genital parts. Eight of the 15 medical camps have been conducted envisaging dissemination of management practices, Regional Joint Director of Animal Husbandry and Animal Welfare Department, G. Latha Mangeshkar, said. ‘So far, about 250 out of 18,500 heads of cattle have been found to be infected. The cattle owners are apprised of management practices during the camp, alongside antibiotic treatment for the animals,’ the official said adding that lumpy skin was a non-zoonotic infection. Since there is no vaccine for the virus, cattle owners are being advised to strengthen immunity and reduce temperature of the infected animals by feeding them with a mixture of betel leaves, pepper, salt and jaggery. On the first day, the mixture has to be given once in every three hours and the treatment must continue thrice a day from the second day onwards until the fever subsides. The seven remaining medical camps are to be conducted before August 20.
12 August 2020||KUMILY,TAMIL NADU||Panel satisfied with dam strength||Expressing satisfaction over the safety and strength of the Mullaperiyar dam in Idukki district, a five-member sub-supervisory committee said that it would send a report to the supervisory committee soon. In the wake of the landslide in Idukki district, which had claimed over 40 lives over the last three days, the safety issues of the reservoir had cropped up in the region again. The sub-supervisory committee was formed to assist the supervisory committee members by the apex court after the issue of increasing the storage level of the dam became a bone of contention between the two States about six years ago. The court had directed the storage level at 142 feet. The sub-committee members have been visiting the dam at periodic intervals and the last visit was on June 24, when the water level was at 112.40 feet. Since the southwest monsoon had set in Kerala last month, rains lashed the region. Hence, the members had visited the main dam, baby dam, gallery area, radial and vertical sluices and shutter operations. As media persons were prohibited due to COVID-19 pandemic, a reliable source here in the PWD briefed the reporters. According to the source, the sub-supervisory committee comprising M.S. Saravana Kumar, chairman, J Sam Irwin, EE, PWD Periyar dam, Binu Baby, EE, Kattapanna Idukki Section, T Kumar, Assistant Engineer, PWD Periyar Dam, and N.S. Praseed, AE, Periyar new dam investigation, Kumily, visited the dam, where the water level stood at 136.75 feet.
12 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||No CMO for railway hospital||Dakshin Railway Employees’ Union has raised concern over the absence of Chief Medical Officer at Railway Hospital in Madurai. In a statement, its divisional secretary, R. Sankaranarayanan, said that the hospital was catering to 25,000 railway employees their families and pensioners. However, for the last 10 months, the hospital did not have a CMO. “The role of CMO gains more significance under the COVID-19 pandemic situation as only the CMO can take important administrative decisions,” he said. Similarly, four of the nine health units at various locations do not have medical officers for the past six months. “Railway employees, their families in Palani, Dindigul, Karaikudi,Manamadurai, Mandapam, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Shencottah, visit these health units for minor ailments. This set up has been in existence since the British era. These units are more beneficial for railway employees and pensioners, who suffer from chronic ailments like diabetes and hypertension. They get their medicines meant for every month there,” Mr. Sankaranarayanan said. However, the units at Karaikudi, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Shencottah do not have medical officers for six months. Deputing medical officers from Madurai Railway hospital is not practically workable. This leads of additional work burden on the medical officers and the quality of service also suffers, he added. The divisional administration should intervene and take efforts to post medical officers, at least on contract basis, on a war-footing, the statement said.
12 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Pandemic has caused largest disruption of education system’||The COVID-19 pandemic has caused the largest disruption of education systems in history, according to N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Group. Addressing students of Thiagarajar School of Management (TSM), Madurai, at a webinar on Tuesday, Mr. Ram said the crisis had exacerbated pre-existing educational inequalities, while referring to the United Nation’s ‘Policy Brief: Education during COVID-19 and beyond’. “It has also reduced opportunities for millions of the most vulnerable children. This has particularly affected people living in poor families or rural areas, girls, refugees and displaced persons,” he said. He added that schools across 100 countries were yet to announce dates of reopening. Teachers, parents and children were still grappling with the realities of the impact of COVID-19. He said there would be inter-generational setbacks, especially regarding violence against women from low income backgrounds due to loss of income and education. Those in the professional education segment would have a more cushioned situation. Mr. Ram said the pandemic had also forced educational institutions to innovate through online education. “Some of the best scientific minds are putting out great content. This is bringing people together and is a huge effort,” he said. He, however, said it might be difficult for higher educational institutions across India to conduct exams as proposed by the University Grants Commission. Young people, who thought that they were safe from COVID-19 must not believe that a magic line of safety existed around them. He said people must wear masks to protect themselves and others against the virus and strictly follow physical distancing. There was no need for paranoia or nonchalance, he said, adding one must try to remain calm and show solidarity towards one’s community now. He added that everyone must also try to actively counter misinformation from all sources, including the government.
12 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Pandemic has caused disruption of education’||The COVID-19 pandemic has caused the largest disruption of education system in history, said N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Group of publications. In a webinar addressing students from the Thiagarajar School Of Management (TSM), Mr. Ram said that the crisis has exacerbated pre-existing educational inequalities while referring to the United Nation’s ‘Policy Brief: Education during COVID-19 and beyond’. “It has also reduced opportunities for millions of the most vulnerable children. This has particularly affected hundreds of people living in poor or rural areas, girls, refugees and displaced persons,” he said. He added that schools across 100 countries are yet to announce dates of reopening. Teachers, parents and children are still grappling with the realities of the impact of COVID-19. He said that there would be inter-generational setbacks, especially regarding violence against women from low income backgrounds, due to loss of income and education. He added that those in the professional education segment would have a more cushioned situation. Mr. Ram, however said that the pandemic has also forced educational institutions to innovate through online education. “Some of the best scientific minds are putting out great content. This is bringing people together and is a huge effort,” he said. He also said that it may be difficult for higher educational institutions across India to conduct exams as proposed by the University Grants Commission.  There is no need for paranoia or nonchalance, he said and added that one must try to remain calm and show solidarity towards one’s community during this time. He added that everyone must also try to actively counter misinformation from all sources including the government. Earlier while speaking at Edusights 2020, an international colloquium organised by the Sacred Heart Institute of Management Studies in Tirupattur recently, Mr. Ram said the unprecedented disruption of the educational system and the consequent loss of learning at all levels, was a matter of grave concern. India should learn from countries that had managed to work around COVID-19, he said.
12 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Pandemic has caused largest disruption of education systems in history’||The COVID-19 pandemic has caused the largest disruption of education systems in history, N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Group of Publications, has said. In a webinar addressing students from the Thiagarajar School Of Management (TSM), Mr. Ram said the crisis had exacerbated pre-existing educational inequalities, referring to the United Nation’s ‘Policy Brief: Education during COVID-19 and beyond’. “It has also reduced opportunities for millions of the most vulnerable children. This has particularly affected hundreds of people living in poor or rural areas, girls, refugees and displaced persons,” he said. He added that schools across 100 countries are yet to announce reopening dates. Teachers, parents and children are still grappling with the realities of the impact of COVID-19. Mr. Ram said there would be inter-generational setbacks, especially with regard to violence against women from low-income backgrounds, due to the loss of income and education. He added that those in the professional education segment, however, would have a more cushioned situation. Mr. Ram said the pandemic has also forced educational institutions to innovate through online education. “Some of the best scientific minds are putting out great content. This is bringing people together, and is a huge effort,” he added. He said it may be difficult for higher education institutions across India to conduct exams as proposed by the University Grants Commission. There is no need for paranoia or nonchalance, he said, and added that one must try to remain calm and show solidarity with one’s community during this time. He added that everyone must try to actively counter misinformation from all sources, including the government. Earlier while speaking at Edusights 2020, an international colloquium organised by the Sacred Heart Institute of Management Studies in Tirupattur recently, Mr. Ram said the unprecedented disruption of the educational system and the consequent loss of learning at all levels, was a matter of grave concern. India should learn from countries that had managed to work around COVID-19, he said.
12 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Policemen donate generously to batchmate’s family||In a remarkable gesture, police constables of 2003 batch of the Tamil Nadu Police Department have mobilised Rs. 25 lakh and made separate deposits for the father, wife and children of one of their colleagues who died recently. Head constable Jothiram of Madurai was killed in an accident while on duty on June 15. He had left behind his father, wife and two minor girl children. His batchmates, who had informally formed an association called ‘Uthavaum Karangal’, immediately reached out to the family. As many as 5,043 head constables volunteered to contribute Rs. 500 each to mobilise funds. They were the first batch of police constables in the State who were not eligible for the old pension scheme, as they were under the contributory pension scheme “Our only concern was that at any point of time, the family members should not suffer because of Jothiram’s absence. To ensure a safe future for the girl children of Jothiram, we first deposited around Rs. 12 lakh in their names in the LIC,” said one of the members of ‘Uthavaum Karangal’. The team also deposited Rs. 7.12 lakh in the name of his wife, Sathya, in another insurance policy that would fetch her a pension of Rs. 3,300 a month. They deposited Rs. 5 lakh in the father’s name which would fetch Rs. 3,083 a month for 10 years. The balance of the mobilised funds of Rs. 34,312 was handed over to the family members on Sunday. The batchmates also ensured that the wife and children got a medical insurance for Rs. 3 lakh for three years. This would be renewed at regular intervals. This is not the first time the batch helped a colleague. Couple of months back, their batchmate Ayyappan of Tenkasi died. Within a few days, the members across the State managed to mobilise Rs. 15 lakh and handed it over to the family of Ayyappan. A similar assistance was given to the family of another batchmate from Tiruppattur.
12 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Four of family held for murder of septuagenarian||The case of death of an aged woman whose body was found burnt on Gundar riverbed on Saturday turned out to be a case of ‘mercy killing’. Four persons, including the victim’s daughter, M. Palaniammal, 54, were arrested on Tuesday. “It looks like the deceased (who was later identified as Karupayee, 75), had been bed-ridden for long and had suffered a lot with bedsores. With the house owner forcing the family members to vacate the house owing to the presence of the sick woman, they planned to finish her off,” said Tirumangalam Deputy Superintendent of Police S.S. Vinothini. The family that was making and selling garlands for a living was in extreme poverty in recent times. They could not meet Karupayee’s medical expenses. As Karupayee herself wanted the family members to kill her and the family members feared that they would not find any other house for rent, they decided to kill her, the police said. Palaniammal, her daughter Kaleeswari, 27, son-in-law Vasanthakumar, 32, and son Kalidoss, 27, smothered her to death. “They hired a push cart, stealthily carried the body in it and burnt the body using petrol,” the DSP said. Within hours, they vacated the house and left Tirumangalam. The police, who found the movement of push cart through eye-witnesses, later traced it through closed-circuit television camera clippings. “The family members had told neighbours that they were moving to Sivakasi and switched off their mobile phones,” the DSP added. The police traced the van they had hired to shift things and traced the family to Tirunagar. All the four were sent to judicial custody.
12 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||69% reservation sought for denotified tribes||A section of members from the Denotified Tribes Welfare Association sought 69% reservation for members from Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribes, Backward Caste, Most Backward Caste and Denotified Tribes who are applying for medical admissions in both undergraduate and postgraduate courses. Speaking to the press at the Collector’s office on Monday, Treasurer of the association P. Thavamani Devi, said that the Tamil Nadu government had been giving up 50% of its total medical seats to the All India Quota without accommodating the students in Tamil Nadu even though the State government mandates 69% reservation for these communities. She said that those from the DNT communities suffered significantly due to the lack of reservations. Ms. Thavamani Devi said that young students of the denotified tribes community who must receive Rs. 1,000 a month for their education as scholarship are yet to do so. She said that the students tend to face hurdles at both school and college levels. “In order for the community to be uplifted, there is a need to ensure that more students have access to higher education. This can take place only if there is reservation,” she said. The members sought assistance from the district administration seeking better welfare measures to be provided to their community at the earliest.
12 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks status report||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Dindigul Collector to file a comprehensive status report on a public interest litigation petition filed seeking a direction to remove encroachments on ‘odai poromboke’ land in Thangachiammapatti village in Oddanchatram taluk in Dindigul district. In the PIL petition filed in 2017, K. Nachimuthu complained that there were encroachments on three survey numbers of ‘odai poromboke’ land in Thangachiammapatti. The State informed the court that with regard to one of the survey numbers patta was granted in favour of people who had put the land to use, and in respect of the other survey numbers encroachments were removed. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam sought to know how the people were identified for the grant of patta and directed the Collector to file the report.
12 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Health screening for conservancy workers||Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan inspected Sathamangalam Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) on Tuesday, where medical screening of Corporation conservancy workers began. The four-day medical screening began at all the 31 UPHCs on Tuesday. According to a press release from the civic body, medical screening is conducted for conservancy workers once in three months. City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan was also present.
12 August 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||35 migrant workers rescued||Thirty-five migrant workers, who were stranded in three poultry farms here, were rescued by revenue officials and police on Monday. According to officials, the labourers were sent back to their native villages in Chhattisgarh. Namakkal Revenue District Officer M. Kottai Kumar said, the labourers complained of not receiving salaries for several months. Based on their complaint, their salary dues were cleared. They were later sent in special buses to their native state.” He added that action would be taken against the employers by labour department for salary dues.
12 August 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Lyricist Muthusamy dies at 100||Lyricist P.K. Muthusamy died at his residence near Rasipuram due to age-related ailments on Tuesday. He was 100 years old. Muthusamy has penned the lyrics of songs in films such as Thaipirandhal Vazhi Pirakum and Kaveriyin Kanavan . According to sources, the lyricist has written over 60 songs in various Tamil films and has authored several books. Muthusamy lived in a rented house at R. Pudhupatti near Rasipuram. He is survived by son and daughter.
12 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Vinayaka Chaturthi fete banned in Union Territory||The District Administration has banned all public events, held usually as part of the Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations, due to the spread of COVID-19 in the Union Territory. In an order on Monday, District Collector T. Arun said no idols will be allowed in public places on account of Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations. The administration would not allow any religious procession/ congregation during festival days. The Commissioner of Hindu Religious Institutions was directed to check temple premises to ascertain whether authorities are adhering to the direction of not placing any new idols on the temple premises. Temples were asked not to distribute prasadam as part of festival rituals. The Public Works Department, Police and Municipalities have been directed not to issue No Objection Certificates for holding cultural events during festival days, he said.
12 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry Disaster Management Authority to hold crucial meet on fighting virus today||The Puducherry Disaster Management Authority will hold a crucial meeting on Wednesday to discuss the future course of action to be adopted to contain the growing spread of novel coronavirus cases in the Union Territory, Minister for Health Malladi Krishna Rao said on Tuesday. In an audio message, the Minister said the meeting, to be chaired by Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, would be attended by the legislature party leaders of all political parties. The Authority would decide on the measures to be adopted to arrest the spread of virus. As of Tuesday, Puducherry has 2,277 active cases of COVID-19. A source in the Health Department told The Hindu that the department would press for the imposition of a full or partial lockdown to check the spread of COVID-19 cases in the UT. “In fact, during a review meeting chaired by the Chief Minister on August 9, the Health Minister had suggested the enforcement of a lockdown. We are not sure whether the Authority, during its Wednesday meeting, will announce a lockdown, but we are certain that there will be certain stringent measures,” the source said. Mr. Rao said the government would seek Central assistance of Rs. 25 crore for meeting the additional expenditure towards COVID-19 management. The territorial administration had already sanctioned Rs. 25 crore to the Health Department for treatment and procurement of equipment, he said.
12 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Two more deaths, 276 new cases in U.T.||The COVID-19 death toll went up to 91 with two more patients succumbing to the infection, while 276 new admissions took the active cases to 2,277 and the overall count to 5,900 on Tuesday. While a 69-year-old patient died at PIMS, a 44-year-old patient passed away at IGMCRI. Of the new cases, 241 are in Puducherry, 30 in Karaikal and five in the Yanam region, S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health, said. The infection rate is 28.5% with 276 testing positive out of 967 samples, and the fatality rate is 1.6%. The institutional cases are 1,053 in Puducherry — 371 patients at IGMCRI, 317 at JIPMER and 365 in COVID care centres — 161 cases in Karaikal GH, 114 in Yanam GH and three in Mahe. Another 946 are in home isolation, including 874 in Puducherry and 72 in Yanam. As many as 3,532 patients have recovered and been discharged, including 172 on Tuesday. Till now, 43,748 samples have been tested, of which 41,941 are negative, and the test results of 386 are awaited.  The infection rate is 28.5% with 276 testing positive out of 967 samples, and fatality rate is 1.6%.   The infection rate is 28.5% with 276 testing positive out of 967 samples
12 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CPI workers stage protest in Puducherry||The Communist Party of India (CPI) on Tuesday organised demonstrations in several parts of the Union Territory to highlight the failure of the Congress government in controlling the spread of the novel coronavirus.  CPI secretary A.M Saleem, former nominated legislator and senior party leader Nara Kalainathan, and party executive committee member Sethu Selvam, participated in the demonstration.
12 August 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Inflow at Mettur dam reduced||The inflow at Mettur dam was reduced to 80,000 cusecs on Tuesday morning. According to officials from the Public Works Department, the water level at the dam stood at 95.10 ft against a total scale of 120ft and inflow to the dam was reduced to 80,000 cusecs. The stored capacity of water at the dam was 58,675 mcft and outflow from the dam to Cauvery river was maintained at 10,000 cusecs. Inflow at Biligundalu According to officials, the inflow through Biligundalu on Tuesday morning was 70,000 cusecs. On Monday night, the inflow at Biligundalu was 1,10,000 cusecs.
12 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on advances in rice research||The Tamil Nadu Rice Research Institute (TRRI), Aduthurai will organise a webinar on “Advances in rice researches for food security and environmental sustainability” on August 13. A wide range of topics such as advances in rice research under changing climate-quantification of microbial biomass in relation to nutrients supply to rice, use of 15N tracer techniques to characterise N cycling in submerged rice soils, dynamics of methane emission in anaerobic rice soils, the environmental impact of elevated CO2 on methane flux and microbionts in paddy soil, rice culture techniques to mitigate methane emission, site-specific balanced nutrition in rice ecosystem, water sharing techniques and others would be covered in the two-hour long webinar to be inaugurated by the TNAU vice-chancellor, N.Kumar at 10 a.m. on August 13. Kazuyuki Inubushi, Professor in Soil Science, Graduate School of Horticulture, Chiba University, Matsudo, Japan, and Sheetal Sharma, Scientist- II in Soil Science, Nutrient Management Specialist (South Asia), Sustainable Impact Platform, International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), Philippines, New Delhi Center, will be delivering the guest lectures at the webinar, said the TRRI director, V.Ambethgar, in a release. Interested persons can register their names free by logging on to https:// forms.gle/GdFjF6Yqcqrns HVf7
12 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Student teams prove their mettle||A mobile application to guide entrepreneurs interested in starting food processing industries to choose the best location for the projects to Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MoFPI) won for the Maargadarshak Mandal team of University College of Engineering (BIT Campus), Tiruchi, Anna University, a cash prize of one lakh rupees at the Smart India Hackathon Grand Finale Software Edition organised as a virtual event earlier this month. Team Maargadarshak Mandal, under the leadership of J. Jerish Obed along with team members R. Navamadhan, R. Priya, A. Lakshmi Bangaru, V. Sharniha and V. Lakshmi, were mentored by G. Annapoorani and R. Kavithahas to come up with the application that also covered waste management. The project was presented through Sri Venkateshwara College of Engineering, Bengaluru, Karnataka, the Virtual Nodal Centre. Another group, Team Tech Kings, under the leadership of R. Suwathi and comprising Soundarya, N. Swetha, B. Abishek, V. Amutha, and V. Durai Prakash were mentored by M. Prasanna Kumar and A. Jenifa to come up with an innovative idea on Efficient zoonotic disease alert and outbreak control system to Government of Andhra Pradesh through Virtual Nodal Centre - Vardhman College of Engineering, Hyderabad, Telangana. Encouraged by M.K.Surappa, Vice-Chancellor of Anna University, and L. Karunamoorthy, Registrar, many student teams participated in the Smart India Hackathon, T. Senthil Kumar, Dean, University College of Engineering (BIT Campus), said. An intra-college hackathon was organised by the Computer Science and Engineering Department and the best teams were selected to apply for the Smart India Hackathon Grand Finale Software Edition, he said. Nation-wide, the event witnessed students working on real-life challenges faced and coming out with innovative solutions. A team of Mount Zion College of Engineering and Technology, Pudukottai, won the cash prize for proposing the best solution for the Bharat Earth Movers Limited, Bangalore, for implementation of security measures of electronic control units in heavy vehicles. The student team comprising Rahulkumar singh, Rajesh S, Sivakamasundari S, Kaviya S, Divya T, and Pavithra B was mentored by faculty members Jayson.J, Reka.S and Jagadeesh.N. Student teams of the college had taken part in the national-level finals of e-yantra sponsored by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, and the Vishwakarma Award 2020 event organised by All India Council for Technical Education. Two teams from National Institute of Technology,Tiruchi, also won the first place in their respective problem statements in the Smart India Hackathon jointly organized by AICTE and MHRD. The NIT’s ‘Team Compile-Error’ comprising S.A.Mario Jones Vimal, Vivek Raveendran, B.Arathi, S.Agila, S.Karaen and S.Hariprasanth worked on a problem statement from the Madhya Pradesh Police as a part of their ‘Crime Free Bharat’ mission. They developed an evidence storage portal used by the law enforcement agencies to upload, store, extract critical information, and transfer evidence documents in a secured way using blockchain technology to report any tampering. Team dCoders comprising Abhilasha Nagpal, Ark Srivatsava, Ayush Singh, Vaibhav Bairagi, Nitin More, and C.M.Goutham worked on ‘Agriculture and Rural Development’ for a problem statement presented by the Bihar government. They developed an end-to-end solution for an open and secure blockchain-based market for agricultural commodities, eliminating intermediaries and empowering farmers through a digital solution. Mini Shaji Thomas, Director, NIT-T, congratulated teams, a press release said
12 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||New regulator work slowed down||Construction of a new regulator across the Kollidam at Mukkombu has been slowed down with the possibility of discharge of surplus water into the Cauvery over the next few days. Since water levels in Mettur dam, Bhavani Sagar dam and Amaravathi dam are rising at a fast pace, Public Works Department (PWD) officials expect that they will reach their maximum capacity shortly. It will eventually lead to discharge of surplus water into the Cauvery. Considering the probability, Larsen and Toubro, the contracting company which executes the Rs. 387 crore project for the PWD, has slowed down below-the-ground level work. According to sources, 423 out of 500 piles for the new regulator have been erected. Almost all piles planned across the southern arm of the new regulator have been constructed. Work is on building pile caps to connect piles. The work requires complete dewatering at the project site. It is felt that it would not be possible if inflow into the Cauvery went up beyond 40,000 cusecs. “There is a possibility of diverting water into the Kollidam at Mukkombu if the surplus discharge from Mettur went beyond 40,000 cusecs. If it happens, it would not be possible to carry on the below ground level work. It has been decided to slow down the work for a few weeks,” R.Baskar, Executive Engineer, PWD (River Conservation Division), said. Nearly 80% of the below ground level work had been completed. It was not advisable to carry out the remaining work at this juncture. However, above ground level works would continue. A senior site engineer said that there would be no problem in continuing work such as construction of positioning slabs, establishment of gate embedded boxes and railing. Moreover, some pending works on southern arm of the new regulator would be expedited. The Executive Engineer said that about 49% of the project has so far been completed. Though the work might be progressing at a slow pace for a few weeks, the overall progress of the project was on the right track. It would be completed by early 2021.
12 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||568 fresh cases and 14 deaths recorded in central region||As many as 568 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 14 deaths were recorded in central districts on Tuesday. Thanjavur district topped the list both in fresh cases and deaths. As many as 125 patients were diagnosed with the virus in Thanjavur district. In Tiruvarur, there were 88 fresh cases. Tiruchi and Ariyalur recorded 86 cases each while Pudukottai had 64 cases followed by Nagapattinam (53), Perambalur (35) and Karur (31). In Tiruchi district, Woraiyur, Golden Rock, Vasan Nagar, Ayyan Reddipatti, Edamalaipatti Pudur, Lalgudi, Manachanallur, Palakkarai and Sourashtra Street had more than 3 cases. According to sources, COVID-19 cases continued to surge in Manapparai and its surrounding villages too. Out of 32 patients who tested positive for the virus in Perambalur district, 13 were from Perambalur block. Veppanthattai and Alathur blocks accounted for 9 cases each. With the Tuesday tally, the total number of positive cases in the district has gone up to 785. Ariyalur town topped the list of 86 COVID-19 positive patients recorded in the bulletin of the State Health Department on Tuesday. Thirumanur and Sendurai blocks recorded 16 cases each and 13 cases in Ariyalur block. The total number of patients has gone up to 1431 in Ariyalur district. With the declaration of 53 more cases, the total number of cases in Nagapattinam district rose to 1249. New cases were reported in Nagapattinam town, Vedaranyam and Mayiladurai. A 28-year-old woman was among 14 patients who died of COVID-19 in central districts. The maximum number of six deaths was reported in Thanjavur, followed by four in Tiruchi. Tiruvarur and Pudukottai accounted for three and one deaths respectively. Except three, all the other victims were above 60 years of age. A 28-year-old woman of Tiruvarur was admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on August 3 with complaints of fever, cough and breathing difficulty. She died of respiratory failure, aspiration pneumonitis and cerebral venous thrombosis. She was under treatment for various diseases. A 85-year-old man from Tiruchi, who was admitted to a private hospital with the complaints of fever and cough for four days and difficulty in breathing for two days, died of cardio pulmonary arrest on Monday. Besides, COVID-19 claimed patients aged 60 and 68 from Tiruchi district. A 64-year-old man from Thanjavur, who was admitted to a private hospital on August 8 with complaints of breathing difficulty and fever, died on Monday due to COVID-19 pneumonia. He had pre existing co-morbidities. He was among the six patients who died of COVID-19 in Thanjavur district.
12 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Remote controlled gun launched||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday launched the Stabilized Remote Controlled Gun System (SRCG) at the Ordnance Factory here through video conference from New Delhi on Monday. The SRCG is fitted with a 12.7 mm M2 NATO Standard Machine Gun designed for marine applications mounted on board ships and small crafts. It can remotely engage small boats, skiffs and other small crafts with accuracy during day and night. The SRCG has automatic target tracking capability and the gun is capable of manual firing in case of malfunction of system or power supply failure. The OFT is the nodal factory for the SRCG weapon system and Ordnance Factory, Varangaon, would produce the ammunition for the same. A dedicated state-of-art assembly and testing facilities has been developed at Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, by investing Rs. 2.82 crore. The indigenous manufacturing of the system for the Indian Navy and the Coast Guard would result in savings of Rs. 167 crore approximately. The SRCG would provide business opportunities at the rate of Rs. 255 crore per annum for the next four years to Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, and other sister factories. A contract has been placed by the Integrated Headquarters, Ministry of Defence on M/s. Elbit Systems, Israel for Transfer of Technology for this gun. Shripad Yesso Naik, Minister of State for Defence, Ajay Kumar, Defence Secretary, Rajkumar, Secretary, Defence Production, Hari Mohan, Chairman and Director General Ordnance Factories, Ordnance Factories Board, Kolkata, Vice Admiral G. Ashok Kumar at New Delhi and Shirish Khare, General Manager, OFT, Tiruchi, at the factory were present, a press release said.
12 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Plan to construct another Yatri Nivas||The Tiruchi Corporation has called for proposals to build a Yatri Nivas at the Municipal Chathiram on Madurai Road near Mainguard Gate in the city. The Yatri Nivas is meant to provide affordable accommodation to pilgrims and travellers visiting the city. In a recent notification, the corporation has invited proposals from registered firms, companies or agencies with relevant experience in the field of construction of Yatri Nivas under Design, Build, Finance, Operation and Transfer (DBFOT) basis through public private partnership mode. The selected agency would build, operate and take care of the functional management of the Yatri Nivas for 27 years. If the project takes shape, the Yatri Nivas will be the second such facility in the city with one already functioning in Srirangam, built under the auspices of the Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple Devasthanam. The site for the Yatri Nivas on Madurai Road enjoys vantage position as it is situated close to the Rockfort, the Our Lady of Lourdes Church and the Natharvalli Dargah and could be preferred by tourists and devotees visiting places get affordable accommodation in the locality. Though no estimate of the project has been given in the notification in June last year, the then Corporation Commissioner had stated that the facility would be established at a cost of around Rs. 6 crore. The corporation has identified 2,965 sq. m. area for building the Yatri Nivas which was expected to have about 40 to 45 rooms, besides dormitories. It would have a parking area to accommodate vehicles of tourists. The facility would be established within 18 to 24 months from the date of award of the tender for construction, sources indicated.
12 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Opium seized||Organised Crime Intelligence Unit and Narcotics Intelligence Bureau, CID, seized 1.8 kg of opium and arrested Adaikalaraj, 40, and Adakathan, 50, at Mannarpuram and Arumugam, 65, Jayaprakash, 40, and Balasubramanian, 40, at Koneripalayam in Perambalur district.
12 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Held under POCSO Act||T. Jayaraman, 74, of Chinthamani, a tailor, was arrested under the POCSO Act here on Monday on the charge of sexually assaulting a minor girl. The police said he went to the house of the victim near the airport area to repair a sewing machine. He is alleged to have committed the crime when the girl’s parents were away the next day. Acting on a complaint from the victim’s mother, the Golden Rock All Women Police arrested Jayaraman and booked a case against him under Section 7 of the POCSO Act. He was lodged in Lalgudi Sub Jail.
12 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Southwest monsoon brings copious flow into dams||Water managers and the farmers of both Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts are much relieved now as the southwest monsoon that intensified along the Western Ghats over the past one week has considerably jacked-up water level in all the dams, especially all five reservoirs in the newborn Tenkasi district that are about to reach the maximum capacity within a day or two. As the southwest monsoon started on a sluggish note this year in June and belied completely the “normal rainfall” predictions of Indian Meteorological Department, rainfall along the Western Ghats, housing the catchment areas of all 11 dams in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts, was far from satisfaction. Consequently, farmers of both the districts, who would go in for ‘kar’ season paddy cultivation in June-end or July and harvest the ‘kar’ paddy in October before the start of the northeast monsoon, restrained themselves from starting the preparations for the first paddy season of these two districts. With the southwest monsoon playing the truant, most of the agriculturists, who were wary of the precipitation, decided to wait for the second paddy season, ‘pisanam’ while the farmers having their ranches close to the dams alone raised ‘kar’ paddy. Even as the southwest monsoon season is about to coming to an end – i.e. with the end of August – rainfall, much to the jubilation of everyone here, suddenly moved to top gear along the Western Ghats that steeply increased the influx of water into all the dams including Papanasam and Manimuthar dams, the prime reservoirs of southern Tamil Nadu that decide the fate of farming operations in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts and also fulfilling drinking water needs of Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar districts. Water level in dams (in feet – maximum capacity in brackets): Papanasam – 100.65 (143); Servalar – 130.90; (156); Manimuthar – 73.20 (118); Vadakku Pachchaiyar – 10.25 (49); Nambiyar – 10.13 (22.96); Kodumudiyar – 40 (44); Gadana – 80.80 (85); Ramanadhi – 82 (84); Karuppanadhi – 68.57 (72); Gundar – 36.10 (36.10); Adavinainar – 129.75 (132.22).
12 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Reactor pressure vessel dry shielding completed on KKNPP reactor||Reactor pressure vessel dry shielding of under-construction reactor 3 of Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project has been installed successfully. Larsen & Toubro (L&T India), with the technical support of Russian experts, completed the works on the installation. Dry shielding is a cylindrical shield in metal cladding filled with serpentine concrete and placed around the reactor pressure vessel. This structure serves for the neutron flux attenuation and facilitates prevention of overheating of the reinforced concrete in reactor pit structure. “Work on dry shielding installation has been completed in time. The equipment was manufactured at Tiazhmash JSC in Syzran, Russia. The cylindrical shield filled with serpentine concrete weighs 140 tonnes,” KKNPP sources said. The installation is an essential process in the operation of the critical path of the reactor construction time schedule. After its completion, the installation of the reactor support truss and other assembly operations will be performed, which are followed by the installation of the reactor pressure vessel into the position.
12 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Critical procedure at Kudankulam successful||The Reactor Pressure Vessel Dry Shielding of the under-construction reactor 3 of the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project has been installed successfully. Contractor Larsen & Toubro (L&T India), with technical support from Russian experts, successfully completed the works on the installation of the Reactor Pressure Vessel Dry Shielding into its position. Dry Shielding is a cylindrical shield in metal cladding filled with serpentine concrete and placed around the reactor pressure vessel. This structure serves for the neutron flux attenuation and facilitates prevention of overheating of the reinforced concrete in reactor pit structure. “Work on Dry Shielding installation has been completed as scheduled. The equipment was manufactured at Tiazhmash JSC in Syzran town in Russia. The cylindrical shield filled with serpentine concrete weighs 140 tonnes,” sources in the KKNPP said. Installation of the Reactor Pressure Vessel Dry Shielding is an essential process in the operation of the critical path of the reactor construction time schedule. After its completion, the installation of the reactor support truss and other assembly operations will be performed, which are followed by the installation of the Reactor Pressure Vessel into the position.
12 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Baby found abandoned in dustbin rescued in Tiruppur||Childline officials, on Monday, rescued a girl baby from a dustbin in Tiruppur. Sources said on Tuesday that the residents noticed the child, less than a week old, inside a dustbin near a government school at Palavanjipalayam in Tiruppur Corporation limits on Monday afternoon. They informed the Tiruppur City Police, who in turn alertedChildline at ‘1098’ helpline. A team from the Childline reached the spot and rushed the baby to Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. Hospital sources said the baby had a congenital defect on her left foot. The baby was admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit and would be under observation for the next three days. Veerapandi police said they traced the baby’s mother with the help of the doctors at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital on Tuesday. The 30-year-old woman from Tiruvannamalai district was admitted to the hospital last week for delivery. The baby will be reunited with the mother after the end of the observation period, police said.
12 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||T.N. must oppose NEP, says Mutharasan||Communist Party of India (CPI) state secretary R Mutharasan on Tuesday called upon the Tamil Nadu government to reject the National Education Policy (NEP 2020). Speaking to reporters in Tiruppur, he said the government must not stop with merely declaring that it was opposed to the three-language formula proposed in the NEP but must reject the document in its entirety. The CPI rejected the NEP as it was approved by the Union Cabinet without any discussion in Parliament, he said. He also condemned the halving of the ex-gratia for the families of frontline workers who die while on COVID-19 duty, from Rs. 50 lakh to Rs. 25 lakh by the State government. “Announcements like these make the credibility of the government questionable,” Mr. Mutharasan alleged. He also alleged lack of transparency in the number of COVID-19 deaths. He called for cancellation of the e-pass system, alleging irregularities in the process of issuing the passes. On August 18, the CPI along with the other Opposition parties, will stage state-wide protests demanding arrests of those behind the online attacks on the Left parties on social media platforms, Mr. Mutharasan announced.
12 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Water from Thirumoorthy dam to be released soon’||Water from Thirumoorthy dam in Tiruppur district will be released soon as per the directions of the State government, said Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan on Tuesday. The Minister inspected the Amaravathi dam in Udumalpet Panchayat Union in the presence of District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan. Noting that the outflow of Amaravathi dam is at 1,440 cusecs, he requested the farmers from Tiruppur and Karur districts to use the water judiciously for agriculture, according to a press release. Water level at Amaravathi dam reached 86.03 feet out of its total capacity of 90 feet on Tuesday, with an inflow of nearly 2,000 cusecs of water. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami ordered the release of water from Amaravathi dam from August 6. Mr. Radhakrishnan also inaugurated various projects with a total worth of over Rs. 1.6 crore and provided cash assistance to 45 beneficiaries in Udumalpet Panchayat Union on Tuesday, the release said.
12 August 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Hailed for transforming varsity into centre of excellence||Faculty and non-teaching staff of Central University of Tamil Nadu (CUTN) gave a memorable send off to Aditya Prasad Dash earlier this month on completion of his five-year-term as Vice-Chancellor of the varsity recalling his efforts in transforming the institution into a centre of excellence. The institution, they said, has become the talking point for academics for the strides it has made to become a prominent centre for advanced learning and research. Several positions he had held prior to his posting at CUTN was a vital factor for establishing the presence of CUTN at the national level, senior faculty members said. Prof. Dash, who belongs to Odisha, had served as Director, Institute of Life Science, Bhubaneswar; Director, National Institute of Malaria Research, New Delhi; Director, Centre for Research in Medical Entomology, Madurai; Director, Desert Medicine Research Centre, Jodhpur; and President of National Academy of Vector Borne Disease. He was a Distinguished Scientist, Chair and Adviser of World Health Organisation, and President of Odisha Science Academy. He recounted how he spent most of his time on the campus, engaging all stake-holders for progress of the institution. The institution, which had just nine departments at the time of his joining on August 5, 2015, saw the start of 19 new departments offering job-orientated programmes during his tenure. Prof. Dash was also instrumental in signing MoUs with front-ranking institutions. The last was signed, despite the COVID 19 pandemic, with Institute of Textile Technology, Salem, Tamil Nadu, for offering B.Tech course in Textile Technology. Faculty members lauded the progress made in improving infrastructure, academic atmosphere and campus placement during his tenure. “Under Prof. Dash’s leadership, CUTN had ensured publication of research articles by the faculty in high impact journals including Nature and Lancet,” Bhagbana Sahu, Professor and Head, Department of History, CUTN, said. Recruitment and selection procedure for teaching and non-teaching posts were conducted in a fair manner during his tenure. “The work culture cultivated by him in CUTN has inspired all stake-holders,” Prof.Sahu added.
12 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Temporary relief shelters built last year damaged||The temporary relief shelters that were constructed by the Nilgiris district administration in Emerald last year after heavy rain was damaged by the rain this year as well. According to local residents, the shelters were built to house around a hundred families around Emerald and Kanneri Mandhanai during times of heavy rain. It was expected that the shelters could prove to be useful when once again, as Emerald and surrounding regions were heavily impacted by the rain and landslips. However, the heavy rain this year had severely damaged the newly built shelters, with the roofs being completely destroyed. As a result, residents, who were evacuated from Emerald and surrounding areas, could not be moved into the shelters which were built xactly this purpose. A. Pushpa, a local resident, said that the shelters had not developed any major structural damage, but called on the district administration to carry out repairs so that local residents can use the shelters during the monsoon season in the coming years. Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya inspected the area recently and surveyed the damage. Officials from the district administration said that the Collector had ordered that the shelters be repaired and the roofs be replaced with concrete sheets to prevent them from getting damaged by rain or heavy wind in the future.
12 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Udhagamandalam traders demand reopening of municipal market||A section of traders at the Udhagamandalam Municipal Market staged a demonstration outside the market premises on Tuesday demanding that it be reopened. The market has been closed for a week as a few traders had tested positive for COVID-19. The district administration had sealed a section of the market soon after a trader tested positive on August 3. However, a few more traders in the market too tested positive, leading to the closure of the entire market. Officials said the market would be reopened only after all the traders and people working in the market were tested for COVID-19. However, five days after the market was closed, the traders staged the protest. Police and officials from the Revenue department and the municipality held talks with the traders, who argued that shutting the market down was not only impacting the livelihoods of people dependant on the business, but also residents of the town and surrounding areas, most of whom shop for groceries and essential items at the market. After negotiations, the traders dispersed. Municipal officials said a section of the market might be allowed to function from Wednesday. They said the primary contacts of the three persons, who tested positive, had been kept under home quarantine and would be tested for the disease.
12 August 2020||VIRUDHUNAGAR/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||No COVID-19 deaths reported in Virudhunagar and Thoothukudi||Virudhunagar district registered no COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday, after a gap of five days. From August 6 to 10, the district had reported 30 deaths. The district recorded 180 fresh cases, which took the total number of positive cases to 10,337. As 374 patients were discharged, the number of active cases stands at 139. Kanniyakumari reported 192 new cases, with which its tally rose to 6,746, and 13 deaths. A total of 200 people were discharged from hospitals, and the number of active cases is 1,767. Tirunelveli and Tenkasi district added 136 cases each. While Tirunelveli has so far recorded 6,801 COVID-19 positive cases, the tally of Tenkasi district is 3,382. After 496 people were discharged from hospitals, Tirunelveli has 1,815 active cases, and the number in Tenkasi stands at 1,302 as 62 patients were discharged. Tirunelveli witnessed eight deaths and Tenkasi four deaths. A total of 110 fresh cases were registered in Thoothukudi, which took its case count to 9,469. With 234 people being discharged from hospitals, the number of active cases stands at 1,671. The district did not witness any deaths. Madurai recorded 90 new cases to mark a tally of 12,195. Most of the new cases were those with influenza-like illness symptoms and contacts of positive cases. The active case count dropped to 870 after 278 persons were discharged. Four deaths were recorded in the district, which raised the overall toll to 297. A total of 297 people tested positive in Theni, taking the tally to 8,554. The number of people discharged was 342. There were two deaths in the district. Dindigul registered 153 new cases, with which its tally rose to 4,204. There were 100 discharges. Ramanathapuram reported 37 fresh cases, which took its tally to 3,719. Thirty-three people were discharged. Sivaganga’s tally touched 3,053, with the addition of 57 new cases. A total of 132 people were discharged.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore crosses 7,000 mark, death toll touches 140||Coimbatore district crossed 7,000 mark in terms of the number of COVID-19 cases reported so far with the addition of 324 cases on Tuesday. The Health Department said eight persons died of COVID-19, taking the toll to 140 in the district. Salem reported the death of three patients, aged 61, 58 and 65. Four deaths were reported in Tiruppur including a conservancy worker employed in Zone-I of Tiruppur Corporation. The 47-year-old worker was also suffering from epilepsy and systemic hypertension, sources said. Corporation Commissioner K. Sivakumar said he was the first conservancy worker in the civic body to die of COVID-19. The process for providing an ex-gratia of Rs. 25 lakh to his family was on. Of the nearly 1,500 conservancy workers in the 60 wards of the Corporation, two contracted the disease so far. The other person returned to work upon recovery, he said. CITU district secretary K. Rangaraaj said the government should also provide employment to one of the family members of the deceased. Two persons aged 42 and 50 died in Krishnagiri, taking the toll in the district so far to 23. Coimbatore’s fresh positive cases on Tuesday took the district’s tally to 7,296. Some of the areas that reported the new cases were Kuniyamuthur, Ganapathy, Selvapuram, Rathinapuri, Ukkadam, Peelamedu, Ramanathapuram, Vilankurichi road, Ayyannan Street, Singanallur, M.N.G. Street, Madukkarai, Podanur, Chinnavedampatti, Ammankulam, Karumbukadai and Kovaipudur. Salem district reported 206 cases, of which 205 were indigenous including 136 in the Salem Corporation limits. One patient returned from Bengaluru. Seven staff including two nurses at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital were among those who tested positive. In Namakkal, 10 persons tested positive, of whom four had returned from Erode, Coimbatore and Chennai. Erode district saw 17 cases, taking the district’s tally to 1,115. Nineteen persons were discharged and 389 were under treatment. The Nilgiris district reported five cases. The district’s tally so far is 969, and it had 115 active cases. Tiruppur reported 37 fresh cases, taking the district’s tally to 1,233. After five persons tested positive at Muriyandampalayam village panchayat in Avinashi Panchayat Union, panchayat president P. Ravikumar announced that nearly 300 families in the panchayat limits would be under self-quarantine for 10 days from Wednesday. The residents decided on it to prevent a further spread of the disease, he said. Krishnagiri recorded 43 cases, taking the total number to 1,523. There were 452 active cases in the district. In Dharmapuri, 11 persons tested positive and the total number of cases increased to 906. The district had 139 being active cases.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Fund 50% tests using PM-CARES’||At a virtual meeting of Chief Ministers chaired by Mr. Modi, Mr. Palaniswami requested the Centre to provide funds for procuring high-end ventilators. The Centre was supplying ventilators to States through the PM-CARES fund, and experts treating critically-ill COVID-19 patients had requested a higher degree of ventilatory care, he said. Sufficient funds for the procurement of consumables had been sanctioned from the SDRF and the State Budget. The government had placed orders for 5.25 crore triple-layer face masks, 48.05 lakh N-95 masks, 41.3 lakh PPE kits and 43.26 lakh RT-PCR testing kits, the CM said. The State was slowly relaxing the lockdown restrictions as per the Centre’s guidelines to revive economic activity, he added. He said the State’s case mortality rate of 1.6% was among the lowest in the country. As of date, 2,44,675 patients have recovered, i.e., a recovery rate of 80.8% — among the highest in the country, he noted. The capacity of COVID-19 Hospitals, COVID-19 Health Centres and COVID-19 Care Centres across Tamil Nadu had been increased to 1,29,024 beds, and 4,147 ventilators were available, including 630 in the private sector. The State had also ensured the return of nearly 3.77 lakh migrant labourers in 253 trains, and had borne the entire cost of the same, the CM said. "As of date, we have received 60,875 passengers under the Vande Bharat and Samudra Setu missions, and on private flights," he said. Besides, 2,751 doctors, 6,893 staff nurses, 1,058 lab technicians, 334 health inspectors, 2,751 multi-purpose health workers and 2,000 paramedical staff had been drafted into service.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Demand for a new train||The Thanjavur District Rail Users’ Association has sought conversion of Mayiladuthurai-Tirunelveli Fast Passenger as Mayiladuthurai-Bodinayakanur Express so as to establish a rail link from the delta region to Theni district. In a memorandum forwarded to the Railway Board, its president P.K.T.Shanmugam said the Fast Passenger was the only train service available to connect delta with southern districts. The service should either be converted as express service or as Mayiladuthurai-Bodinayakanur Express service with a halt at Madurai Junction in view of the ongoing gauge conversion work between Madurai and Bodinayakanur. Many workers were travelling from delta to Theni and Idukki district in Kerala. The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporations was operating bus services from Thanjavur and Kumbakonam to Theni, Cumbum and Bodinayakanur, he said.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CISF on deployment of personnel at airports||Airport sources said such problems could be avoided if more staff with knowledge of the local language are deployed. "There is hardly any need for any conversation between the staff and the passengers. There may be exchanges only in cases where a passenger’s belongings need to be checked and queries need to be raised in this regard. But even then, the staff would ask only basic questions. If the passenger doesn’t know Hindi, it would be easier for him/her if the staff speak English or the local language," an official said. Nathan S.P., an air passenger, recalled that his father, a senior citizen and a first-time flyer, had felt intimidated and lost when a CISF staff, who wanted to carry out a security check, spoke only Hindi at Chennai airport a few years ago. The Indian Railways is also facing similar communication issues on premium trains like the Rajdhani, Shatabdi, Duronto and Tejas, where catering and housekeeping staff normally tend to be contract workers from outside south India. Following complaints, the IRCTC has had to take steps to ensure that staff with knowledge of the local language are posted to handle passenger services.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Provide free mobile phones to students’||The United Communist Party of India (UCPI) staged a protest here demanding the State Government to provide mobile phones to all students in view of online classes becoming a norm. The protesters of the little known outfit gathered near the new bus stand here and demanded the government to provide phones free of cost, especially to students whose parents do not have android phones to support online classes. They also demanded that the government reverse entrance exams to higher educational institutions as it affected those hailing from poor families and first generation learners.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||For the fete||
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||3 drown||Three teenagers, who went to bathe at a pond near Mecheri, drowned on Tuesday. According to police, the deceased were identified as S. Harish, his brother S. Nitish and their friend A. Dharish.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till August 11   Persons tested +ve so far: 7,296 Indigenous cases: 7,258 Imported cases: 38 Active cases: 1,738 Persons recovered: 5,418 Deaths: 140     Persons tested +ve so far: 1,233 Persons recovered: 829 Active cases: 377  Deaths: 27
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||IRTT electric line, 10.30 a.m. to 2.30 p.m., August 12: Gandhi Nagar, Samathuvapuram, IRTT College, Sandaimedu, Anna Nagar, Tayirpalayam, Andikadu Thottam, Vasantham Paradise and Uthukadu areas.  Thirunagar Colony electric line, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., August 13: Kamala Nagar, R.K.V. Nagar, Chinnappan Colony, Jeyagopal Street and Kavitha Theatre areas.  Ashokapuram electric line, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., August 13: VCTV Road, Sakthi Road to CNC College, Veerabhadra Street, ABT Road, Cauvery Road, Annamalai Layout, 16 Road, Veerappanchatiram and Devarayankadu areas.     Vilankurichi sub-station, 9.15 a.m. to 4 p.m., August 13: Thaneerpandal, Lakshmi Nagar, Murugan Nagar, Cheranma Nagar, Kumudham Nagar, Jeeva Nagar, and Sengaliappan Nagar.
12 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Celebrating life as it is||To send out a message that marks are not important in life, some residents of Bandur Galli here celebrated on Tuesday the success of a local student who cleared SSLC examination with 48.4 % marks. Members of a youth association, Margai, felicitated the student by unveiling his poster, garlanding him, throwing colour powder and distributing sweets among people. They also danced to Marathi film songs. Harish Kadam, one of the organisers, said that they wanted to send out a message to society that marks in SSLC examination were not the most important thing in life. Pictures and videos of the celebrations were shared widely on social media.
12 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMRCL seeks land, offers new buildings||The Marathahalli police will soon get a new station, and it will be given to them by the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) as compensation for the one that will be demolished. The corporation is set to try its hand at constructing buildings for government agencies whose properties it has acquired for Phase II of Namma Metro. And it’s not just the Marathahalli police station that BMRCL is constructing. It will be building a bhavan (hall) for the Karnataka State Reserve Police and residential quarters for Central Silk Board employees, among other projects. The new buildings will be compensation for acquiring land and properties owned by government agencies at various locations along the metro alignment. “For metro construction on Outer Ring Road and other lines, we need properties owned by various government agencies. At some locations, there is a need to demolish existing buildings to build the metro network or for related purposes. We are demolishing an under-construction hall of KSRP and building a new one. The BMRCL is investing Rs. 20 crore for the purpose,” said Chennappa Goudar, general manager for land acquisition and rehabilitation of BMRCL. He added that land will be used for providing bus bays and integrating the metro transport system with other modes of transport. BMRCL is also constructing an ACP office in Mahadevapura and a veterinary dispensary in Whitefield. To make space for a station at Silk Board, it is acquiring 3,845 square metres of land of the Central Silk Board where residential quarters are located. As per the suggestion of the Board, the BMRCL is building new residential quarters on land owned by the Board near Gottigere. Along the K.R. Puram to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) line, the compound wall and some other structures of the Government Flying Training School in Jakkur will make way for the metro elevated line. Here, too, officials said they will be building a new structure as compensation.
12 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||10 days of rain damages crops on 66,000 hectares in 11 districts||The southwest monsoon and floods that hit 11 districts of the State between August 1 and 10 has damaged about 66,000 hectares agricultural and horticultural crops in Malnad and coastal regions. The districts that have been worst affected by floods are Kodagu, Belagavi, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Hassan, Mysuru, Uttara Kannada, Chamarajanagar, Udupi, and Haveri. No damage to crops has been reported from Shivamogga district. A total of 31,637.2 hectares of agricultural crops and 34,621.26 hectares of horticultural crops were damaged in the excessive rainfall, sources in the Revenue Department said. The State government has sought aid of Rs. 4,000 crore from the Centre for providing relief to all those affected in the rain.  Last year too, the State had received the highest rain during August 3 to 10. Rain caused more damage to crops and infrastructure in 23 districts of the State last year. A total of 2,831 and 63 houses were partially and fully damaged, respectively. The administration of districts have established 87 relief camps and 1,993 people have been shifted to relief camps. In Kodagu district, which witnessed many landslips, 693 people have been shifted to 10 relief camps, the department said.  Meanwhile, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar has urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to take an all-party delegation to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi to seek a financial package to work towards a long-standing solution and solving the woes of the people of Kodagu, which has been facing natural disaster for the last three years in a row.
12 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||THiS institutions beat pandemic fear, excel in board examinations||Students in schools that are part of The Hindu in School (THiS) programme overcame pandemic fear and excelled in the SSLC examinations, results of which were announced on August 10. Soundarya School, Bagalagunte boasted 100% pass results with 77 of 165 students securing distinction. Nithyashree with 623 marks shared the third position at the State level. In St. John’s High School, Papareddypalya, 20 of 46 students passed in first class. Monisha A.S., with 99.36%, secured fifth rank at the State level. All the 31 students in Achala Vidya Mandira High School, Rajajinagar passed with six students securing distinction. Neethi V. Gandhi (94.24%) was the topper. Vatican High School, R.T. Nagar too achieved a 100% pass result with 15 of 35 students securing distinction. Mushaf and Charanyashree S., both securing 98.4%, emerged school toppers. The school percentage was 90 at Mahila Seva Samaja, Basavanagudi. In all, 18 of 97 students secured distinction. Hithaishree S. (96.48%) was the topper. In Premier High School, Srirampuram, 11 of 47 students secured distinction. Deeksha B. (97.92%) was the topper. In Miranda English School, Indiranagar, 24 of 36 students passed in the first class. Truti (90.24%) was the topper. The school percentage was 81 at Kids Global School, Marathahalli with five of 42 students securing distinction. Evangelin Anthu Mary (95.68%) was the topper. In Amara Jyothi English High School, K.R. Puram, 29 of 128 students secured distinction. Navyashree R.(98.72%) was the topper. Students of Sree Cauvery School, Indiranagar brought laurels as 23 of 121 students secured distinction. Akshitha M.B. (98.88%) emerged the topper. In Madonna School, Udayanagar, 59 of 99 students passed in first class. Sanjana Devi (98.08%) was the topper. The school percentage was 95.7 at Seshadripuram High School, Yelahanka New Town with 53 of 163 students securing distinction. Gnanavi N. Raj (97.6%) was the topper. At Vijaya Bharathi Public School, Kanakanagar, 10 of 65 students secured distinction. Farheen Masood (86.56%) was the topper. In SBIOA Public School, Basaveshwaranagar, seven of 28 students secured distinction. Khushi R. (97%) was the topper. In Lewa English School, WOC Road, 11 of 27 students passed in first class. Rakshith Suresh (95.52%) was the topper.  (To be continued)
12 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Feasibility of expanding city limits questioned||Several reports, including one submitted by the BBMP Restructuring Committee, have recommended that the civic body be broken up into multiple corporations on the ground that the 800-sq-km area under the BBMP is unmanageable and unwieldy. In the backdrop of these recommendations, the State government’s proposal to further expand the BBMP has raised concerns. Rama N.S. from the Electronics City Industrial Township Authority said residents may be happy with the proposal as they feel they will be served better with water and public transport facilities. “But the city is already large. It can be managed only through decentralisation, empowering wards and leveraging technology,” she said. BJP leaders defend their stand. “The areas along Electronics City and Sarjapura have been urbanised. It is strange that they are still governed by gram panchayats. They have to be brought under the corporation. It is a natural process,” said a BJP leader. Another BJP leader argued that the expansion will not be a major strain on the civic administration, as it will be restructured with a focus on decentralisation. While the ruling party is against multiple corporations, an idea championed by the Congress, it is keen on adapting certain provisions from the BBMP Restructuring Report 2015, especially empowering zones. “The city's zones will be rationally redrawn and may be reduced to six from the present eight. These zones will be headed by zonal commissioners. The zones will act as semi-autonomous municipal authorities. This, while retaining a single administrative unit for the city governance, will also provide for decentralisation and autonomy for the zones,” a BJP MLA said, adding that the number of zones and its modalities will be deliberated further. The proposed BBMP Bill, 2020, provides for zonal committees that will have councillors from that particular zone as its members. The committees will be headed by an IAS officer who will be posted as zonal commissioner.
12 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PU admissions: officer promises action against colleges||Although the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) exam results were announced on Monday, many pre-university colleges have already completed their admission process and enrolled students from Central boards as well as the State board by taking the latter group’s preparatory marks into consideration. The Department of Pre-University Education too has received complaints from parents and students. M. Kanagavalli, director of the department, said that colleges cannot conduct admissions until the department issues the calendar of events. Action will be initiated against PU colleges if parents submit a complaint, she said. “The academic calendar of events has not been notified as we have to get government approval. No educational institution can be open till the end of the month as per the Education Department’s guidelines,” she said. Meanwhile, many SSLC students said they were at a disadvantage as their peers in the Central boards had not written many of the papers, which were cancelled by their respective boards on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. Many Central board students were assessed for papers that were not conducted based on their internal assessment and their performance in the exam conducted. “When the merit list is prepared, we will be at a clear disadvantage as the Central board’s assessment has been lenient,” said an SSLC student who hopes to get admission into a college in Malleswaram. Second-year PU students also face the same disadvantage. Although Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar had announced that they would attempt to normalise the scores of State syllabus students, it did not happen.
12 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Global warming could change rainfall pattern: IISc. study||As parts of the world, including India, face extreme weather events such as increased intensity of rainfall, scientists have warned that global warming could bring about changes to rainfall pattern. In a new study, researchers from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) have warned that increase in greenhouse gases increases rainfall over land as well as the ocean. In the study, which was published in Nature Research in July, researchers Chetankumar Jalihal, Jayaraman Srinivasan, and Arindam Chakraborty have explored the evolution of precipitation over India in relation to that over the Bay of Bengal. The results, the paper says, highlight the fact that global monsoons should not be treated as a homogeneous entity driven by incoming solar radiation over both land and ocean. While there are factors that affect land and ocean uniformly as well as differently, greenhouse gases are found to affect both land and ocean uniformly, unlike solar insolation or radiation. This could result in increased rainfall. Mr. Jalihal, Ph.D scholar, IISc., said monsoons were traditionally defined over land, but rainfall over land and ocean were both part of the hydrological cycle. “We have used a simple model for monsoon rainfall that depends on two parameters: water vapour and total energy going into atmosphere from the top and surface. An increase in greenhouse gases increases rainfall over land as well as ocean. This is due to the effect of water vapour. Greenhouse gases raise the surface temperature and therefore, the amount of water vapour over both land and oceans, resulting in increased rainfall,” he explained. Though incoming solar radiation influences the energy going into the atmosphere from the top, this has a direct effect on rainfall over land, but the rainfall over ocean decreases due to a chain reaction from surface energy, he said. Evolution of rainfall These results explain the evolution of Indian monsoon rainfall and the rainfall over the Bay of Bengal since the peak of the Ice Age, around 22,000 years ago, the researchers said. “When the Earth came out of the Ice Age, carbon dioxide and incoming solar radiation increased for the first 10,000 years, leading to rapid global warming. During this period, the effect of carbon dioxide was dominant and monsoon rainfall over India and the Bay of Bengal increased in a similar manner. Over the next 10,000 years, carbon dioxide concentration was nearly constant, and the effect of solar radiation was dominant, resulting in opposite trends in rainfall over India and the Bay of Bengal,” said Mr. Jalihal, adding that in the future, other factors such as deforestation and aerosol emissions could have an impact on monsoon rainfall. “Even though there is substantial evidence that the current global warming is due to the emission of carbon dioxide, sceptics propose that global warming is due to increase in incoming solar radiation. If this were true, it should result in a decrease in rainfall over oceans.Current observations indicate that rainfall has increased over both land and ocean. Thus, our results provide another line of evidence that current global warming is indeed due to carbon dioxide emissions,” he added.
12 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Construction worker scores 98% in SSLC exam||Mahesh, a 17-year-old student of Karnataka Public School at Jeevan Bima Nagar in Bengaluru, has scored 98% in the SSLC exam. On Tuesday morning, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar visited his hutment in Malleshpalya, where Mr. Mahesh lives with his mother Mallamma and two siblings. Congratulating him on his outstanding performance, the Minister also felicitated him and presented him with Rs. 5,000. Mr. Mahesh wants to pursue science in pre-university. “My teachers and a few officials from the Education Department have suggested that I get admission at a residential college. They will be shortlisting some colleges for me,” he told The Hindu . “But I will continue working as a construction labourer till the admission process is completed and colleges start functioning.” He said he took a break from work before the exam for a few days. “I started working after the restrictions on construction activities were lifted. I never felt the toil when I sat down to study after a day’s work.” His teacher Nagaraj called him a genius. “We realised his potential and gave him a little guidance. He did not miss a single day of school,” he said, adding that many of the SSLC students used to stay back after school hours to study. “We used to be open from 7.30 a.m. to 9.30 p.m. Weused to stay back and help these students.”
12 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 200 babies delivered||Though there have been multiple accounts of pregnant women, like others in need of treatment, struggling to get hospital admission, there is good news from certain quarters. Over 200 healthy babies were delivered at the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre, Victoria Hospital, over the last three months. Doctors from Vani Vilas hospital carried out the deliveries of COVID-19-positive women at the centre, in an arrangement necessitated by the pandemic. S. Balaji Pai, Special Officer, Emergency and Trauma Care Centre, said as many as 203 babies were delivered between May and July. “The main challenge in case of handling patients who were COVID-19 positive was to not only ensure usual precautions, but to also take care of ourselves. It is difficult to wear a PPE, a sterile gown over it, and goggles during the procedure. Fortunately, there were not many other surgeries. No child tested positive and there was also not a single surgical site infection,” he said. He said that separate OTs were prepared, one for normal deliveries. “We only used disposable caesarian kits. The costs are also heavy, but the results good,” he said.
12 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Discharge policy revised||A day after revising guidelines for home quarantine, the State government on Tuesday revised the discharge policy. The revised policy, while specifying that no repeat test is required for asymptomatic, mild and moderate cases at discharge as before, has reduced the 14-day home isolation after discharge to seven with self monitoring. Asymptomatic individuals who have tested positive and continue to remain asymptomatic in hospital will be discharged 10 days after the test and will not require another test before discharge. After seven days of home care, on the 14th day, there will be a follow up over tele-conference. For mild and moderate cases, the patient will be discharged after 10 days on onset of symptoms provided there are no symptoms three days before discharge.
12 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 1.05 lakh discharged||As many as 6,257 new cases and 86 deaths were reported in Karnataka on Tuesday. With this, the total number of positive cases in the State has crossed 1.88 lakh, and the total number of active cases is 79,606. The Department of Health and Family Welfare bulletin also said over 1.05 lakh patients have been discharged so far, with 6,473 new discharges as on Tuesday. Bengaluru Urban, which is the highest contributor to the State's tally, saw 1,610 new cases and 17 deaths. The city now has 77,038 positive cases, of which 33,070 are active. Ballari had the second highest number of new cases - 736, as well as four deaths. Belagavi reported 575 new cases and four deaths. After Bengaluru, Mysuru had the second highest number of fatalities with 11 followed by Dakshina Kannada with nine deaths.
12 August 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kharif sowing increases||The good rainfall has resulted in increase in the sowing of kharif crops in the State. Against the normal coverage of 46.11 lakh hectares, the actual coverage was 51.27 lakh hectares as on July 31, 2020. Last year’s crop coverage during the same period was 44.99 lakh hectares.
12 August 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||All students passed with first class here||The Government High School at Attavara in Hassan taluk has secured 100% results in the SSLC examination for the third consecutive year. What is more, this time all the students cleared the exam with first class grades. Among the 25 who appeared for the exam this year in Kannada medium, six secured more than 85% marks (distinction) and 14 scored more than 70%. Ananya, with 560 out of 625 marks, is the school topper. The teaching staff, under the leadership of headmaster K.P. Narayana, took extra care to ensure this result. In the past two years, the teachers had conducted night school for students ahead of the exams to revise the syllabus. This time, they could not do so because of the COVID-19 scare. However, to make up for this, the teachers visited villages to ensure their students prepared for the exam. “Our students come from villages around Attavara. We identified six villages — Kattahalli, Madugere, Attavara, Rudradevarahalli, Honnammanahalli, and M. Hosur — ascentres where the students could assemble for studies. Teachers visited these centres on a rotation basis every evening to accompany the students,” said Mr. Narayana. The students visited the school on Tuesday to distribute sweets and celebrate with their teachers. Dhanya, a student who scored 552 out of 625, credited her teacher for her performance. The teachers, meanwhile, expressed hope that the students would go on to attain good positions in society and serve the poor. “We celebrated the day by sharing sweets. The students spent some time removing weeds from the garden on the school premises. We were all moved by their gesture,” the headmaster said.
12 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||State urged to announce quota for Brahmins||Just as the Union government has announced 10 % reservation for the poor among the upper classes, including Brahmins, the State government should also provide 10 % reservation facility, Director of Karnataka State Brahmin Development Board M.B. Natu has said. Addressing presspersons here on Tuesday, Mr. Natu said that the Union government has announced reservation for Brahmins in Central educational institutions and Union government jobs. “However, this reservation policy does not apply to State government institutions and State government jobs. Consequently, several Brahmins will be deprived of reservation. We urge the State government to immediately issue an Ordinance announcing reservation for Brahmins,” he said. Expressing happiness over the setting up of the Brahmin Development Board, Mr. Natu said that already the government had released Rs. 25 crore to the board for initiating various activities. To begin with, the first three toppers from the community in SSLC examination would be given a cash incentive of Rs. 15,000, Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 5,000, respectively, he said. He said that pre-matriculation and post-matriculation scholarships would be given for the welfare of the community students.  Office-bearers of various Brahmin organisations, including Vineet Sham Bhat, Gopal Kulkarni, Manohar Parvati and Shankar Patil, were present.
12 August 2020||K.C. Deepika,KARNATAKA||Labs likely to stagger fumigation to prevent dip in COVID-19 testing||Testing labs in the State will soon be asked to stagger their fumigation process over a week so as to not let testing numbers dip during the weekend. While the improved testing rate is being cited as one of the factors lending to the higher COVID-19 numbers in the State, testing numbers are not consistent. For instance, though the number of tests conducted over the last 10 days have been over 20,000 (touching 48,421 on one day), on Monday, the number of tests conducted fell to 22,260. However, on Tuesday, 43,924 tests were conducted, including Rapid Antigen Detection Test, RTPCR and others. Sources in Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar’s office said laboratories usually reserve the fumigation process for the weekend. “This results in a dip in testing numbers. Discussions are on to get labs to stagger this process over the week, either through an internal communication or through the order of the Chief Secretary,” a source said. A similar decrease was seen in the testing numbers of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) war room data too. Ten days’ data showed that on Saturday, 6,167 tests were conducted compared to the numbers for the weekdays, which were between 9,000 and 14,200. Again, on August 2, which was a Sunday, testing numbers were 6,725.   Acknowledging fumigation as a factor, Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, BBMP war room special officer, said with the exception of weekends, testing had been ramped up in the recent days. “In Bengaluru testing has definitely increased. We are aiming at targeted testing and are trying to maximise lab efficiency. Daily dynamic targets are given to zones. Teams have been trained and mobile teams are also there on field,” she said. Till date, as many as 17,72,991 tests have been conducted in Karnataka, including 3,81,492 Rapid Antigen Detection tests and 13,91,499 RT PCR and other tests.
12 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Four COVID-19 deaths in Ballari||Ballari district on Tuesday reported four COVID-19 deaths taking the toll to 122. There were 736 new cases, taking the total number of such cases to 5,387. Koppal district reported three deaths and 169 new cases. The district now has 1,338 such cases and 42 deaths, in all. Bidar district reported two deaths and 73 new cases. With this, the toll went up to 100 and the number of such cases to 843. Kalaburagi reported 156 new cases and one death. So far, the district has reported 2,559 COVID-19 positive cases and 142 deaths.
12 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. working on permanent solutions to problems affecting coastal region’||Home Minister and Udupi district in-charge Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said that the State government was working on permanent solutions to two major issues concerning the coastal region — sea erosion and landslips on the Western Ghats — in right earnest. Speaking to reporters after visiting areas affected by sea erosion in Udupi district, Mr. Bommai told reporters that the government has sought adequate funds to prevent sea erosion and for rehabilitation of affected persons from the Centre during the video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. Similarly, it has sought the Centre’s assistance to get geo-mapping done by the Geological Survey of India across the Western Ghats to find ways and means to prevent landslips. These two measures, Mr. Bommai said, should be able to address the issues concerning the coastal districts. Through geo-mapping, the government would be able to forecast landslips and take necessary steps to prevent the loss of life. The Minister rejected the allegations that the State was not getting enough funds to fight COVID-19 and undertake flood relief works. The State government was already spending Rs. 350 crore from the National Disaster Relief Fund to fight COVID-19, he said and added that it would ensure that enough funds were spent on flood relief works too. The Minister said that the government has sought another Rs. 10 crore for flood relief from the NDRF which could be released in a couple of days. Mr. Bommai said that four teams of National Disaster Relief Force and Fire and Emergency Services of the State were already deployed in Mangaluru, Kalaburagi and Bengaluru. Another 15 Fire and Emergency Services units were constituted to assist the district administrations. The Independence Day this year would be celebrated as per the COVID-19 guidelines of the Union government. It involves only flag hoisting and there would be no parades and public participation, Mr. Bommai said. Mr. Bommai visited areas affected by sea erosion in Padubidri, Kodi-Kundapur, Maravanthe and Kirimanjeshwara. He lauded the initiative by Kundapur MLA Halady Srinivas Shetty to immediately arrest sea erosion at Kodi. He was accompanied by Zilla Panchayat president Dinakara Babu, Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha, ZP CEO Preethi Gehlot and Superintendent of Police Vishnuvardhana, among others.
12 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Newly created taluks to get funds for infrastructure||Home Minister and Udupi district in-charge Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said that the State government was committed to providing infrastructure in newly created taluk headquarters and will release funds for it. Speaking after receiving representations from the general public at the Hebri Taluk Office, one of the newly created taluks in Udupi district, Mr. Bommai said that though new taluks had been formed in the State, they were facing several issues. The newly created taluks were yet to get a full-fledged administrative set-up, government departments and services to be offered to the general public. The government would announce a special finance package to provide government services effectively to the general public. Mr. Bommai said that immediate steps would be taken to open a Nemmadi Kendra in Hebri taluk. He promised to completely refurbish the Hebri Police Station. A fire station would also be sanctioned to the town as a special case, he said.
12 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Sand to be sold at Rs. 700 a tonne||Dakshina Kannada in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari on Monday directed officials to identify locations where sand was available in small rivers and streams within a fortnight before allowing sand extraction as per the new sand policy. Presiding over a meeting on sand extraction here, Mr. Poojari said that Tahsildars should conduct a joint survey along with officials from Public Works, Forest, Mines and Geology and Revenue departments and submit recommendations to the taluk sand committee. Meanwhile, the State Mineral Corporation would be allowed to extract sand from rivers. And, the 30 blocks already identified would be given to it. A joint survey should be conducted to identify sand availability in dams and backwaters, he said. Extracted sand would be sold to the general public at Rs. 700 a tonne. Gram panchayats would be allowed to sell sand available in their limits. He said that 14 sand blocks were identified in rivers under the Coastal Regulation Zone. A final decision would be taken in a meeting by the Minister for Mines and Geology shortly.
12 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Anantkumar Hegde calls BSNL officials ‘traitors’||Former Union Minister and six-time MP from Uttara Kannada Anantkumar Hegde, who is known for stoking controversy, has now called BSNL officials “traitors”, inviting sharp criticism from different circles. Speaking at a meeting at Kumta in Uttara Kannada on Monday, Mr. Hegde said that BSNL was “a system full of traitors”. He said the telecom major was a “black mark” on the country and the government was trying to “finish it off” through disinvestment policy and private sector players would take over its place. The former Minister said the government had provided everything to BSNL such as funds, infrastructure, and technology, but its employees lacked the mindset to work because of “union politics.” Even while they are enjoying all the facilities, the employees are simply not working, he said. Mr. Hegde said that 85,000 employees of BSNL were being removed now. Some more employees will be laid off in a “major surgery,” he said. Reacting to the outburst, Muneer Katipalla, State president, Democratic Youth Federation of India, told The Hindu that it had exposed the fact that the NDA government was all set to sell the company to multi-nationals. He said the statement showed that the government was making all efforts to create negative vibes among the people on BSNL before shutting it down to favour foreign companies. BSNL is an asset of the country built over the years since independence, he said. A retired divisional engineer of BSNL said on the condition of anonymity that thousands of employees had worked honestly round the clock to build the company, but some politicians had “systematically killed” the telecom major to favour private players. “Who is not allowing BSNL to launch its 4 G service across India? Is it BSNL officials?” he asked, saying the government had systematically denied land and other infrastructure to BSNL.
12 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Deep sea fishing from Sept. 1||Deep sea fishing in Dakshina Kannada will resume on September 1, according to Minister for Fisheries, Ports, Inland Water Transport and Muzrai Kota Srinivasa Poojari. Speaking at a meeting in the office of the Deputy Commissioner here on Tuesday, the Minister said that 75 % of workers engaged in deep sea fishing are from outside the State. They should apply on the Seva Sindhu portal before entering the State. They should undergo COVID-19 test. The government will conduct free tests for them. Those who test negative will be allowed to enter the district. Later, they should be in home quarantine for 14 days before going to work. Boat owners should take the responsibility of travel and entry of such workers. He said that the fish market should be sanitised daily by the Fisheries Department.
12 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Palace open on all days||Encouraged by a marginal improvement in footfall at Mysuru palace, the authorities have decided to keep it open during weekends as well as government holidays. Over two months after being reopened followingthe COVID-19 lockdown, it has begun attracting between 100 and 200 visitors daily. The palace will be open from 10 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. every day.
12 August 2020||Mysuru/Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Respite from rain helps search operation||The heavy rain that battered Malnad and coastal regions of Karnataka over the last week receded on Tuesday. The improved weather situation in Kodagu district helped NDRF team retrieve the body of Talacauvery temple priest Narayanacharya, whose house had been flattened in a landslip last Thursday. Over the last week, Bhagamandala and surrounding regions have borne the brunt of heavy rain, with the Cauvery in spate inundating many areas. Bhagamandala received rainfall in excess of 400 mm for two consecutive days, which had hampered rescue and search operations. Consequent to the landslip and flooding of Talacauvery, the temple remained closed and daily puja and rituals had been suspended in the absence of the priest. But, the Kodagu district in-charge Minister V. Somanna said it has been decided to resume rituals from Friday. Meanwhile, Kodagu received 22.17 mm of rainfall for the 24 hour period ending 8.30 a.m. of Tuesday. The recent rain affected 22 villages in Madikeri taluk, 14 in Virajpet, 10 in Somwarpet, and 14 in Kushalnagar, while there were 12 major incidents of landslips. In all, 585 people have been rescued by NDRF, SDRF and others. Charmadi ghat Chikkamagaluru DC Bagadi Gautam has issued an order allowing light motor vehicles on Charmadi Ghat stretch of NH 73 between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. from Wednesday.
12 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Four booked for murder||The police on Tuesday booked four people in connection with a murder case in Parameshpalli village in Gurmitkal taluk of Yadgir district. According to sources, history-sheeter Mohammad Haneef (34) of Chinnakar village was murdered by Gulam Rasool and three of his associates following a quarrel over petty reasons during a marriage ceremony at Parameshpalli on Monday. The Gurmitkal Police have registered a case under Sections 123, 302, 504 and 506 of Indian Penal Code against Gulam Rasool, Irfan, Mohammad Imran and Haroon. Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane visited the spot.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Terrace gardening pioneer no more||Dr. B.N. Vishwanath, 77, a pioneer of organic terrace gardening in the city, passed away on Sunday. He had started Garden City Farmers that has been organising ‘Oota from your Thota’, a quarterly programme of training and seed exchange for organic farmers in urban spaces. “This was the silver jubilee year of his advocacy for organic terrace farming. The community of terrace farmers in the city was preparing to celebrate at an ‘Oota from your Thota’ programme on August 30. However, he passed away before that. But we shall celebrate his legacy,” said Vani Murthy, a member of the organising committee of Garden City Farmers. He was suffering from renal issues, sources close to him said. Born in 1943 and hailing from Mylasandra, a village on the outskirts of Bengaluru, he carved out a career as an agricultural entomologist and taught in the Department of Entomology, University of Agricultural Sciences, Bengaluru, for 16 years. He quit his job and went to Hollywood to learn videography before shifting to make documentaries. He went on to make several documentaries, mostly on agriculture. His childhood memories of a more pristine environment and the subsequent destruction of nature over the years weighed heavily on him. “As I thought of those days, the enormity of change and urbanisation dawned upon me. Reading Rachel Carson’s book, Silent Spring , was the turning point. The entomologist who advocated chemical fertilisers gradually began to fade. I decided to practise organic farming, and there was no looking back,” he had told The Hindu in 2014. He ran a bio-fertiliser factory Kadur Agro till the late ’80s. He later hit upon the idea of encouraging organic terrace farming in Bengaluru and held his first workshop in 1995. He was instrumental in forming the Association for Promotion of Organic Farming (APOF). He organised the first national and international congress on terrace farming in Bengaluru. “He was a pioneer and inspired legions of citizens, including me, to take up organic terrace farming. Today, if Bengaluru leads the country in this aspect, it is thanks to him,” said Ms. Murthy, a terrace gardener and trainer herself. “His motto was simple: ‘Grow what you eat and eat what you grow’. It has had a huge impact on lives,” she added.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Committee constituted to examine BBMP Bill||The Karnataka Assembly has constituted a joint select committee to look into the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Bill that was tabled in March earlier this year. A notification naming 20 MLAs and seven MLCs was issued on Tuesday. The committee comprises S. Raghu, Ravisubramanya, M. Krishnappa, M. Satish Reddy, Arvind Limbavali, Uday B. Garudachar, S.R. Vishwanath, Narasimha Naik, Ramalinga Reddy, Dinesh Gundu Rao, Krishna Byre Gowda, R. Manjunath, K. Srinivasamurthy, K. Govindaraju, M. Narayanaswamy, P.R. Ramesh, K.A. Thippeswamy, N. Ravikumar, A. Deve Gowda and Tejaswini Gowda. Ex-officio members The framing of a separate Act for Bengaluru was discussed during the previous Assembly session in March this year. It was decided then to constitute a committee for the same. Apart from the MLAs and MLCs, the Minister for Law and Parliamentary Affairs and another Minister nominated by the Chief Minister, who also holds the Bengaluru Development portfolio, will be the ex-officio members. The constitution of the committee assumes importance as the term of the current council in the BBMP will end in September. While holding elections to the civic body ruled out due to the pandemic, the BBMP will come under the rule of an administrator. Sources in the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said the party was keen on reorganising the city's administration set-up before the next civic polls. The joint select committee will be the vehicle for this restructuring, sources said. A city BJP MLA, who is part of the committee, said the process was put on the backburner due to COVID-19. The ruling party is also keen on increasing the BBMP limits by adding more villages on the city's periphery. It has been proposed that 65 villages be added, especially in the Electronics City- Sarjapur stretch, and increase the number of wards to 224, sources said.  Potential for revenue Citing the example of areas around Whitefield, Muneendra Kumar, Ruling Party Leader in the BBMP council said many urbanised villages were still under panchayat limits. “These villages can be developed further. That apart, these areas have the potential of garnering nearly Rs. 80 crore in revenue for the civic body,” he said. Opposition Leader Abdul Wajid termed the move as “dirty politics” to put off civic polls. “Several areas were included in the BBMP limits in 2007-08. Even now, these areas lack basic amenities. The BJP lacks the vision for Bengaluru’s development.” he said.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||5 rescued from bonded labour||Five men from the Gond tribe, who hail from Betul district of Madhya Pradesh, were rescued from a borewell digging unit in Sahakar Nagar on Monday. The men – aged between 18 and 27 – had been trapped in bonded labour, said officials. The case came to light when the father of one of the labourers alerted the helpline of Jan Sahas, an NGO working on bonded labour and trafficking in Madhya Pradesh. The NGO alerted the district administration of Bengaluru Urban, which rescued the workers on Monday. International Justice Mission (IJM), an NGO here, supported the district administration in the rescue. An FIR was registered against the owner of the company under the Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act 1976 at Kodigehalli police station. Four of the rescued men were friends who lived in the same village. They got to know of the job through a job contractor. They called up the owner, who allegedly promised to pay them Rs. 10,000 a month apart and also provide them with boarding and lodging. They began working at the unit in November 2019 while the fifth youth joined them in June 2020, shortly after the government eased lockdown restrictions. However, the labourers said they were neither paid the promised wages, nor given any accommodation and were forced to sleep in a truck. They told the authorities that they were only given Rs. 200-Rs. 1,000, and that too occasionally. They were given rations and a stove, and asked to cook for themselves. “They would travel to different sites for work in the same truck along with the borewell digging machine. The labourers complained that they often had to sleep under the truck at night as there was not enough space for all of them,” a statement from IJM said.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State seeks mandatory govt. service for medical graduates||The Medical Education Minister also appealed to the Prime Minister to initiate measures for immediate commencement of final year medical and paramedical courses so that students could be used in COVID-19 services in areas outside of the designated hospitals. He also sought that both graduate and postgraduate medical seats be doubled so that the State has adequate number of doctors to handle any emergency situation. At present, the State has 10,000 medical seats and 2,000 postgraduate medical seats. Dr. Sudhakar told mediapersons after the videoconference that Karnataka’s appeal for increasing medical seats had been supported by Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao. Dr. Sudhakar also talked about shortage of liquid oxygen units due to high demand and sought the Centre’s assistance in setting up these units in the State. He said that testing facilities had been ramped up from the earlier 20,000 per day to nearly 50,000 now. The Minister said the State had realised the importance of medical oxygen in treating mild and moderately symptomatic patients. By way of quick execution, it had added 1,600 oxygen supported beds to the already existing 5,500 oxygen beds in Public Health Institutions. Another 5,000 beds would be available by the end of August. Totally, more than 20,000 oxygenated beds would be available by the end of September, he said. The Prime Minister suggested to the States work towards reducing mortality rate with respect to COVID-19 from the present 1.99% to below 1%. Pointing out that 80% of the country’s active cases are from the 10 States, including Karnataka, the Prime Minister told the representatives of these States that efficient combating measures would play a key role in the country’s efforts to prevent the spread of the pandemic.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Body of Talacauvery temple priest found||The body of his brother Anandatheertha was recovered on Saturday. The search team also recovered a few belongings suspected to be that of the family. Three still missing Efforts are on to trace three others who are still missing. Two daughters of Narayan Achar reached Madikeri on Monday. Meanwhile, rain across Kodagu was light and intermittent on Tuesday.
12 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Flood situation eases across districts||With rain subsiding and the inflow of water from the east decreasing, the flood situation in Alappuzha eased further on Tuesday. Although the situation has improved considerably in many parts of the district, parts of Kuttanad remained inundated. Officials said that water had started to recede in Kuttanad and normality would be achieved in the next couple of days. Bund breaches On Tuesday, outer bunds of more paddy polders were breached, submerging several houses and paddy in large tracts. So far, outer bunds of 35 paddy polders were breached, destroying paddy cultivation in 1,760 hectares. Paddy plants in another 2,455 hectares have been submerged due to overflowing of bunds. Several parts of the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) road continued to remain under water. The district administration has opened more relief camps and gruel centres in Kuttanad. A 25-member National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team has also been deployed in Kuttanad.  As of Tuesday evening, 7,691 people from 2,378 families were residing in 115 relief camps in the district. In Chengannur taluk, 2, 454 people from 718 families were staying in 51 relief camps. In Karthikappally taluk, 26 camps were opened for 3,491 people from 1,129 families. In Kuttanad, 19 camps were opened and camps were also opned in Mavelikara (10), Ambalappuzha (7) and Cherthala (2). Besides, 324 gruel centres, including 293 in Kuttanad, were opened in the district.
12 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha’s caseload continues to rise||COVID-19 cases continue to spike in the district with 146 people testing positive for the disease on Tuesday. In a worrying trend, 129 patients out of the total cases contracted the disease through local transmission. Eleven persons who came from other States and six who returned from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of the contact cases, 29 were reported from Pattanakkad, another 15 from Kadakarappally, 13 from Alappuzha and 10 from Cherthala South. Rest of the cases were from Panavally (8), Poochackal (6), Krishnapuram (6), Chettikulangara (5), Punnapra (5), Thumboli (5), Kannankara (4), Cherthala (3), Perumbalam (3), Aroor (3), Purakkad (2), Ambalappuzha (2) and one case each from Thrikkunnapuzha, Chettikkad, Eravukad, Nedumudi, Muhamma, Arookutty, Kodamthuruth, Pallipad and Vayalar. As the numbers show, Cherthala taluk remains the hotbed for locally transmitted cases. Meanwhile, 70 people who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 tested negative for the disease. They include 58 who contracted the disease through contact, seven who had come from foreign countries and five from other States. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 1, 174. A meeting chaired by District Collector A. Alexander here on Tuesday decided to allow home treatment for asymptomatic COVID-19 patients provided they have the requisite facility at their residence. The meeting also decided to open the Kayamkulam market from August 14 and allow fishing from August 13, both with restrictions. Containment zones Wards 11 and 12 in Thaikkattussery, wards 18 and 4 in Thanneermukkom, wards 5 and 19 in Aroor and ward 4 in Krishnapuram grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.
12 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||151-year-old church collapses in bund breach||A 151-year-old church at Pallathuruthy here collapsed following a bund breach on Tuesday morning. According to officials, St. Paul’s CSI Church under the Church of South India (CSI) was destroyed by gushing floodwaters after the outer bund of Chungam Karuveli paddy polder was breached. No one was injured in the incident. People shifted An outstation church of the CSI Christ Church, Alappuzha, it was built by Rev. W.J. Richardson in 1869. Around 30 families used to worship at the St. Paul’s CSI Church. As a precaution, people in the region were shifted to safer places before the bund collapsed in the early hours of Tuesday. Kuttanad has witnessed a series of bund breaches in recent days following torrential downpour and an increase in the inflow of floodwaters from the eastern side. It has inundated hundreds of houses, forcing several families to move to their relatives’ houses or relief camps. Besides, paddy cultivation in large tracts were destroyed. Although rain has subsided, the water level in rivers in the region remains high.
12 August 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Heavy rain leaves a trail of destruction in Wayanad||Torrential rain and strong winds that lashed Wayanad last week have left a trail of destruction in the district, a major spice, coffee, and plantain growing region in the State. Coupled with landslips, rains have adversely affected plantation crops such as ginger, black pepper, cardamom coffee, nutmeg, rubber and cocoa. According to preliminary reports of the Agriculture Department, the agriculture sector alone incurred a loss of Rs. 14.18 crore. The calamities affected as many as 2,730 farmers in the district, Sajimon K. Varghese, Principal Agriculture Officer, told The Hindu . Black pepper crop was severely hit, Mr. Sajimon said. “We fear that the high moisture content owing to the rain may trigger fungal diseases like quick wilt and soft wilt,” he added. “Torrential rains have washed off black pepper vines in many parts of the district. This will adversely affect pepper production in the coming season,” K. George, a farmer at Kottathara, said. Pepper production might fall 40% to 50% next season, he added. According to the reports, pepper farmers alone suffered a loss of Rs. 4.65 crore. ‘Nendran’ variety of plantain cultivated on 236.24 hectares was also destroyed. More than 5,90,600 plantains cultivated on 236.24 hectares were completely destroyed in the rain, Mr. Sajimon said. Ginger rhizomes cultivated on 195.7 hectares were destroyed in the rain. Apart from this, tubers cultivated on 104 hectares, cassava cultivated on 123 hectares, paddy on 142 hectares, and vegetable crops cultivated on 20 hectares were also destroyed. According to the Wayanad district administration, 1,209 houses were partially damaged and 42 houses were fully destroyed.
12 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||11 positive cases in Chellanam, 27 in West Kochi||After a brief respite, Chellanam has reported another spike in COVID-19 cases with 11 people from the area testing positive on Tuesday. The district recorded another COVID-19 death when a patient admitted at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, died of the disease on Tuesday morning. The deceased, a 75-year-old from Aluva, was referred to the MCH from the District Hospital at Aluva on July 25, after having developed pneumonia. The patient had diabetes as well as hypertension. Of the 133 people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday, 27 were from the West Kochi cluster, with 17 people from Fort Kochi and 10 people from Mattancherry being infected. Three health workers have tested positive – two from the District Hospital at Aluva and one from the Ernakulam General Hospital. Two persons from the Maldives who arrived for treatment at a private hospital here have tested positive. Aluva cluster The Aluva cluster continues to register sporadic cases with two people from the area testing positive on Tuesday. Other positive cases were reported from Ayavana, Vazhakulam, Vengola, Kothamangalam, Perumbavoor, Kottapady, Kumbalam, Eloor and Udayamperoor. Six people from Palarivattom have tested positive, besides others in Kadavanthra, Kaloor, Vyttila, Vennala, Edappally and Panampilly Nagar. Five people who arrived from outside the State have tested positive. On Tuesday, 70 people recovered and tested negative. Ten patients at the Government Medical College Hospital are in critical condition.
12 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Draft EIA needs relook: State||Kerala has asked the Centre to reconsider some of the key suggestions in the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) 2020 notification as its sweeping proposals had the “potential for considerable negative consequences” on environment protection and conservation. Opposing the suggestion to reduce the 30-day notice period for public hearing to 20, the State argued that public opinion should never be suppressed in a democracy. If the consultation period is reduced, tribal and local communities will find it difficult to voice their concerns through their representatives in a short span on time. The neglect of the voice of the people will endanger the social fabric and the values enshrined in the Constitution. Hence, the time for public consultation shall be retained as 30 days, the State argued. The draft suggests that prior environment clearance from the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority is required for the mining of minor minerals in projects of lease area between 5 ha and 100 ha. However, the State contended that prior environment clearance shall be made mandatory for all mining projects of area between 2 ha and 100 ha. For projects less than 2 ha, the responsibility of clearance shall be delegated to the District Environment Impact Assessment Authority (DEIAA) rather than the State authority, it suggested. Kerala was also critical of the draft recommendations, which failed to mention the role of the DEIAA in issuing environment clearance. The EIA 2006 notification states that applications for environment clearance for mining of minor minerals from projects of lease area up to 5 ha for individual leases and up to 25 ha for clusters will have to be dealt at the district level through the DEIAA and the District Environment Appraisal Committee (DEAC). The suggestions of the State, filed by Usha Tittus, Principal Secretary, Environment, also called for more dialogues with the stakeholders considering the pandemic situation prevailing in the country. It was on August 11, the last day for submitting the suggestions, that the State forwarded its proposals to the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change.
12 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kundannoor-Pettah road turns from bad to worse||With the condition of Kundannoor-Maradu-Pettah NH corridor turning from bad to worse, commuters, especially residents and traders on either side of the stretch are in a catch-22 situation. Faced with damage to vehicles due to the back-breaking ride through the ill-maintained NH stretch, many commuters travel additional distance and take a turn from Vyttila, to reach Pettah and back. Incessant rain has made even this tough, forcing many to use the potholed stretch. All through the past year, the PWD-NH wing was facing flak for shoddy upkeep of the busy stretch which is also used daily by thousands of container, tanker and national-permit lorries. The contractor to whom we entrusted the resurfacing work of the stretch has been attending to big potholes, and filling them using granular sub base (GSB). “We have been pressurising him to restore more potholes as soon as possible. Many trees on the stretch have already been axed to build drains and to earmark space for pedestrian movement. Resurfacing and other permanent restoration works like paving using concrete blocks can be done only after the rain takes a break,” said a senior PWD official. Just like the ongoing patch works done using GSB, rectification works done a month ago using wet-mix macadam (WMM) as part of a Rs. 17.73-crore road strengthening work too did not last long. Residents have all through been complaining of slow progress of repair works despite a noticeable fall in number of vehicles due to COVID-19 restrictions.
12 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||‘Aggressive testing to help contain spread’||The strategy to contain COVID-19 spread in the district would involve aggressive testing of symptomatic people and primary contacts of patients, since this approach had resulted in bringing down the number of positive cases in the Aluva and Keezhmad clusters where nearly all primary contacts were successfully traced, District Collector S. Suhas said at a briefing on Tuesday. The upward trend in the number of cases in the West Kochi cluster continued to remain a challenge due to the area’s population density and about 1,500 tests were being conducted there every week, said the Collector. Each primary contact of a patient from the area might have about seven or eight people living in the same house, possibly leading to a spread of the disease. While the situation in Chellanam had almost normalised in the past few days, a sudden spike recently called for caution and aggressive testing in Wards 7 and 8 of the panchayat, he said. The cluster containment strategy, which involves contact tracing, active case finding, setting up of a first-line treatment centre, intense testing and reverse quarantine, has been successful in Edathala, Kadungaloor and Choornikkara as well. About two weeks is the time period necessary to bring the situation under control in a cluster, which is considered to be contained if no locally transmitted case is reported for seven days. Another two weeks would be necessary to see a downward trend in the number of cases in the district, said Mr. Suhas. About 1,500 tests are being done daily at the government-level, while an additional 2,000 tests are conducted at private facilities. Antigen tests would be scaled up to about 5,000 tests per day, he added. A well-oiled system was in place to monitor and shift patients as well as track bed and ICU availability, said the Collector. A real-time ambulance map, that enables live tracking, is available, besides a database of all patients. About 79 COVID-19 patients are currently being treated at home through telemedicine facilities. Eight private hospitals were currently working with the district administration and 43 patients were being treated at private facilities, he said. At the Medical College Hospital, 224 patients have been admitted. A total of 10,149 beds have been set aside for COVID treatment.
12 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||International racket behind gold smuggling, Customs tells HC||The Customs on Tuesday informed the Kerala High Court that an international racket was involved in the gold smuggling through diplomatic baggage. The Customs made the submission when the bail petition of the three accused in the gold smuggling case came up for hearing. The Customs submitted that an international racket was behind the gold smuggling. The persons involved in the racket raised money for gold smuggling and get the money transferred to the Gulf countries through the hawala transactions and using the money they smuggle the gold into the country. The bail petitions were filed by T.M. Muhammed Anwar, M. Muhammed Abdu Shameem, and Jafsal, the ninth,13th, and 14th accused respectively in the case. The charge against them was that they had hatched a criminal conspiracy and abetted gold smuggling. The counsel for the Customs submitted that petitioners had admitted their role in a smuggling network that was carrying on activities of importing gold illegally by abusing diplomatic privileges and, therefore, the petitioners were a part of large network of individuals involving in economic offence. The Customs also submitted that a detailed investigation be conducted to identify as to whether more persons are involved in the smuggling of gold . There was also a high possibility of petitioners tampering with the evidences and influencing witnesses thereby weakening the investigation if they were released on bail, it said. The petitioners had contended their statements were recorded by Customs officials and the investigation was now completely over. No useful purpose would be served by detaining them further in the custody. Besides, they were not arraigned as accused in the case registered by the NIA. The court reserved its verdict on the bail petitions.
12 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||COVID curbs bring Rs. 72-cr. loss for CIAL||Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) registered a profit of Rs. 204.05 crore during 2019-20. The holding company, having 100 per cent shares in subsidiaries such as Cochin Duty Free and Retail Services Limited (CDRSL) registered a consolidated turnover of Rs. 810.08 crore. However, the company registered a loss of around Rs. 72 crore in the first quarter of 2020-21 “owing to the travel restrictions imposed globally due to the COVID-19 pandemic”. CIAL handled around 240 aircraft movements and 30,000 passengers daily during the pre-pandemic period which came down to 36 services and 2,300 passengers, triggering a huge fall in revenue and profit, the communication added. The first quarter of 2020-21 saw a loss of Rs. 72 crore against a revenue of Rs. 19 crore. A statement issued by CIAL in Kochi on Tuesday said that CIAL alone registered a turnover of Rs. 655.05 crore with a profit after tax of Rs. 204.05 crore during 2019-20.
12 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||State asserts its right over Cheruvally estate||The State government on Tuesday informed the Kerala High Court that it has title over the Cheruvally estates and the Ayana Charitable Trust (formerly known as Gospel for Asia), Thiruvalla, does not have any clear and undisputed title over the property. In an affidavit filed in the High Court, the government submitted that the property in Manimala village had not, at any point of time, been converted by the government or any other competent persons into a private holding. Besides, no authority, whatsoever, had found any semblance of title for the petitioners or their purported and alleged predecessors in interest over the property. The affidavit was filed in response to a writ petition by the Trust challenging the acquisition of the estate for the proposed Sabarimala airport. It submitted that that only a preliminary administrative sanction was granted to the Kottayam District Collector by the government for acquisition of property. While proceeding with the acquisition, empanelled Social Impact Assessment (SIA) Agencies will conduct Social Impact Assessment Study under Section 4(1) of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. The government added that on submission of the draft SIA report, a public hearing to ascertain the views of the affected families would be conducted.
12 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Artist wins U.S. foundation grant||Sidharthan, a city-based artist, has won the prestigious Pollock-Krasner Foundation grant of $15,000 (Rs. 11.18 lakh). “I am honoured to have won the grant. It’s given after a rigorous selection process,” said Sidharthan on Tuesday. The New York-based foundation provides financial aid for visual artists to create new work, prepare for exhibitions, attend a residency and offset living expenses.
12 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Stop all unaffiliated schools: HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the CBSE to do away with the practice of allowing students of unaffiliated schools to write examination through affiliated schools. The Bench comprising Justice A.M. Shaffique and Justice P. Gopinath asked the parents to ensure that the school in which their wards were studying had proper recognition and affiliation. The court directed the State government to ensure that no school should function without valid affiliation or recognition. The directives were passed on petitions filed by 28 students of Aroma’s Little Stars School, Moolamkuzhi, Kochi, seeking permission to write CBSE class X examination. By an interim order, the court had allowed these students to write the examination. T. Sanjay, counsel of the petitioners, informed that except one student all other students had passed the examination. S. Nirmal, counsel for CBSE, told the court that a public notice had already been issued alerting parents against getting admission in unaffiliated schools.
12 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Trawling set to resume||Trawling operations by Kerala-based boats are set to resume from midnight of Wednesday after a gap of 59 days with the government issuing orders on Tuesday permitting trawlers to set out even as the Indian Meteorological Department issued a warning of winds of the speed 50 to 60 km prevailing in the south-west and mid-west Arabian Sea between August 11 and 15. Fisheries Department sources said arrangements were being made to ensure that there was order both in the sea as well as at fish landing centres as the State grapples with the community spread of COVID-19 in coastal areas. Passes are being issued to fishing boats as only half the number of boats in the State will venture out each day. The boats will be allowed on the odd-even number basis of their registration, sources said. Around 3,600 trawl boats operate with their bases in Kerala from south to north. They employ around 55,000 people directly. Though the 52-day annual trawling ban ended on August 5, dangerous weather conditions in the outer sea had forced the government to ban fishing activities off the coast.
12 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Three-year jail for man||Abhilash, 32, of Thevalakkara resident, accused in the death of his wife Darshana, was sentenced to three years of rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 25,000 by the Additional Sessions Court here on Monday.
12 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||25 cases, 30 recoveries in Kollam||Twenty-five persons from the district, including three cases without any travel history or known source, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. While 21 patients contracted the virus through contact, a Neendakara resident had travelled from Saudi Arabia. Cases without any travel history have been reported from Thevalakkara, Chithara and Elamadu. One of them is a staff member of Police Academy, Thrissur. The district currently has 7,606 persons under observation and reported 30 recoveries on Tuesday.
12 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Water level in rivers in Kottayam falls||Even as floodwaters claimed one more life in the district on Tuesday, the overall situation in Kottayam improved considerably with the rain staying away. According to officials, a 63-year-old woman, identified as Margaret of Cheepungal, died after falling into a canal near her house in the morning. Water level in all major rivers, including the Meenachil, Manimalayar and Muvattupuzha, came down on the day. Functioning of all relief camps in Kanjirappally taluk were wound up. Traffic restored Traffic along several routes in the high ranges was restored during the day while the receding floodwater rendered several roads unmotorable. Preliminary estimates suggested that the district suffered an overall loss of Rs. 46.06 crore in the rain-related incidents. Two houses were destroyed while 107 houses were damaged. Crops, including paddy and vegetables, in over 20,000 hectares of land were destroyed. The district currently has 160 relief camps.
12 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Orthodox Church joins protest||Protests over the death of 41-year-old Mathai, allegedly under custody of the forest officials at Chittar, took a new turn on Tuesday with the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church (MOSC) upping the ante against the State government over the issue. Biju Oommen, secretary of the MOSC Association, said the role of the Forest Department in covering up the crime was all too evident.
12 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||24 new cases in Kottayam||Kottayam continued to record a relatively low number of fresh COVID-19 cases with only 24 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. At the same time, the local transmission in the COVID-19 clusters at Ettumanur, Athirampuzha, Changanassery and Paippad continued unabated, triggering concerns among the authorities. Of the fresh cases, all but a Pampady native who had returned from Tamil Nadu contracted the virus through local contact. Forty-eight persons were cured on the day. The district currently has 452 active cases.
12 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||15 COVID clusters in Kozhikode as 158 more test positive||The number of COVID clusters in Kozhikode district reached 15 on Tuesday even as 158 new cases of the infection and two deaths were reported from here. A 69-year-old woman from Pokkunnu in Kozhikode, and a 72-year-old man from Pukayur in Malappuram died at the Government Medical College Hospital here on Tuesday after testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Fifty-four of the new cases are from the city corporation limits alone, all through local transmission of the infection. An all-party meet has been scheduled at the Mayor’s chamber to review the present situation. According to a release, Kuttichira in Kozhikode Corporation has been newly added to the list of clusters. The other clusters are Valiyangadi, Vellayil, Meenchanda, Kallayi, Chekkiad, Olavanna, Chaliyam, Vadakara, Villiappally, Puthuppady, Thiruvalloor, Nadapuram, Eramala and Chorod. Five of these are within the corporation limits. The Health Department said that 123 of the new cases were through local transmission of the infection. The source of infection of six persons is not known. Mavoor (15) and Peruvayal (12) saw a spike in new cases. More migrant labourers are testing positive in the corporation limits as 20 more were added to the list on Tuesday. Curbs at market Meanwhile, the authorities decided to impose restrictions on Valiyangadi, the main market in Kozhikode city, from Thursday in view of the spread of COVID-19 there. Right now, there are 15 infected persons related to the market. Loading of goods from other States and their sale and despatch to other places would be done on alternate days from now. A cluster had been formed around the market and the effort would be to reduce the average presence of people such as merchants, traders, employees and lorry drivers and others from the current figure of 3,000 to 1,500. Retail sale would be banned. The market is functioning between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. now. In Malappuram Malappuram district recorded more than 200 COVID-19 cases consecutively for the second day on Tuesday. While the district had 255 cases on Monday, it registered 242 positive cases on Tuesday. COVID-19 claimed one more life in the district when an 82-year-old man from Perinthalmanna died at Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, on Tuesday. As many as 199 of the new cases, including four health workers, were infected through local contacts. The source of infection in 32 cases could not be traced. The district will be under a total lockdown on Sunday. Both District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan and District Police Chief U. Abdul Kareem went into quarantine after their interactions with people following a flight crash at Karipur on Friday night. Mr. Kareem’s gunman was tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. In Palakkad Palakkad district registered 141 cases on Tuesday. While 71 of them got the virus through local transmission, 11 cases came from other States and 15 from abroad. In Kasaragod As many as 147 more COVID-19 cases were reported in Kasaragod on Tuesday. Of these, 145 are local transmission cases. A total of 4,844 persons are under observation in the district. In Thrissur In the wake of the spurt in COVID-19 cases, the District Collector has declared nine divisions of the Wadakkanchery Municipality as critical containment zones. These divisions were containment zones earlier. Divisions 12 (Inchalodi); 15 (Wadakkanchery block area); 16 (Akamala); 18 (Mankara); 31 (Minalur centre); 33 (Amabalapuram ); 38 (Mundathikkode); 39 (Kottapparambu) and 40 (Kodassery) will be critical zones from Tuesday midnight. Many contact cases from Pattambi, Mankara and Minalur clusters were reported in Wadakkanchery. Traffic, except in the case of medical emergency, death, and weddings with prior permission, will not be allowed in these zones. Shops and business establishments will be open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. with just three workers. Courts will be closed temporarily. Banks, insurance and private financial institutions also will not function. Meanwhile, 32 cases of COVID-19 were reported in Thrissur on Tuesday. Of them, 28 were infected through contact. In Wayanad As many as 18 COVID-19 cases were reported in Wayanad district on Tuesday. All of them were infected through local transmission. District Collector Adeela Abdulla declared Pattanikoop Kavala and its surrounding one-km area in wards 17 and 18 of the Mullankolly grama panchayat as micro containment zone. In Kannur Thirty more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur. Among them, 21 persons contracted the disease through local transmission.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Palakkad, Kasaragod, Wayanad, Thrissur, and Kannur bureaus)
12 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||IUML, Cong. oppose it||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has urged the Centre to constitute a committee of experts chaired by a former Judge of the Supreme Court, with a mandate to incorporate the directions and judgments of various courts so as to strengthen the provisions of EIA notification of 2006. The IUML State leadership in a protest letter addressed to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change said the formation of the committee was a statutory requirement according to Section 3 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. Senior Congress leaders such as KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and former KPCC president V.M. Sudheeran have called for the scrapping of 2020 draft notification. They demanded a new set of legislations for protecting the environment. In a letter to the Prime Minister, Mr. Ramachandran pointed out that the new suggestions would spell doom for the fragile ecology of the State. Highlighting the public protests against the proposal, Mr. Chandy wanted effective legislations for protecting environment. Kerala was facing serious ecological crisis, including flooding and landslips. In a letter to the Union Environment Minister, Mr. Sudheeran feared that the move would lead to the destruction of environment.
12 August 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Ramees grilled in poaching case at Palakkad||K.T. Ramees, one of the key accused in the gold smuggling through diplomatic baggage case, was brought here on Tuesday in connection with a poaching case in the Walayar forest range. Ramees was wanted in connection with the killing of three sambar deer. The carcasses of three sambar deer hunted by Ramees were found at Kongat six years ago. Although eight persons had been arrested in connection with the poaching case, the main accused Ramees had evaded arrest. Ramees will be in the custody of the Forest Department till Wednesday. He was questioned at the Forest Divisional Office at Olavakode.
12 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||20 new cases in Pathanamthitta||Twenty persons, including an excise official, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 12 persons contracted the virus through local contact while six persons came from abroad. The remaining cases had returned from other States. The local contact cases included five persons from the Kumbazha cluster while the contact source of two cases were yet to be traced. Meanwhile, 30 persons who had recovered from the disease were discharged from various hospitals in the district. Pathanamthitta currently has 206 active cases and 7,618 persons under observation.
12 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta inches back to normalcy||Swollen rivers in Pathanamthitta began to recede on Tuesday with more parts of the district inching back to normalcy. There are 133 relief camps across six taluks in the district accommodating 6,785 people from 2,082 families. Earlier in the day, District Collector P.B. Noohu inspected the damaged portion of the Sabarimala road near Planthodu. The Collector was accompanied by experts from the NATPAC and the PWD (Roads) Division. Scientists from the Centre for Earth Science Studies are slated to examine the location the next day and will submit a detailed report.
12 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Spike in capital’s daily count, 297 test positive||The COVID-19 death toll in Thiruvananthapuram jumped to 22 while 297 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. As many as 498 persons recovered from the illness in the district, leaving the number of active cases at 3,026. Those who succumbed to the disease include an 80-year-old Vallakkadavu native who died August 1, a 52-year-old Vellanad native who died on August 3, and a 68-year-old Varkala native who died on August 8. Among the newly reported cases, 279 people contracted the infection through local transmission. Twelve health workers have also been infected. A 54-year-old health inspector from Peyad, who allegedly committed suicide by jumping into the Karamana river, was found to have been suffering from the disease. Another employee of the Directorate of Health Services, a clerk in the accounts section, tested positive on the day. Eleven people tested positive in Anjuthengu where COVID-19 testing resumed after a gap of two days. As many as 39 people were tested in Anjuthengu junction and Mambally. Three people also were diagnosed with the disease in the Kallikad grama panchayat where 92 people were tested. Cases were also reported from Poovachal (5), Vilappilsala, Kallara (2 each), and Plavoor (1). An Attingal native, who worked as a staff nurse in the Government Medical College Hospital, Parippally, also tested positive. Assembly staff positive Three more employees of the Legislative Assembly—two office attenders and a contract worker—tested positive, taking the total number of infected workers in the Assembly to nine.
12 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Health dept. asks districts to do more testing||The Health Department has asked all districts to increase COVID-19 testing so as to keep the test positivity rate or TPR (percentage of people who test positive amongst those tested) at less than 5%, preferably around 2%. The directive has been issued after perusing the State’s weekly COVID-19 report from August 1 to 7, which showed that districts such as Malappuram (10.3%), Kasaragod (10.1), Thiruvananthapuram (9.2), Ernakulam (8.3), and Alappuzha (6.1) have a high TPR. The TPR in other districts are Kollam (2.1%), Pathanamthitta (3.2), Kottayam (3.1), Idukki (2.1), Thrissur (3.9), Palakkad (3.8), Kozhikode (2.7), Wayanad (2.5), and Kannur (2.3). Adequacy of testing According to the Health Department, test positivity rate is an indicator recommended by experts to assess the adequacy of testing. The positivity rate goes up when the epidemic grows and testing lags behind. TPR thus captures the size of the epidemic and the scale of testing in a single number. WHO guidance A general guidance provided by the World Health Organization is that for a place to be confident about adequacy of testing, the test positivity should not exceed 10% and ideally should remain less than 5%. Test positivity rate for Kerala is 3.3%. The WHO also suggests that if the test positivity rate remains less than 5% for the past 14 days, the region is classified as having good testing. Kasaragod, Alappuzha, Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Wayanad, Kozhikode, Pathanamthitta, and Malappuram districts have been asked to focus on rigorous cluster contaminant strategies. All districts have been asked to identify clusters timely by daily mapping the cases and implementing containment strategies. Between August 1 and 7, Kerala reported 8,087 cases and 29 deaths. The number of COVID-19 tests done during this period was 1,67,798. The department directs that while testing has to be increased, it should be done in a planned manner by establishing systems for ensuring testing of all individuals with influenza like symptoms (ILI). The districts have been asked to engage with the private health sector to encourage more testing in private hospitals and utilising maximum capacity of RTPCR-based techniques such as TrueNat, GeneXpert. Antigen-based tests should be used judiciously in cluster containment zones for testing vulnerable individuals including the elderly, people with co-morbidity, pregnant and postnatal women, and children with severe malnutrition. The department also asked Alappuzha, Wayanad, and Kasaragod districts, where the bed occupancy in COVID first-line treatment centres has exceeded 70%, to monitor the situation and start more FLTCs as planned in stages II and III.
12 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Two Smart City projects take off||City Corporation Mayor K. Sreekumar on Tuesday laid the foundation stone for two key projects of Thiruvananthapuram Smart City project—a Multi-level Car Parking lot (MLCP) at Thampanoor and redevelopment of Ponnara Sreedhar Park. The parking lot is coming up at the Corporation’s own land opposite the Central Railway Station, which was used as a pay-and-park facility. The 50-cent plot was used primarily as a two-wheeler parking lot, as there is less space for manoeuvring four wheelers within the site. The parking data indicates that this place has a demand for two-wheeler parking (in eight to 12 hours slot) due to many government officials who arrive for work from nearby districts of Thiruvananthapuram. The five-storeyed parking facility will be spread over an area of 6,000 square metres, providing space for 22 cars and around 400 motorcycles, along with an electric vehicle charging system. The building will have 24X7 CCTV surveillance to detect and prevent any damage to vehicles. The entry and exit to the building will be controlled using boom barriers and an entry pass will be issued to the driver. Since the Corporation will be getting real-time data on the entry and exit of vehicles, revenue leakage can be avoided. The total cost of the project is estimated as Rs. 22.903 crore. The contract of the project has been awarded to Heather Construction. The tentative date of completion of the project is December 30, 2021. The redevelopment project for the Ponnara Park include plans for improvising the landscaped areas, shifting the existing statue to a higher pedestal, constructing a stage to conduct meetings, illumination works to improve the aesthetics of the park, and an art installation with fountain. The work has been awarded to State Agri Horticultural Development Cooperative Society at a cost of Rs. 1.1 crore. The work is expected to be complete by October 2020.
12 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State seeks action against toll collection||Kerala has urged the Centre to take serious action against the toll collecting agency of the Paliyekkara toll plaza in the Edappally-Mannuthy reach of National Highway 544 in the wake of the CBI registering a case against the company charging it with a financial fraud of Rs. 102.44 crore. He demanded that a criminal case be initiated against the agency for breach of contract. In a letter to Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways on Tuesday, G. Sudhakaran, Minister for Public Works, said that the activities of the toll collecting agency were against the provisions of the agreement to which the State was also a party. “So, the government of India should take serious action and also initiate a criminal case against it for breach of contract. I have discussed this issue with the Chief Minister of Kerala and he directed me to communicate this issue,” Mr. Sudhakaran said. The construction of the Mannuthy-Walayar reach including the “Kuthiran tunnel” had been stalled for more than one year. Unfortunately, the National Highway Authority of India officials and the contractor had failed to keep their word. The Minister said immediate steps should be taken to terminate the contract and legal action initiated against the company for breach of contract. The project for constructing the Kozhikode Bypass on National Highway 66 was awarded to the same company. It had executed an agreement with NHAI but failed to produce a financial document. Now the project has been stalled. “NHAI should take steps to cancel the agreement and re-tender the project”, the Minister said in the letter.
12 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Premier airport’s safety under scanner||Bird menace, obstacles on both ends of the approach path of runway, lack of basic strip, and inability to use the entire 3,398-metre runway of the State’s premier airport in Thiruvananthapuram for flight operations have come into limelight. The bird menace, primarily due to the dumping of waste along the NH-66 bypass, fish markets, and illegal slaughter houses thriving in the vicinity of the airport, is one of the biggest risks the pilots face while coming from the Kovalam side via Muttathara to land at the airport. “Constant vigil by the bird scarers and initiatives by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to keep the avian population away from runway and approach path have prevented major incidents so far,” a top AAI official told The Hindu . The inability to use the entire runway for flight operations is also a concern. The AAI was forced to reduce the runway of the international airport from 3,398 metres to 3,373 metres, as the State provided only 34 cents of land on the Vallakadavu side for creating the mandatory Runway End Safety Area (RESA). Troublesome chimney The coconut grove on the All Saints College-Veli stretch, the 31-metre high chimney of State-owned Travancore Titanium Products Ltd (TTP) on the approach path, heavy vehicle movement through the Ponnara bridge close to the approach of the runway on Vallakadavu side, all remain safety risks. The runway also lacks the 150-metre basic strip from the centre line on many stretches. The AAI have been securing licence for the State’s first international airport through ‘temporary exemption’ for non-compliance of International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) norms for years. The current aerodrome licence is valid till 2023. The district administration had identified a defunct school near Veli for relocating the fire station of the Kerala Fire and Rescue Services. The initiative came to an end when District Collector K. Vasuki was transferred and the AAI’s move to privatise the airport commenced. The safety risks in the airport was taken up by the pilots and the airlines with the airport authorities. This has also figured in the safety audit.
12 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fall in LLB seats in government colleges sparks concern||Law aspirants in the State are an anxious lot with the government slashing a significant number of LLB seats midway through the admission process, with the Bar Council of India (BCI) strictly enforcing its admission norms. With 240 seats at stake , the government is pursuing steps to retain them by seeking sanction for additional batches. Complying with the Rules of Legal Education framed by the BCI in 2009, the government brought down the number of three-year and integrated five-year LLB seats offered in the four government law colleges (in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur, and Kozhikode) from 400 to 240 and 320 to 240 respectively. The move to lower intake came to light when notifications recently issued by the Commissioner for Entrance Examinations for course allotment reflected the change. Notably, the course prospectus, released in March, listed the total number of seats as what had existed previously. At the same time, the number of five-year LLB seats in 19 private colleges has increased from 1,030 to 1,950. Under the norms, the size of each class must be restricted to 60 students. While the State universities had chosen to sidestep the rule for a decade, a BCI inspection held at Government Law College, Ernakulam, last year brought the issue to light. Subsequently, the BCI instructed the government to ensure that the rule was complied with, failing which the surplus seats would be considered invalid. Despite notifying the allotment process with the updated permissible intake, the Higher Education Department has commenced stocktaking in government law colleges. The details of existing intake, facilities and faculty have been sought from the principals. While certain quarters flagged the dearth of facilities to conduct an additional batch, senior academicians suggested the possibility of fixing separate class hours for the two batches to circumvent the problem. Considering that the colleges have an average of 15 faculty members, they will also be required to appoint a few teachers to meet the teacher-student ratio of 1:40. CM allays concerns Allaying concerns, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said the government had decided to commence additional batches. “By doing so, we will not just be able to prevent the loss of seats but increase the total intake,” Mr. Vijayan said, while briefing mediapersons.
12 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rs. 2,000 fine for not wearing mask||The police will impose a fine of Rs. 2,000 on citizens neglectful of wearing masks in public. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said law enforcers will prepare a “data bank” of violators to identify and fine second-time offenders. At a press briefing on Tuesday, Mr. Vijayan dismissed Opposition concern that his "over-reliance" on the law enforcement to implement the disease prevention etiquette would lead to police high-handedness and unfair targeting of financially distressed common folk. He said the police would rely more on consensus and persuasion to enforce the pandemic code. Law enforcers would work closely with residents’ associations, neighbourhood watch committees, traders’ organisations, elected local body officials, local volunteers, and health workers to ensure social compliance with the COVID-19 protocol and household quarantine. Authorities would impose containment zones based on feedback from the local population. The police would enlist the help of local opinion leaders to prompt people to wear masks, not to convene in large groups and observe the pandemic rules. The police have launched a massive community-education and awareness drive to alert the public to the dangers of virus transmission. Anti-fake news law Mr. Vijayan said the government would pass anti-fake news legislation to shield citizens from criminal defamation, online slander, harassment and incendiary propaganda, raising the question whether the proposed new law would threaten free speech and social and political satire. The Chief Minister said the government would not push such a law arbitrarily. He said the government would hold wide-ranging discussions and wait for a consensus to emerge before finalising the law. He said a recent conference of heads of media organisations had stressed the need for a harsher law to crack down on fake news, which seemed to be on an upward spiral. Inquiry on Mr. Vijayan revealed that a police inquiry was on into the allegation that some entities close to the political executive had orchestrated a torrent of offensive and provocative online posts that targeted two television journalists, including a woman. When pressed if his press secretary P.M. Manoj would come under the ambit of the probe, Mr. Vijayan said those who protest against online character assassination should not applaud similar attacks against others.  Police will rely more on consensus and persuasion to enforce the pandemic code.  Pinarayi Vijayan Chief Minister
12 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||More places on containment list||The district administration has declared Alummoodu ward in Neyyattinkara; Venpakal in Athiyannoor; Office Ward in Balaramapuram; Kizhakkepuram ward in Elakamon; Kannankara and Poovathumoola wards in Manamboor; Thokkad in Chemmaruthy; and Melariyodu ward in Maranalloor; as containment zones. Pattom, Kunnukuzhy (except Bund Colony), Jagathy, Venganoor, and Perunthanni wards; Mekkola and Puthusserymadam in Kollayil; and Alamukku, Pulinkode, Thattampara, Kattakada Market, and Poovachal ward in Poovachal; are no more containment zones.
12 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Aid for potters||The Backward Classes Development Department has invited applications from traditional potters for financial assistance. For application form and notification, visitbcdd.kerala.gov.in. September 10 is the last date for applying. For details, call 0484-2429130.
12 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Online classes to continue: CM||As the Centre is contemplating the possibility of a ‘zero academic year’, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has admitted that the prevailing scenario is not ripe for resuming the functioning of educational institutions in full swing. Online classes must continue under the existing circumstances, he said.
12 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Guidelines issued for conducting NEET||The Health Department has issued guidelines for conducting the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) scheduled for September 13 for admission to undergraduate medical courses. Students appearing for the examination from abroad and other States should remain in home or institutional quarantine for 14 days from the time of arrival in Kerala. Students who are under quarantine or come from containment zones must be allocated separate examination centres.
12 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chattambi Swamy award for Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has been selected for the 12th Chattambi Swamy Jayanthi award instituted by the Sri Chattambi Swamy Samskarika Samiti. The award comprising a purse of Rs. 25,000, plaque, and citation, will be presented to Mr.Chennithala at a function here on August 24.
12 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Nurses recruited by ODEPC leave for UAE||As many as 19 male nurses who were selected for recruitment in the United Arab Emirates left Kerala on Tuesday to take up their job with a health-care group in the emirates. The nurses were recruited by the Overseas Development and Employment Promotion Consultants (ODEPC) under the Labour Department. They were provided job visas and subjected to COVID test before leaving Kerala.
12 August 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Suicide bid by village officer: case against eight||The Ollur police on Tuesday registered a case against eight persons, including Puthur panchayat president Mini Unnikrishnan, in connection with the suicide attempt by the Puthur Village Officer. Puthur Village Officer C.N. Simi attempted suicide after a group of people led by the panchayat president gheraoed her for the alleged delay in giving certificates for the LIFE Mission project. Meanwhile, the State Women’s Commission has registered a case  suo motu in the issue and sought a report from the District Police Chief (City). The Kerala NGO Association demanded strict action against those who forced the village officer to take the extreme step. The District Mahila Congress demanded resignation of the panchayat president. It conducted protest marches and meetings. Meanwhile, the panchayat president alleged that the village officer had verbally abused her by calling her caste name.
12 August 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||744 shifted to relief camps in Thrissur||As many as 744 people have been shifted to 38 relief camps in Thrissur district following rain-related incidents. People from 224 families, including 292 women, 278 men and 174 children, are staying in camps at Thrissur, Kodungallur, Chalakudy, Mukundapuram and Chavakkad taluks. Sluice opened Meanwhile, one sluice gate of Peringalkuthu dam was opened on Tuesday after water level at the reservoir rose. People residing on the banks of the Chalakudy river have been asked to be vigilant.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Onam protocol||
12 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unlock 3: traders seek relaxations||Businessmen and leaders of trade unions from the city met Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy and urged him to prevail upon the district administration to relax the stringent COVID-19 Unlock 3 norms. Short duration of relaxation from the lockdown is resulting in crowding of places where essential items are being sold and this, according to Mr. Reddy, leads to spurt in COVID-19 positive cases. The MLA in a letter to the District Collector on Tuesday pointed out that other district headquarters towns in the State were allowing shops to remain open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and the same practice should be followed in Anantapur also. “Instead of ensuring physical distancing of people during this pandemic, the district administration’s measure to allow the movement of people only between 6 a.m. and 11 a.m. is having a negative impact. Moreover, Sundays the shops are totally out of bounds for the people, forcing them to scramble for essentials in the five hours the next day,” the MLA told The Hindu. “While the new town area of the city is relatively free from the restrictions, the same in the old town areas also must be eased and businessmen be allowed to keep their shops open,” he urged the district administration in the letter.
12 August 2020||ELAMANCHILI (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Upset over financial issues, priest ‘ends life’||A priest working in Sri Ksheera Ramalingeswara Swamy Devasthanam allegedly ended life by jumping into Godavari river at Chinchinada village on Monday. His body was traced late in the evening, the police said. The priest, Y. Pavan Kumar Sharma (25), was reportedly upset over the financial problems triggered by the pandemic. The body was handed over to his family members on Tuesday. A native of Bheemalapuram village in Achanta mandal, Pavan Kumar was working at Sri Ksheera Ramalingeswara Swamy temple, one of the Pancharama temples, in Palakol town. However, since the temple has been closed for the last five months due to high incidence of coronavirus cases, he reportedly committed suicide, his family members said. Those in distress can seek help by dialling 100.
12 August 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boy dies after playing PUBG game||A 16-year-old Intermediate student, who was reportedly addicted to PUBG game, died after playing the game continuously for many days. According to sources, the boy, a native of Jujjulakunta village in Dwaraka Tirumala mandal in West Godavari district, was allegedly addicted to online games. He was reportedly playing free games for the last few days. The victim, who was staying at home during the pandemic, was playing PUBG game for many days and reportedly did not have food and water. A few days ago, he fell sick and was suffering with severe dehydration. The family members rushed him to a private hospital in Eluru Town, where he tested COVID negative. However, the boy suffered from diarrhoea and died while undergoing treatment on Monday. Awareness programmes The Andhra Pradesh Crime Investigation Department (CID) police, in association with NGO, Cyber Peace Foundation and Cyber Crime Prevention against Women and Children, declared August as ‘Cyber Safe Month’, and are organising awareness programmes for the public, particularly for school and college going students and youth, on cyber crimes from August 1 to 31. Speaking to The Hindu , CID Superintendent of Police (SP-Cyber Crimes) G.R. Radhika said ‘cyber grooming’ was one type of trap used by cyber offenders to attract children and minors by offering free and online games.
12 August 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||DIG sees political angle in remarks of ‘tonsure’ victim||K.V. Mohan Rao, Deputy Inspector-General (DIG) of Police, Eluru Range, has said some political leaders are misguiding the youth on the ideology of Naxalites. He said that some local leaders were instigating the victim in the alleged ‘tonsure’ case, who purportedly said he wanted to join the naxalism, which was a crime. The victim, Vara Prasad, reportedly addressed a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind alleging injustice to him. He has sought the President’s permission to join the banned outfit. Speaking to the media here on Tuesday, the DIG said one Sub-Inspector of Police and two constables were booked under SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, and a picket was posted in the village. “The government responded promptly in the case,” the DIG said. Some leaders were trying to gain political mileage out the issue and instigating the public. Stern action would be taken against those who try to make unlawful statements and create a law and order problem, Mr. Mohan Rao warned. Ex-MP slams police Meanwhile, former MP G.V. Harsha Kumar criticised the police with regard to the case. “None of the senior police officials assured the victim of taking action against the accused. The victim did not even receive the compensation as promised by the State government.” The victim was also present at the news conference.
12 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Experts caution users against cyber attacks||“Be cautious while saving data on smartphone, including passwords, messages, call logs, pictures, videos, location, finance, contacts etc., as they can be misused by cyber stalkers,” said Janice Verghese, Cyberpeace Foundation communications manager. At a webinar, ‘Digit Shakti- Understanding Data and Digital Footprint’, organised as part of e-rakshabandhan by the foundation in collaboration with APCID, she talked about the many ways that the data stored on a device can be misused by cyber stalkers and also underlined the need for one to be aware about the various safety tools to secure the account against cyber attacks. Citing National Crime Records Bureau(NCRB) data, she said that 27,299 cyber crimes were committed during 2018 and most of them were against women, which included cyber stalking, obscene publications and violation of privacy. Additional Director General , CID, PV.Sunil Kumar said that people should make use of ``4S 4U,’’ portal to lodge any complaints of cyber crime. Around 1,200 viewers have participated in the webinar.
12 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Habitual offender arrested||The Guntur police arrested a habitual offender and recovered Rs. 21.50 lakh from the accused. Nayudu Tirupathiah, 24, who was out on bail after being accused of stealing Rs. 5.15 lakh from a house, allegedly stole another Rs. 15 lakh from the same house. Superintendent of Police, Guntur Rural, Vishal Gunni, said the theft was reported at the house of Kothapuram Namaiah at Islampet in Tenali. The accused, Tirupathaiah, was arrested in June but was out on bail after remand. After a month, the accused allegedly stole Rs. 15 lakh from the same house. The police after studying the modus operandi, arrested the accused, who reportedly confessed to the crime. The SP congratulated the DSP Srilatha and officers for cracking the case.
12 August 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Resident Welfare Associations unite to fight the pandemic||Residents of various apartments and gated communities have been coming together to help one another in tough times during this COVID-19 pandemic. Apart from taking precautionary measures at the apartment premises, residents are lending a helping hand to their neighbours affected by novel coronavirus by providing essentials and giving much required mental support. Many apartments have been maintaining strict rule of sanitisation of visitors during the entry. Apart from having logbook, apartments and gated communities are also taking thermometer readings. Checkpoint arranged After increase in the number of cases, residents of Dayal Nagar (near Kailasagiri) have approached GVMC officials as well as police and took permission to arrange a checkpoint at the entry of their colony. They also arranged barricades at all the entry/exit points. The residents themselves turned themselves as volunteers to man the checkpoint six hours per shift, round the clock “There are about 250 families living in here and many of them are elderly persons. So we wanted to make sure everyone is safe. We take temperature readings and note down the details of the visitors at the checkpoint. On Friday, we conducted tests to 40 elderly persons and all of them have resulted negative,” said Shanti Swaroop, a resident of Dayal Nagar. Like Dayal Nagar, since March, residents of Lansum Greens Gated community at Madhavadhara started to take precautions. On July 28, first case was reported and the tally is now 11. However, without panicking, the residents have been providing all help to the affected patients. “We residents have decided to take the responsibility to provide nutritious food and essential commodities to the patients till they recover. We are trying to instil confidence in them,” said S Krishna Murthy, secretary of Lansum Greens Gated Community Association, Madhavadhara. Online discussions Mr. Murthy said that in their gated community, they have a club house where there is adequate space. They are ready to allot it for isolation ward for the treatment of critical patients (gated community residents), if the government comes forward, he added. AP Federation of Resident Welfare Association (APFERWA) vice-president K.S.R. Murthy said that since March, the RWAs have been sharing all information and conducting discussions online regarding the COVID-19, dos and dont’s, and sanitisation for visitors during the pandemic as safety measure. “All the RWAs are in contact with the civic body and sanitising their areas time to time. Apart from sharing knowledge, the RWAs have come together to help the affected residents,” he said.
12 August 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||19 inmates in Kadapa prison test positive||Nineteen prisoners housed at the Kadapa Central Jail tested positive for COVID-19 in a random testing drive that was conducted at the prison last week. Taking cognisance of the development, Deputy Inspector-General (Prisons) M. Varaprasad got the jail compound thoroughly sanitised. Jail authorities have identified a separate building and converted it into a quarantine centre. As all the positive patients are asymptomatic cases, and keeping in view the logistical inconveniences in shifting them to the State-run COVID hospital or a similar medical facility, it was decided to quarantine them on the jail premises. “The nutritious menu identified under the COVID protocol containing a wholesome meal, milk and dry fruits, is being served to the inmates. We have a doctor also on the compound to take care of medical emergencies,” Dr. Varaprasad told The Hindu . Andhra Pradesh has a lower infection rate as well as low mortality rate among prisoners. Only three prisoners have succumbed to COVID-19 so far, one each in Visakhapatnam, Rajamahendravaram and Nellore central prisons, officials said. Testing for all soon Dr. Varaprasad announced that all 700 inmates will soon be tested for COVID-19. “This is an open jail and some of the prisoners work at petrol filling stations, thus coming into contact with outsiders. We have to ensure that everything is in order on our side,” he said. Some inmates requiring dialysis are being taken to facilities outside the compound, who can get infected in the process of treatment. Meanwhile, Kadapa district registered 579 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the total positive cases to 14,640. Of the 8,955 persons discharged from hospitals so far, 874 persons were discharged on Tuesday alone.
12 August 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-Minister Khaleel Basha no more||Former Minister and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader S.A. Khaleel Basha died in Hyderabad on Tuesday. Khaleel Basha was suffering from an ailment for some time and was getting treated at a private hospital after reportedly testing positive for COVID-19, where he passed away.
12 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nurse procures 300 test kits with forged papers||A Male Nurse Orderly (MNO) working at the Government General Hospital (GGH-Kakinada) has allegedly procured 300 Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits by submitting forged documents to the office of the District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) on Monday. The incident came to light on Tuesday after district medical officials lodged a complaint with the police following an internal inquiry. The MNO, identified as Sheik Basha, allegedly collected the 300 RAT kits from the DMHO office by submitting a document bearing a forged signature of the GGH-Kakinada Resident Medical Officer (RMO). “On Monday itself, we verified the document submitted by Mr. Basha to collect the kits and found that the RMO’s signature was forged. Mr. Basha had also used the RMO’s official stamp which was stamped on the document to establish the authenticity of the document,” DMHO B. Subramanyeswari told The Hindu . “We came to know about the incident during an internal investigation after another GGH-Kakinada staffer visited our office to collect the 300 RAT kits by producing an original copy of the indent letter on the same day,” said Dr. Subramanyeswari. GGH-K Superintendent M. Raghavendra Rao said Mr. Basha was suspended from duty a few days ago on charges of stealing some RAT kits from the hospital. “A complaint has been lodged with the police on Tuesday,” he said. Kakinada DSP (Law and Order) V. Bhima Rao said that a written complaint has been received from the DMHO office on Tuesday evening and that an investigation has been launched. A cheating case has been registered at the III-Town police station, he said.
12 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Policeman risks life to save youth||A head constable named G. Prabhakara Rao jumped into the Gowthami to save a youth at Jonnada village in East Godavari district on Tuesday. Erra Ramesh (25) slipped and fell into the river while standing on a bridge. Some truck drivers had thrown a long rope into the water for him to hold on to, but he was on the verge of drowning. Without hesitation, Mr. Prabhakara Rao jumped into the waters, grabbed the rope and swam towards the youth. The truck drivers standing atop the bridge steadfastly held on to the rope while Mr. Prabhakara Rao pulled the youth ashore.
12 August 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||12 more deaths take toll to 234 in south-coastal A.P.||Twelve more people — seven in Prakasam district and five in Nellore district — succumbed to coronavirus while 707 persons tested positive for the pandemic in the last 24 hours. With this, the death toll rose to 129 in Prakasam district and 105 in Nellore district,, a health bulletin released by the State Government said on Tuesday night. Relentless rise The pandemic curve showed no signs of flattening in the two districts, officials said, as the total number of positive cases rose to 14,614 in Nellore district and 9,328 in Prakasam district. On the bright side, 969 patients — 707 in Nellore district and 262 in Prakasam — were cured and discharged from hospitals which were filled to capacity. With this, the number of active cases came down to 6,838 in Nellore and 3,396 in Prakasam district. The Prakasam district administration announced a lockdown in Ongole for two weeks from Wednesday in the wake of a steep increase in COVID deaths and new cases, Collector P. Bhaskar said. A ‘stay-at-home’ order would be strictly implemented from Wednesday as the disease spread across the city, he said, adding that people would be allowed to step out of their homes only for three hours till 9 a.m. to purchase essential commodities. Ongole recorded the highest number of 72 new cases in Prakasam district in the last 24 hours. The fresh cases came from Jarugumalli (15), Kanigiri (11), K.K.Mitla (10), Cumbum (8), Muppavaram (7), K.V. Palem (5) and Chandavaram (5).
12 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ten arrested in sanitiser deaths case||The Prakasam police on Tuesday arrested 10 persons, including five from Hyderabad, in connection with the illegal manufacture and sale of sanitiser which left 16 persons dead after they consumed it mixing with soft drinks and water, in the COVID-19 hotspot of Kurichedu in Prakasam district. “The arrested have been booked under, among other sections, the Section 27 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act which provide for imprisonment of not less than five years and may extend to life imprisonment,” said Enforcement Director Vineet Brijlal, under whose supervision the Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by Prakasam SP Siddarth Kaushal probing into case. Investigation revealed that the brew containing poisonous methanol, which is meant for industrial use, was produced by a small-time manufacturer Jajulu alias ‘Sale Srinivas’ from Jedimetla in Hyderabad. “Jajulu worked in a petrol filling station. He started manufacturing sanitiser after seeing a video clip on the social media, without obtaining licence for it. He wanted to make a quick buck cashing in on the huge demand for sanitiser in the wake of the pandemic,” the SP said. Raids intensified Raids are being intensified by Joint teams of the Special Enforcement Bureau, Excise and Drugs Control administration to unearth the manufacturers and distributors of illegally made sanitiser in the State, the Enforcement Director said. As many as 551 vulnerable persons have been identified from 689 places in the State till date and counselled on the ill-effects of consuming sanitiser by organising more than 2,000 awareness meets and 9,654 excise offenders have been bound over. Eight brands identified The SP said that the SIT zeroed in on eight brands which the deceased had allegedly consumed after collecting 69 bottles of sanitiser from different places. A detailed probe being conducted in the neighbouring State led to the arrest of five persons who have been identified as ‘Sale Srinivas', Siva Kumar, Keshav Agarwal, Md. Dawood and Md Hazi. They are facing the charges of manufacturing sanitiser without obtaining valid licence. The SIT led by Markapur Officer on Special Duty K. Chowdeswari also arrested five shop owners —T. Sudhakar Rao, Devahi Phani, K. Ramesh, K. Subba Rao and T. Surendra Kumar—from Kurichedu on charge of selling the illegally made sanitiser for consumption as a substitute for liquor. The police have also seized among other things 600 bottles of sanitiser, drums filled with chemicals including methanol.
12 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sign up for Prime Minister’s crop insurance scheme, Tomar urges ryots||Union Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday underscored the need for small farmers organising themselves into Farmers Producers Organisations (FPOs) to get better return for their produce. Laying remotely from New Delhi the foundation stone of the administrative buildings of Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) at Kandukur in Prakasam district, he said that small farmers can benefit from the vast network of KVKs at the district-level under the Rs. 1 lakh crore Agricultural Infrastructure Fund launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the creation of 10,000 FPOs. Speaking on the importance of crop insurance, Mr. Tomar lamented that despite the hard work of farmers, scientists and agriculture departments for enhancing farm production and income, farmers suffer losses due to natural disasters and sometimes lose their entire investment as well. This is why the Prime Minister’s improved crop insurance scheme to compensate for farmers’ losses was launched, he said. More than Rs. 13,000 crore had been paid as premium on behalf of farmers, who had received Rs. 58,000 crore towards settlement of their claims. More farmers should take advantage of the insurance scheme, he said. He stressed the need for farmers getting the full benefits of agricultural technology. Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Chaudhary expressed confidence that the additional KVKs would make an important contribution in transferring modern knowledge of agriculture to farmers.
12 August 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Hospitals fleecing COVID patients’||Despite tall claims being made by the government on providing better treatment to the COVID-19 patients in the State, some private doctors are fleecing those who tested positive by collecting huge amounts from them, according to CPI (M) State secretariat member Ch. Babu Rao. “The incident at Swarna Palace is an evidence on how the hotels and hospitals got colluded and are collecting huge amounts on the pretext of COVID-19 treatment,” said Mr. Babu Rao. The CPI (M) leader, who visited the spot, blamed the district administration and the government for the fire accident in which ten patients were killed and 20 others injured in the early hours of August 9. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Babu Rao said the government issued GO.77 bringing COVID treatment under the Arogyasri. But, no hospital, registered under it, was providing treatment to the patients free of cost. "Pathetic situation prevails in COVID Hospitals in Visakhapatnam, Tirupati, Kakinada, Rajamahendravaram and other hospitals and care centres in AP," he alleged. “There is no security and safety in private COVID quarantine centres in the State. Some hospitals are collecting Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 75,000 and above (depending on the condition of the patient) from COVID patients. Officials are giving permission to the quarantine centres within few hours without verifying safety measures,” Mr. Babu Rao alleged. Visit of teams Meanwhile, the teams which visited the COVID hospitals and private quarantine centres across the State in the last two days after the blaze in Ramesh Hospital COVID care centre, observed that many hospitals and quarantine centres sans fire and other safety measures. “In Krishna district, there is no fire NOC in many hospitals. There are no fire and smoke detectors, ladders, water sumps, hose reels and other equipment in emergency,” said an officer, who is probing the fire accident case. “I got discharged from a private quarantine centre. The hospital staff gave two glasses of milk mixed with pepper, two glasses of ginger juice with jaggery, four boiled eggs, vitamin-C tablets, a cup of dry fruits and hot water every day. Doctor visited twice a day, examined patients and conducted a few tests. The hospital management collected Rs. 30,000 per day,” said a patient who recovered and was discharged from a quarantine centre recently.
12 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suryaprakash Rao switches loyalty to YSRCP||On the day when Somu Veeraju took over as the BJP State president, the party’s Srikakulam cadre received a jolt as senior leader Rokkam Suryaprakasha Rao joined the YSR Congress Party in Amaravati on Tuesday. Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishnadas, Minister for Fisheries and Dairy Development Sidiri Appala Raju and other YSRCP senior leaders welcomed into into the party fold. Mr. Surya Prakasha Rao, who contested election from Etcherla on the BJP ticket, switched loyalty to the YSRCP, reportedly after an assurance from the party high command. Mr. Suryaprakash Rao, who led an agitation demanding BC status for the Telaga community, said that the YSRCP alone would be able to do justice to all sections of the society. In a statement, Mr. Krishnadas hailed Mr. Suryaprakash Rao joining the party and hoped that more leaders from other parties would follow the suit.
12 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID care centres under govt. scanner||Hospitals and COVID care centres working from the premises of affiliated luxury hotels are now under the scanner of the State Government, both for their exorbitant tariff as well as compliance with norms. Though the government had fixed a standard tariff for treatment of COVID-19, the packages vary due to ‘special facilities’. There are ten private hospitals offering treatment for COVID-19 in Tirupati, six of them enrolled under Aarogyasri. The cost of treatment falls under various slabs, depending on the infrastructure facilities. COVID-19 cases are categorised as mild, moderate and critical, where charges are levied accordingly, ranging from Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 75,000 a day. The hospitals have, in fact, brought out brochures to highlight their special facilities. Some of the ‘special’ facilities offered include 24x7 nursing care and supervision by doctors and consultation by ‘specialist doctors’. Even availability of oxygen and ambulances are touted as ‘exclusive facilities’. Skyhigh prices After the exorbitant rates charged by a couple of hospitals came to light a couple of days ago, government authorities have turned their focus on the entire private medical setup. Chittoor Collector Bharat Narayana Gupta announced the formation of a nodal officer system to closely monitor the pricing mechanism. “It has come to our notice that certain hospitals are exorbitantly charging patients. Hence, we have appointed a nodal officer for every hospital. Such an inclination during a time of crisis will not be tolerated and we will initiate stern action against such hospitals,” Dr. Gupta said. Though doctors have the final say in identifying the seriousness of every case, they will continue to do the same, under the eye of officers appointed to check unfair practices, officials said.
12 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||127 cured in Tirupati||Forty-seven persons were discharged from the State COVID Hospital functioning at the SVIMS campus here on Tuesday. Of them, 40 are from Chittoor district, six from Kadapa and one from Anantapur district. Seventeen of them are women, who have fully recovered, according to SVIMS in-charge Director M. Hanumantha Rao. As many as 329 patients are still undergoing treatment at the hospital. Similarly,80 persons were discharged from the District COVID Hospital at Ruia compound here on Tuesday. They tested negative after undergoing treatment.
12 August 2020||TIRUVUR (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman gives birth on roadside||A woman delivered a baby on the road in the town on Tuesday, with the help of ANM and ASHA workers. Locals said the woman, residing in Ward No. 17 in the town, developed labour pains. The neighbours called for an ambulance but she delivered a male child on the road before she could be taken to hospital. Both the mother and the infant are safe, and the infant weighed 2.5 kg. They were shifted to hospital, the villagers said. Tiuvuru Child Development Project Officer (CDPO) G. Satyavathi said the woman, a native of Nuzvid, came to her sister’s house on Monday, and developed labour pains before the due date.
12 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tally inching towards 2.5 lakh-mark in State||The State’s COVID tally has inched close to the 2.5 lakh-mark with 9,024 new infections and 87 new deaths reported in the past 24 hours. According to the Health department's bulletin, as of Tuesday morning, the tally stood at 2,44,549 and the death toll was at 2,203. The number of recoveries crossed the 1.5 lakh-mark to reach 1,54,749 including the 9,113 recoveries, the number higher than the new infections, during the past day. There are 87,597 infected persons undergoing treatment at present and the recovery rate has further moved up to 63.28% while the death rate continues to be less than 1% at 0.90%. Testing capacity The State has so far tested 25,92, 619 samples and the positivity rate of these tests has increased to 9.54%. During the past day, 58,315 samples were tested and 15.47% of them came out positive. The death toll of Anantapur and Chittoor districts are inching towards the 200-mark as they reported 13 and 12 new deaths respectively. They are followed by Guntur with nine deaths, Visakhapatnam and Prakasam with seven each, West Godavari, Kadapa and Srikakulam with six each, East Godavari, Vizianagaram and Nellore with five each and Kurnool and Krishna with three each new deaths. Kurnool (254), Guntur (242), East Godavari (233) and Krishna (215) have seen more than 200 deaths while seven districts witnessed more than 100 and less than 200 deaths so far. Only Vizianagaram and Kadapa have less than 100 deaths. Surge in E.G.. Kurnool continues East Godavari and Kurnool continue to reported a huge number of cases as they saw 1,372 and 1,138 new infections respectively. They are followed by Anantapur which reported 959 new infections. They are followed by Chittoor (758), Guntur (717), West Godavari (678), Visakhapatnam (676), Vizianagaram (594), Kadapa (579), Srikakulam (504), Nellore (364), Prakasam (343) and Krishna (342). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (34,310), Kurnool (29,452), Anantapur (25,697), Guntur (23,056), Visakhapatnam (20,789), West Godavari (19,547), Chittoor (18,334), Kadapa (14,455), Nellore (14,095), Srikakulam (11,837), Krishna (10,780), Vizianagaram (9,974) and Prakasam (9,328).
12 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. plans energy cells in every department||The State government proposes to set up Energy Conservation Cells in every department to promote energy conservation and efficiency. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney has taken a decision to this effect and orders will be issued soon. The ‘conservation and efficiency’ push is expected to bring substantial rewards, including industrial and economic development. More importantly, efficient use of energy will benefit the end-user in the form of reduced electricity bills. According to the estimates of the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) and the Andhra Pradesh State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM), there is scope to save about 25% of energy (16000 MU) against the State’s annual energy requirement of about 64,000 MU. ‘Cost effective’ Discussing the issue with the Energy Department officials, the Chief Secretary and the Chairman of APSECM Ms. Sawhney said the ultimate objective of the Chief Minister was to achieve cost-effective power in the State through best practices in the power sector. The Energy Conservation Cells will encourage efficient use of energy, thus reducing energy consumption which in turn will reduce economic burden among the departments. ‘Bridges demand-supply gap’ “Besides government institutions and local bodies, even the common consumer will benefit from this. It is also the easiest way to bridge the gap between the demand and the supply of energy,” said Ms. Sawhney. She has directed all heads of the departments (HoDs) and District Collectors to create energy conservation (EC) cells in all the 87 head offices of the State Government, district level offices, corporations and offices of various societies in the State. The Energy Conservation Cell will act as a nodal agency to coordinate with the APSECM for effective implementation of energy conservation and energy efficiency measures. These cells will be constituted within a month of the release of the government order. Secretary for Energy Srikant Nagulapalli said the EC cells would help to promote an energy-conscious culture in the State. “We are seeking technological development and technology transfer for enhancement of energy efficiency in the areas of municipal, agricultural, industrial and other key sectors that will enhance energy security, promote industrial and economic development of the State apart from environmental benefits,” he said.
12 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM urges Centre to lift embargo on Rayalaseema lift scheme||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has urged the Union government to lift the embargo imposed on the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) and facilitate Andhra Pradesh to go ahead with the project. In a letter to Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Tuesday, Mr. Jagan said that the embargo on the RLIS did not appear to fit with any of the schemes of the Reorganisation Act and the advantages being reaped by Telangana without submitting itself to any scrutiny under the Act. Andhra Pradesh was neither creating any new ayacut nor any new canal or new storage under the lift scheme but taking up this supplementing scheme to only draw water at a level of 800 feet connecting to the existing canal to meet the drinking and irrigation needs of the critically and chronically drought-prone areas of Rayalaseema, Nellore and Prakasam districts well within its allocation, as Pothireddypadu Head Regulator could not draw any water below the reservoir level of 854 ft, he said. New schemes of TS Telangana was constructing four new irrigation schemes having withdrawal capacity of about 3 tmcft /day at a sill level of 800 feet to utilise about 200 tmcft from the foreshore of the Srisailam Reservoir. Besides these projects, there was a facility for power generation on the left side of the Srisailam Reservoir from a level of 796 feet itself with a discharge capacity of 42,000 cusecs on the Telangana side, which they often operated unilaterally ignoring the directions of the KRMB depriving Rayalaseema, Nellore and Prakasam districts of both the drinking and irrigation needs. Pothireddypadu head regulator on the Srisailam Reservoir was not a separate project, but would only facilitate supplying of water to KC Canal, SRBC, TGP, GNSS besides drinking water to Chennai city. Clearances given The RLIS was seen by a committee constituted by the NGT Chennai Bench and the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests, and in their view this was not a new project or any upgradation with additional dimensions. The clearance was given in their meeting on July 29. Both the KRMB and the Apex Council would deem fit to step in only when a project fulfilled elements of a new project. ‘No direction to TS’ “While restraining A.P. from undertaking the RLIS with no similar direction to Telangana in the past would result in an irreparable damage to A.P.’s interest. Hon’le Chairman, Apex Council may reconsider this,” he said. “My appeal to your good self would be to lift the embargo and facilitate us to go ahead with all preliminary steps,” he added.
12 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trial run on Kanakadurga flyover likely on August 20||The long-pending Kanakadurga Flyover project has finally taken a shape and is getting ready for a trial run soon. District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz said that the trial run on one side of the flyover would likely be conducted on August 20 and the other side will be ready for a trial run by the month-end. Inspecting the flyover on Tuesday with other officials, Mr. Imtiaz said that most of the works on the flyover have been completed and those that are pending would be completed in two weeks. He said only works related to wear coating for the road and the bridge, extension joints and central lighting are completed recently on the 2.3-kilometer long six-lane flyover. The flyover, that begins at the Kummaripalem Junction and ends at Rajiv Gandhi Park, is part of the road stretch that joins National Highway 65 and 16.
12 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP needs to shed junior player tag in State: Madhav||Bharatiya Janata Party national general secretary Ram Madhav has exhorted the State unit to help the party shed the ‘junior player’ tag in the political landscape of Andhra Pradesh to emerge as a dominant force. In the same breath, he said that coming to power in A.P. would not be a cakewalk unless the State leadership stopped solely banking on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and alliance with other political parties. Mr. Madhav was addressing the party cadres after Somu Veerraju, who took charge as the BJP State president here on Tuesday, asserted that the BJP-Jana Sena Party combine would romp home in the 2024 elections. Mr. Madhav, however, did not elaborate whether the BJP would form a pre-poll alliance with the JSP as stated by Mr. Veerraju. “Neither the YSRCP nor the TDP is rival to us,” he said. The BJP national general secretary said that strengthening the party to help it grow as a dominant political force in the State was the immediate task at hand. “Stop firing off the shoulders of Mr. Narendra Modi. Of course, we can reap the benefits of the development brought in under his leadership. But, it will help to some extent,” said Mr. Madhav. ‘A friendly critic’ The BJP State leadership needs to focus on the issues concerning the people and the State. “Fight against the misgovernance in a democratic way,” he asked the party cadres. Mr. Madhav said, “We have to play the role of a constructive opposition and a friendly critic. Otherwise, victory in 2024 will turn out to be a mere slogan.” Capital issue Referring to the shifting of capital, he said the Centre had filed an affidavit in the court, explaining about its ‘limited role’ in deciding the State capital. “However, it doesn’t mean that none can question the rationale behind the three-capital decision. No State in this country has three capitals. Uttar Pradesh which has a population four times of Andhra Pradesh has only one capital,” he pointed out. The Centre did not interfere when the then government decided to set up the capital at Amaravati. Neither did it intervene when the Secretariat operated out of a bus and rented buildings. In the aftermath of bifurcation, the Centre had suggested that the government could function from from Hyderabad for 5 or 10 years till the new capital was built. “I am not going into the details why he rushed to Vijayawada from Hyderabad,” said Mr. Madhav, in an oblique reference to TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu and the cash-for-vote case.  Neither the YSRCP nor the TDP is rival to us. Party cadres must fight against the misgovernance in a democratic way. Ram Madhav, BJP national general secretary
12 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||False cases being slapped on TDP sympathisers, says Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has demanded that immediate relief be provided to party activist M. Rakesh Chowdary, claiming that he was ‘unlawfully’ arrested over a ‘false complaint’. In a letter addressed to DGP D Gautam Sawang on Tuesday, Mr. Naidu alleged that some police personnel, in collusion with YSRCP leaders, were targeting TDP leaders and commoners over social media posts, and demanded that stringent action must be taken against them. ‘Disturbing pattern’ “A disturbing pattern has emerged wherein false cases are being foisted on TDP supporters and sympathizers for no valid reason. At the same time, the officials are ignoring the indecent and abusive posts being uploaded by the YSRCP supporters,” he pointed out. The TDP chief further said that the latest victim of this pattern was Rakesh Chowdary, a 28-year-old man from Mamidimanugadda in Chandragiri mandal of Chittoor district. “False case was foisted on him acting on a complaint filed by his neighbours with regard to a civil dispute that is already pending in the court. The arrest was premeditated and complaints have been fabricated to put Mr. Rakesh behind the bars. Swift action is needed to rebuild the confidence of people on the police,” he added.
12 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New industrial policy has given vital issues a miss: Yanamala||TDP politburo member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has said that the new industrial policy announced by the government was “not reassuring” to revive the ailing and crisis-hit sectors in the State. In a statement on Tuesday, he said the government had not addressed many important issues in the new policy. Credit rating “The falling credit rating of the State will affect the flow of investment. The brand image of A.P. as an investment destination has been damaged beyond repair. Many industries have been badly hit in the last 14 months. The new policy has brought no hope of generating employment,” he said. The former Finance Minister said that the government had failed to instil confidence even as its policies till now had crippled the construction, manufacturing, real estate, pharma and other major contributors to economy. “In just 14 months, industrial growth has come down to -2.2 %. The industrial sector has almost collapsed,” he claimed. Growth in the construction sector was -1.1%, trade and hotels -0.7%, real estate -0.3% and tertiary sector -1.0%. This regressive growth would aggravate further due slowdown triggered by the pandemic. Millions of workers have lost their jobs and a substantial people are working for half salary, he claimed.
12 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan to launch YSR Cheyutha today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch YSR Cheyutha scheme, deemed as a game-changer and a big push to the cause of women empowerment, on Wednesday. Commissioner of Information & Public Relations and Ex Officio Secretary T. Vijay Kumar Reddy, in a statement on Tuesday, said the scheme would directly benefit around 23 lakh women belonging to the SC, ST, BC and Minority communities in the age group of 45-60 years. Mr. Vijay Kumar Reddy said each beneficiary would be directly paid a total amount of Rs. 75,000 in four years at the rate of Rs. 18,750 per annum. The government would thus spend an amount of Rs. 17,000 crore on the scheme, he added. “The scheme is unique in the sense that it gives freedom to women to use the amount deposited in their unencumbered accounts for any purpose of their choice. Women who invest the amount disbursed under the scheme for setting up business units as suggested by the government will be given marketing and technical support, apart from them becoming eligible for bank loans,” he explained. MoUs signed Meanwhile, the government has already signed Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) with many multinational companies such as AMUL, ITC, HUL, P&G, Reliance and banks to realise the ultimate goal of women empowerment. Mr. Vijay Kumar Reddy said that around eight lakh widows and single women in the age group of 45-60 years, who are already receiving monthly social security pensions, would reap additional benefit of YSR Cheyutha scheme. The annual amount received by the women eligible for pension is Rs. 27,000 at the rate of Rs. 2,250 per month. In addition to this, they would receive Rs. 18,750 per annum under the YSR Cheyutha. The total amount comes to Rs. 45,750 per annum, he said.
12 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Somu takes charge as party State president||Somu Veerraju took charge as the BJP State president here a programme here on Tuesday. Speaking on the occasion, he exuded confidence that the BJP-JSP combine would form the government in 2024. ‘Appropriate alternative’ Describing the YSRCP and the TDP as the family-centric parties, Mr. Veerraju said that the BJP was the ‘appropriate alternative’ for the people now. “Ours is a national party, not a family-centric one. The BJP alone can fill the political vacuum in the State. We have a strong agenda keeping the nation in mind,” he said. Stating that his top priority would be to help the party come to power in Andhra Pradesh and utilise the human resources for the development of the State, he said the BJP has the responsibility to develop the State and it will ensure that the fruits of development reach the common man. Considering the political circumstances in the State, the BJP will proceed with a mission and fill the political vacuum, he added. Party in-charge for A.P. affairs Sunil Deodhar, D. Purandeswari, MLC P.V.N. Madhav were present on the occasion.
12 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Apollo diagnostics wing empanelled to Central scheme for COVID testing||The National Reference Laboratory of Apollo Diagnostics, the diagnostic division of Apollo Health & Lifestyle limited (AHLL), has become the first pathology laboratory in the country to be empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (ABPM-JAY) for COVID-19 RT PCR testing for the beneficiaries of the scheme. General Manager, National Health Authority, Jitu Lal Meena, and Group CEO AHLL, Chandra Sekhar, signed a MoU for initiating the arrangement. Under this collaboration, the testing for patients would be done via sample collection at the local ABPM-JAY-approved hospitals and transported for testing and reporting at the National Reference Laboratory of Apollo Diagnostics. Besides in-patients admitted in AB PM-JAY empanelled hospitals, samples will also be collected from referral patients from the empanelled hospital on site and sent to the lab of Apollo Diagnostics. Patients can also walk in to the Apollo Diagnostics Lab with a Test Requisition Form (TRF) from an AB PM-JAY empanelled hospital. Seamless process This initiative will benefit all patients under ABPM-JAY to get their samples tested through a seamless process of sample registration, cashless services; sample collection locally or at the lab and the entire process would be handled via ABPM-JAY portal. Apollo Diagnostics is a division of Apollo Health & Lifestyle limited (AHLL), which is part of the Apollo Hospitals Group, with its National Reference Laboratory located in Hyderabad.
12 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven succumb to coronavirus; toll increases to 144 in district||As many as 676 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday, taking the tally to 21,201. Seven persons died due to the coronavirus in the last 24 hours. This takes the death toll to 144 in the district. As many as 1,244 persons, including those under home isolations, recovered in the district. As per the bulletin released by Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC), Visakhapatnam, P.V. Sudhakar, the number of active cases in the district is 6,480, while the number of discharged is 14,577. 851 clusters The total number of clusters in the district is 851. Among them, the very active clusters are 145. The active and dormant clusters are 234 and 472 respectively. Already 39 clusters have been denotified, he said. For information regarding tests in Visakhapatnam, citizens can contact Control Room 0891-2501233 or 0891-2501244. On a brighter side, as many as 9,485 persons have been discharged or completely recovered from coronavirus since August 4. According to the officials, more than 80% of the cases are being treated at houses. Patients have been availing telemedicine facility by the Health Department and taking advise of the doctors. Many are opting for treatment with the help of doctors from private hospitals. Only critical cases are being admitted to the hospitals. A large number of people affected with COVID-19 say that they have followed regular household tips of taking proper food on time, exercising for some time in a day, inhaling steam, taking hot food, apart from using prescribed medicines.
12 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Janmashtami celebrations go online||Sri Krishna Janmashtami celebrations in the city have gone online with restrictions on mass gatherings due to COVID-19 pandemic. Sri Krishna temple at Zilla Parishad Junction was specially decorated on the occasion. Devotees were allowed up to the entrance and a large crowd queued up for darshan. Some parents came with their kids in the attire of Lord Krishna. The priest gave them ‘theertham’ at the temple entrance. Hare Krishna Movement – Visakhapatnam is organising digital celebrations on August 11 and 12. Asking people to celebrate the festival at home on August 12, a representative of the organisation called upon devotees to wake up early in the morning and decorate the puja mandir at their home with flowers and mango leaves. They have to perform Arati with agarbatti, ghee lamp and flowers to the deity, along with their family members. Chant special mantras once and Hare Krishna Maha Mantra 108 times and offer ‘naivedyam’ to the deity. ‘Prasadam’ can be cooked with fruits, butter and sugar. As a festival special offer, devotees can WhatsApp on 96666 11108, their decorated puja mandir photo, chanting score and name and gotra. Special prayers will be offered on behalf of the devotees, free of cost. Live Abhishekam will be conducted at 9.30 p.m. on August 12. At 6.30 p.m. on August 13, Abhishekam will be conducted for Srila Prabhupada.Devotees can watch the celebrations live on ‘Hare Krishna Vizag’ YouTube channel.The first programme on Tuesday was conducted by Sri Niskinchana Bhakta Dasa, president, Hare Krishna Movement and The Akshaya Patra Foundation, Visakhapatnam. He delivered a lecture on Sri Krishna Janmashtami. More details can be had from Sri Yadhuraja Dasa on 9010611108.ISKCON, Visakhapatnam, is celebrating Sri Krishna Janmashtami on August 11 and 12. Though devotees are not allowed physically inside the premises, they can see the ‘abhishekam’, ‘jhulan seva’, Kalash Abhishek, Go Seva and Tulasi Archana by clicking on the link:https://exhibitionscloud. com/janmashtami/. The rituals on Wednesday will begin with Mangala Arati at 4.30 a.m. and conclude with Maha Arati at midnight. Devotees can call on the Helpline no. 9963332660.
12 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Experts suggest long-term health assessment of gas leak victims||A panel of experts in a webinar on ‘Justice for Vizag’ organised by the Asian Network for the Rights of Occupational and Environmental Victims (ANROEV) for the victims of LG Polymers styrene monomer vapour leak on Tuesday, suggested that committees should be formed to monitor the health condition of those exposed to the vapour leak for short term, intermediate and long term. The incident on May 7 at LG Polymers at RR Venkatapuram near here led to the death of 12 people and hospitalising of over 580. Dr. Ramana Dhara from the Indian Institute of Public Health, Hyderabad, said that profiling of the victims should be done based on age and gender and their blood and urine samples should be tested periodically, to determine their health condition. They should also be subjected to psychological and neurological study.  ‘Lung edema’ According to him, the people who died after the gas leak showed symptoms of lung edema and chemical inflammation and hence monitoring protocol should be guided by exposure information such as what type of toxins were released, total amount of toxins in the air and area of spread. Dr. Dhara suggested the establishment of a permanent health authority with participatory approach and registration of the exposed population for periodic monitoring. Dr. K. Babu Rao, retired chief scientist of the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) and a social activist and founding member of Scientists for People said that such exposure to styrene monomer never happened in the world so far. It was important that the level of exposure should be assessed and health monitoring should be based on it, he said. Plant shifting On whether the chemical plant should be shifted, Dr. Domyung Paek from the Department of Environmental Health Science, Seoul National University, said that shifting of the plant might not be a solution but concrete steps should be taken to see that such incidents did not occur in the future.The seminar was moderated by Ram Charitra Sah, environmentalist from Nepal.  The incident on May 7 at LG Polymers at RR Venkatapuram, near Visakhapatnam, led to the death of 12 people and hospitalising of over 580
12 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI (Maoist) claims responsibility for blast||For the first time since the landmine blast killed two adivasis on August 1 in the AOB region of the Visakha agency, the banned CPI (Maoist) has claimed responsibility for the blast. The incident happened near Chintalaveedhi village in Jamaguda panchayat of Pedabayalu mandal. In an audio clip released on Tuesday, Sudheer, the secretary of Pedabayalu Area Committee of the CPI (Maoist) has claimed that the landmines were planted targeting security forces, but tribals Mohan Rao and Ajay Kumar stepped on them, he said. The Maoist party members visited the bereaved family members and also shared their grief, he said. Sudheer said the move was intended to thwart combing operations of security forces ahead of the Maoist Martyrs’ Week from July 28, in the AOB region.
12 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nurses recruitment: merit list displayed||The provisional merit list for staff nurses in various teaching hospitals, attached to Andhra Medical College, are displayed on the website:http://www. kghvisakhapatnam.org. Grievances will be received till 5 p.m. on August 12. The final merit list of selected candidates will be displayed on the above website on August 13. Counselling will be conducted on August 14, according to P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College.
12 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,086 liquor bottles seized, couple held||The city police raided a scrap shop near Tagarapuvalasa and seized 1,086 liquor bottles stored by a couple. The accused have been arrested. The couple have been allegedly selling the liquor at higher price. Based on credible information, team led by Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone I) Aishwarya Rastogi conducted the raid and arrested the couple Ch.V. Rao and Ch. Sridevi. The case along with the seized bottles were handed over to Bheemili police station for taking further action.
12 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three arrested for ‘selling liquor without licence’||Officials from the City Task Force (CTF) conducted raids at several places and arrested three persons who were allegedly found selling liquor without having valid licences here on Tuesday. Based on credible information, teams of the CTF under the supervision of Assistant Commissioner of Police(CTF) A. Trinad Rao, conducted raids at Sri Ram Nagar of Arilova, Sri Nagar of Kancharapalem and Spencers Road near Bullayya College. The police arrested T. Nooka Raju (46) and P, Krishna (34) and B. Ravi (45). The police seized 82 liquor bottles from them. Cases have been handed over to police stations concerned.
12 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor fire accident at Dondaparthy||A minor fire broke out in the cellar of a commercial establishment at Dondaparthy area in Visakhapatnam city in the early hours on Tuesday. Fortunately, no casualties were reported. Sources said that furniture at the cellar was gutted. After information, the fire department personnel put out the fire, reports said. They suspect that short-circuit might be the reason for the incident.
12 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medical council orders probe||Based on reports in the news media and seriousness of the allegations, the A.P. Medical Council has taken up the child trafficking case involving Dr. Pachipala Namratha, the prime accused, suo motu and entrusted the matter to the Ethics Committee for an inquiry. The probe will be held as stipulated by the Regulation 8 of the Indian Medical Council (Professional Conduct, Etiquette and Ethics) Regulations, 2002 and as provided in Section-15(4) of A.P. Medical Practitioners Registration Act, 1968. It also ordered that Dr. Namratha, MD (Obstetrics & Gynaecology), should not perform any procedure/practice till further orders.
12 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Sanjeevini bus lacks doctors, equipment at Anakapalle’||RTI activist Kandregula Venkataramana has alleged that the Sanjeevini bus allotted to Anakapalle has failed to achieve the desired result due to lack of equipment, doctors and staff. In e-mails to the Chief Minister and the district officials on Tuesday, he alleged that the noble idea of the government to provide COVID-19 screening facility in the villages was defeated due to this. He said that the bus was meant to screen COVID-19 suspects in the rural areas of Anakapalle, Butchayyapeta, Cheedikada, Devarapalli, K. Kotapadu, Kasimkota, V. Madugula, Munagapaka, Rambilli and Elamanchili mandals.
12 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ASHA workers seek better deal||The AP ASHA Workers Union (CITU) has demanded that ASHA workers, who were rendering invaluable services , be made eligible for social welfare schemes like YSR Cheyutha. In a statement here on Tuesday, union president K. Varalakshmi, general secretary V. Satyavathi and honorary secretary B. Ramalakshmi said that the ASHA workers have been working in the lowest level in the department for the last 14 years.
12 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mystery shrouds death of youth||Mystery shrouded the death of a 19-year old Dalit youth, G. Kishore, whose body was found in a local tank, in Narsipatnam on Monday night. Members of various Dalit groups and locals staged a protest demanding that the police arrest the accused. The deceased has been identified as a resident of SC Colony, Narsipatnam. Some relatives alleged that a lady home guard and two more allegedly murdered Kishore and dumped the body in the tank. A case was registered and investigation is on.
12 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sambasiva Raju’s son Suresh chosen for MLC seat||P. Suresh, son of former Minister Penumatsa Sambasiva Raju, has been chosen for the MLC seat which was vacated by Mopidevi Venkataramna after he was recently elected to Rajya Sabha. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy chose Mr. Suresh in the backdrop of death of Sambasiva Raju on Tuesday. Sambasiva Raju had been loyal to the YSRCP since its inception. Mr. Suresh, a doctor by profession, was earlier offered to contest for Vizianagaram MP seat and Nellimarla MLA seat in 2009 when Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy was Chief Minister. However, it did not happen due to various reasons.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Little Lord||
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM seeks Modi’s help||COVID-19 is continuing to challenge countries, but we have managed to keep the mortality rate down. With a record 47,459 tests done per million population, the State is now leading in testing, which in turn, helped us to contain the spread of the virus. Out of 25.34 lakh samples tested, 2.35 lakh samples turned out to be positive. The mortality rate is 0.89 per cent which is due to a well planned approach to contain the spread of virus,” the Chief Minister said. “When the first COVID-19 positive case was registered, we used to send samples to National Virology Institute in Pune as there were no virology labs in the state. Now we have virology labs in all district headquarters. Over 2 lakh volunteers played a crucial role in identifying and contact tracing of all infected persons. We have 138 hospitals with a bed capacity of 37,189, both in government and in private sector. We have 11,000 oxygen support beds, which is nearly three times the number of ICU beds before onset of COVID-19. We have 109 COVID Care Centres,” said Mr. Jagan. The government had also set up helpdesks along with call centres and pressed into service 108 ambulances. Ministers Alla Kali Krishnadas alias Nani, Minister for Home M. Sucharita, Cchief Secretary Neelam Sawhney, DGP Gautam Sawang and Special Chief Secretary, Health, K.S Jawahar Reddy were present on the occasion.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prepping with caution||
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inspiring a fight||
12 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Man killed after quarrel over pet dog||In a bizarre incident, a middle-aged man was killed allegedly by his neighbour following a quarrel over the unbridled movement of the former’s pet dog at Thallapai village in Mulakalapalli mandal on Monday night. The victim was identified as Jogulu, 50. An altercation ensued between Jogulu and his neighbour Veeraswamy on Monday night when the latter allegedly beat up the pet dog of Jogulu for frequenting his house and causing nuisance. Both got into a physical fight even as their wives engaged in a verbal duel over the matter. In a fit of rage, Veeraswamy allegedly attacked Jogulu with a stick for manhandling his wife in the ensuing melee. Jogulu collapsed in the impact of the attack and died while being shifted to a hospital midway late on Monday night, sources added. The Mulakalapalli police registered a case against Veeraswamy and are investigating.
12 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Taliperu reservoir gates lifted||Heavy rains in the catchment areas of Taliperu river pushed up the water level in Taliperu reservoir, the medium irrigation project in Charla mandal of Bhadrachalam Agency, on Tuesday evening. Sources said 10 crest gates of the reservoir were lifted to discharge flood waters into the Godavari.
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM stresses need for boosting medical infra||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has stressed the need for enhancing medical facilities and infrastructure in the country with lessons learnt from the experiences in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic. There is need for improving the medical facilities and there should be vision in planning for future in this direction. Comprehensive planning should go into strengthening the existing facilities and the State and Central governments should work hand in hand in their implementation, he said. The Chief Minister participated in the video conference conducted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss measures taken to tackle COVID-19. Chief Ministers of nine other States — Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Punjab, Bihar, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh — also participated in the conference. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao briefed the meeting about the steps initiated by the government to contain the virus. Stressing the need for putting in place necessary infrastructure, he said the country was in the midst of a first of its kind situation due to Covid-19 and uncertainty continued over how long it would take to overcome the existing crisis. The country had faced pandemics in the past and the scope of incidence of viruses like COVID-19 in future could not be ruled out. Steps should, therefore, be taken to provide medical help to people and at the same time, focus should be on evolving systems to effectively tackle such incidents in the future, he said. “We should gear up to meet any emergency in the future,” the Chief Minister added. Accordingly, evaluation of key factors like the availability of doctors in proportion to the population and establishment of new medical colleges should be taken up to ensure that the medical establishment could withstand incidence of such pandemics in the coming days. He suggested that the Prime Minister should take an initiative in this direction and the Centre and States should work together to enhance medical facilities. Explaining steps initiated by the government, he said the recovery rate in Telangana was 71% and fatalities stood at a mere 0.7%. Testing had been significantly enhanced and steps had been taken to provide effective treatment to the affected people. The government was following the guidelines issued by the NITI Aayog, Indian Council of Medical Research and Central teams visiting the State from time to time and that required infrastructure like beds, medicines and equipment had been kept ready. Health Minister Eatala Rajender, government’s Chief Adviser Rajiv Sharma, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and other senior officials also participated in the video conference.
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Medtronic to invest Rs. 1,200 cr. to scale up R&D hub in city||Global leader in medical technology Medtronic will invest Rs. 1,200 crore on scaling up and expanding its research and development (R&D) centre in the city. This will make Medtronic Engineering & Innovation Center (MEIC), the facility in the city, the largest global R&D hub outside the U.S. For Telangana, the company’s move to invest Rs. 1,200 crore, over five years, will provide a boost to the State’s med tech plans and cement Hyderabad’s position as the medical devices hub of India. The investment decision was announced at a virtual meeting Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao had with the Medtronic leadership team on Tuesday. A release from the Minister’s office said Medtronic Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Board Omar Ishrak, making the announcement, said the investment is a “testament to our commitment to the region and we are proud to be collaborating with the government of Telangana on this major investment in the country.” Mr. Rao said, “We are delighted Medtronic has chosen Hyderabad as its largest R&D base outside the U.S. and intends to create about 1,000 jobs in the next few years. It is indeed a great honour for the city to host this centre and it is a testimony to Hyderabad’s growing prowess in the medical devices sector.” The Minister briefed the Medtronic leadership team on various initiatives of the State government to promote medical devices sector and the developments in the area over the last few years Highlighting how the story on India for India and India for the world is getting stronger with recent turn of global events, he assured support of the State government to the company’s growth plans and aspirations in India. The release said Telangana government is committed to the growth of med tech and the partnership with Medtronic would be pivotal. The State government and Medtronic had been in discussion for the last two years regarding modalities of the investment. During his visit to the U.S. in 2016, Mr. Rao and a team of officials from Telangana government had met Mr. Ishrak. Medtronic Vice President Indian Subcontinent and Minimally Invasive Therapies Group APAC Madan Krishnan said, “The futuristic vision of Telangana government and access to great infrastructure enabled us to make this investment in Hyderabad.” Expressing confidence that the investment would create many job opportunities in healthcare and help energise the medical devices innovation ecosystem in India, he said MEIC conducted advanced engineering R&D and product development in the areas of design, analysis, advanced hardware, software development and testing. Medtronic CEO Geoff Martha, Telangana Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan and Director for Life Sciences Shakthi Nagappan were among those who participated in the virtual meeting.
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Implead persons causing pollution, High Court tells petitioner||Telangana High Court on Tuesday instructed a PIL petitioner’s counsel to implead owners of industries using heavy crushing machines and concrete mix carrying vehicles in and around Vattinagulapally of Gandipet on the city outskirts. The PIL plea was filed seeking a direction to stop usage of heavy crushing machines and vehicles as they were polluting groundwater and posing threat to the health of people. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy sought to know from the petitioner’s lawyer Md. Aslam as to why owners of those crushing machines and heavy vehicles were not included among the respondents. “If tomorrow, owners of these machines and vehicles accused of causing pollution claim that they have valid permissions from Pollution Control Board, the court direction would be futile,” the bench said. The hearing was posted after two weeks. Temple in govt. land In another PIL plea, the bench had directed a team of officials to make a field visit and ascertain if a temple was being built in 1,200 square yards of government land in Nagole village in L.B. Nagar. Hearing a PIL petition seeking to stop construction of temple in government land, it said the officials should immediately stop the construction activity if a temple was being built there. A citizen Vazeer Prakash Goud filed a PIL plea stating that some persons illegally grabbed government land in Nagole and began construction of temple there. On hearing contentions of the petitioner’s counsel, the bench issued notices to different wings of the State government. It instructed Medchal Malkajgiri district Collector, Hayathnagar Deputy Municipal Commissioner, Uppal Tahasildar and L.B. Nagar police Inspector to visit the site and ascertain facts. Steps taken by the authorities should be informed to the court in the form of a report by August 18. The plea was posted to August 19 for next hearing. In a separate PIL petition, the bench directed the State government to explain the procedure adopted by the authorities to supply rabies vaccine to districts. The petitioner stated that street dogs had become a menace in Kannekal village of Mudugupally mandal of Nalgonda districts and several people were bitten by dogs. The bench also asked the government to explain if any ambulance service can be provided in the area since no hospital was there in the village.
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CEs’ project jurisdiction increased||The State government has decided to create more territorial jurisdictions in the Water Resources department headed by Chief Engineers. The creation of new territorial jurisdiction comes in the light of the government’s decision to thoroughly revamp the department, bringing all the related wings under one umbrella. Accordingly, it was decided in principle to increase the existing project areas headed by the CEs from 13 to 19. A decision to this effect was announced by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao during a review meeting on the progress of works relating to different projects. He said the revamp of the department was mandated in view of the significant changes that were brought in the sector since the formation of Telangana and there was a vast difference in the situation that existed before the formation of the State and after its formation. The Chief Minister said irrigation facilities had grown by leaps and bounds in the past few years. Increase in ayacut due to the construction of projects, canals and pump houses had also resulted in increased workload on the department calling for revamp of the department. It was decided to make Adilabad, Mancherial, Jagtial, Karimnagar, Nizamabad, Kamareddy, Ramagundam, Warangal, Mulug, Khammam, Kothagudem, Sangareddy, Nalgonda, Suryapet, Mahabubnagar, Wanaparthy, Nagarkurnool and Hyderabad new divisions to be headed by Chief Engineers. All the projects including tanks, lifts, reservoirs, barrages, pump houses, canals and sub-stations would come under the territorial jurisdiction of the CEs. The government had already decided to take steps to ensure that the department which was divided as major, medium and minor irrigation would now function as one and it would be called Water Resources department. According to an official release, the Chief Minister announced his decision to name Ghanpur anicut in Medak district as Vana Durga project and directed the officials concerned to take steps to revive canals under the Pakala project. Narsampet MLA P. Sudarshan Reddy said revival of canals built by the Kakatiya kings would ensure stabilisation of 30,000-acre ayacut and the Chief Minister responded positively by directing the officials concerned to prepare estimates in this regard. Ministers Eatala Rajender and S. Niranjan Reddy, Irrigation principal secretary Rajat Kumar, Chief Minister’s officer on special duty Sreedhar Deshpande and others were present.
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Mobile sample collection with online slot booking is need of the hour’||Mobile collection of samples with online booking of slots to arrest the trend of serpentine queues of people awaiting testing, a designated officer from Directorate of Public Health to monitor daily admissions, discharge, billing issues, etc., in all hospitals and a central dashboard with bed availability linked through these liaison officers providing real-time data and solutions are the need of the hour, say public health experts. The government should also reinforce the 5Ts — Tracing, Tracking, Testing, Treating supported by adequate Training, and skilling of health staff. “The 5Ts cannot be sacrificed even if it increases the work load on the public health system. Even if three contacts can be traced out of five possible, it will significantly reduce further spread,” asserted Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH)-Hyderabad director G.V.S. Murthy on Tuesday. Hospitalisation risks Mobile collection of samples will prevent “intermixing of infected and non-infected patients for more than 15 minutes in close proximity” as this can spread transmission, he said, adding that unnecessary hospitalisation should be avoided. It is because hospital stay itself increases risk of other infections by 10-20%. Mild cases should go for home isolation with a dedicated tele-consultation portal and a 24/7 helpline to support. Mobile team of doctors and nurses should visit such people at least twice a week, keep an eye on worsening symptoms and decide when they should be provided priority admission by referral through the team, advised Dr. Murthy. He pointed out that the case load in Telangana, especially Hyderabad, continues to rise with ‘real time production’ (Rt) being >1 till August 2 and dropping to <1 from August 5. “If Rt is consistently < 1 for 7 days, it will indicate the peak infection load in the present wave has passed. Hence, government will need to see that no big new influx of cases occurs as that may alter the situation once again,” he cautioned.   Despite the increasing case load, COVID related mortality seems to be on the lower side with 2.71 average daily new deaths in the week ending May 24 May to 11.5 in the week ending Aug.1 (4.2 times increase compared to a 16 times increase in cases) and to 12.5 by August 5 with dramatic reduction of cases in GHMC area. From 80% till July first week, it is only 27.3% new cases this month. Average daily new cases computed at weekly intervals reached a peak of 1,159 till July 5 and has steadily decreased thereafter to 765 till July 19, 650 till July 26 and 540 till August 1 to 532 on August 5. Dip in cases “Positive news is the dip in new infections in GHMC area which could be due to either a large number of people infected so that the virus is not finding enough susceptible people to pounce on. Or else, it could be that people are not being ‘naughty’ and not gathering in large groups clandestinely. Only means of knowing is by sero-surveillance of random testing of people for presence of circulating anti-bodies,” he said. The worrisome part, however, is that the pandemic has spread to other districts which needs urgent attention. A two-pronged attack with community-led efforts of residential welfare associations and village panchayats can augment the success of a government-led initiative. The 5Ps — protective gear use, personal hygiene, prevent ‘naughty behaviour’, physical distance and peer support — instead of stigma should be diligently pursued, he added.
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dairy development cooperative launches e-carts||The Telangana State Dairy Development Cooperative Federation (TSDDCF), which sells the popular Vijaya brand of dairy products, is looking at penetrating into new urban centres by expanding its sales network. The Federation has launched e-carts that are battery operated customised compact three-wheeler vehicles that come with freezers and chillers specially designed to transport and serve fresh chilled products at the doorstep of consumers. These vehicles are distinctively designed to cover the lanes and bylanes of city enabling smooth reach of products to more than 100 wards in GHMC area covering most of the new residential areas and other growing areas in Cyberabad region. The launch of e-carts, according to senior officials, has a two-pronged strategy — to take the Vijaya Telangana brand products to the doorstep of consumers and to create employment opportunities to youth with an inclination to operate the vehicles. The custom-built vehicles with freezer and bottle chiller capabilities are designed to sustain at least 10-12 hours of chilling with deep freezer capable of sustaining temperatures of -18 degrees to -25 degrees. The Federation has introduced 10 vehicles to begin with in the GHMC area and has plans to expand the fleet strength to over 200 in phases. Each of the vehicles will cost Rs. 2.25 lakh and the Federation provides subsidy to the tune of Rs. 67,500 amounting to 30% of the total cost of the vehicle. The balance Rs. 1.57 lakh has to be borne by the beneficiaries. Once beneficiaries are selected, the vehicles will be registered in the name of the vendor and the Federation. An agreement with a condition that the vendor would not sell any products other than those of Vijaya and not disturb the fabrication and branding provided by the federation would be signed. In addition to their eco-friendly nature, e-carts would ensure ease of marketing of products with low capital investment and low operating costs.
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CCTVs in several police station limits non-functional||Scores of CCTV cameras in the limits of at least three police stations are defunct, a Right to Information (RTI) query has revealed. RTI activist S.Q. Masood had sought information from the office of Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy about the number of CCTV cameras installed across police station limits in the tri-commissionerates of Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda, number of functioning cameras, and those that are defunct. The RTI query was then transferred to police stations. According to responses received, Balanagar Police Station limits has 485 CCTV cameras installed in public places, out of which over half — as many as 255 — are not working. A response from Jeedimetla Police Station revealed that of the community 708 CCTV cameras installed, 242 cameras are non-functional. “Under Nenusaitham Programme, 4,042 cameras were installed in the limits of Jeedimetla PS and they are functioning,” an excerpt from the RTI response reads. Touching upon the storage and backup, while the Balanagar police stated that usually every community installed camera has footage stored for 20 days, the Jeedimetla police stated that backup lasts for about 30 days. The Madhapur Police Station has 310 community installed CCTV cameras out of which 26 are not functional. This, the police said, is due to reasons like snapping of cables, which are now being repaired. Police also said that a constable is deputed as a CCTV Admin who checks the functionality of each camera on the field. Police stated that CCTV camera procurement and maintenance is being done by vendors empanelled by the Telangana State Technology Services Ltd, an agency of the Telangana government. These cameras are installed for public safety and detection of crimes. “I had filed the RTI in June as part of my research work. While some responses have come from police stations late last month, not a single police station from the Hyderabad Commissionerate has sent any reply. There should be an exclusive authority constituted for this project to look into the maintenance and other issues. As you can see, the RTI responses state that several dozen cameras are not working. This too is a little alarming. Best case scenario is that a law must be passed in the legislature for accountability,” Mr. Masood said.
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jagga flays ‘sponsored campaign’ against him||Senior Congress leader and Sangareddy legislator T. Jayaprakash Reddy alias Jagga Reddy has hit back at his adversaries within the party and alleged that they are running a sponsored campaign against him on the social media as he too is in the race for Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president’s post. Not knowing about my personality some social media buffs are falling in the trap of my adversaries, he said, speaking to newspersons here on Monday. Such elements, he said, are terming him as TRS (Telangana Rashtra Samithi) covert, but he reminded them that it is he who criticises Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao when no Congress leader speaks against Mr. Rao. Mr. Jagga Reddy requested those taking to the social media platforms to criticise him to include their name and contact number in their posts so that he could go to their house and give clarifications to their criticism. On the issue of PCC president’s post, Mr. Jagga Reddy said he had already written to All India Congress Committee (AICC) president Sonia Gandhi and former president Rahul Gandhi to give him an opportunity in case there is a change in the PCC leadership. He stated that he would visit even villages by allocating time to strengthen the party.
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sanction of funds for new Secretariat begins||The State government has initiated the process for administrative sanction for an expenditure of around Rs. 400 crore for construction of the new integrated Secretariat complex. The development follows completion of works taken up for demolition of the old secretariat complex. Demolition of the old complex which started on the midnight of July 6 was said to have been completed with all the blocks, including the J and L blocks, razed to ground a couple of days ago. The demolition was said to have resulted in one lakh tonnes of debris. The government estimated that the demolition would result in close to 4,500 truckloads of debris and 80% of it had already been shifted. In addition to cement concrete and other material, close to 3,000 tonnes of iron was salvaged from the demolished structures. The salvaged iron, according to senior officials, is expected to fetch Rs. 5 crore to Rs. 6 crore to the government. Senior officials said the removal of the remaining 20% of the debris would be completed in three to four days after which the government would go for inviting tenders for construction of the new complex. Though it was thought to go for global tenders after completion of the demolition, the move was delayed as the government was fine-tuning security-related arrangements. The government is firm that the new complex, a G+6 building, planned with exclusive entrance and other arrangements for the Chief Minister, should have the latest in security and surveillance technology. The architects, Chennai-based Oscar and Ponni Architects, were therefore holding discussions about the enhanced security features that should be incorporated in the new complex. The discussions, according to sources, are completed and a final security plan would be ready within a few days after which tenders would be called.
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Criminal negligence’ in tackling COVID: Nadda||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has accused the TRS government of “criminal negligence” in the manner in which the COVID-19 pandemic is being managed due to low testing, rising number of cases and fatalities. Party president J.P. Nadda lamented that even the Hgh Court pulling up the government for the lackadaisical approach did not seem to have goaded the government to take measures to mitigate prople’s sufferings. Participating in the online foundation stone laying ceremony for party offices in nine districts on Sunday, the national president contrasted the TRS government approach towards tackling the coronoavirus with the Modi Government at the Centre which had earned appreciation from the World Health Organisation (WHO) and United Nations (UN) too. While the Centre had been providing treatment for the poor and the downtrodden through the ‘Aysuhman Bharat’ insurance scheme, the TS government here not only had refused to subscribe to the scheme but had been adamant in not allowing ‘Arogyasri’ insurance scheme to be used, throwing people into the lurch. In the last few months, the Centre’s initiative had seen 1,500 COVID special hospitals coming into being, hospitals beds increased from 44,000 to 12.5 lakh, up to 1.65 oxygen beds, 42,000 ICU beds, manufacture of 5 lakh PPE kits a day and free rations to 80 crore people, he claimed. Mr. Nadda was of the opinion that the people of Telangana were “fed up” with the TRS government because of its “autocratic, anti-democratic and corrupt rule” with not a single election promise being fulfilled, be it construction of two bedroom housing for the poor, government jobs for the youth or completion of irrigation projects. TS party chief Bandi Sanjay said the government had been foisting false cases against party activists and wished that the new party offices served as platform for seizing power in the next Assembly polls. The new party offices were slated to come up at Jayashankar Bhoopalapalli, Mahabubnagar, Warangal, Adilabad, Kumram Bheem Asifabad, Narayanapet, Vikarabad and so on. Senior leaders, including K. Laxman, and G. Premander Reddy, participated.
12 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CM afraid of being exposed on COVID ‘failure’: Cong. leaders||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka has argued that the State government was not reviewing the coronavirus situation in Telangana as Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was afraid of exposing deficiencies in the system, including shortage of doctors, lack of funds and his ‘inability’ to create facilities to deal with the virus. Speaking to reporters here along with MLAs D. Sridhar Babu and T. Jagga Reddy, he alleged that the government has “horribly failed” to infuse confidence among people and they were in a dilemma over whether the government wants to save their lives or not. “CM has promised to spend Rs. 1,000 crore on coronavirus and he has just allocated Rs. 100 crore and that too recently. Is there any other issue that is more important than the pandemic,” he asked. Mr. Vikramarka asked why the government was silent on the fleecing by private hospitals. Health Minister Eatala Rajender has been promising stringent action against private hospitals but when will he take action, he asked. “Is he not aware of media reports on the exploitation of common man?” he said, adding that the Minister should take reports from the intelligence department to understand how bad the situation was. He said at least now the Chief Minister should regularly review the situation and give confidence to the people and the medical staff providing necessary facilities without thinking of money. “The CM has been claiming Telangana is the richest State and it is time for him to show that,” he said. Mr. Vikramarka demanded that 50% of private hospital beds be taken over by the government. “Fix an appropriate and feasible rate in the private hospitals and appoint 17 IAS officers for all 17 parliamentary constituencies in the State and monitor strictly.” He also wanted quarantine centres in villages and zonal centres. Mr. Sridhar Babu accused the government of turning a deaf ear to the health issues of people in these hard times. He recalled how the previous Congress government had started Aarogyasri scheme to provide best health facilities to the poorest but it has been totally diluted now. He said no district hospital has ventilator facility. “There is no response if people had come forward to donate ventilators to the hospitals,” he claimed. The Manthani MLA said the government was misleading people on Central team’s appreciation and it should explain which measures taken by the government were appreciated. Mr. Sridhar Babu said Congress leaders were being denied space in the Assembly premises to address the media but TRS leaders, who are no way connected with the Assembly, were using the space to target Opposition parties. “The Speaker and Assembly officials should give an explanation on this discrimination,” he said. Sangareddy MLA T. Jagga Reddy said the police were citing COVID-19 guidelines to deny protests by the Congress party and even senior leaders were being arrested indiscriminately while TRS MLAs and leaders were being allowed to violate all norms. “It’s time police officials realise that they can’t toe the line of ruling party and we will not keep quiet if this continues,” Mr Reddy said.  CM has promised to spend Rs. 1,000 crore on coronavirus and he has just allocated Rs. 100 crore and that too recently. Bhatti Vikramarka, Congress Legislature Party leader
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC asks govt. to pay ex gratia to martyr’s kin||The Telangana High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to present before it proof of depositing Rs. 29 lakh in the account of martyr Lance Naik Md. Feroz Khan’s wife. A Bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said that it was glad over the government swiftly responding to the direction to pay the ex gratia to the martyr’s family. When the hearing of the PIL plea seeking justice to the martyr’s family began, Government Pleader A. Santosh Kumar attached to Advocate General office told the Bench that Rs. 29,76,750 had been deposited in the account of late Khan’s wife. During the previous hearing, the Bench sought to know the reasons behind the inordinate delay in payment of the ex gratia. Mr. Feroz Khan died in 2013 in Poonch district of J&K. However, the amount did not reach the slain soldier’s family. A law student Pavan Kasthuri wrote a letter to the HC on the plight of the soldier’s wife who had to look after three children and had to make rounds of government offices. The letter was taken up as PIL petition. The petition was posted to August 19 for next hearing.
12 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Call for probe into ‘corruption’’||Telangana Congress Committee working president Ponnam Prabhakar has advised All India BJP president J.P. Nadda to write to the Union government for an inquiry into the Kaleshwaram project if he sincerely believed in his comments against the Telangana government’s corruption. In a statement here, Mr. Prabhakar recalled the comments of Mr. Nadda during the foundation laying ceremony of BJP offices in Telangana, and said Mr. Nadda had lost credibility as he had spoken against the corruption in the TRS government several times but had done nothing. “If you are sincere about your allegations please demand that the Central government call for an inquiry,” he said. Mr. Prabhakar said the BJP chief also spoke on the poor performance of TRS government on construction of double bedroom houses and s failure to join the Ayushman Bharat scheme of the Centre. “If Mr. Nadda cannot demand an inquiry into all these issues he should accept that the TRS and BJP were in the same boat and their friendship was pretty strong.” The former MP charged that BJP did not want to take any action against the TRS government as the latter had been supporting them on key bills and issues to save the BJP government. The failure of the TRS government in tackling coronavirus was so evident with the statistics also proving but the BJP government was silent on the issue.
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New director for CDFD||Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD), an autonomous institute under Dept of Biotechnology situated in Uppal, has announced the appointment of Kumarasamy Thangaraj as its new director. Set up in 1996, CDFD is an autonomous organisation funded by the Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science and Technology. Before taking over as director of CDFD, he was a scientist at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology since 1993. He is well known for his outstanding contributions in the field of population and medical genetics. “I am humbled and honoured to be chosen to lead a truly great institution. It will be my endeavour to take CDFD further to greater heights,” said Dr. Thangaraj, whose genetic studies have shown that the enigmatic tribal populations of Andaman and Nicobar islands are the first modern humans who migrated out of Africa through southern coastal route about 65,000 years ago. An elected fellow of leading Indian scientific academies, he has received several awards and honours from scientific academies.
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Eatala assures help to bereaved kin of doctor||Health Minister Eatala Rajender has assured the bereaved family members of 35-year-old doctor Naresh Kumar that insurance from government is handed over to them at the earliest. Besides, Mr Rajender said that he will take the request of job on compassionate grounds to the notice of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. The family members met the Minister in Hyderabad on Tuesday. His death has saddened medical fraternity in the State. Doctors and staff recalled selfless service offered by Dr Naresh, who held charge of Deputy District Medical and Health Officer in Bhadradri Kothagudem and headed Manuguru-based quarantine centre. He succumbed to the infectious disease after battling it for over a week at hospitals in Hyderabad. Telangana Public Health Doctors Association members have submitted a representation to the Health Minister to extend help to Dr Naresh’s family.
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID patient ends life||A 60-year-old man, who tested COVID positive, was found dead in the bathroom of a private hospital at Malakpet where he was being treated. According to police, the victim was from Karimnagar, and was admitted to the hospital on August 6. He was found hanging by hospital staff from the window in the bathroom on the fifth floor on Tuesday. Police suspect that anxiety after being tested positive led him to take the extreme step. In another incident, a 45-year-old woman committed suicide under the Jeedimetla Police Station limits late on Monday night over fears of being tested positive for coronavirus. Police said that the woman fell sick around five days ago and was taken to a private hospital, where she was diagnosed with malaria. However, she was still worried that she could be COVID-19 positive. She hanged herself at her house at Shapurnagar late on Monday night.  (Roshni suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Eleven minors rescued from forced labour||The Rachakonda police apprehended three persons for allegedly trafficking 11 minor children and forcing them to work in unhygienic conditions and for up to 14 hours a day. The accused have been identified as Ramlal (40), who runs Mahesh Gypsum Plaster Company, and Pankaj Kumar (31) and E Jagan Mohan Reddy (43). The duo run another company Sri Pavan Putra Plaster Company. Both companies are in Hayatnagar mandal and are engaged in making plaster of Paris used in ceilings for aesthetic purposes. Police said that the accused brought the victims from Uttar Pradesh after paying their poverty-stricken parents some money. The accused wanted workers who would work for 14 hours. However, as local labourers refused to do so, they exploited the children. Police said that the victims were put to work from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. non-stop and in inhuman conditions. While Ramlal brought seven victims, the other two brought four children to work in the workshops.
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Discharge of flood from Narayanpur falls||The discharge of flood from Almatti and Narayanpur dams has been reduced considerably on Tuesday evening with the authorities there deciding to build up level in the reservoirs, resulting in further fall in the inflows into Jurala to a minimum level by Wednesday night. According to the flood monitoring officials, the discharge of flood to the river course was hardly 35,000 cusecs on Tuesday evening although inflows were measured at over 1.64 lakh cusecs. Storage of water in the reservoir was 110.8 tmc ft against its capacity of 129.72 tmc ft. Similarly, Narayanpur dam was getting inflows of 40,000 cusecs but the discharge flood to river was only about 10,000 cusecs with the storage standing at 34.78 tmc ft at 6 p.m. against its capacity of 37.64 tmc ft. A Central Water Commission (CWC) bulletin, however, indicated that the Hidkal dam across Ghataprabha river, a tributary of Krishna above Almatti, could turn surplus in the next 2-3 days. It was getting inflows of about 10,600 cusecs with the storage standing at 48 tmc ft on Tuesday afternoon against its capacity of 51 tmc ft. Similarly, Tungabhadra dam could also become surplus in the next 3-4 days if the inflows were steady in the current measure at over 79,000 cusecs. The storage of water was 83 tmc ft on Tuesday night against its capacity of 100.86 tmc ft. The flood to Jurala was continuing at 1.25 lakh cusecs at 9 p.m. on Tuesday and the discharge to the river was about 73,500 cusecs through the 18 spillway gates and another 33,500 cusecs from power generation. In the downstream, Srisailam was getting nearly 1.48 lakh cusecs.
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Penalty waiver on water bills||Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board has announced a one-time settlement option for defaulters of water bills, the information about which is made available for public only after a lapse of 10 days. A GO was issued on July 28 towards one-time settlement without penal charges. The offer came into force since August 1, without any public notice issued through media or any other source. It is open for both non-domestic and domestic categories and includes both State and central government departments.
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||School to come up near Hyderabad Airport City||GMR Hyderabad Aerotropolis Limited (GHAL), developers of urban ecosystem at Hyderabad Airport City, as part of ramping up its ‘Edu Port’, has partnered with Saint Mary’s Educational Society to build Sancta Maria International School. It envisages the development of Sancta Maria International School, a second K12 (Kindergarten to 12th Grade) on a 15-acre of serviced land that will be ready by 2022. Edu Port spread over 100 acres has been envisioned to be a knowledge hub with leading global and Indian institutes converging here and creating flexible learning pathways for students of all ages and background. It already hosts Schulich School of Business, Chinmaya Vidyalaya, GMR Aviation Academy, Flight Simulation Technique Centre, CFM South Asia Training Center and Pratt & Whitney India Training Centre.
12 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Govt. avoiding discussion on AP projects’||AICC secretary and former MLA Ch. Vamshichand Reddy has challenged TRS leaders to come for an open discussion at the Hyderabad Press Club on Wednesday or admit that the government was deliberately silent on the projects being constructed on Krishna river by the Andhra Pradesh government. He said no TRS leader or the government functionary had the face to accept his earlier challenge and it only proved how this government was guilty. In a letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, he said every citizen of Telangana believed that every action of the Chief Minister would be intended to safeguard the interests of the State but his actions were totally against such belief. Mr. Vamshichand said the silence of the Chief Minister on the issues raised by the Congress showed that he was more inclined to fulfil his promise made to Rayalaseema region at the cost of Telangana. He said CM’s attitude was hurting the people of south Telangana as its water resources were being illegally drawn by the AP government. The AICC secretary alleged huge conspiracy behind the CM’s silence on both Pothireddypadu and Sangameshwar.  Meanwhile, at a virtual press conference, BJP leader N.V.S.S. Prabhakar demanded a CBI probe into tender processes of all the ongoing projects on Krishna and Godavari rivers.
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minor girls ‘murder’ alcoholic father||Two minor girls allegedly murdered their father after being vexed with his harassment, police said on Tuesday. According to Jagadgirigutta police, who are investigating the case, the victim Masani Raju (45) was an alcoholic and used to frequently beat and verbally abuse the juveniles who are 16 and 17 years old. On Monday night, in an inebriated condition, Raju allegedly began to verbally abuse the duo. Unable to bear the harassment any longer, they allegedly smothered him while he was asleep. “The girls’ mother died nearly a year ago. There is no indication of sexual harassment. The girls are absconding and we are looking for them,” Jagadgirigutta inspector of police A Ganga Reddy said. Held for fraud The South Zone Task Force of Police apprehended a Myanmarese refugee who allegedly obtained Indian proof of identity, including Aadhaar and driving licence, in a fraudulent manner. Police identified the accused as Md. Qadeer (37), a resident of Kishanbagh, who works as an electrician. The accused, police said, moved to India in 2008 and later married an Indian woman, allegedly to obtain Indian citizenship. Qadeer has been handed over to the Bahadurpura Police Station.
12 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||With pic/ GHMC displays ‘Mosquito Mascot’||GHMC has put up a ‘Mosquito Mascot’ near the entrance gate of its headquarters towards the Liberty side. This is to create awareness on spread of mosquitoes and their control among people and involve them in preventive activities, a statement informed. There is a proposal to display such mascots at important junctions in the city in due course, it said.
12 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sri Krishna Janmasthami||‘Sri Krishna Janmasthami’ was celebrated by the Hare Krishna Movement, Hyderabad, on a grand scale at the Hare Krishna Golden Temple at Banjara Hills on Tuesday. Keeping in view the current COVID situation, devotees were allowed only for general darshan in strict adherence to regulations. All devotees were advised to watch the ongoing festivities on Wednesday also on YouTube channel “Hare Krishna Golden Temple” .
12 August 2020||HYDRERABAD,TELANGANA||State records 1,896 fresh cases, 8 deaths||Telangana’s COVID tally reached 82,647 as 1,896 more tested positive on Monday. Around 18,035 tests were performed on August 10 and results of 959 are still awaited. Eight more COVID-19 patients died, taking the toll to 645. The new 1,896 cases includes 338 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 147 from Rangareddy, 121 from Karimnagar, 119 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 95 from Warangal Urban. Though the highest number of cases have been reported from GHMC, the count continues to drop in the municipal limits and a high number of cases are recorded in other districts. Officials from the Health department had earlier asserted that the cases will decline in GHMC by the end of August. Of the total 82,647 cases recorded till August 10, a total of 22,628 are active while 59374 have recovered so far apart from 645 deaths. A total of 6,42,675 tests have been performed throughout the State so far. Regarding the a,vailability of beds, 3167 oxygen beds and 849 ICU beds were available in the 56 State government hospitals on August 10. In 112 private hospitals, there were 1,221 oxygen beds and 619 ICU beds on offer.
12 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Poor facing eviction in Khammam demand rehab||Perturbed over the imminent threat of eviction in the times of the coronavirus crisis, dozens of poor families inhabiting pucca/temporary houses along the defunct Gollapadu channel in the town are running from pillar to post, seeking alternative housing arrangements and proper rehabilitation. The Revenue department has started serving eviction notices to remove alleged illegal structures along the periphery of the about 4.75-km-long Gollapadu channel criss-crossing the core areas of the town to pave the way for implementation of a modernisation plan to clean up the channel. The decades-old defunct irrigation channel has long been lying in a pathetic condition, clogged with garbage at various stretches in the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) limits. Agitated over the looming threat of eviction amid the pandemic crisis, some aggrieved residents of Pumping Well Road in the town sent a petition to the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC), seeking its intervention to save them from the threat of eviction in these turbulent times. In response to the petition, NCBC member Achary Thalloju decided to visit the areas abutting the Gollapadu channel in the town on Wednesday to make an on-the-spot assessment of the situation and look into the matter. He would hold a review meeting with officials in this regard the same day, sources said. “I received an eviction notice dated August 4 on August 8 to vacate our house located along the Gollapadu channel within a week,” said Veerabhadram, a resident of Pump Well Road. Similar notices were served on hundreds of families living in the areas for the last 40 years, he said, deploring that the move would bring 1,000 families, mostly belonging to weaker sections, onto the streets. “Though the authorities issued pattas to many Velugumatla, they have failed to give physical possession of the plots,” Mr Veerabhadram, who sent a petition to the NCBC over the matter, said.
12 August 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||80 crore fish seedlings being released into tanks: Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that the government was making arrangements to release about 80 crore fish seedlings into tanks across the State and some of the seedlings were already released. Addressing a gathering after releasing 1.76 lakh fish seedlings into a tank at D. Dharmaram along with MLA M. Padma Devender Reddy on Tuesday, Mr. Harish Rao said steps were being put in place to store water in tanks all the 365 days so that there should not be any problem in growing fish in tanks even after rainy season. ‘Support extended’ “The government is extending required support to the fishermen community in the State. So far five crore fish seedlings were released to 1,596 tanks in the district. Arrangements are in place to release fish and prawns into Haveli Ghanapur and Haldi Vagu shortly. Telangana will shortly export fish and prawns to other states,” said Mr. Harish Rao, adding that the government had been extending two wheelers and offering an ex gratia of Rs. 6 lakh for those who died in accidents. Later in the day, the Minister inaugurated Vakuntha Dhamams and grave yards in villages. Joint Collector Nagesh and others were present.
12 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||COVID home isolation kits distributed||District Medical and Health Officer A. Kondal Rao on Tuesday started the distribution of home isolation kits to COVID-19 patients. About 350 kits were handed over to the staff of primary health centres, through which the kits will be delivered to coronavirus-positive patients in their respective localities. 32 PHCs to be covered Within two days, all the 32 primary health centres in the district will be handed over sufficient kits for distribution, officials said. Meanwhile, officials informed that the district has also received 4,500 rapid antigen test kits for increased testing.
12 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||No permission for Ganesh mandaps||In view of COVID-19 protocol, permission to install Ganesh mandaps to celebrate Ganesh Navaratri festivities will not be given, Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath said on Tuesday. The department was conducting awareness programmes to promote safe practices, to curb the spread of infection, and with the same intention mandap permissions would not be given during the present crisis, the Superintendent of Police said. Idol makers, utsav committee members and local organisers should be prepared not to conduct festivities and cooperate, Mr. Ranganath said.
12 August 2020||R. Avadhani,TELANGANA||Atma Nirbhar loans yet to reach street vendors||The Central government has launched a Rs. 20-lakh-crore stimulus package to tide out from the present financial crisis being faced by different sections of the society due to the impact of COVID-19 on the economic front. As part of that, loans are being extended under Atma Nirabhar to the street vendors. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao lunched the programme in the district headquarters on July 18, announcing that this is aimed at bringing life back to normal among the small and marginal traders, particularly street vendors. The district administration had already identified as many as 5,978 small vendors eligible for loans.Under the scheme, a loan amount of Rs. 10,000 is being extended to street vendors, which can be repaid in 12 instalments with an interest rate of seven per cent. However, several issues have been coming up between the proposed loan scheme and the amount extended to the beneficiaries. Several of the street vendors have no registration with the municipal authorities, hindering the process. It is not possible to commence the process unless the vendor gets registered with the municipality. Some of the vendors did not have bank accounts and in some other cases, though they are having accounts, the accounts are not active. Only few of the vendors were able to get loans so far and the officials put the figure at 768 as on Monday. “We have a deadline to complete the target by September 30. But we want to complete it by August 31. Some of the vendors have not registered in the municipality, which we are doing now. Accounts of some of the vendors were not linked with Aadhaar card, a mandatory condition to get loans from the banks. Hopefully, we will complete extending loans before the deadline fixed by our district administration,” Ms. Indira from Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (MEPMA) told The Hindu .
12 August 2020||Tirumala,TELANGANA||TTD yet to take call on annual Brahmotsavams||The Tirumala Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateswara this year are likely to be a low-key affair, with the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) yet to take a final call on their conduct. The nine-day festival is a showpiece event in the TTD’s calendar that witnesses the processional deities of Lord Malayappa Swamy and his two divine consorts being carried on various ‘vahanams’ twice a day through the temple town. Tirumala will witness two Brahmotsavams this year owing to ‘Adhikamasam’. While the first Brahmotsavams are scheduled to be held from September 19 to 27, the second will begin on October 16 and culminate on October 24. Preparations for the festival usually begin months in advance, but this time the lack of activity is conspicuous. Tens of thousands of devotees pour into the ‘mada’ streets to witness the two-time daily processions. With no respite in the spread of COVID-19 cases across the country, coupled with travel restrictions being imposed by several States, the TTD is still to arrive at a decision on the festival while making it clear that public health is of paramount importance. The district authorities imposed a lockdown till August 14to check the spread of COVID-19 in Tirupati. However, a final decision with regard to the conduct of the festival is expected to be taken at a TTD board meeting scheduled for August-end pending approval by the State and Central Governments.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Beckoning the Lord||
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Strict diet, check-ups and away from family||Around 350 Delhi police personnel, who are part of Independence Day celebrations, are quarantined at Police Colony in Delhi Cantonment to avoid getting infected. They are undergoing round-the-clock monitoring, said a senior police officer on Tuesday. The officer said that following the protocols for the Independence Day event, all security personnel who are part of marching contingent and guard of honour at Red Fort will remain in quarantine from August 1 till the event concludes. A policeman in the quarantine centre said that they are under thorough watch with security men deployed at the gate. The entry of any outsider is restricted. “We have strict diet plan and regular medical check-ups are conducted. The vehicle used to ferry us from Red Fort to quarantine centre is sanitised everyday. The drivers and cooks are also staying in the quarantine centre and maintaining high level of hygiene,” said the policeman Tight security Another policeman, who is part of the group, said that after the daily rehearsal ends they come back to the quarantine centre in an official vehicle. They are not allowed to meet outsiders or any family members till the event gets over. “I haven’t met my family for more than a week as we have been instructed not to leave the centre. I regularly see my children and others on video call,” he said. A senior police officer, who is also staying in the quarantine centre, said they keep a strict watch on the policemen. Random COVID-19 tests were conducted recently and all policemen tested negative. All of them have been accommodated as per social distancing rules. Only 20 people are allowed to travel in a single vehicle when going for rehearsal.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Journalist Tandon questioned in connection with Delhi riots||Delhi Police Special Cell on Monday questioned veteran journalist Prashant Tandon in connection with communal riots that broke out in the Capital in February. His mobile phone has also been seized. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Tandon said that he was primarily questioned because he supported the protests against Citizenship (Amendment) Act, National Register of Citizens and National Population Register. The questioning mostly centred around two meetings and a WhatsApp group, he said. The 54-year-old journalist residing in east Delhi said that he was served notice on Friday to appear on Saturday. But as he had prior commitments, he requested for a change to 11a.m.on Monday. Mr. Tandon was interviewed by three officers, including two Inspectors and one Deputy Commissioner of Police, one after the other. He was finally dropped home by the police around 10:30 p.m. WhatsApp groups Talking about the nature of questioning, Mr. Tandon said that the officers asked him about his association with protests against the CAA, many of which he had participated in. “I was part of certain WhatsApp groups… coordination committees. One of the groups was formed by Yogendra Yadav [Swaraj Abhiyan president] and another by activist Rahul Roy,” he said. He added that the officers asked him about how he knew the people who were members of those groups. “The basic questioning was about that [Rahul Roy’s] group”. The journalist said that he wasn’t reading all the messages on the group but was shown a chat on the group from February 27 – right after the riots – which “the officers found problematic as they gave a hint of possibility of violence”. ‘Attended CAA protests’ Mr. Tandon said that he was questioned about two meetings which were held for coordinating the course of action after the CAA came into effect. “I attended protests in Jantar Mantar, and in December two meetings were held to discuss the course of action as activists decided to unite the protests instead of holding scattered protests under different banners. One was at Indian Social Institute and another at Prashant Bhushan’s office to formulate the course of action,” he said. According to Mr. Tandon, Mr. Yadav was present at both the meetings and former JNU student Sharjeel Imam in the one at Mr. Bhushan’s office. “I didn’t know him then. During the meeting, I had suggested that we hold the protests at neutral places and he had suggested that we should also do it after Friday prayers. I had forgotten his name but was reminded when he was arrested in January,” he said, adding that police questioned him about Mr. Imam’s presence in the meeting and who invited him. Mr. Imam has been chargesheeted by Delhi Police in the riots case on charges of sedition, promoting enmity, spreading rumours and under Sections of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Mr. Yadav’s and Mr. Roy’s names have appeared in a few chargesheets filed by police in connection with riots.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Probe non-payment of salaries in DU colleges’||Delhi Teachers’ Association (DTA), a unit of the Aam Aadmi Party, on Tuesday called for a probe by the CAG into the non-payment of salaries to the staff in DU colleges that are funded by the government. While the total funds allotted to these colleges was Rs. 121.82 crore in 2012-13, this year, the fund stands at Rs. 243 crore, said Hansraj Suman of the DTA. The staff of these colleges have been complaining of not being paid salaries for several months. The teachers’ bodies too alleged that adequate funds have not been released to them.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ahead of I-Day, police issue traffic advisory||In wake of the upcoming full dress rehearsal ceremony and the Independence Day celebrations, the police on Tuesday issued a traffic advisory to ensure safe and smooth vehicular movement across the city. According to the advisory, the traffic around Red Fort from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on Independence Day will remain closed for general traffic from 4 a.m. to 10 a.m. and only labelled vehicles will be permitted. Traffic restrictions for the full dress rehearsal on August 13 and for the Independence Day function will remain the same. It also stated that eight roads — Netaji Subhash Marg, Lothian Road, SP Mukherjee Marg, Chandni Chowk Road, Nishad Raj Marg, Esplanade Road and its Link Road to Netaji Subhash Marg, Ring Road from Rajghat to ISBT and Outer Ring Road from ISBT to IP flyover — will be closed for general public from 4 a.m. to 10 a.m. Routes of buses terminating at Red Fort, Jama Masjid and Delhi main railway station will be curtailed or diverted, it said, adding that normal bus service will be restored after 10 a.m. Alternate routes will remain open to railway stations, bus stations and hospitals near the venue of Independence Day function, the police said.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||FIRs filed only against our workers, alleges Congress||The Delhi Congress on Tuesday alleged that the police were filing FIRs against their party workers when they were protesting on the streets but took no action when the same was done by the BJP or AAP members. Delhi Congress Chief Ch. Anil Kumar said the party was shocked to find that FIRs were filed against its workers for hoisting the National Flag at Hauz Qazi Chowk, Chandni Chowk, on August 9 to mark the 78th anniversary of the Quit India Movement.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||Students face similar issues on 2nd day of online exams||On the second day of DU’s open book exams on Tuesday, students continue to face issues with uploading answer sheets, lack of time among other problems. ‘Interface crashed’ Several students complained that the interface crashed towards the end of the examination. Some of them said they were told to submit their papers on the university provided email address but many said they did not receive any acknowledgement of the same. Tanvir Aejaz, who teaches at Ramjas College, called the system a “farce”. “How do you guarantee who is writing the exam...sorting of answer sheets is a gigantic task, will administration do this?” he asked. The university had been warned of issues that would arise from the open book exams, said students’ group — SFI. It also raised the concern of differently abled students, which it said were having a difficult time attending the exams as they had not been provided scribes. The second day of the exam has proved to be the continuation of trauma and agony for Delhi University’s regular as well as correspondence students, said another students’ group, KYS. The students of the School of Open Learning also faced issues as papers in Hindi were not available, the KYS said, adding that apart from this, problems regarding Internet connectivity were also reported.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mob attacks journalists covering story in N-E Delhi||Three journalists were allegedly attacked by a mob in north-east Delhi on Tuesday afternoon while covering a story. The matter has been reported to the police. The journalists identified as Nabila, Shahid Tantray and Prabhjit Singh, reporters with Caravan magazine, were in Subhash Mohalla when the incident took place. Late evening, Mr. Shahid confirmed the incident and said a police complaint was being lodged. Hartosh Singh Bal, political editor of the magazine, said in a tweet: “This is to confirm that 3 of our reporters on assignment, working on stories on the anti-muslim violence in northeast delhi, were surrounded by a mob & manhandled (sic)”. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North-East) Ved Prakash Surya said that an information was received about the incident after which officials reached the spot and rescued the reporters. They were then brought to the police station. The DCP said that they have yet to receive any complaint. A police officer privy to the matter said that the journalists were asking questions to people around a mosque, “which the people didn’t like and got annoyed” following which a scuffle took place. There were seven-eight persons against the journalists, the officer said.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||Hemani- Hookah||A total of 103 persons were arrested when three illegally running hookah bars were busted in Rohini on Monday, the police said. DCP(Rohini) P.K. Mishra said information was received that hookah bars were running in Rohini Sector 8 despite lockdown being enforced after which three bars were identified and raids were conducted.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- brief CAIT||Traders’ body — CAIT— wrote to Union IT and Technology Minister, Ravi Shankar Prasad, demanding a ban on Chinese companies in participating in the 5G network rollout in India. The union said apart from being in line with recent government moves to ban Chinese apps, there was an apprehension of surveillance by Huawei technology.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- brief BJP||The BJP staged a demonstration at the Okhla Jal Board office led by Delhi BJP State Secretary, Vikram Bidhuri, against alleged water problems in different areas of the Tughlakabad Assembly constituency. He alleged that black marketing of water.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||Met says rain likely to continue, bring temperature down||The Met has forecast rainfall in the city is likely to continue for a few more days and that the maximum and minimum temperatures might also fall.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||DJB V-C oversees under-construction underground reservoir||Delhi Jal Board V-C Raghav Chadha on Tuesday visited an under-construction 12.4 ML capacity underground reservoir at Mayapuri and directed to issue show cause notice to a contractor as the work has been delayed by over 14 months.
12 August 2020||Ahmedabad,||Gujarat orders probe into fire at COVID-19 hospital||The Gujarat government on Tuesday said a judicial inquiry will be conducted by a retired judge of the High Court into the fire at Shrey Hospital in which eight COVID-19 patients were killed. The decision was taken after a Gujarat government-appointed two-member inquiry committee submitted its report on Monday. “Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has decided that a retired High Court judge will probe the fire incident at Shrey Hospital so that no person responsible for it goes scot-free,” a release issued by the State government said. The retired judge will be appointed at a later stage, it said. Mr. Rupani earlier ordered a preliminary inquiry into the case by a two-member committee, comprising State additional chief secretary (Home) Sangeeta Singh and ACS (Urban Development) Mukesh Puri. In their report, they said the primary cause of the fire was short-circuit in a medical equipment, which spread in the hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU) in the next three minutes. The report said this was an accidental case of fire. On August 6, eight patients died in the blaze in the ICU ward of Shrey Hospital in Navrangpura area of the city. The fire broke out around 3.30 a.m. on the top floor of the four-storey hospital, a designated facility for treatment of COVID-19 patients. A para-medical staff member of the hospital was injured. After the incident, nearly 40 COVID-19 patients, who were undergoing treatment in the hospital’s general ward, were shifted to the civic-run Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Hospital.
12 August 2020||Ahmedabad,||Jadeja’s wife caught without mask, argues with police||Wife of cricketer Ravindra Jadeja entered into an argument with a police constable in Gujarat’s Rajkot after the latter asked her the reason for not wearing a mask, the police said on Tuesday. The cricketer was driving the car at the time of the incident on Monday night. While he was wearing a mask, his wife Rivaba wasn’t, a senior officer said. The cricketer’s wife had a heated argument with head constable Sonal Gosai when the latter stopped her car at Kisanpara Chowk after noticing that she was not wearing a mask, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Manoharsinh Jadeja told PTI .
12 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||Student dies in road accident||A 20-year-old meritorious student died in a road accident on Monday in Aurangabad area of Bulandshahr. While the girl’s family members alleged that it was a case of harassment that led to the accident, Bulandshahr police said there was no proof of it yet. Sudiksha Bhati had earned a scholarship and was studying at a prestigious U.S. university. She returned to her home town Dadri in Gautam Buddh Nagar before the lockdown and on Monday was going to meet her maternal uncle in Madhogarh village in Jhangirabad area of Bulandshahr when the incident happened. On Tuesday evening, the girl’s father Jitendra Bhati lodged a complaint in the Aurangabad police station wherein no direct mention of harassment was made. He said his daughter went to meet her maternal uncle on a bike with her uncle Satendra and a cousin on Monday. At around 9.30 a.m., two men riding a bike indiscriminately overtook them and deliberately applied the brakes in front of their motorcycle. “Her uncle lost balance and Sudiksha fell down from the bike. She received head injuries and died during treatment,” the complaint said. Earlier Satendra Bhati told reporters that he was driving the motorcycle. “The boys were passing lewd remarks on Sudiksha and were performing stunts,” he said. DM Ravindra Kumar said the harassment angle was being investigated.  Priyanka tweets Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Tuesday attacked the Yogi Adityanth government in Uttar Pradesh over women security and called for zero tolerance for crimes against women. “The incident shows the end of fear of the law in UP and a prevailing atmosphere of insecurity for women.”
12 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||20 test positive in ISKCON temple||The COVID-19 pandemic continued to cast its shadow on Janmashtami celebrations in Mathura as 20 persons tested positive in the ISKCON temple of Vrindavan on Tuesday. District Magistrate Sarvagya Ram Mishra said, “A couple of days ago a devotee, living in the premises and had gone to Delhi, was tested positive. The health officials tested 349 persons living in the temple. Out of those, 20 have tested positive. Most of them are asymptomatic and have been isolated into home quarantine as per protocol.” He told The Hindu that the orders were already in place that no devotee would visit the temples in Mathura-Vrindavan till August 13. “The surrounding areas have also been sealed and are being sanitised.” Mr. Mishra refused to comment on the local media reports which suggested that some devotees had gone to attend the funeral of a priest in West Bengal and had contracted the virus there. A temple spokesperson said the person who had returned from Delhi was asked to quarantine himself but he didn’t. “It spread the virus. The temple has been vacated and those who have tested positive have been asked to stay in isolation. All of them are Indians. None of them is in a serious condition,” he said, adding the senior members were still discussing how the Janmashtami rituals would be carried out in the face of new developments.
12 August 2020||Mumbai,||Aaditya writes to Centre over draft EIA notification||Maharashtra Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray on Tuesday wrote to Union Minister of Environment, Forests and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar, expressing reservations over the draft environment impact assessment (EIA) notification. Pointing out that the notification in its present form fails to align with the Paris agreement and poses a big threat to the goal of achieving sustainable growth, Mr. Thackeray said several environmentally destructive activities such as coal prospecting, crushing and screening of ore, and seismic surveys for oil and gas exploration are exempted from the draft EIA. He claimed, “National parks and wildlife sanctuaries are no longer safe, i.e. appraisal is no longer needed for some B2 category projects to which various hazardous industries (red and orange industries) have been added.” Mr. Thackeray said the draft notification allows granting of ex-post facto environment clearance to project proponents who are in clear violation of the law (clause 22), and are in direct conflict with protecting environment. “The draft EIA report will not be openly accessible to the public, but be made available only on a written request and that too for electronic inspection at a notified place, during office hours,” he said. Mr. Thackeray pointed out that the ecologically sensitive region of the Konkan will be adversely affected if projects are passed without extensive public deliberations. He also turned the spotlight on the Western Ghats, listed in the world’s eight ‘hottest hotspots’ of biological diversity, and said a large part of the Ghats is eco-sensitive areas (ESAs). “The draft EIA notification, however, narrows down the definition of ESAs, effectively excluding villages, forests, wetlands and coasts.” Mr. Thackeray also expressed concern over reducing the role of State governments in decisions related to environment, which could have direct consequences on environment protection efforts. “The draft EIA 2020 gives power to the Central government to appoint State EIA assessment authorities. State governments are more akin to environmental matters because they possess a better knowledge of ecological sensitivities of their local regions. Instead of decentralisation, such centralisation in environmental clearances would only lead to hurdles or clearances without taking into account the local issues. Therefore, reducing State governments’ control will have direct consequences on environment protection efforts,” he said.
12 August 2020||Mumbai,||Uddhav urges PM to cancel final year exams of non-professional courses||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce cancellation of final year university exams of non-professional courses. Participating in a video-conference with the PM — also attended by chief ministers of nine other States which account for over 80% active COVID-19 cases in the country — Mr. Thackeray urged Mr. Modi to announce a nationwide decision on this. Others who participated in the video conference were CMs of Gujarat, West Bengal, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. While informing the Prime Minister on the steps taken by Maharashtra in controlling the spread of COVID-19, Mr. Thackeray also asked him to come up with a national policy on conducting final year university examinations. “Students are the future of this country. We cannot jeopardise their health. I sincerely demand that final year university examinations of non-professional courses be not held. Students should be declared pass by giving aggregrate marks,” he said. Mr. Thackeray told the PM that novel coronavirus has no timeline and there is no clarity on how long the pandemic will continue to disturb everyone’s lives since there is no vaccine or medicine. “How long can we keep students waiting? There is a need to take a nationwide decision on this,” he said. Mr. Thackeray added that it a decision on conducting final year medical examination too was needed. The Maharashtra government has already conveyed to the University Grants Commission (UGC) about its inability to conduct exams due to high numbers of novel coronavirus cases. The ruling Shiv Sena’s youth wing Yuva Sena, supported by Congress and Nationalist Congress Party, has already approached the Supreme Court on this and the next hearing is on August 14. Mr. Thackeray said in the video conference that his government is working on lowering the death rate. “Maharashtra has been absolutely transparent in terms of announcing the actual condition of the pandemic. We did not hide a single case of corona positive patient, neither of any death. People are scared about this disease but at the same time some have to go out to earn living. This is how we are fighting the disease,” he said.
12 August 2020||Mumbai,||Sena questions BJP’s ‘silence’ over Shivaji statue removal in Belgaum||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday said the “silence” of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s devotees in the Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the removal of his statue in Karnataka is worrying, and asked what the use of such “fake devotion” is. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had lauded Shivaji Maharaj in his speech after he performed the ‘bhoomi pujan’ for Ram temple construction in Ayodhya on August 5. Shivaji Maharaj’s statue at Mangutti village in Belgaum district of the BJP-ruled Karnataka was, however, removed “as if the Babri mosque was brought down”, it said, and termed the BJP’s love for the warrior king as pretentious. It also recalled that Maharashtra BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis earlier this year had called for the then Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath’s apology after a bust of the legendary Maratha king was removed in Chhindwara district. Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is not even being condemned, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. “The episode of removal of Shivaji Maharaj’s statue overnight is worrying. More worrying is the silence of Shivbhakts (devotees of Shivaji Maharaj) in the Maharashtra BJP,” it said. The Sena said the BJP would have caused chaos in Maharashtra’s Sangli or Satara (located near Karnataka) in case such an incident had taken place in Karnataka under the Congress’s watch. “But see how silent they are now! What is the use of this fake devotion of Shivaji Maharaj?” it asked. The Sena charged former ally BJP with using names of iconic figures only for political interest. The BJP had claimed blessings of Shivaji Maharaj in the previous elections in Maharashtra, but not a single brick was laid during its rule when it came to the construction of the Maratha king’s memorial in the Arabian Sea, it said. Referring to the August 5 ceremony at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh, the Sena said Mr. Modi remembered Shivaji Maharaj that day from the bottom of his heart. “The Prime Minister bows before Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. But his supporters in Karnataka removed Shivaji Maharaj’s statue during the night. What to make out of this?” it asked. “A ceremony was held in Ayodhya to take Lord Ram in the temple from a tent. But a Ravana-style ceremony of removing Shivaji Maharaj’s statue was held in Karnataka,” the Marathi daily alleged.
12 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||4 of family booked for vandalising hospital||The police have booked four members of a family from Ghansoli for allegedly vandalising Fortis Hiranandani Hospital in Vashi after the death of a 48-year-old relative on Tuesday morning. According to the family members, Suresh Chavan, a vegetable trader at APMC market, died of heart attack as the hospital denied treatment to him citing the reason of unavailability of beds. Akshay Karad (30), nephew of the deceased, said around 2 a.m., he started getting restless and feeling pain in his chest following which they took him to Fortis Hiranandani Hospital. “A doctor told us that he could not be treated there as there were no vacant beds. We requested the doctor to at least check him as he was having chest pain. The doctor agreed to get an ECG done and left while we kept waiting,” he said. Later, Mr. Karad said, a woman came and said that even an ECG could not be done right now and asked them to leave. “As we were leaving, my uncle collapsed outside the reception area and it was then that the hospital authorities rushed him to the emergency and started checking. After some time, they said that he could not be revived and declared him dead.” He said the hospital wasted crucial hours. “We waited for around an hour hoping for a response. When they announced his death, I could not control my emotions and damaged a door.” Mr. Karad along with his cousins Akshay Awhad (25), Siddhesh (21), and Shubham (20) have been booked for assault under the Indian Penal Code and the Medical Protection Act. The hospital, in a statement, said the patient was brought into the emergency room in the early hours of Tuesday and immediately a medical team started assessing him. “While the assessment was under way, his family members enquired about hospitalisation. It was communicated to them that all critical care beds were full. Before we could assist the family with the next steps, the patient collapsed; this occurred within three minutes of the patient’s arrival in the emergency room. Immediately, lifesaving procedures were initiated, and cardiopulmonary resuscitation was administered, but the patient could not be revived,” the statement said. It further said the patient’s family members reacted aggressively to the news of loss of their relative and vandalised the hospital and physically assaulted hospital staff, causing grave injuries. “Presently, our medical staff and front line workers who attempted lifesaving measures to save the patient are intimidated and traumatised with the behaviour of the patient’s family. In order to keep up patient safety and the well-being of our medical and non-medical staff, we have escalated the incident to the police,” the statement said.
12 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Travel to Raigad after Aug. 12 requires COVID-19 test report||Raigad Guardian Minister Aditi Tatkare has urged people visiting the district after August 12 for the Ganesh Chaturthi festival, to come with a COVID-19 test report. “As per instructions from the State government, anyone entering the district before August 12 will have to follow the quarantine rule of 10 days, but after that, a COVID-19 negative report will be compulsory,” Ms. Tatkare added. She said that the quarantine period of 14 days was being brought down to 10 days following requests by local leaders and associations. People travelling to Raigad after August 12 would be required to get an e-pass. “While applying for the e-pass, they will have to upload their COVID-19 negative report. Hence, they would not have to be quarantinedWe request people to give priority to their health and celebrate the festival in a healthy way,” Ms. Tatkare said. The minister has requested the State government to consider an antigen or antibody test for granting the travel permission. “Swab test is a costly affair for many. An antigen or antibody test is comparatively cheaper. We have also requested the State to exempt those who have recovered from COVID-19 and have a document to prove it, from the mandatory testing before travelling to Raigad,” Ms. Tatkare said.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi High Court notice to Centre||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Centre on a plea seeking contempt proceedings against the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change for failing to publish the translated versions of the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification in all 22 languages of the Eighth Schedule. Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva asked the Centre to respond to the contempt petition filed by environmental conservationist Vikrant Tongad while posting the case for hearing on August 17. Mr. Tongad, in his contempt plea, accused the Ministry of “wilful disobediance and deliberate defiance” of the order of the High Court passed on June 30 to publish the draft EIA in the vernacular languages to enable the general public to give their comments, objections or recommendations. “Such a meaningful (public) consultation was not only difficult but nearly impossible due to the disruption caused by COVID-9, and the failure of the Respondents (Ministry) in giving wide publicity to the provisions of the draft notification, as well as the failure to translate the draft into the regional Indian languages,” the contempt plea said. Moreover, the Ministry has even failed to upload the draft EIA in the English and Hindi language on the websites of the State Environment Ministries and State Pollution Control Boards, versions of which languages were already available, the contempt petition added. Previously, the HC had extended the time granted to public for giving opinion on the controversial draft EIA till August 11.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Youth faced several challenges during lockdown’||A majority of the young women who participated in a recent Population Foundation of India (PFI) survey in Bihar, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh reported that they were not able to sufficiently access sanitary pads during the COVID-19 lockdown. Facing the additional challenges of economic insecurity, family clashes and increased domestic chores, more than one in five men and women between the ages of 15-24 reported experiencing depression across the three States during the lockdown. The rapid assessment survey carried out in May collected responses from more than 800 young people in the three States through a questionnaire on a mobile platform. It aimed to assess the challenges to mental and reproductive health faced by adolescents and young adults due to COVID-19. About 22% of young people said they experienced depression due to the lockdown, citing factors such as worry about the lack of job opportunities, delay in completing their studies, family pressure and lack of privacy and isolation away from friends. Young women faced a “double burden” in many instances, said the PFI report, with 51% of girls reporting an increased workload of household and domestic chores in comparison to 23% of boys. The closure of schools, which are a source of menstrual health care for girls, may be a reason why 56% of young women said they had an unmet need for sanitary napkins. The problem was most acute in Rajasthan (73%) and Bihar (55%). In Uttar Pradesh, less than 20% of female respondents expressed this concern. Only 5% of young people were aware about family planning contraceptives being distributed by frontline workers in Rajasthan. In Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, the awareness was above 40%.
12 August 2020||Press Trust of India Mumbai,||11,088 new positive cases take Maharashtra tally to 5,35,601||Maharashtra reported 11,088 COVID-19 new cases, taking its tally to 5,35,601. The number of deaths reported on Tuesday was 256, a State health official said, taking the fatalities to 18,306. The number of recovered cases rose to 3,68,435, with 10,014 patients discharged from hospitals on Tuesday, the official said, adding there are 1,48,553 active cases in the State at present. Mumbai reported 917 new cases and 48 deaths, taking the cases tally to 1,25,224 and the death toll to 6,893. The number of active cases in Mumbai stood at 18,887, he added. Eight new cases were recorded in Dharavi taking the total in the area to 2,634, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. A senior official said 2,295 patients have already recovered from the infection, leaving just 81 active cases in the densely populated slum-dominated area. A total of 1,154 patients were discharged in Mumbai, taking the number of recoveries to 99,147, it said. The maximum city’s case recovery rate stands at 79%, while the average growth rate of cases has fallen to 0.79%, the BMC said. The case doubling rate has improved to 88 days. Pune city reported 928 fresh cases along with 36 deaths, taking its count to 72,640 and the toll to 1,862, the official said. Low-key dahi handi Meanwhile, several dahi handi groups decided to keep Janmashtami celebrations on Wednesday low-key, without human pyramids. Dahi handi will be broken only symbolically, said Bala Padalkar, chief of the Dahi handi Utsav Samnavay Samiti, an umbrella body of over 950 mandals (groups).  Mr. Padalkar said there will be no human pyramids in keeping with the physical distancing norms. “The enthusiasm won’t be the same this year,” he said.
12 August 2020||Beijing,||China extends Hong Kong council’s term||Chinese lawmakers have extended the term of Hong Kong’s Legislative Council by at least a year in order to deal with the vacuum left by postponing the city’s elections, state media said on Tuesday. Hong Kong’s leader said in late July that local elections planned for September would be postponed because coronavirus cases had surged in the international finance hub, a move which infuriated democracy supporters and drew concern from Western governments. The city’s Legislative Council, known as LegCo, will continue to perform its duties “for no less than one year” until the term of the next council begins, reported Chinese state broadcaster CCTV — although the fate of four opposition lawmakers barred from seeking re-election remains unclear. Beijing’s top lawmaking body, the National People’s Congress Standing Committee, had convened a four-day session on Saturday to discuss whether to extend the term of the current Hong Kong legislature — which will expire on September 30 — or to appoint a new “transitional body” to govern the semi-autonomous territory. Election officials had earlier disqualified four pro-democracy legislators, saying their calls for foreign governments to impose sanctions on Beijing and Hong Kong violated the new national security law, which is criticised for eroding the city’s political freedoms. Tam Yiu-chung, Hong Kong’s sole representative in the top decision-making body of China’s parliament, told AFP on Tuesday the resolution to extend the term of LegCo was passed unanimously. However, the resolution did not mention how the 70 incumbent lawmakers would be handled, including four disqualified from running for re-election last month. LegCo president Andrew Leung added that the disqualification of the four lawmakers would apply to the next term, not the extended one. “What’s not mentioned in the resolution is supposed to be handled by the Hong Kong government,” Mr. Tam said. He dismissed concerns that the resolution would technically allow the Hong Kong legislature, which has been dominated by Beijing loyalists, to work in unlimited extension instead of reshuffling members through election. In Hong Kong, 42 pro-Beijing lawmakers issued a joint statement supporting the decision. “The resolution reflects that the NPCSC fully considered the current special situation faced by Hong Kong society and respected the opinion of the Hong Kong government,” the statement said. They also called on “all lawmakers who get to stay” to cooperate and ensure effective operation of the legislature. Pro-democracy lawmakers, however, restated their opposition to the postponement of the election, charging that the vacuum was “fabricated” and that the submission to the National People’s Congress was “unnecessary”, superseding Hong Kong’s constitutional system. ‘Voting rights deprived’ “Around 4.5 million voters’ rights to vote regularly have been deprived. The legislative council... will no longer be authorised by the people,” they said in a statement. Meanwhile, Hong Kongers rushed to buy pro-democracy newspaper Apple Daily on Tuesday in a show of support for its owner Jimmy Lai, who was arrested a day earlier as police rounded up critics of China. A crackdown on dissent in Hong Kong has gathered pace since China imposed the security law in June, with opposition politicians disqualified and activists arrested for social media posts.
12 August 2020||BANGKOK,||In Thailand, students take on the ‘Death Eaters’||Her hair is tucked back with rhinestone bobby pins. Owlish glasses frame her face, and her school uniform is neatly pressed. Benjamaporn Nivas, 15, hardly looks like a rebel. But she is on the forefront of a youth revolt in Thailand against the powerful military’s influence in schools and society in general. Earlier this year, students began protesting strict school rules imposed by past military regimes, such as requiring boys to wear crew cuts and girls to crop their hair at their earlobes. The protests have since grown, taking on graver issues like the disappearance of Thai dissidents. For weeks now, thousands of students, many dressed in demure school uniforms or as pop culture icons (like a Japanese animated hamster), have staged rallies across the country, urging the armed forces and their allies to withdraw from politics and respect human rights. Over the weekend and Monday, more large crowds gathered to support young protest leaders who had been briefly detained, defying warnings from the police that they, too, were breaking the law. “What other countries have these kinds of rules, unless they are dictatorships like North Korea?” said Ms. Benjamaporn, referring to the hair regulations. “They want us to be like robots.” Thailand may project an image of a relaxed holiday destination, where sun, surf and sex intermingle in hedonistic indulgence. But the country is also bound by martial traditions that critics — particularly younger ones — say promote subservience and glorify hierarchies that are ill-suited to modern life. The Prime Minister, Prayuth Chan-ocha, is a former Army chief who orchestrated a military coup in 2014, the 12th successful one since a 1932 putsch ended Thailand’s absolute monarchy. Two other retired heads of the Army are in his Cabinet. Generals drafted the country’s latest Constitution to ensure that the military retained significant power even after elections were held. Mr. Prayuth’s government has intensified efforts to instil obedience among the young. Every morning, students are required to belt out a song exalting 12 Thai values, which include discipline and filial piety. On Children’s Day, they take field trips to military encampments to gaze upon tanks and fighter jets. But rather than fall into line, young Thais have taken to the streets. Harry Potter protest At Democracy Monument in Bangkok last week, young people gathered in Harry Potter outfits that were as whimsical as they were non-threatening. Some clutched chopsticks or batons, raising these makeshift wands to demand that the military stop interfering in politics and society. “Thailand has been dominated by the dark power of the Death Eaters”, read a statement from the student group that organised the protest, continuing the Potter theme. “It is now time for the wizards and muggles of democracy to come out and join forces to protect rights, freedoms and brotherhood and reclaim power into the hands of the people.” Protesters raised hands in a three-fingered salute of defiance from the Hunger Games films, a gesture that was forbidden by the junta that orchestrated the last coup. In June, Ms. Benjamaporn engaged in a piece of performance art in Bangkok that was also a protest. Slumping over in a chair, she had her hands tied behind her back and a pair of scissors in her lap. Duct tape covered her mouth. A sign around her neck asked the audience to cut her hair because its tendrils broke school rules.NY TIMES
12 August 2020||Washington,||Trump leaves media event after man is shot near White House||A uniformed Secret Service officer shot and wounded a man during a confrontation near the White House that led to President Donald Trump being abruptly escorted out of a briefing room during a televised news conference Monday, authorities said. The White House complex was not breached and no one under Secret Service protection was in danger, said Tom Sullivan, chief of the Secret Service Uniformed Division. The name of the man, 51, and his condition were not released by Mr. Sullivan. The District of Columbia fire department said the man suffered serious or possibly critical injuries. Mr. Sullivan said the man had claimed he was armed, moved aggressively toward the officer, and appeared ready to fire before the officer shot him once. Mr. Sullivan did not address whether the man had indeed been armed. Law enforcement officials were trying to determine a motive and authorities were investigating whether the man had a history of mental illness. Mr. Trump had just begun a briefing on the COVID-19 situation when a Secret Service agent escorted him from the briefing room. The President returned minutes later, saying there had been a “shooting” outside the White House that was “under control.” “There was an actual shooting and somebody’s been taken to the hospital,” he said. The President said law enforcement had fired the shots and he believed the individual who was shot was armed. “It was the suspect who was shot,” he said. Mr. Trump said the agent had escorted him to the Oval Office. The White House was placed on lockdown following the incident. An internal review of the shooting by the Secret Service was under way, and the Metropolitan Police Department was also investigating, a standard protocol.
12 August 2020||MOSCOW,||Vaccine forms strong immunity, says Putin||Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Tuesday the ‘Sputnik V’ vaccine for COVID-19 which has got regulatory approval is safe and effective. “I know that it works quite effectively, forms strong immunity, and I repeat, it has passed all the necessary checks,” Mr. Putin told a government meeting. The vaccine is administered in two doses and consists of two serotypes of a human adenovirus, each carrying an S-antigen of the new coronavirus, which enter human cells and produce an immune response. The platform used for the vaccine was developed by Russian scientists over two decades and had formed the basis for several vaccines in the past, including those against Ebola. Authorities hope it will allow the Russian economy, which has been battered by fallout from the virus, to return to full capacity. Kirill Dmitriev, head of Russia's sovereign wealth fund, said Russia had already received foreign requests for 1 billion doses. He said the vaccine also expected to be produced in Brazil. Mr. Dmitriev said clinical trials were expected to start soon in the United Arab Emirates and the Philippines. Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte has said he is willing to participate personally. The approval by the Health Ministry comes before the start of a larger trial involving thousands of participants, commonly known as a Phase III trial. Such trials, which require a certain proportion of participants to catch the virus to observe the vaccine's effect, are normally considered essential precursors for a vaccine to receive regulatory approval. The Moscow-based Association of Clinical Trials Organizations (ACTO), a trade body representing the world's top drugmakers in Russia, this week urged the Ministry to postpone approval until that final trial had been successfully completed. In a letter to the Ministry, it said there were high risks associated with registering a drug before that happened. “It is during this phase that the main evidence of a vaccine's efficacy is collected, as well as information on adverse reactions that could appear in certain groups of patients: people with weakened immunity, people with concomitant diseases and so forth,” it said. Some international experts have also questioned the speed at which Russia approved its vaccine. “Normally you need a large number of people to be tested before you approve a vaccine,” said Peter Kremsner from the University Hospital in Tuebingen, Germany, currently testing CureVac's COVID-19 vaccine in clinical trials.
12 August 2020||KARACHI,||Monsoon rain kills 58 in Pakistan||Three days of heavy monsoon rain that triggered flash floods killed at least 58 people in various parts of Pakistan. Troops with boats were rushed on Sunday to evacuate people from flood-affected districts in the country’s southern Sindh and southwestern Baluchistan provinces. According to Pakistan’s National Disaster Management Authority, 19 people were killed in rain-related incidents in the northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, 12 in southern Sindh province, eight in Punjab province and 10 in the country’s scenic northern Gligit Baltistan region in the past three days. Rain also partially damaged about 100 homes.
12 August 2020||Taipei,||‘Beijing trying to turn Taiwan into next HK’||China is trying to turn democratic Taiwan into another Hong Kong, the island's Foreign Minister warned on Tuesday as he met with a senior U.S. official making a historic diplomatic trip. A crackdown on dissent in Hong Kong has caused alarm in Taiwan, a self-ruled island that Beijing claims as its own territory. Foreign Minister Joseph Wu said Taiwan lives under the constant threat of having its freedoms taken away by China, during a rare meeting with U.S. Cabinet official Alex Azar in Taipei on Tuesday. “Our lives have become increasingly difficult as China continues to pressure Taiwan into accepting its political conditions, conditions that will turn Taiwan into the next Hong Kong,” he said. “The people of Taiwan are all too familiar with dealing with threats, be it military, diplomatic or the threats of epidemics.”
12 August 2020||Wellington,||Virus back in New Zealand after 102 days||New Zealand's dream run of 102 days without locally transmitted COVID-19 ended on Tuesday, prompting a stay-at-home lockdown order for the country's largest city. After receiving global praise for successfully containing the virus, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said four cases had been detected in a single family in Auckland from an unknown source. “After 102 days, we have our first cases of COVID-19 outside of managed isolation or quarantine facilities... We have also planned and prepared for it,” Ms. Ardern said. People received an emergency text that said “if you are in Auckland STAY HOME... and SAVE LIVES”.
12 August 2020||Edinburgh,||Edinburgh, Aug 11, 2020 (AFP) -||Scottish children went back to school for the first time in five months on Tuesday as leaders across Britain try to kickstart a return to education despite a resurgence in coronavirus cases. Pupils will not be required to wear face masks or maintain distancing.AFP
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||A ‘democracy capture’||Brought up during the heyday of the “Congress system”, Yogendra Yadav was first exposed to politics during the Emergency. After several decades as professor, psephologist, politician and activist, he looks back at what he calls India’s first republic, 1950-2019. Why is there an acute crisis in Indian democracy, he asks. How did India end up here? His new book, Making Sense of Indian Democracy , provides some answers. An excerpt:  The current state of Indian democracy is neither just a bad accident in an otherwise perfect journey nor its inevitable destination. The rise of Narendra Modi to power was anything but a freak phenomenon. The Ramjanmabhoomi movement had signalled this possibility 25 years ago. That was foreshadowed by Congress’ victory in the wake of the Sikh massacre and followed by Modi’s victories in the Gujarat Assembly elections, held in the wake of the anti-Muslim pogrom of 2002. We should have known about the dark side of Indian democracy. At any rate, we are no longer now looking at Modi’s victory in 2014 as a single incident: his popularity thereafter and even bigger victory in 2019 is enough to make it clear that we are looking at something deeper than one individual, one election, one incident. At the same time, the victory of a Modi-led BJP was not the only possible outcome of India’s political trajectory. The political logic of Indian democracy, the economic logic of a neo-liberal state, the social logic of a caste system under transformation, and the cultural logic of India’s own modernity still left open several possibilities. Modi’s rise to power in Gujarat, his ascendance within the BJP, and his nationwide electoral victory were not preordained. Plausible counterfactuals come to mind: it is not hard to imagine a very different course of history had the Anna Hazare movement not delegitimised the UPA regime, had the Congress leadership not proved itself so utterly inept, had the Pulwama attack not happened as and when it did. So, I think it is best to see the current crisis of Indian democracy as the outcome of a “democracy capture” that was at once contingent and determined. We need to understand how a political leader seized upon a very difficult chance and converted it into a personal triumph — and how it is that he now manages to do so repeatedly. At the same time, this democracy capture could not have happened without some structural weaknesses within the Indian democratic enterprise. A student of democracy must focus on the conditions that made this kind of capture possible. Challenging old notions Understanding this democracy capture requires rewriting democratic theory. The dominant orthodoxy on democracy presents us with a neat definition of democracy, a universal normative standard which allows every political regime to be pigeonholed into a democracy/non-democracy binary. This is a highly stylised and selective version of what has in fact been the contingent path that democracy has taken in a tiny but dominant part of the globe. Making sense of democracy in most other parts of the world in the twenty-first century demands that this orthodoxy be challenged on multiple grounds. First of all, we need to widen the conceptual apparatus of “democracy” to include diverse ways — languages, idioms, theories — in which democracy has been understood all over the world. Second, it requires enriching the normative standards embedded in the idea of democracy by taking into account the many histories and traditions of democratic thinking across the world. Third, we need to expand the repertoire of institutions, conventions, and practices that go into the making of democracy in societies that are often quite different from each other. And fourth, we need to rewrite the history of actually existing democracies, both in the global north and the global south, to reflect their radically different experiences and trajectories. While challenging democratic theory is a global challenge today — besides Narendra Modi, we live in the age of Donald Trump, Boris Johnson, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and Vladimir Putin — the task is certainly essential if we are to make sense of Indian democracy, for the dominant narrative fails to understand both the successes and the failures of our specific variety of this broad template called democracy. If we go by the dominant understanding of the preconditions of democracy — namely, some degree of affluence, and widespread literacy — India should never have been a democracy in the first place. If we insist on oscillations of power within a muti-party competitive framework, the “Congress system” should not be characterised as democratic. If we stick to the idea of an overlap between the cultural boundaries of a nation and the political boundaries of a state, independent India with its deep diversities should never have survived beyond its first decade and made a transition to a democratic nation state. If we believe in a balance between participatory urge and institutional depth, Indian democracy should not have taken off in the 1960s; and having taken off, it should not have suffered the crisis that it did during the Emergency; and, once its institutional fragility had been as exposed as it was during that episode, Indian democracy should not have survived the Emergency. The rise of identity politics — region-, caste-, and religion-based mobilisation through the 1980s and 1990s — should not have led to a consolidation of democracy. And, once democracy became “the only game in town” and was buttressed by an unprecedented rate of economic growth, Indian democracy should not have faced its worst crisis — the one it faces today. Clearly, students of Indian democracy need a fresh pair of glasses. We need to see the democratic enterprise in India as an open-ended journey. The formal journey began as a joint enterprise: building a self-reliant and self-governing nation, alongside the building of democratic institutions for the new nation. Alternatively, democracy featured as an impediment, as a road block necessitating consultations, procedures, and consensus-building — all resulting in slowdowns that could ignite pre-existing faultlines and lead to explosions. The democracy capture that we face today is one such danger, always lurking round the corner. Excerpted with permission from the publishers
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The future of Indian secularism||Our public discourse is resounding with triumphalism on the one hand, and lament on the other over the death or defeat of secularism. It seems as if the bhoomi pujan has burnt its bodily remains, and if anyone cares to claim it, the ashes of secularism will be buried near a dargah or immersed in the Saryu. As a child of the republic founded in 1950, one part of me wishes to join the lament. But the other part, nudging me to contemplate this moment, asks: does anything in India ever die? Silenced, yes; forced temporarily to go underground, maybe; transmigrate to another bodily form under a different name, possibly. But death? Gone forever? No! Three years ago, on August 6, 2017, I had written, in this very paper — in the article, “Constitutional or party-political secularism?” — that secularism has paid a heavy price in our country for being at the centre of public and political discourse. It has been persistently misused and abused. Distinguishing it from constitutional political secularism, I called this abused entity, ‘party-political secularism’. Respect and critique Constitutional secularism is marked by at least two features. First, critical respect for all religions. Unlike some secularisms, ours is not blindly anti-religious but respects religion. Unlike the secularisms of pre-dominantly single religious societies, it respects not one but all religions. However, given the virtual impossibility of distinguishing the religious from the social, as B.R. Ambedkar famously observed, every aspect of religious doctrine or practice cannot be respected. Respect for religion must be accompanied by critique. It follows that our state must respectfully leave religion alone but also intervene whenever religious groups promote communal disharmony and discrimination on grounds of religion (an inter-religious matter) or are unable to protect their own members from the oppressions they perpetuate (an intra-religious issue). Therefore, and this is its second feature, the Indian state abandons strict separation but keeps a principled distance from all religions. For instance, it cannot tolerate untouchability or leave all personal laws as they are. Equally, it may non-preferentially subsidise schools run by religious communities. Thus, it has to constantly decide when to engage or disengage, help or hinder religion depending entirely on which of these enhances our constitutional commitment to freedom, equality and fraternity. This constitutional secularism cannot be sustained by governments alone but requires collective commitment from an impartial judiciary, a scrupulous media, civil society activists, and an alert citizenry. Advent of opportunism Party-political secularism, born around 40 years ago, is a nefarious doctrine practised by all political parties, including by so-called ‘secular forces’. This secularism has dispelled all values from the core idea and replaced them with opportunism. Opportunistic distance (engagement or disengagement), but mainly opportunistic alliance with religious communities, particularly for the sake of immediate electoral benefit, is its unspoken slogan. Indifferent to freedom and equality-based religious reform, it has removed critical from the term ‘critical respect’ and bizarrely interpreted ‘respect’ to mean cutting deals with aggressive or orthodox sections of religious groups — unlocking the Babri Masjid/Ram temple for puja, and forsaking women’s rights in the Shah Bano case. It has even been complicit in igniting communal violence. This party-political ‘secular’ state, cozying up alternately to the fanatical fringe of the minority and the majority, was readymade for takeover by a majoritarian party. This was accomplished by removing the word ‘all’ and replacing it by ‘majority’: respect only the majority religion; never criticise it, but recklessly demonise others; and ridding the state of the corrupt practice of opportunistic distance not by restoring principled distance but magically abolishing distance altogether. This is untrammelled majoritarianism masquerading as secularism, one that opposes ‘pseudo-secularism’ without examining its own equally unethical practices. Today, Indian constitutional secularism is swallowed up by this party-political secularism, with not a little help from the Opposition, media and judiciary. Yet, I hesitate to pronounce the death of constitutional secularism. Grounded in millennia-old pluralist traditions, it cannot easily be brushed aside. Instead, I prefer the word ‘setback’. Brakes have been suddenly applied to this largely state-driven political project of dealing with inter-religious issues such as communal harmony. It has come to a screeching halt, broken down. Does secularism then have a future? Two crucial moves I suggest two crucial moves to kick-start the discourse and practice of secularism. First, a shift of focus from a politically-led project to a socially-driven movement for justice. Second, a shift of emphasis from inter-religious to intra-religious issues. I invoke the name of two great leaders, B.R. Ambedkar and Jawaharlal Nehru, to make my point. B.R. Ambedkar dispassionately observed that when two roughly equal communities view each other as enemies, they get trapped in a majority-minority syndrome, a vicious cycle of spiralling political conflict and social alienation. This was true in the 1930s and the 1940s. Today, feeling extremely vulnerable, Indian Muslims appear to have opted out of this syndrome. When this happens, the syndrome implodes. The result is neither open conflict nor harmony, simply an exiled existence for Muslims in their own homeland. B.R. Ambedkar also claimed that when communities view each other as a menace, they tend to close ranks. This has another debilitating impact: all dissent within the community is muzzled and much needed internal reforms are stalled. If so, the collapse of the syndrome unintentionally throws up an opportunity. As the focus shifts from the other to oneself, it may allow deeper introspection within, multiple dissenting voices to resurface, create conditions to root out intra-religious injustices, and make its members free and equal. After all, the Indian project of secularism has been thwarted as much by party-politics as by religious orthodoxy and dogma. Europe’s example Here, Europe’s example helps. The fight against the oppression of the church was as much a popular struggle as it was driven by the state. Europe’s secularism provided a principle to fight intra-religious oppressions. Nehru understood this. For him, secularism was not only a project of civic friendship among religious communities but also of opposition to religion-based caste and gender oppressions — an endeavour at the heart of our own socially-driven freedom and equality-oriented reform movements in the 19th century. For the moment, the state-driven political project of secularism and its legal constitutional form appear to have taken a hit. But precisely this ‘setback’ can be turned into an opportunity to revitalise the social project of secularism. Since the Indian state has failed to support victims of oppressions sanctioned by religion, a peaceful and democratic secularism from below provides a vantage point from which to carry out a much-needed internal critique and reform of our own respective religions, to enable their compatibility with constitutional values of equality, liberty and justice. A collective push from young men and women untainted by the politics and ideological straitjacketing of the recent past may help strengthen the social struggle of emancipation from intra-religious injustices. Those who most benefit from upholding these constitutional values, the oppressed minorities, Dalits, women, citizens sick to death with zealotry or crass commercialisation of their faiths must together renew this project. Inter-community relations I am not suggesting that we must hereby ignore inter-religious issues. But having itself produced disharmony, it is surely beyond the capacity of the current state to restore communal harmony. But distance, freedom from mutual obsession, give communities breathing space. Each can now explore resources within to construct new ways of living together. The issue here is not simple retrieval of older, failed modes of religious toleration. The political project of secularism arose precisely because religious toleration no longer worked. Needed today are new forms of socio-religious reciprocity, crucial for the business of everyday life and novel ways of reducing the political alienation of citizens, a democratic deficit whose ramifications go beyond the ambit of secularism.  If a critique of religion is to come at least partly from within, then its idiom must also draw from local religiosities and the multiple languages in which they find expression. A critique purely from outside, one which is not partly immanent. will not work. Nor can popular-democratic struggles be taken over by middle-class vanguardism. However, such struggles too need support from intellectuals. But to be effective, these intellectuals should already have learnt from a wide variety of cultural traditions, both natal and those outside their immediate ambit. Only then will their voice carry weight, and be heard. Rajeev Bhargava is Professor, Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), Delhi
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||India’s population data and a tale of two projections||A new study (https://bit.ly/30JzoKd), published in the highly regarded journal, The Lancet , and prepared by the Seattle-based Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME), has shaken up the world of population policy. It argues that while India is destined to be the largest country in the world, its population will peak by mid-century. And as the 21st century closes, its ultimate population will be far smaller than anyone could have anticipated, about 1.09 billion instead of approximately 1.35 billion today. It could even be as low as 724 million. Readers who follow COVID-19 projections will remember that in March 2020, the IHME projected U.S. deaths from COVID-19 to be around 81,000 by August. Deaths in the U.S. today are more than twice that number. The underlying assumptions for the initial model were not borne out. The IHME population projections are also subject to underlying assumptions that deserve careful scrutiny. They predict that by the year 2100, on average, Indian women will have 1.29 children. Since each woman must have two children to replace herself and her husband, this will result in a sharp population decline. Contrast this predicted fertility rate of 1.29 for India with the projected cohort fertility of 1.53 for the United States and 1.78 for France in the same model. It is difficult to believe that Indian parents could be less committed to childbearing than American or French parents. Until 2050, the IHME projections are almost identical to widely-used United Nations projections. The UN (https://bit.ly/2PGYALh) projects that India’s population will be 1.64 billion by 2050, the IHME projects 1.61 billion by 2048. It is only in the second half of the century that the two projections diverge with the UN predicting a population of 1.45 billion by 2100, and the IHME, 1.09 billion. Part of this divergence may come from IHME model’s excessive reliance on data regarding current contraceptive use in the National Family Health Survey (NFHS) and potential for increasing contraceptive use. Research at the National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER) National Data Innovation Centre by Santanu Pramanik and colleagues shows that contraceptive use in the NFHS is poorly estimated, and as a result, unmet need for contraception may be lower than that estimated by the IHME model, generating implausibly low fertility projections for 2100. Fertility decline Regardless of whether we subscribe to the UN’s projections, or the IHME projections, India’s demographic future contains a peaking and subsequently declining population driven by a sharp reduction in fertility. In the 1950s, India’s Total fertility rate (TFR) was nearly six children per woman; today it is 2.2. Ironically, the massive push for family planning coupled with forced sterilisation during the Emergency barely led to a 17% decline in TFR from 5.9 in 1960 to 4.9 in 1980. However, between 1992 and 2015, it had fallen by 35% from 3.4 to 2.2. What happened to accelerate fertility decline to a level where 18 States and Union Territories have a TFR below 2, the replacement level? One might attribute it to the success of the family planning programme but family planning has long lost its primacy in the Indian policy discourse. Between 1975 and 1994, family planning workers had targets they were expected to meet regarding sterilisations, condom distribution and intrauterine device (IUD) insertion. Often these targets led to explicit or implicit coercion. Following the Cairo conference on Population and Development in 1994, these targets were abandoned. If carrots have been dropped, the stick of policies designed to punish people with large families has been largely ineffective. Punitive policies include denial of maternity leave for third and subsequent births, limiting benefits of maternity schemes and ineligibility to contest in local body elections for individuals with large families. However, as Nirmala Buch, former Chief Secretary of Madhya Pradesh, wrote, these policies were mostly ignored in practice. Aspirational revolution If public policies to encourage the small family norm or to provide contraception have been lackadaisical, what led couples to abandon the ideal of large families? It seems highly probable that the socioeconomic transformation of India since the 1990s has played an important role. Over this period, agriculture became an increasingly smaller part of the Indian economy, school and college enrolment grew sharply and individuals lucky enough to find a job in government, multinationals or software services companies reaped tremendous financial benefits. Not surprisingly, parents began to rethink their family-building strategies. Where farmers used to see more workers when they saw their children, the new aspirational parents see enrolment in coaching classes as a ticket to success. The literature on fertility decline in western countries attributes the decline in fertility to retreat from the family; Indian parents seem to demonstrate increased rather than decreased commitment to family by reducing the number of children and investing more in each child. My research with demographer Alaka Basu at Cornell University compares families of different size at the same income level and finds that small and large families do not differ in their leisure activities, women’s participation in the workforce or how many material goods they purchase. However, smaller families invest more money in their children by sending them to private schools and coaching classes. It is not aspirations for self but that for children that seems to drive fertility decline. In language of the past Ironically, even in the face of this sharp fertility decline among all segments of Indian society, the public discourse is still rooted in the language of the 1970s and on supposedly high fertility rate, particularly in some areas such as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar or among some groups such as women with low levels of education or Muslims. This periodically results in politicians proposing remedies that would force these ostensibly ignorant or uncaring parents to have fewer children. Demographic data suggest that the aspirational revolution is already under way. What we need to hasten the fertility decline is to ensure that the health and family welfare system is up to this challenge and provides contraception and sexual and reproductive health services that allow individuals to have only as many children as they want. Sonalde Desai is Professor of Sociology at the University of Maryland and Professor and Centre Director, NCAER National Data Innovation Centre. The views expressed are personal
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Whither our view of the world?||At this time when every Indian is a self-proclaimed China expert, it is worth tracing the evolution of international relations as a discipline, now 100 years old. Its origin was in the U.K. after World War I as part of the liberal internationalist reaction that also led to the League of Nations. Three University Chairs in Britain were endowed with funds by entrepreneurs who held the view that if dynastic rulers gave way to democracies, hostile alliances and conflict would come to an end. The subject in the U.S. The U.S. soon took up the subject of international relations with its characteristic zeal, identifying its solipsistic interests with those of the world. Once it was clear that isolation was no longer a policy option, U.S. administrations looked for professional advice. The presidents needed their Machiavellis, a role filled by George Kennan, Hans Morgenthau and others, establishing the dominance of realism in the field. Academia in the U.S. post-World War ll came up with concepts like conflict resolution, game theory and area studies, multidisciplinary social research focusing on specific geographic regions or ethnically defined areas, drawing on disciplines such as political science, history, sociology, ethnology, geography, linguistics, literature, and cultural studies. Such research provided a fertile field for the development of databases for use of American academics, and for the ever-expanding U.S. intelligence community. The American obsession to follow the lead of the natural sciences to create a predictive social science of international relations led to a divide between how the subject developed in the U.S. and elsewhere, where the primary aim was to better understand the complexities of international politics rather than attempt to fashion government policy along scientific lines. However, some new concepts emerged, such as non-interference in domestic jurisdiction and internal affairs of other states, and were incorporated into the UN Charter. The end of World War ll and the Charter gave liberals a second opportunity to assert themselves, though the Charter also subscribed to the realist view by giving the Security Council prime responsibility for maintenance of peace and its five permanent members a veto. The field of international relations has increasingly become related to international law, and the current salience of human rights law and humanitarian law renders this necessary. The boundaries of definition have pushed international relations to embrace new territories such as the environment, feminism and post-modernism. The basic question, however, remains: is the concept of a world community a realisable goal or a dangerous illusion? Stanley Hoffman’s opinion of 1977 is relevant: rather than pursue certainty or absolute security, “international relations should be the science of uncertainty, the limits of action, of the ways in which states try to manage but never succeed in eliminating their insecurity”. Think tanks in India The case for non-American voices in the debates coursing through the study of international relations has never been stronger than now. In India, the field of international relations has a much shorter history than 100 years and The Indian Council of World Affairs was the first independent institution with Indian roots. There are now international relations disciplines in many universities under nomenclatures such as area studies and peace and conflict studies, which are nevertheless far fewer than our think tanks.  The Pennsylvania University Diplomatic Courier publishes a league table of think tanks across the world in which the top spot for 2018 is Brookings U.S. While the U.S. tops with 1,871 think tanks, India is second with 509 followed by China with 507. This suggests that in India there is ample funding available for think tanks but not for university departments. When it comes to quality, however, of the first 100 ranked think tanks, the Observer Research Foundation and the Institute of Defence Studies and Analyses are in the top 50. Three more are listed in the next 50 and all five are in Delhi. Such ratings are of dubious value but confirm suspicions about the negligible impact of our think tanks on policy. No nation can compete with the spoils system in the U.S. that enables academics and government officials to move in and out of the decision-making circuit, but the Diplomatic Courier ratings reveal the gulf between the Indian government and academic expertise. Without regard to immediate concerns, the discipline will lose its influence. Raymond Aron and A.J.P Taylor’s impact was due to their public profile. It is important for our international relations specialists to appear regularly in the media to replace the vacuous politicians and the greying tribe of retired diplomats. Krishnan Srinivasan is a former Foreign Secretary
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Just closure||It may seem pragmatic to keep any pending litigation alive until all dues relating to it are paid and all legal issues are settled. However, it is somewhat puzzling that the Supreme Court of India has said it would keep the Italian marines’ case alive until “hefty” and “adequate” compensation is paid by Italy for the killing of two fishermen by its marines on February 15, 2012. The Court has indicated that it would not allow the closure of the trial until such compensation is paid. And it has ordered that the families of the victims be heard on this matter. Once the Union government has declared that it would abide by the ruling of the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) at The Hague, which granted immunity to the marines and favoured Italy as the appropriate jurisdiction where they could be tried for the crime, it does not seem proper to delay the process of bringing closure to the matter. For one thing, the PCA, an arbitral tribunal that adjudicates disputes under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), has itself ruled that India is entitled to compensation for “loss of life, physical harm, material damage to property... and moral harm suffered by” the captain and crew members of St. Antony , the fishing vessel involved, and mandated negotiations on the quantum. Second, it hardly needs emphasis that the pendency of the matter in court should not become a bargaining point that delays the reaching of a fair settlement. Continuing hearings may also be seen as India being reluctant to cease all criminal proceedings against the marines as per the ruling. The Court’s resolve to obtain adequate and hefty compensation for the families of the victims is welcome, though it would be difficult to have a judicial determination of what quantum would satisfy these requirements. The Centre may have approached the top court for formal permission to close the pending trial proceedings as a matter of abundant caution. But as far as the law goes, it could have approached the trial court itself through the public prosecutor for withdrawal from prosecution under Section 321 of the CrPC. Too many legal tangles have already caused enough diplomatic rupture in the progression of the Enrica Lexie-St. Antony case since 2012. Article 253 of the Constitution, which says Parliament may enact a law to give effect to any international treaty or convention, has been cited to argue that in view of the arbitral court’s finding on jurisdiction being in conflict with the Supreme Court’s ruling in 2013 that the Union government alone can try the case, a law may be needed before the trial is closed. This is just needless quibbling as the conflict has ceased after India agreed to abide by the tribunal’s ruling in keeping with its obligations under UNCLOS. India’s focus should now be on negotiating for compensation and ensuring a purposive criminal trial in Italy.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Rajasthan lessons||The crisis in the Congress in Rajasthan that nearly brought down the government led by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has blown over. The group led by Sachin Pilot has reiterated its loyalty to the party, though the stand-off cost him the posts of Deputy Chief Minister and State party chief. The truce is an outcome of the realisation on both sides that their positions had become self-destructive and unsustainable. Mr. Gehlot faced the risk of losing the government, while Mr. Pilot stared at the unnerving prospect of a life outside the Congress. The turmoil in Rajasthan has also been yet another occasion to note with deep concern the tendency of the judiciary to overstep its remit set by law, brazen partisanship of the Governor, and misuse of central agencies to tilt the political balance. The crisis was primarily internal to the Congress, but the Bharatiya Janata Party’s maximalist approach to capture power at all costs was evident. The unseemly power struggle had derailed governance in the State in the midst of a pandemic. Now that a settlement has been reached, the Centre and the State, the Bharatiya Janata Party and all sections within the ruling party must come together to combat the pandemic. The Congress is facing the most severe crisis in its history and it cannot afford any complacency in keeping its house in order. The party is constantly at the receiving end of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s relentless onslaught and in March it lost the government in Madhya Pradesh, which it had won in 2018 along with Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. According to Mr. Gehlot’s own admission, there was no communication between him and Mr. Pilot ever since the formation of the government in 2018. That is a sad commentary on the party. Mr. Pilot has said he resorted to rebellion only after his grievances went unheeded. This brinkmanship might have taught them both, and the party’s central leadership, some lessons for the future. The resolution of the crisis took the intervention of former Congress President Rahul Gandhi, who commands the loyalty of both. He could have resolved it earlier or even preempted the crisis altogether. There is no single model for running a political party, but the nature, history and character of the Congress impel it to be consultative and deliberative in its internal and external conduct. As Rajasthan demonstrated, Mr. Gandhi has a role to play in facilitating this. Mr. Gandhi has been focused on building a critique of the Bharatiya Janata Party and its government but such politics will be effective only when reinforced by a strong organisation. He has strong opinions on what the Congress should ideally be, but he has no option but to start with what it currently is.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||From locker rooms to classrooms||Instances of non-consensual sharing of images online to threaten and shame girls and women have raised serious questions about the mindsets of not only boys but of all youngsters, and their use of social media. Public opinion has pointed the finger at the growing and sometimes nefarious influence of technology. A quick fix of deactivating social media handles or deleting so-called provocative photos is often the most common response to such situations. However, this does not address the real problem. COVID-19 has exacerbated the challenges that women face. The National Commission for Women has reported a surge in domestic violence and cybercrimes, which has made girls and women more vulnerable as they struggle to fight another pandemic of violence and abuse inside their homes and online. Against this background, UNESCO, UNICEF, UN Women, UNFPA and the South Asia Foundation joined hands recently to support Nandita Das in the production and launch of the short filmListen to Her. We hope this will contribute to breaking the stigma around the issue and encourage women to speak up and seek help. Various initiatives Young minds are malleable and therefore a concerted effort must be made to shape positive mindsets at this critical age. As the boundary between the real and the virtual world becomes increasingly blurred, the perceived risks increase. For those looking to prevent and counter cyberbullying, UNESCO’s information booklet, ‘Safe online learning in times of COVID-19’, can also be a useful reference. The booklet, developed in partnership with the National Council of Educational Research and Training, supports the creation of safe digital spaces and addresses nuances of privacy, especially in the current context. We also need to engage with school communities, civil society organisations and governments to define alternatives for pre-existing norms of masculinities. One such initiative, the ‘Action for Equality’ programme, driven by our partner the Equal Community Foundation, has already trained over 130 educators across India on how to engage boys to achieve gender equality through educational interventions. At the core of this initiative is a community-based behavioural change programme designed to provide young boys with the skills and knowledge they need to challenge existing gender norms and take action to end violence and discrimination against women and girls. Many more schools should adopt School-Related Gender-based Violence programmes and curricula, so that conversations can move out of the locker room and emerge as healthy discussions in the classroom. The ground-breaking National Education Policy 2020 provides historic opportunities to shape the educational response to these challenges for decades to come. Ultimately, societies across the world must sensitise children and young women and men towards understanding the repercussion of their choices and guide them towards a more sound actualisation of their own individualities. Message from movements From Riot Grrrl to #MeToo and other actions, it is fairly evident that the global movements towards gender equality and the eradication of violence against women are here to stay and hopefully to grow. One of the most important lessons to be drawn from these movements is that change can be effected through peaceful means when people come together to confront the dominant social norms. Just as the challenges posed by the COVID-19 crisis demand interconnectedness, the challenge of gender inequality too is a battle that cannot be fought in silos. The pandemic is hopefully a gateway between the current world and the next and in our quest to get back to normal, let us reconsider which parts of normal are worth rushing back to. It would be a wasted opportunity if we campaign in poetry but conduct ourselves in prose in Year 1 AC: After Coronavirus. Eric Falt is the Director and UNESCO Representative to Bhutan, India, the Maldives and Sri Lanka
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||China strengthens its sea-arm||Peking is boosting the development of its naval and merchant vessels, in the interests of its national defence. Editorials have recently appeared in the Chinese press calling for vigorous efforts in this direction. Whether this is due to the quarrel with Russia or the realisation that the sea offers new opportunities for expansion is not clear. Communist China already has a large number of warships but many of them are obsolete vessels of Russian origin. In recent years, a considerable effort has been made to develop indigenous skills in the building of submarines, torpedo and missile boats for coastal defence. The latter have a capacity to launch surface-to-surface missiles with a range of 15 to 20 nautical miles. They are modelled on the Russian “Komar” and “Osa” class missile boats. In 1967, it was reported that China had started production of high-speed hydrofoil patrol craft. Another new warship launched in 1968 was a frigate, also based on the Soviet “Riga” type.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||An Echo of Amritsar.||Mrs. Easdon of Amritsar will be remembered as one of those persons who helped in their own way to make history in the Punjab. The search for her by the infuriated mob and her providential escape has moved so many to tearful indignation and opened the purse-strings of many a Memsahib in contribution towards a sword of honour for General Dyer. It was reserved for the Commissioner of the Bombay Corporation to show his sympathy for that unhappy lady in the most practical form. Amritsar being impossible, as reminiscent of too many terrible memories, as a place of residence and evangelisation, he translated her to a Maternity Home in Bombay founded by subscriptions from the Moslem community. The result was a mild breeze at a meeting of the Corporation when vigorous protests were made against the appointment, additional point being lent to them by the fact that the previous incumbent was calmly side-tracked into an honorary and perfectly innocuous supervisorship of the institution. In course of the discussion references were made to Mrs. Easdon’s record and the evidence of Nelly Benjamin was quoted. The latter, it will be remembered, helped at considerable risk to save Mrs. Easdon and she could hardly be considered prejudiced.
12 August 2020||Lisbon,||PSG looks to Neymar||Paris Saint-Germain has once again been hit by a flood of injuries going into a crunch Champions League knockout tie, but this time Neymar is fit and seemingly ready to live up to his status as the world’s most expensive player. PSG faces Atalanta on Wednesday in the first quarterfinal of the ‘Final Eight’. There will be no fans in the Estadio da Luz, but the French champion coped just fine behind closed doors when it beat Borussia Dortmund in its last-16, second leg in March. That night Neymar scored the opener in a 2-0 win as it overturned a first-leg deficit. After the game, the Brazilian sat on a step high up in the stands at the Parc des Princes and shed tears of joy. After all, his first two seasons in Paris following his 222 million-euro ($264 million) transfer from Barcelona were marred by injuries at the worst possible moments. Neymar seems to be in fine shape to lead his team as it looks to progress to the CL semifinals for the first time since the Qatari takeover in 2011. The other superstar forward, Kylian Mbappe, battles to shake off an ankle injury. Angel di Maria is suspended while Edinson Cavani left at the end of June when his contract expired. But as long as Neymar is fit, PSG will remain hopeful. Emotional Atalanta Meanwhile, Atalanta is playing with anger in its eyes and pain in its heart and that emotion could help propel the team from Bergamo beyond expectations. The small city of Bergamo saw more than 6,000 people die due to COVID-19. The Atalanta players have talked about bringing the smiles back on the faces of their supporters. Atalanta reached the last eight winning 8-4 on aggregate against Valencia.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||Nieva wants seven more boxers at NIS camp||Resumption is done and expansion can now follow, said Indian boxing’s High Performance Director Santiago Nieva, revealing that addition of seven more boxers has been proposed at the ongoing national training camp for the Olympic-bound in Patiala. Nine male boxers and a few of their women counterparts are training at the National Institute of Sports (NIS) in Patiala, taking the first step towards a restart amid the COVID-19 pandemic. These include world silver-medallist and top Olympic medal hope Amit Panghal. “We are looking to add seven more boxers, two coaches and a support staff member to this list in the next few weeks. Approval has been sought (from SAI). We are assessing things one month at a time,” Nieva said.  “The boxers who are here are training under the strict health safety protocol given to us and things have been smooth. I can’t give you names but the ones we want included next are second in rankings of their respective categories,” he said. Protocols followed The camp started in the first week of this month after boxers, willing to take the trip to Patiala were quarantined, tested and then allowed to enter the NIS. In between, a controversy flared up when the Olympic-bound duo of Vikas Krishan and Satish Kumar “unknowingly” broke the quarantine protocol. The two have since made Bengaluru’s Inspire Institute of Sports (IIS) their training base and won’t be coming back, despite getting a SAI go ahead, due to the travelling involved. “We are currently able to do 70% of the things that we used to do,” Nieva said of the training regimen in Patiala. Enough for now “As per the SOP (Standard Operating Procedure), we cannot enter the ring or do sparring or pad work. But we can do running, strength training, and lot of (punching) bags. That’s enough for now,” he added. A boxer not able to access the ring, does it feel weird? “Not as of now. May be another three-four weeks and it will begin to feel weird but what to do. We have to be patient. Like the rest of the world, we have to adjust and adapt,” Nieva said.
12 August 2020||Mumbai,||IPL teams to fly out their own net bowlers||Most Indian Premier League (IPL) franchises have decided to travel to the United Arab Emirates with their own net bowlers. Bio-secure bubble intact The move will help teams avoid the bother of finding net bowlers in the UAE and also ensure that the bio-secure bubble remains intact. With the squads set to fly out between August 20 and 23, several franchises are in the final stages of selecting the right candidates. IPL governing council chairman Brijesh Patel told Sportstar that it is not mandatory for teams to travel with an exclusive set of net bowlers. “It’s left to the franchises,” Patel said. “But if they want, they can take the services of the local bowlers as well.” However, Chennai Super Kings and Kolkata Knight Riders are looking to pick eight to 10 bowlers to stay with the team during the tournament. “We want to take a set of our own bowlers, but we are still trying to figure things out. We will take a call soon,” CSK CEO K.S. Viswanathan said. “If we are carrying a group of selected bowlers, we need to ensure they are really good,” a franchise owner said. “It will be difficult to seek replacements later. So, the coaching staff is on the lookout.” While Delhi Capitals is planning to take five to six bowlers, Sunrisers Hyderabad is still in discussions with its support staff. Rajasthan Royals, Mumbai Indians, Royal Challengers Bangalore and KKR — all of whom run academies — will likely have an advantage in terms of the options at their disposal. The net bowlers will be tested regularly before their departure and upon arrival in the UAE.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Captaincy: the most intriguing aspect of the game||There is an old debate in cricket. It involves captaincy. Is it such a specialised job that you pick a player for captaincy alone? Or do you pick the best team and then appoint the captain from within? England seemed to believe — as did India — that captaincy required special skills available only to a few, so traditionally the captain was picked first. But this was essentially a class issue, as it was in India when Maharajahs who could barely play were chosen to lead. Australia, more egalitarian, picked the team first. Former England captain Mike Atherton was a believer in the Australian approach, but England and Australia have occasionally borrowed the other’s method. Before the tour of India in 1979-80, for instance, Australia appointed Kim Hughes captain ahead of the team. Mike Brearley, by common consent the greatest captain of all, was seen as a ‘specialist’ choice, picked for his captaincy. Perhaps, on and off Nasser Hussain too, although that might be unfair to Hussain who in nearly 60 Tests more than Brearley, averaged over 15 runs more per innings. In his last series, Tiger Pataudi was chosen purely for his captaincy — he was finished as a batsman by then. Captain’s focus All these players led when the captain was king, being responsible for everything from net sessions to coaching drills and planning the sharing of hotel rooms. Today teams travel with a big support staff, with batting, bowling and fielding coaches, a chief coach or team director and sundry others. The captain’s focus is exclusively on tactics on the field. Just how power is shared between the captain and his off-field team depends on the relationship between the two. The decisions on the field, however, are the captain’s and if he is poorly advised, then he has to take the blame. The captain’s role might have diminished, but he will rise or sink by the calls he makes on the field. “A captain must instil the will the win; which means both ramming home an advantage and clinging on desperately when up against it,” wrote Brearley in his classic The Art of Captaincy . By apparently failing on both counts in the first Test against England, Pakistan’s captain Azhar Ali has reopened the captaincy debate. For the greater part of the match, Pakistan were ahead. They set England 277 runs to win, not an easy task. Pakistan’s bowling lacked experience. Fast bowlers Naseem Shah and Shaheen Afridi together were younger than England’s Jimmy Anderson. The leg spinners Yasir Shah and Shadab Khan were not handled well — the former kept away from the attack for too long as the final innings progressed, and the latter barely used at all. Still, the best captains rise above such handicaps to stamp their mark on the game. It is when things are going wrong that captaincy skills reveal themselves. Azhar was defensive for too long, refusing to harry the later batsmen with aggressive bowling, seemingly disappointed when there was no sign of reverse swing. Plan B was absent. Or maybe we do him an injustice. What was former skipper and now coach Misbah-ul-Haq and his team doing? Surely during the breaks, they could have passed on messages to Azhar? Or maybe we over-simplify, picking a single thread over the many that went into the tapestry of the match. Measurable? This is an intriguing aspect of cricket, a game where most things are measurable, but no one has worked out how to compute captaincy. Cricket ratings are popular, but captaincy ratings do not exist. We look for intuition, tactical acumen, ability to get the best out of the players — none of which can be quantified. As often in cricket, the simple calculations do not always tell the full story. The best batsman in a series or over a period is not necessarily the one with the highest average, nor is the best bowler the one with the best strike rate. These are indicative, but not conclusive (Don Bradman’s average of 99.94 being an exception, of course!). Captaincy, like leadership anywhere, admits of, as Brearley said, “an incalculable mix of qualities in tension with each other.” In one player the proportions might work to perfection, in another not at all. And what are these qualities? Here’s Brearley: “hard work and letting go, conscious planning and gut feeling, containment and confrontation.” You can add too the instinct to grab an opportunity when it comes, the temperament to impose one’s personality on a game, the spirit to experiment when all seems lost, the confidence to look like a winner and communicate that to the team. Captaincy could well be the most intriguing aspect of the game. Is the captain only as good as his team, or is it the other way around?
12 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennai Super Kings picks net bowlers to travel to UAE||With most IPL teams planning to travel with a set of their own net bowlers to the UAE, Chennai Super Kings has identified at least seven Tamil Nadu cricketers for the job. The three-time champion will take about 10 bowlers, with an equal mix of pacers and spinners. The State seamers include M. Mohammed, J. Kousik and Abhishek Tanwar, who were part of the Ranji side last season. L. Vignesh and Aswin Crist, who is in the recovery phase after stress-fracture surgery, have been included alongside left-arm spinner Aushik Srinivas and leg-spinner M. Abhinav. Another leg-spinner, Sai Prakash, yet to play for Tamil Nadu, is set to join the squad in the UAE. Six-day camp For the six-day camp to be held here from August 15, CSK will have the services of 18-20 local bowlers, including those mentioned above. They will all undergo COVID-19 tests on Wednesday.  All the Indian cricketers, barring Ravindra Jadeja, are expected to attend the camp. The all-rounder is unlikely to travel to Chennai because of personal reasons and will instead join the squad in the UAE. With the TNCA having obtained permission to resume training at Chepauk, the State’s domestic cricketers could begin net sessions once Chennai Super Kings leaves for the UAE on August 21.  For the six-day camp to be held at MAC Stadium from August 15, CSK will have the services of 18-20 local bowlers
12 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||HFC unveils new logo||Hyderabad Football Club, making its second appearance in the Indian Super League, has unveiled a new crest to be used in the upcoming season. Club co-owner Varun Tripuraneni says: “The club’s new logo retains the primary assets of the original crest which showcases a merger of the rich legacy of Hyderabad, it’s contribution to Indian football and the city’s rapidly-evolving modern identity.” He also elaborated on some of the major changes for the next edition, including induction of coach Albert Rica and experienced goalkeeper Subrata Paul, who played 85 ISL matches with a record 28 clean sheets. “The coach has been working on the squad. The player policies will change going forward, the number of foreign players in the squad might reduce and Albert will plan keeping this in mind,” he said.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen, Ding in quick draw||Ding Liren made a sedate start to the third set by taking a short draw with white pieces against Magnus Carlsen following a three-fold repetition of moves in their semifinal clash of the $300,000 Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour Finals on Tuesday. The 22-move draw came after Carlsen sacrificed a pawn early in the game. Ding chose not to be flamboyant by sacrificing his rook for a bishop and an additional pawn. Bouncing back Carlsen, who made a remarkable recovery following the loss of the opening set by racing away to a 2.5-0.5 triumph in the second set on Monday, will have white pieces in two of the next three rapid games. In the other semifinal, Hikaru Nakamura was looking for a straight-set whitewash of Daniil Dubov. After doubling his lead following a 3-1 victory on Monday, Nakamura defended an inferior position in 67 moves in the first game of the third set.  The results: Set Three (Game One): Ding Liren (Chn) drew with Magnus Carlsen (Nor); Daniil Dubov (Rus) drew with Hikaru Nakamura (USA). Set Two: Carlsen bt Ding 2.5-0.5; Nakamura bt Dubov 3-1 .
12 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Boxing official James passes away||D. James, one of the founder members of the Boxing Federation of India and a qualified technical referee, passed away here on Monday. He was 85 and survived by wife, son and daughter. It was James who introduced boxing to the Port city through the Phantom Boxing Club in 1952. He officiated in the 1987 National championship as a referee. James was also a respected coach. VDBA president I. Chittibabu, secretary B. Appanna Reddy and Dronacharya I. Venkateswara Rao expressed their condolences to the bereaved family.
12 August 2020||COLOGNE,||Bruno Fernandes puts United in the last four||Manchester United reached the Europa League semifinals as midfielder Bruno Fernandes scored a 95th-minute penalty to secure a hard-fought 1-0 win over FC Copenhagen after extra time on Monday. Copenhagen dominated the opening half and missed several chances before United moved up a gear in the second, hitting the woodwork twice and forcing a string of superb saves from keeper Karl-Johan Johnsson. Winning strike Fernandes settled the contest when he drilled his spot-kick past Johnsson after Anthony Martial was fouled by Andreas Bjelland. Copenhagen came forward in search of an equaliser but United’s defence, which looked shaky all evening, held out. In the another quarterfinal at Dusseldorf, Inter Milan’s Romelu Lukaku scored and tormented the Bayer Leverkusen defence as he led his side to a 2-1 win. Nicolo Barella put Inter ahead after 15 minutes, driving the ball home after Lukaku’s shot was blocked, and six minutes later the Belgian displayed his strength by holding off defender Edmond Tapsoba before firing home. Leverkusen’s Kai Havertz pulled a goal back for the Germans. Lukaku placed the ball on the penalty spot once in each half only for the Video Assistant Referee (VAR) to overturn both decisions.  The results (quarterfinals): Inter Milan 2 (Barella 15, Lukaku 21) bt Bayer Leverkusen 1; Manchester United 1 (Fernandes 95-pen) bt FC Copenhagen 0 .
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||Mandeep hospitalised after oxygen level drops||Indian hockey team forward Mandeep Singh, who tested positive for COVID-19, has been admitted to a hospital in Bengaluru after his blood oxygen level dropped. But, his condition is stable, the Sports Authority of India (SAI) said on Tuesday. Mandeep and five other national players — captain Manpreet Singh, defenders Surender Kumar, Jaskaran Singh, drag-flicker Varun Kumar and goalkeeper Krishan Bahadur Pathak — tested positive for COVID-19 last week after reaching Bengaluru for the national camp, which starts on August 20. “During night monitoring of vitals on August 10 (Monday) it was found that Mandeep Singh’s blood oxygen level was dropping below normal which indicated that he is moving from mild to moderate severity of COVID,” SAI said in a statement. “SAI authorities took an immediate decision to shift him to hospital,” it added.
12 August 2020||BENGALURU:,||Cricket scholarship programme||The Sports School, in association with Center for Cricketing Excellence (CCE), announced a scholarship programme for students across India. Reputed batsman Robin Uthappa will act as the chief mentor. The cricket scholarship programme will be offered to talented youngsters in the under-14, 16, and 19 age categories. Those selected will receive scholarships covering both sports training and academics. Uthappa, former First Class cricketer Sanath Kumar and The Sports School head coach Nidhuvan Gotadke are part of the selection committee. To apply, visit www.thesportsschool.com . The last date to apply is August 20.
12 August 2020||Dubai,||Broad fines Broad!||England fast bowler Stuart Broad has been fined 15% of his match earnings by match referee and his father Chris Broad for using “inappropriate language” after dismissing Pakistan spinner Yasir Shah in the first Test at Manchester. In addition to this, one demerit point has been added to the disciplinary record of the fast bowler, for whom it was the third offence in a 24-month period, taking his cumulative demerit points to three.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The kings||
12 August 2020||DUBAI,||Emirates CB gets BCCI nod to host IPL||The Emirates Cricket Board (ECB) on Tuesday said it has received the official clearance from the BCCI to host the IPL in the UAE from September 19 to November 10. “We feel extremely privileged to host what could be considered the pinnacle event of our favourite sport,” said the ECB chairman Sheikh Nahayan Mabarak Al Nahayan. “The magnitude of being in a position to bring the IPL to the vast cricket-loving global community, during current events which have greatly impacted our daily lives, is one we take with extreme importance,” he added in his statement. “This is undoubtedly the highest-profile cricket show to be held in the UAE and our team will continue to support all facets (of the tournament) and work toward delivering a successful event for the enjoyment of all sports fans; here in the UAE, in India and across the world,” said Al Nahayan. The IPL will be held at Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Sharjah.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||UTT unlikely to be held this year||The fourth edition of Ultimate Table Tennis (UTT), proposed to be held from August 14 to 31, is unlikely to take place this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. With sporting events yet to start in the country and the International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) not certain about the resumption of professional tour, it was not possible for the organiser 11sports to go ahead with the proposed plan. “You need permissions from the State and central government, check players’ availability and discuss with the ITTF. I see none of that happening in near the future,” said former player and 11sports director Kamlesh Mehta. Wait and watch “We would want it to happen later this year but will have to talk to ITTF for the new dates as we always decide our schedule depending on the world body’s calendar. ”But right now none has any clarity, including the ITTF. We can only wait and watch,” he said.
12 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Veteran sports journalist G.K. Menon passes away||Veteran sports journalist G.K. Menon passed away here on Tuesday. He was 93. Besides working with The Times of India and The Indian Express in a career spanning four decades, Menon was involved in the administration of the prestigious Shivaji Park Gymkhana.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Gita relevant always||The Bhagavad Gita talks of yoga. One of the meanings of the word yoga, is ‘yoke.’ Yoga is what yokes the jivatma to the Paramatma. In other words, it takes the jivatma close to the Paramatma. Yoga also involves thyaga. But what is this thyaga in the context of yoga? To attain something good, we have to give up something. In the case of yoga as spoken of in the Gita, it means that we give up attachment to the fruits of our actions. This is called sattvika thyaga. Although the whole of the Gita indicates to us this fundamental principle of non-attachment to results, it is spelt out crystal clear in verse 66 of chapter 18, said V. Sowmyanarayanan in a discourse. The Lord has already explained to Arjuna the three yogas — karma, jnana and bhakti. He now says while following these paths, one should do so in the spirit of sattvika thyaga. One should not see oneself as the doer. We should see the Lord as our refuge, as the doer of actions. Doing the work assigned to us properly is yoga. Having a balanced mind is also yoga. The Kaurava-Pandava war is about to begin, but at that crucial moment, Arjuna throws down his arms, and refuses to fight. He says that at the sight of his relatives on the opposite side, his limbs have become weak; his mouth has become dry; his body shivers; there is horripilation; his skin burns; he is unable to stand; his mind is confused. Arjuna does not want to fight his own kin. He says he does not want victory, or the kingdom. The Lord points out to Arjuna what his duty is. While we may not be in the same situation as Arjuna, still, there are many moral questions that do arise in our minds from time to time, and the Bhagavad Gita has answers to all these questions. It has relevance for all times.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 11:02 IST,||Sudoku - August 12, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Documentary on Rajamma is an ode to her resilience and independence, says director Sunitha CV||In the midst of sea and fishermen at the Thoothukudi (Tuticorin) fish market, Rajamma stands her ground. Perhaps the only woman buying fish in bulk from the market, the 50-year-old fisherwoman from Cheriyathura, Thiruvananthapuram, is a rarity. Making ends meet  21 Hours of Toil, Travel and Trade, a documentary made on her by Sunitha CV, captures the grit and determination of this woman who has been selling fish since the age of 10. “In those days, we had to walk all the way from the coast to the city, about 20 to 25 kilometres every day. There were no autorickshaws or buses then. My sister and I make ends meet due to the sea’s bounty and so did our parents,” says Rajamma, in the documentary. A day in her life unfolds as the camera follows her, from 3 am to midnight. Speaking directly to the camera, Rajamma, in a matter-of-fact tone, touches upon her challenges, the daily grind and how her children have done her proud. “It is her attitude, resilience and fierce independence that I wanted to highlight in the film. In fact, that is why I made the documentary. Three of her five children are abroad and she had returned from Dubai just before the lockdown,” says Sunitha over a phonecall from her home in Thiruvananthapuram. Once she identified her subject for her first work as director, Sunitha spent a couple of days with Rajamma and her husband in her two-room home in a hutment near the Cheriyathura beach. She wanted to help Rajamma feel at home with the film’s team and also learn more about her before the shooting began. The film opens with Rajamma making her way to an open mini-truck at 3 am. As the truck travels at breakneck speed from Thiruvananthapuram on the West coast to Thoothukudi on the East coast, Rajamma takes short naps. She takes this 200-kilometre journey six days a week to attend the fish auction. According to Rajamma the catch is dwindling in the seas around Thiruvananthapuram due to overfishing and fierce competition has reduced opportunities for independent, small-time vendors like her. Comparing the catch to what was available in her youth, she says that while the quantity of fish has decreased, even the variety of the catch had changed. “Where are the reef cod, the pilchard and the Tongue sole?” she wonders. An ode to resilience Rajamma represents the scores of weather-beaten women who travel from coastal villages to the city by bus, autorickshaws or on foot to sell fish. She says that she insists on cleaning all the fish for customers, although her fingers are not as nimble as they were. She talks about how she has been able to provide education to her children with whatever she earned. The documentary ends with Rajamma resolutely making her way to the truck at 3 am for the trip to Thoothukudi.  Edited by Ajithkumar B, the documentary is a close encounter with women who were once indispensable in the social landscape of Kerala. With fishing banned and social distancing in place, Rajamma has been unable to continue her work. Moreover, her makeshift outlet in the city is also facing opposition from some residents. However, Sunitha says Rajamma is looking forward to resuming her 3 am trips as soon as things become normal again.  It is her attitude, resilience and fierce independence that I wanted to highlight in the film. In fact, that is why I made the documentary.   Sunitha CV Director
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||City banks on plasma banks in COVID fight||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said that plasma banks established by the Delhi government at the ILBS and Lok Nayak Hospitals had provided convalescent plasma to hundreds of patients across hospitals in the city free of cost. Till now, around 710 units of convalescent plasma had been provided by these banks to hospitals, including those administered by the Central and State governments, private and MCD. The first plasma bank was started at ILBS by the Delhi government on July 2 followed by another at Lok Nayak Hospital. Mr. Kejriwal said plasma therapy had shown encouraging results in the recovery of critically ill patients. To date, the CM said, 388 units of convalescent plasma have been issued to patients below 60 years of age. As many as 322 units have been issued to patients above 60, who are at a high risk of getting critically ill. The youngest patient to receive plasma is 18 years and the oldest patient is 94 years. Around 522 males and 188 female patients have been administered plasma therapy, he said. Experts across the world had claimed that plasma therapy could aid the recovery of critically-ill COVID-19 patients following which the Delhi government asked for permission to administer plasma therapy in hospitals from the Centre, the Chief Minister said. All blood groups Convalescent plasma has been provided to patients of all blood groups, including the rare group type AB for which 90 units have been issued, he added. Apart from this, 171 units of A group plasma, 180 units of O group plasma, and 269 units of B group plasma have been provided for the recovery of COVID-19 patients. According to Mr. Kejriwal, various categories of people had come forward to donate plasma. Recovered patients belonging to different professions like police, doctors, nurses, Army officers, and patients in home isolation have donated plasma at the ILBS Hospital, he said. A total of 921 recovered patients have donated plasma at the ILBS plasma bank, including 86 healthcare workers, 209 entrepreneurs, eight media persons, 28 police officers, 50 students, 32 government officials, and 508 people including servicemen, self-employed professionals, non-residents of Delhi, etc. Around 14 recovered patients have donated plasma more than once.  The youngest patient to receive plasma is 18 years old and the oldest patient is 94 years old. Around 522 males and 188 female patients have been administered plasma therapy. Various categories of people had come forward to donate plasma Arvind Kejriwal Chief Minister
12 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Bajwa accuses Punjab DGP of ‘partiality in duty’||Days after the Punjab government withdrew his State police security, Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Tuesday accused Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta of ‘partiality in discharge of his duty’. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh came to the latter’s defence, saying Mr. Bajwa’s personal attack on the DGP was not only misplaced but also against the culture and ethos of the Congress. Asking Mr. Bajwa to write to him (as the Chief Minister and the Home Minister) or to the party high command in Delhi if he had any grudge or complaint against the State government, Capt. Amarinder said, “It reflected the Rajya Sabha MP’s total frustration and desperation, and exposed his own shameless lies in the matter.” Capt. Amarinder also made it clear that withdrawal of the State security to the Congress MP was his decision as the Home Minister, based on the intel inputs from the Punjab police. “If he (Bajwa) does not have confidence in me or my government, why has he not approached the party high command? Does he have no faith even in them,” he asked. Earlier, Mr. Bajwa in a letter to the DGP had alleged that it was due to political interference that his security provided by the Punjab police was withdrawn.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Youth faced reproductive, mental health challenges amid lockdown’||A majority of the young women who participated in a recent Population Foundation of India (PFI) survey in Bihar, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh reported that they were not able to sufficiently access sanitary pads during the COVID-19 lockdown. Facing the additional challenges of economic insecurity, family clashes and increased domestic chores, more than one in five men and women between the ages of 15-24 reported experiencing depression across the three States during the lockdown. The rapid assessment survey carried out in May collected responses from more than 800 young people in the three States through a questionnaire on a mobile platform. It aimed to assess the challenges to mental and reproductive health faced by adolescents and young adults due to COVID-19. Fighting depression About 22% of young people said they experienced depression due to the lockdown, citing factors such as worry about the lack of job opportunities, delay in completing their studies, family pressure and lack of privacy and isolation away from friends. Young women faced a “double burden” in many instances, said the PFI report, with 51% of girls reporting an increased workload of household and domestic chores due to the lockdown in comparison to 23% of boys. Young women were also more likely to report an increase in domestic fights as families were stuck within the home due to the pandemic. Closure of schools The closure of schools, which are a source of menstrual health care for girls, may be a reason why 56% of young women said they had an unmet need for sanitary napkins. The problem was most acute in Rajasthan (73%) and Bihar (55%). In Uttar Pradesh, less than 20% of female respondents expressed this concern. Only 5% of young people were aware about family planning contraceptives being distributed by frontline workers in Rajasthan. In Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, the awareness was above 40%. “Frontline workers need to be equipped with better resources to effectively and continually deliver reproductive health services. Furthermore, to ensure that reproductive health services are not interrupted, there is a need to continually reiterate at the level of public discourse that reproductive health is a fundamental and inalienable aspect of public health, and that its quality delivery is not a choice but a requirement, especially in times of a public health emergency,” said the PFI report. The frontline worker, usually an ASHA worker, was one of the primary sources (49%) of information for young people about COVID-19 symptoms, as well as mental health issues. About 90% of the respondents knew at least two symptoms of COVID-19, followed mask wearing, social distancing and hand-washing norms, and were willing to assist in contact tracing if infected. Information from TV The top source of information about COVID-19 remained television (61%) and press briefings (42%), followed by WhatsApp (30%). Only 6% found information from the Aarogya Setu mobile app, while 11% got information from schools. “There is a need to reimagine educational institutions in a way that fosters deeper connections and interactions with students that are not limited to them being in school or the school being in academic session,” said the PFI report. “One way forward is to explore WhatsApp groups and communities. Training educators to deliver mental healthcare can strengthen a closer interaction between students and educational institutions.”
12 August 2020||kolkata,||Bengal’s medical fraternity shaken as COVID-19 claims 3 doctors in a day||The high mortality rate among healthcare providers infected by COVID-19 has always been a matter of concern in West Bengal but the deaths of three doctors in Kolkata on Monday has shaken the medical fraternity. The three were ophthalmologist Biswajit Mandal, cardiologist Tapan Sinha and general physician Pradip Bhattacharya. Their deaths reiterate that even doctors handling non-COVID cases are equally at risk of getting infected. Also, it is not just the elderly who are at risk, as indicated by the death last week of Dr. Nitish Kumar, a senior resident at the R.N. Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Science. He was only 36, and was set to qualify as a cardiac surgeon. “We all know that the virus will be around for a limited time but the quantum remains unknown and until then, no one can be sure who is next,” said Dr. Saborni Paul, critical-care resident at Bellevue Clinic. Financial assistance The West Bengal Doctors’ Forum, which extended assistance of Rs. 5 lakh to the family of Dr. Nitish Kumar, said 21 doctors across West Bengal had died due to COVID-19. “Three deaths in a single day have shaken the vitality and conviction of all medical personnel. We need to understand that all healthcare workers involved in COVID and non-COVID management are equally at risk of getting infected. The list of COVID martyrs says it all. It is high time that both the Centre and the State government came forward to take care of healthcare professionals. If we get demotivated, the whole system will collapse,” Dr. Kausik Chaki, honorary secretary of the forum, told The Hindu . “Let the government and society come forward to do whatever it takes to keep healthcare professionals motivated. Every healthcare professional must be acknowledged as a COVID warrior and martyrs’ families must get their dues without having to ask for it,” Dr. Chaki said. The forum has demanded the setting up of exclusive level-3 and level-4 treatment facilities for healthcare providers, saying those who treat others should not have to run around for a bed when they are infected. Dr. Paul said, “Healthcare professionals have little choice but to confront the virus head on. The PPEs do provide some protection but the virus appears to be smarter. And so the battle rages, and so far the virus has all the winning scores.”
12 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||Two arrested for assaulting cattle traders||Two cattle traders from neighbouring Nuh’s Ghasera village were brutally beaten up with sticks, slapped and abused at Begumpur Khatola village here on Tuesday. Two persons have been arrested in this connection. Selling buffalo According to the FIR, Adesh, a resident of Begumpur Khatola, called Nasir, the complainant, saying that a buffalo was up for sale, but an altercation broke out between them when Nasir reached the village along with his younger brother to find out that the cattle was already sold. At this, Adesh and a fellow villager Dilbagh started hurling abuses at the duo and beat them up with sticks. Nasir sustained injuries on the head. Nasir, in a video, claimed that he was called on the pretext of selling buffalo and beaten up as a revenge for registration of a case in connection with the attack on Lukmaan. Lukmaan, also a Ghasera resident, was beaten up on July 31 on suspicion of transporting beef in his pick-up truck. “Adesh had been calling us for the past three days to come and buy the buffalo. But when we reached the village, he told us that the cattle was already sold. Later, they took us to a forest and attacked us with lathis saying that why did we report the matter pertaining to the attack on Lukmaan to the police. They said that it was not acceptable that we stayed in their country and lodged cases against them,” said Nasir. Nasir said he had not given any statement to the police regarding attack on him and his brother, but the police registered the case on their own. Muslim Ekta Manch chairman Hazi Shehzad Khan said that police inaction against the accused in the Lukmaan case had encouraged them to again beat up people, pressuring them to withdraw the case. He expressed strong resentment over the rising cases of attack on Muslims and demanded justice. ‘False charges’ Gurugram police spokesperson denied the allegations made by Nasir as “false” and “motivated”. The spokesperson said the altercation between the two parties broke out over sale of a buffalo and the matter was not linked to Lukmaan.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||BJP questions nomination of 14 AAP MLAs to corporations||Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, in a letter to Speaker Ram Niwas Goel on Tuesday questioned the nomination of 14 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs to the three municipal corporations in a break from tradition. ‘Rights overlooked’ At least two Opposition legislators are usually part of the total nominees and the Opposition’s rights had been overlooked in this case, Mr. Bidhuri argued. “Six BJP MLAs belong to the East Delhi Municipal Corporation area. But not one of them was nominated to the corporation. Similarly, no MLA from North Delhi or South Delhi Municipal Corporation was nominated,” Mr. Bidhuri wrote. “It has been an accepted legislative tradition that the post of Chairman of Public Accounts Committee is given to the Opposition. Even this tradition was not maintained and this position was also given to the ruling party,” he also wrote. Legislative traditions Mr. Bidhuri said he hoped the Speaker would “take care” of legislative traditions and rules whether it was a matter of nomination of MLAs in the three municipal corporations or the appointment of the Chairman of Public Accounts Committee.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||MoU signed with IIT-B for smog tower at CP||The Delhi government has signed an MoU with IIT-Bombay and Tata Projects Limited to construct a smog tower in Connaught Place following Supreme Court orders, officials said. The smog tower is a 20-metre-high structure fitted with several air purifiers to clean the air. The Supreme Court had last month hit out at the Centre and State governments for missing the deadline of April 13 for completing the construction of two smog towers in the city. “The smog tower would be completed in 10 months as per the MoU. The government has identified a 45x40 metre land for the tower and land preparation has also been done,” a Delhi government source told The Hindu. The Central government has also signed a similar MoU with IIT-Bombay. The source said that IIT-Bombay will be the technical consultant, NBCC will be the project management consultant and IIT-Delhi will also assist in the project. Drawings will be provided by the University of Minnesota. The MoU signed by the Delhi government is similar to the one done by the Central government and the project is expected to cost around Rs. 19 crore. Clean air To control air pollution, the Supreme Court on January 13 ordered the Delhi government to build a Smog Tower at Connaught Place by April 13. On the same day, the court also ordered a smog tower to be installed in Anand Vihar by the Central Pollution Control Board in the same time. But work is yet to begin and even the MoU was not signed till the Supreme Court stepped in last month. On July 29, the SC threatened contempt action against IIT-B on learning that the premier institution has opted to pull out of a court-ordered project to instal the smog tower.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||Treat plea against firm selling ‘Corona Oven’ as representation, says HC||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the government to treat as representation a petition seeking to restrain a company from selling its product ‘Corona Oven’ which claims to sterilise household items and consumables from COVID-19. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked the government to expeditiously decide on the representation after giving a hearing to all the parties, including the company. Reuse PPE kits The petition filed by Green Dream Foundation, an NGO, said ‘Corona Oven’ claimed to sterilise PPE kits so that they can be reused by medical personnel while treating COVID-19 patients. ‘Corona Oven’, on its website, claims to use ‘chemical-free multi focal UV light exposure covering the item from multiple sides inside the chamber, including the bottom’ for the sterilisation process. The NGO said ‘Corona Oven’ is sold as a product approved from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore, which has no such mechanism to grant such certificate to any such product. UV radiation “In response to query raised by the NGO, Surya Sarathi Bose, Associate Professor, IISc whose report is flaunted by the company to show that the product has been approved by IISc said he only tested the product’s UV radiation inside the oven and it was an internal document not to be used for publication or advertisements,” the plea said. The NGO asked for direction to the government to evolve a proper mechanism for testing, launching, certification for such products which claims themselves to kill COVID-19 virus or sterilise products.
12 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Confidential’ report on Assam Accord released||Some members of the Centre’s high-level committee on implementation of Clause 6 of the Assam Accord on Tuesday made their ‘confidential’ report public because of the government’s ‘disinterest’ in processing their recommendations. The Clause that ended the anti-foreigners’ Assam agitation from 1979-1985 envisages constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards for protecting, preserving and promoting the cultural, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people. “The government has been sitting idle on the report that we submitted more than five months ago. We finally decided to put it in the public domain as the people have the right to know,” said Samujjal Kumar Bhattacharya, chief adviser of the All Assam Students’ Union (AASU). The AASU had spearheaded the agitation. Some of its leaders are in the 14-member committee on Clause 6 headed by retired judge Biplab Kumar Sharma. The committee had on February 25 submitted the report to Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal for handing it over to Union Home Minister Amit Shah. “We do not know where the report is, whether or not it has reached Delhi. We believe the issue is being neglected,” Mr. Bhattacharya said in the company of AASU leaders and panel member Nilay Dutta, advocate general of Arunachal Pradesh.
12 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM seeks package to fill revenue deficit||With a surge in COVID-19 cases and 50% revenue decline in the first quarter of this fiscal in Punjab, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday sought from Prime Minister Narendra Modi a liberal financial package for States to fill the deficit caused by the pandemic, and also flexibility on pandemic-related terms of expenditure in the State Disaster Relief Fund. During a videoconference the Prime Minister had with some Chief Ministers, Captain Amarinder said the current cap of 35% in the SDRF for the pandemic-related expenditure, as per the MHA guidelines, is not sufficient to meet the current requirements. Citing the State’s rising cases — 24,891 with 604 deaths — the Chief Minister also urged the PM to review the UGC decision on mandatory exams for exit classes to be held by September 30. Punjab may not be able to conduct exams in September as it may be facing its peak at that time, he said, suggesting promotion on past performance and internal assessment, with an option to take improvement exams later. He also sought the Central government assistance for online school education, especially for poor children of Classes 10 and 12.
12 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Israel AI-based technologies to help tackle COVID-19||As a part of Israel-India cooperation to fight the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, (AIIMS), Delhi, which has treated around 5,500 patients till now, has received state-of-the-art AI-based technologies and high-end equipment from the Embassy of Israel here on Tuesday A release issued by AIIMS noted that Ambassador of Israel to India Ron Malka formally handed over the high-end equipment and technology solutions to hospital director Randeep Guleria. Effective work The technologies include an AI video-oriented, voice-operated autonomous personal AI assistant robot, an app that can be installed on any mobile phone of the COVID-19 staff which makes the work of the hospital staff inside the COVID-19 departments much more effective and easier. It also includes innovative products designed to give clinicians constant contact-free access to patient’s vitals like heart rate and respiratory rate which improves patient safety with contact-free, continuous patient monitoring, a 12-hour disinfection product called CPD that stays active and continuous to protect the surface against new attacks of contamination. It also has a non-invasive remote-patient monitoring system which aids as a preliminary screening tool of respiratory indicators of suspected COVID-19 patients and recovering patients and AI-based software for ultrasound use and designed specially to fight COVID-19, as per a release issued by AIIMS.
12 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram to open places of worship||The Gurugram district administration has allowed opening of all religious places from Wednesday onwards, coinciding with the “Janmasthami” celebrations. In compliance with the directions of Additional Chief Secretary, Home, the district administration has allowed worship in all religious places in Gurugram, subject to operators of shrines complying with certain conditions, including maintaining social distancing, crowd management and enforcing the wearing of face masks among the devotees.
12 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC for transfer of Tablighi Jamaat cases||The Delhi High Court on Monday ordered transferring a batch of cases pending against various foreign nationals, who had participated in the religious congregation in Nizamuddin here, to Saket district court for being decided expeditiously. Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani ordered that the chargesheets be transferred from different trial courts in the Capital to the Saket district court. The foreigners said they have already admitted their guilt in the FIR lodged by the Delhi police. However, they are not able to fly back to their respective countries due to look out circulars being opened against them in other FIRs related to the same offence.
12 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||MLA performs surgery to save woman||A Mizoram MLA’s gynaecological background helped a pregnant woman in Mizoram survive a critical surgery. C. Lalhmangaihsangi in a Champhai district village was going through labour pain and bleeding on Monday. To make things worse, the only doctor at the district hospital in Champhai town was on leave due to ill health. “I happened to be in town... I volunteered to help her deliver through the C-section as soon as I heard about her complications,” said Z.R. Thiamsanga, a gynaecologist with 30 years of experience who represents the Champhai North for the ruling MNF. “The woman and her baby are both fine,” the MLA said on Tuesday.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Tricolour to the rescue||
12 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||NE States wary of reopening schools||Assam and her northeastern neighbours are wary of reopening educational institutions from September as the COVID-19 cases continue to increase in most the States with the death tally in the region crossing the 200 mark by Monday evening. Assam led the table with 151 deaths followed by Tripura 43, Manipur 12, Nagaland eight, Meghalaya six, Arunachal Pradesh three and Sikkim one. Barring Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram and Tripura, the number of infected people has been increasing. But the officials prefer to look at the falling “rate of positivity”.
12 August 2020||August 12 2020 00:00 IST,||film review||
