12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Slum population most at risk, says ICMR||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Thursday released the results of the first sero-survey on COVID-19 spread that stated that the urban slum population was most vulnerable to the spread, followed by urban settlements. The ICMR asserted that the country is not in the community transmission phase. “The ICMR has calculated that compared to rural areas, the risk of spread was 1.09 times higher in urban areas and 1.89 times higher in urban slums. The infection fatality rate is very low at 0.08%,” ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said at a press meet. The sero-surveillance study, conducted in 83 districts covering 28,595 households and 26,400 individuals by the ICMR along with other agencies in May, also reveals that 0.73% of the population surveyed showed evidence of past exposure to SARS-CoV-2.  India on Thursday overtook the United Kingdom to become the country with the fourth highest incidence of COVID-19. With a spike of 11,000 new cases, the tally rose to 2,97,928, which includes, 1,42,715 active cases. The death toll rose to 8,497, a jump of 392 from the previous day. According to the country-wise tally maintained by Johns Hopkins University, the total cases in the U.K. stood at 2,92,854.
12 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State records one death, 83 new cases and 62 recoveries||Kerala reported 83 new cases, 62 recoveries and one death on Thursday, taking the total number of active cases to 1,258 (one case is absconding) and the number of deaths to 18. While it is indeed a consolation that the number of new cases are being stabilised by a good number of recoveries, the fact that 19 out of the 83 new cases are through local transmission is something that cannot be easily discounted. More alarming is the fact that five of these cases have been reported in health-care workers. Those who contracted COVID-19 through local transmission by contact with a known/unknown source of infection include four sanitation workers of Thrissur Corporation and four headload workers in a warehouse, again in Thrissur. Briefing the media, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that COVID-19 would not be disappearing any time soon and that even experts had no idea when the intensity and extent of disease transmission would go down. Of the 83 new cases, 27 cases were diagnosed in persons who had come from abroad, while 37 cases were found in persons who had come to Kerala from other States. A 70-year-old male who had been confirmed as having COVID-19 and was undergoing treatment died in Kannur on Thursday. He had returned to Kerala from Oman on May 22 and had been suffering from serious liver disease. Thrissur tops Thrissur accounted for 25 of the new cases, Palakkad 13, Malappuram and Kasaragod 10 each, Kollam 8, Kannur 7, Pathanamthitta 5, Kottayam and Ernakulam 2 each and Kozhikode 1 are the other districts. The cumulative number of cases in the State is 2,244, with 967 recoveries. The State has put 2.18 lakh plus people under surveillance and quarantine, with 1,922 persons with mild symptoms being isolated in hospitals across districts. The rest are in home or institutional quarantine. The number of samples tested on Thursday alone was 5,044. The State has tested a total of 1,03,757 samples, apart from 27,118 samples which were tested as part of sentinel surveillance. Mr. Vijayan said the State had been conducting antibody serology surveillance amongst select high-risk groups in the population using rapid antibody test kits since Monday and that according to the available information, the State did not have much cause for alarm. He said the contact transmission was being kept at minimum levels because of the intense vigil maintained by the government and society. Two new regions in Palakkad entered the hotspot list, while 35 regions were dropped from the list on Thursday. The total number of hotspots is 133 now.
12 June 2020||SALEM,||Nothing to hide on COVID-19 deaths: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday denied any attempt by the government to under-report COVID-19 deaths in Tamil Nadu. “There is nothing to hide regarding deaths due to COVID-19, and they cannot be covered up,” he told reporters in Salem, following allegations of inconsistencies in the number of deaths recorded by the Greater Chennai Corporation. “Today, if someone dies due to COVID-19, everyone comes to know about it and it cannot be hidden. Deaths reported in government hospitals and statistics on mortalities due to COVID-19 in private hospitals are collected and reported,” Mr. Palaniswami said. ‘Will stay shut’ Indicating that places of worship would not be opened for the public any time soon, the CM pointed out that requests for the closure of religious places were being raised in States like Kerala and Delhi, which had permitted public entry to such places. The government was taking decisions based on advice from medical experts, he said. Asked if COVID-19 tests would be increased, Mr. Palaniswami, citing statistics, said that Tamil Nadu had so far tested over 6.09 lakh people. “Doctors say that deaths are higher among persons with co-morbid conditions,” he said, reiterating that the mortality rate was the lowest in Tamil Nadu when compared to the rest of the country. Mr. Palaniswami said that the primary responsibility of the government was to treat and cure persons affected by the disease. The government had made all arrangements in this regard. “In Salem alone, 2,000 beds have been arranged to treat affected persons and things are in a state of readiness to increase bed strength to 5,000. We have the most number of ventilators in the country, about 3,384 devices. The government has appointed healthcare workers as required,” he said. ‘No community spread’ The CM insisted that there was no community spread in the State and as far as Chennai was concerned, the spike in numbers was on account of its population density and narrow lanes. “During the R.K. Nagar byelections, we saw 30 houses in just three-ft-wide lanes. If one or two persons test positive here, it can spread to others. This is a new kind of viral disease and a drug has not be found for it. Healthcare workers are dedicating themselves to saving us from COVID-19 and it is only due to their expertise and experience that over 19,000 persons have been cured”, he said. Appreciating the efforts of all departments involved in COVID-19 prevention, Mr. Palaniswami insisted that the disease was under control in all districts and persons coming from other States were being tested and provided treatment at hospitals. Mr. Palaniswami on Thursday inaugurated the 7.87-km two-tier flyover here and named it after former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. He also announced that a 1.28-km flyover on the Salem- Bengaluru Highway near AVR roundabout would ber called Puratchi Thalaivar M.G.R. Flyover.
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||IIT-Madras top institution in govt. ranking||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Madras, is the country’s best in the field of higher education, according to the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) released on Thursday. The Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, stands at the second place, followed by IIT-Delhi. Under the universities category, the IISc topped the list, followed by Jawaharlal Nehru University and Banaras Hindu University. While Delhi University has dropped out of the top 10, all the best colleges are affiliated to it: Miranda House got the first rank in the colleges category, followed by Lady Shri Ram College for Women and Hindu College. ‘A subjective parameter’ These rankings come a day after the QS World University Rankings showed that India’s best — including the IISc and most IITs — have slipped in the global lists. This is due to the high weightage given to the perception parameter in most international rankings, Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said at the NIRF release. “The global agencies give us a lower ranking due to ‘perception’, which is a subjective parameter, and I do not agree with it,” he said. The NIRF, which was launched by the HRD Ministry in 2016, gives higher weight to parameters such as teaching and learning, student and faculty strength, use of financial resources, research papers and patents and graduation outcomes. Keeping in mind the social responsibility aspect of education in a developing country, there is a unique provision to judge institutions on inclusivity and outreach measures, including gender, geographical and socioeconomic diversity and the welcoming of differently abled students. “90% of the parameters in NIRF are completely objective and fact-based, while only 10% is based on the subjective parameter of perception by academic peers and employers,” Mr. Nishank said. Acknowledging that Indian institutions struggle on the “internationalisation” parameter in global rankings, he expressed confidence that the NIRF ranking will reach a point where international institutions will want to be included in the Indian ranking system rather than vice versa. The three best engineering institutions are all IITs, with the Madras, Delhi and Bombay institutes making up the top three in that order. The Indian Institutes of Management at Ahmedabad, Bengaluru and Kolkata took the top positions in the management category. National Law School of India University is the best for studying law, while the IIT-Kharagpur is the best place to study architecture, according to the NIRF.
12 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Last eligible ‘foreigner’ freed from detention||Siddeque Ali is unlikely to be the last ‘declared foreigner’ in any of Assam’s six detention centres. But on Thursday, he became the last to be released from the only detention centre in Barak Valley as the beneficiary of a Supreme Court order. A declared foreigner, or DF, is a person marked by any of the 100 Foreigners’ Tribunals (FTs) in Assam for allegedly failing to prove their citizenship after the State police’s Border wing marks him or her as an illegal immigrant. Mr. Ali, 69, an illiterate daily wager, was picked up by the Border police from his residence at Hatikhali in Dima Hasao district on June 5, 2018, and lodged in the Silchar detention centre in the adjoining Cachar district. It was too late when he learnt that an FT in Dima Hasao headquarters Haflong had on April 20 that year declared him a foreigner in a one-sided verdict. He was accused of not responding to a notice the Border police had pasted on the wall of his house, a notice he could not read. ‘Died every day’ “It is difficult to believe I am free, alive. I had died every day all these months in trying to find out what my crime was,” Mr. Ali said after walking out of the Silchar Central Jail with his wife Rabeya Begum. The jail houses the Silchar detention centre. The other five – Dibrugarh, Goalpara, Kokrajhar, Jorhat and Tezpur – are also in as many jails. Inspector-General of Prisons Dasarath Das said 339 DFs have been released from the detention centres till June 10 since an April 13 Supreme Court order requiring the conditional release of all DFs who had completed two years in captivity. The Silchar detention centre now has only four DFs. They will complete two years in 2021. “More than 95% of those dumped in detention centres are Indians. But the foreigner-declaring industry has to harass people to justify the expensive set-ups,” said Silchar-based social activist Kamal Chakraborty, who had facilitated couple’s journey home to be with their two children.
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID-positive sub-inspector cremated 8 days after death||Eight days after his death, the body of a Delhi police sub-inspector whose post-mortem tests confirmed COVID-19 infection was cremated by his family on Thursday. The family alleged the policeman waited for hours outside a super speciality hospital before being admitted. He died within an hour. Sub-inspector Ramlal Borghare, a resident of Kirari, was attached to the legal cell in west Delhi’s Rajouri Garden. On June 2, his son Akash (24) and wife took him to MGS Super Speciality Hospital in Punjabi Bagh where they were told to get a COVID-19 test done. After failed attempts at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital and Golden Tulip Hospital, the family approached MGS Hospital again, which relented and set a June 3 test date. The next day, the family said they paid Rs. 4,500 for the test. “After a two-hour wait, they cited a government order prohibiting private labs from conducting COVID-19 tests and returned the money,” said Akash. By then, Ramlal had fainted while waiting outside in a car. Akash alleged that despite being taken to the emergency, no one attended to Ramlal for half an hour. A while later, he was declared dead. The next day, Ramlal’s body was sent to the mortuary of Sanjay Gandhi Hospital. On June 6, Akash’s mother Sarita filed a complaint of medical negligence against MGS Hospital and wrote to the health department a couple of days later for a board to conduct Ramlal’s post-mortem. Subsequently, a board of doctors at Lady Hardinge Medical College was asked to ascertain if there was any medical negligence. The COVID-19 test was conducted on June 9 and Ramlal confirmed as positive the next day. “This is how a Delhi police officer was treated. He died waiting for treatment. We couldn’t perform his last rites in time, his body had started to decompose,” said Akash, adding that his father’s colleagues helped his family but the “system failed us”. A senior officer said legal action will be taken depending on the board’s findings. No response came from MGS Super Speciality Hospital till the filing of this report.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Changes to Karnataka Land Reforms Act to allow non-agriculturists to buy farmland||In a significant change to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, the State Cabinet on Thursday decided to allow non-agriculturists to purchase agricultural land and to remove the ceiling on income from non-agricultural sources to do so. It has also decided to increased the number of units of land a person can hold. The government has decided to repeal Sections 63 (a), 79 (a), (b) and (c) in the existing legislation to enable these changes. The Congress government, led by Siddaramaiah, had amended the Act in 2015 and increased the income limit from non-agricultural sources to purchase farm land from Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 25 lakh. The income limit was fixed to prevent the misuse of farmland. Interestingly, the BJP, then in the Opposition, had opposed the Bill saying it would defeat the very purpose of the Land Reforms Act. Briefing the Cabinet decisions, Revenue Minister R. Ahsok and Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said that amendments to the existing Act will be made during the next session of the State Legislature and it would enable any person to purchase farm land to start farming activities. Currently, Section 63 (a) of the Act imposes a ceiling of 10 units for a five-member family. This ceiling will be removed to enable a family to possess 20 units for a five- member family. The ceiling will be increased from 20 units to 40 units for a family having more than five members, the Ministers said. A few months ago, to give a pro-industry push, the B.S. Yediyurappa-led government had amended the Act allowing acquisition and conversion of agricultural land for industrial purposes within a 30-day time frame and the Opposition Congress had strongly opposed it. More recently, the government also allowed the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act, which also saw opposition. The Ministers defended the move sayin that Land Reforms Acts have been amended in other States and non-agriculturists have been buying lands. High-salaried IT/BT professionals of Bengaluru and other cities have been buying land in neighbouring States owing to flexible laws there. The proposed changes in the Act will enable them to invest in agricultural land in Karnataka too, they said.  The proposed changes will help farmers get good price for their land. Also, keeping in mind the land dispute cases in courts, it was decided to bring in changes in the Act, Mr. Ashok added.
12 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM orders stricter lockdown on holidays||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered stricter lockdown on weekends and public holidays, with movement to be restricted to e-pass holders. The directions came amid apprehensions of community spread of COVID-19 and projections that the pandemic peak in the State is still two months away. All citizens, except medical staff and essential service providers, would have to download e-passes from the COVA app, the Chief Minister said during a videoconference. He also asked medical and health experts to consider imposition of strict conditions, including mandatory testing certification, for entrants from Delhi, where the situation has assumed alarming proportions. A decision on stricter curbs on those coming from Delhi would be taken after a review by experts, a spokesperson said after the meeting. “Industry, however, will be allowed to function normally on all days,” said Capt. Amarinder during the meeting, and asked Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta to ensure strict implementation of these directives to prevent gathering of large crowds.  Delaying the peak The Chief Minister said tough measures were necessitated on account of the spiralling COVID-19 cases across the world. “Stringent curbs could help delay the peak for as long as possible,” he said. Pointing out that many of those who came from outside had behaved irresponsibly and not reported to the health authorities, the Chief Minister said tough measures would have to be taken where needed, as the spike was still continuing and was expected to escalate in the days ahead. The Chief Minister suggested that since it normally takes 3-4 days for the COVID-19 symptoms to show, those coming from outside should be tested after a week.
12 June 2020||JAIPUR/ NEW DELHI,||Cong. rushes to guard its flock in Rajasthan||The ruling Congress in Rajasthan on Thursday shifted all its MLAs and Independent legislators supporting the government, to a private resort on the outskirts of Jaipur ahead of the June 19 Rajya Sabha elections. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot alleged that the BJP was making “lucrative offers” of crores of rupees to the Congress legislators to change sides. With the first signs of trouble in Rajasthan on Wednesday, the Congress sent party observer Randeep Surjewala and All India Congress Committee Rajasthan in-charge Avinash Pande to Jaipur by a special flight to interact with the MLAs. Mr. Gehlot convened a meeting at the luxury resort in the evening, as the ruling party charged the BJP with attempts to destabilise the State government. The MLAs were asked to stay put at the resort till the polling day for Rajya Sabha elections, but party insiders claimed that there would be no restrictions on their movements. Mr. Surjewala said the repeated disregard of public mandate had become the BJP’s character and added that its attempts to topple the Gehlot government would not succeed. ‘Nefarious designs’ Speaking to presspersons outside the resort. Mr. Pande, while expressing confidence in the government’s stability, alleged that the BJP was indulging in its “nefarious designs” for the past two months. Huge amounts of money had been transferred to the State for making lucrative offers to the Congress MLAs, he alleged. “What the BJP is doing is a mockery of democracy. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, they are plotting the fall of governments in the Opposition-ruled States. After Karnakata, Goa, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, they have turned their attention to Rajasthan,” Mr. Pande said.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,||State reports three more deaths, 204 new cases||Karnataka recorded three more deaths owing to COVID-19 on Thursday taking the toll to 72 [apart from two deaths owing to other causes]. The total number of positive cases mounted to 6,245, with 204 new cases reported on the day. This includes total discharges of 2,976. While two Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) patients, aged 35 and 60, died in a designated hospital in Bengaluru, a 28-year-old female Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) patient died in Raichur on June 8. Her samples tested positive and was recorded in the bulletin on Thursday. While these were the official figures, sources claimed that there were six deaths in Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru alone since Wednesday. Among the new cases, Yadgir reported the highest with 66 cases. All of them are Maharashtra returnees. Udupi followed with 22 cases, 20 of which are Maharashtra returnees. Bengaluru Urban saw 17 cases of which six are ILI patients. The city’s cases included a 23-year-old pregnant woman, a 22-year-old prisoner, and a 25-year-old woman who was delivered of a child on June 9. Worrying trend A worrying trend in Bengaluru Urban has been its death rate of 3.95% — the highest in the State among the districts. The State’s average rate is 1.15%.
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Economic recovery path still uncertain: CEA||Economic growth this year will depend on when recovery begins, as it is now uncertain whether that will happen in the second half of the year or be delayed to the next financial year, Chief Economic Adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian said. “At the beginning of this financial year, in April when we were in the first few weeks of the lockdown, we had estimated growth to be at 1.5-2% this year, and that was conditioned on a V-shaped recovery in the second half of the year,” he told mediapersons on Thursday. “What is uncertain now is whether that recovery will happen in the second half of the year or will it happen next year. Actual growth, therefore, will really depend critically on when the recovery happens” His comments came a day after global ratings agencies S&P and Fitch forecast a contraction of 5% in the economy this year, although they predicted a sharp recovery to record 8.5%-9.5% growth next year.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,||No pre-recorded classes||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Thursday said that all online classes, including pre-recorded ones, should be stopped for students up to class 5 for the time being. He said that a decision on pre-recorded classes will be taken after a committee submits its recommendation. This is a departure from the earlier position that pre-recorded classes, on the lines of what was being conducted on DD Chandana, were allowed. Meanwhile, many schools continued to schedule online classes as the department has not issued an order to schools yet.
12 June 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi sees biggest spike in new cases||The Capital witnessed the biggest single-day spike in the number of COVID-19 cases with 1,877 new cases being reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 34,687, said a government health bulletin. Also, 101 more deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 1,085. All the deaths did not happen in the past 24 hours. Of the total cases, 12,731 people have recovered and there are 20,871 active cases. A total of 2,71,516 tests have been conducted so far in the city and 16,241 COVID-19-positive people are in home quarantine. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said 2,015 more beds have been ordered to be made available in private hospitals and they will be ready in the “next two to three days”.
12 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Work near home facility proposed for IT sector||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday proposed “work near home” facilities with seamless high-bandwidth internet connection for Information Technology (IT) sector employees forced to work from home due to the pandemic. He also suggested that companies create “work-sharing benches” to pool the resources of workers. Revenue loss The IT sector in Kerala had registered a revenue loss of Rs. 4,500 crore in the past three months. The Planning Commission had estimated that the industry would lose at least 26,000 direct and 80,000 indirect jobs in the next quarter. The economic collapse in the aftermath of the global lockdown had run software start-ups and medium and small IT companies to financial ruin, the Chief Minister said. The government would waive the rent of IT parks and prompt banks to infuse more funds to revive the sector. Kerala had no option but to create a knowledge-based economy if it were to generate employment, produce wealth, power innovation and drive manufacturing in a precarious post-COVID-19 world, he said. K-Fon project The State would edge closer to the goal with the commissioning of the Kerala Fibre Optic Network (K-Fon) in December, he said. The Rs. 1,500 crore Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board-funded project promised to provide high-speed internet access to the State’s population.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Low-key monsoon||
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||NLSIU tops in law category||The National Law School of India University (NLSIU) has claimed the top spot in the law category in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) released on Thursday. The institution had retained its earlier ranking. However, the Indian Institute of Management Bangalore (IIMB), in the the management category, slipped by one position to come in second.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||State records 1,875 new cases||With 1,875 COVID-19 cases, Tamil Nadu’s tally surged to 38,716 on Thursday. The State’s toll rose to 349 with 23 more deaths. Chennai reported an all-time high of 1,407 cases, taking its tally to 27,398.Page 2
12 June 2020||COIMBATORE,||Govt. to procure more oximeters: Minister||The State government will procure more pulse oximeters, a device used to monitor oxygen saturation level, for the treatment of people with COVID-19, said Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Thursday.
12 June 2020||Noida,||Woman’s death: hospital director shunted out||The director of a government-run hospital, one of the seven facilities that had denied admission to a pregnant woman leading to her death last week, has been shunted out, an official order said on Thursday. Anish Singhal, director, ESIC Hospital, Noida, has been transferred to ESIC’s Directorate (Medical) in Delhi.
12 June 2020||Balrampur (U.P.),||Body removed in garbage van, officials suspended||The body of a man, who collapsed and died outside a government office in Balrampur, was removed in a garbage collection van, prompting the district administration to suspend seven, including three policemen, officials said.
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Over 40 released convicts rearrested in fresh cases||The police have rearrested over 40 persons who were recently released from jail in an attempt to decongest prisons and maintain social distancing, said officials. The convicts were arrested from different parts of Delhi for allegedly committing new crimes, said a senior officer.
12 June 2020||KALABURAGI,||Star Air flight to Mumbai on Saturdays||Star Air will commence flight operations from Kalaburagi to Mumbai via Bengaluru and Belagavi, from Saturday. Initially, Star Air planned to operate on Saturdays on an experimental basis. Booking for the flight scheduled on Saturday has started. Kalaburagi Airport Director Gyaneshwar Rao said that Star Air OG-118 flight will leave Kalaburagi airport at 10.20 a.m. and reach Bengaluru at 11.25 a.m. The same flight, numbered OG-105, will reach Belagavi airport at 1 p.m. and Mumbai airport at 2.40 p.m., numbered as OG-111.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Home quarantine for those going to pvt. labs||The Greater Chennai Corporation has made it compulsory for those undergoing tests in private labs to stay at home, along with the rest of the family, till the results are known. The private labs in the city have started uploading test result data on a real-time basis.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Police personnel fight crime and COVID-19||The pandemic is wreaking havoc in the rank and file of the police force. According to senior officials, in less than a week, as many as 10 policemen have tested positive for COVID-19.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Monsoon has covered entire State: IMD||The southwest monsoon covered entire Karnataka on Thursday, according to the Meteorological Centre Bengaluru. The State had two back-to-back normal monsoons and is likely to have a normal monsoon season this year too, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,||BMTC employee tests positive; depot sanitised||In a first, an employee of the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday night. He was attached to Depot 24, Dooravaninagar, near K.R. Puram, which has since been sanitised.
12 June 2020||Erode,||Decision soon on quota in medical admission||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will soon make an announcement on providing exclusive reservation in medical college admission for government school students who clear NEET, School Education Minister K A Sengottaiyan said on Thursday.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,||‘No plan to intensify lockdown conditions’||The State government has no formal proposal before it currently on intensifying lockdown conditions in Chennai and three neighbouring districts, a top government official clarified. But, he added, it may have to consider, sooner than later, the option of allowing only essential services in the city.
12 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||With 175 cases, Hyderabad records surge||The fatalities remained in single digits across the southern States except Tamil Nadu with Telangana reporting nine deaths, Karnataka three and Kerala and Andhra Pradesh registering two each. With 83 new cases, the total number of active cases in Kerala now stands at 1,258 and over all fatalities at 18. Of the new cases, 27 were among those who had come from abroad while 37 were persons returning to the State from parts of the country. The cumulative case total was 2,244, with 967 recoveries. A 70-year-old COVID-19 positive man, who was under treatment died in Kannur. He had returned to Kerala from Oman on May 22 and had serious liver disease. Thrissur accounted for 25 new cases, Palakkad 13, Malappuram and Kasaragod 10 each, Kollam district eight cases, Kannur seven, Pathanamthitta five cases, Kozhikode one while Kottayam and Ernakulam reported two cases each. The State had over 2.18 lakh people under surveillance and quarantine, with 1,922 persons with mild symptoms isolated in hospitals across districts. Krishna hotspot Krishna, the second worst-hit district in Andhra Pradesh, reported 25 fresh cases, followed by Kadapa with 24 cases in Andhra Pradesh. The State Health Department said 135 of the 182 cases were locals and 38 were migrant workers. The two deaths in the last 24 hours occurred in Krishna and East Godavari districts and the overall toll rose to 80. The State overall tally went up to 5,429 cases. Of these 2,968 patients had recovered and 2,381 active patients are under treatment. Meanwhile, the State completed testing five lakh samples on Thursday. 2 deaths in Bengaluru Karnataka’s death toll went up to 72, with three more deaths, apart from two deaths of COVID-19 patients due to other causes. With 204 new cases, the total number of positive cases mounted to 6,245, including 2,976 person who have been discharged after treatment. While two ILI patients, aged 35 and 60, died in Bengaluru, a 28-year-old woman SARI patient died in Raichur on June 8. Her samples tested positive and were recorded in the bulletin on Thursday. While these were the official figures, sources claimed that there were six deaths in Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru alone since Wednesday. Bengaluru Urban saw 17 cases of which six are ILI patients. A worrying trend in Bengaluru Urban has been its death rate of 3.95% — the highest in the State among the districts. The State’s average rate is 1.15%. Among the new cases, Yadgiri reported the highest with 66 cases, all of whom had returned from Maharashtra.  Rising trend in TN Tamil Nadu’s overall tally surged to 38,716. The death toll in the State rose to 349, while 1,372 persons were discharged taking the total number of recoveries to 20,705. Continuing the rising trend over the past week, new cases in Chennai touched 1,407 cases and the city’s total case count climbed to 27,398, while it accounted for 279 deaths. A total of 13,808 persons were discharged till now, while 13,310 were under treatment in the city. The increase in the number of positive cases continued in Chengalpattu. The 127 fresh cases took the district’s tally to 2,444.Of the 23 deaths, 21 persons died in government hospitals. Four of the deceased were in their 40s.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijayawada and Chennai)
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Time to make bold decisions, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday reiterated his call for using the current crisis to make Indian self-reliant. He said it was time to make bold decisions and investments to set up a globally competitive domestic supply chain, and not have a conservative approach. Speaking at the annual plenary of the Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC) via videoconferencing, he said it was time to “pull the Indian economy out of the ‘command and control’ mode and take it to a ‘plug and play’ mode.” While the nation was putting up a brave front, along with the entire world, in the current COVID-19 crisis, it was also facing challenges due to disasters such as locust attacks, hailstorms, oil well fire, series of mini earthquakes and cyclones. but such difficult times have made India more resolute. ‘Turning point’ “...Every countryman is also now filled with the resolve that this adversity is to be converted into an opportunity, we have to make it a big turning point for the country. What is this turning point? Self Reliant India,” he said. Self-reliance had been an aspiration of every Indian for years. But still it had remained just a wish, he added. ‘Minimise dependence’  “Self-reliant India campaign simply means that India should minimise its dependence on other countries. How can things, which the country is forced to import, be made in the country and how can India become an exporter of such goods. We have to work fast in this direction,” said Mr. Modi. There was need to change the trend of buying the same goods, which were made by small businesses, handicrafts makers and self-help groups within India, from abroad. “This is the time to recognise the opportunity, to test ourselves and to move towards newer heights. If this is the biggest crisis, then we need to take big learnings from it and take full advantage of it. I assure you that the government is fully committed to this,” the PM added.
12 June 2020||New Delhi,||Lion census method outdated: experts||An outdated methodology and the true mortality from a virus affecting India’s lions dent the credibility of the Gujarat government’s claims on its lion population. On Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar tweeted results of the 2020 Asiatic Lion Census that put the number of lions at 674, a 28% rise from 2015. A wildlife biologist who closely works with the Union Environment Ministry on wildlife surveys said that the canine distemper virus (CDV) that killed at least 36 lions in Gir, Gujarat in 2018 had not ebbed. This was in spite of the government inoculating lions with an imported vaccine. “There have been more deaths from the virus since January but no data about these have been shared,” the biologist said. Yadvendradev Jhala, senior scientist at the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), an autonomous organisation of the Union Environment Ministry, said the Gujarat government uses a 100-year-old method to count lions that would not “stand the scrutiny of contemporary science”. This approach, called the Direct Beat Verification or Block Count method, involves officials from the State wildlife department laying stake at watering holes across the animals’ territorial range. Fewer personnel This year, from June 5-6, department officials monitored the numbers of the lions. In normal years, alongside these forest officials, there would be independent experts and observers from non-governmental organisations. This year, the process involved 1,400 personnel. Normally, about 2,000 persons would be involved and the monitoring would be done over two days. The reduction in number of people involved was due to travel restrictions imposed for the pandemic. Dr. Jhala said that newer methods such as camera trapping and identifying lions based on permanent marks on their body, and statistical estimates based on the animals’ predatory patterns and numbers of their prey base — all of which were used to count tigers — were more scientifically precise. In a research paper published in PloS One in February, he and colleagues, based on a survey in Gir, identified 67 individual lions from 368 sightings. “Using photographs and other markers, we can reliably identify individuals but we have been never allowed to do a census. I have been trying for 15 years. With the current methods and the fact that lions can range as much as 700 sq. km., you can both grossly under count or over count,” he said. An official from the Union Environment Ministry’s wildlife division said, “Camera traps are not yet suitable for lions as they don’t have clearly discernible permanent physical features, unlike in tigers, which have unique stripes. There are lots of ideas but going ahead, we will consider newer methods that are practical. The CDV was an issue in 2018 but this year, we haven’t yet got any report of such deaths,” the official said. H.S. Singh, a member of India’s National Board for Wildlife and an expert on Gir lions estimates 26 lions to have succumbed to CDV this year. “The virus is endemic in livestock and periodically infects lions so only large-scale vaccination of livestock can help. However, I don’t think it significantly decreases the population. That 60% of the lions are outside the protected area and increasing is a more serious issue.”
12 June 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai clocks 97 deaths for second day||Mumbai clocked its highest tally of 97 deaths for the second consecutive day on Thursday, pushing its total fatalities to 1,954. The city recorded 1,418 cases, taking the tally to 54,085. Of the deceased, 63 were men and 34 women and nearly 65 had co-morbidities. Civic health officials clarified that 43 of the deaths were from last week and were being updated now. From 3.2% in the end of May, the city’s case fatality rate has now jumped to 3.6%. The number of fatalities has rapidly increased in June with an average of 61 deaths daily. 675 deaths in 11 days The city has lost 675 lives in just 11 days of this month. The surge in fatalities has been a cause of concern, and doctors have mainly attributed it to the lack of immediate access to critical care beds. Over the last several days, the city’s Intensive Care Unit beds have shown 99% occupancy. Officials said the positive cases had hit a plateau and the difference between the active cases and discharges was narrowing quickly. On Thursday, the city had 27,915 active cases and 24,209 recoveries. Mumbai’s average daily growth rate of cases now stands at 2.82%. Dharavi reported 20 new cases on Thursday, pushing the tally to 1,984. Of these, 914 cases are active. Two more deaths have been added to Dharavi’s tally, which now stands at 75. G North ward that consists of Dharavi has the highest number of cases in Mumbai at 3,618. Two city wards crossed the 3,000-mark on Thursday, including E (Byculla) and F North (Matunga, Wadala). There are now five city wards with more than 3,000 cases each. R North ward (Dahisar) is growing the fastest when it comes to case growth rate. It is growing at 6% followed by P North ward at 5.6%. Disposal of bodies After media reports of bodies of COVID-19 patients lying in KEM Hospital’s morgue, Mayor Kishori Pednekar said on Thursday, “There are only seven bodies in the morgue that are there since relatives have not come forward. Only one body has been kept for three weeks while the rest are more recent. The Municipal Commissioner has assured me that he will take up this matter with the Police Commissioner since the BMC cannot do anything in this matter. It is up to the police to dispose of these bodies.”
12 June 2020||New Delhi,||Efforts on to resolve LAC situation at earliest: MEA||A day after China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) announced that India and China had reached an accord on the tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Thursday said the two sides were committed to resolving the situation “at the earliest” in an effort to ease tensions between their troops at several points. Referring to Saturday’s military talks, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said that the “meeting [of Corps Commanders] was in continuation of the diplomatic and military engagements which both sides have maintained to address the situation in areas along the India-China border.” “It was agreed that an early resolution of the situation would be in keeping with the guidance of the leaders,” he said. MFA spokesperson Hua Chunying, echoing a statement issued the day before, said on Thursday, “Diplomatic [and] military channels [on] the two sides are properly handling relevant issues with effective communication, have reached consensus and based on that consensus both are taking actions to ease the situation.” The remarks in New Delhi and Beijing came a day after military commanders at the Major General level on both sides met at the LAC in Eastern Ladakh in one of a series of talks planned between them aimed at resolving the stand-off at five identified “conflict points”: Patrolling Points 14, 15 and 17 (at Galwan), the North bank of Pangong Tso and Chushul. ‘Partial disengagement’ Indian government sources have said that they have been able to effect a “partial disengagement” at some of these points, which includes a reduction or “de-induction” of some forces on both sides. However, at its weekly briefing, the MEA did not confirm these details officially, and said only that the two sides were engaged in resolving the situation “at the earliest”. Mr. Srivastava said, “The two sides are maintaining their military and diplomatic engagements to peacefully resolve the situation at the earliest as also to ensure peace and tranquillity in the border areas. This is essential for the further development of India-China bilateral relations”. While both sides are engaged in ground level military talks to resolve the tensions, defence sources confirmed that there has been troop mobilisation in various sectors of the LAC beyond Ladakh in Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh over the last one month. As reported earlier, China had mobilised troops closer to the border in Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh in addition to the ingress into areas patrolled by India, apart from a major build-up of infrastructure and equipment on their side of the LAC. The Indian Army too had moved additional troops forward in all these locations as a precaution, the sources said. However, the sources clarified that the build-up of troops on both sides preceded the talks at the Corps Commander level. After that there had been partial disengagement, the sources stated.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Confusion prevails as two Ministers differ on online classes||Confusion and chaos prevailed on Thursday over the issue of extending a ban on online lessons for students up to class 7 in Karnataka, with two Ministers in the State expressing divergent views on the subject. The ban is currently in place for students up to class 5. While Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy announced, after the Cabinet meeting, that they had decided to “ban” online classes till class 7, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar announced later that “no decision was made in this regard” and and some Ministers had only “suggested” that the existing ban be extended. ‘Only a suggestion’ Briefing presspersons earlier in the day, Mr. Madhuswamy said online classes will be banned till class 7 and that the Cabinet decision had been taken keeping in mind the challenges faced by students in rural areas. However, two hours after Mr. Madhuswamy’s announcement, Mr. Suresh Kumar tweeted that the State government had decided to stop all online classes for LKG, UKG and classes up to class 5. To extend this up to class 7 was “only a suggestion from few Cabinet ministers, as expressed in an informal discussion, and not a decision,” he said. Clarification “My colleagues felt that the ban should be extended to class 7. There was a misunderstanding that it was a decision taken. But we want to clarify that no such decision has been taken and we will take a decision only after the expert committee submits its recommendation,” he explained in a release. Department officials, later in the day, also stated that an order in this regard would be sent to schools shortly and the ban on online classes would be restricted only to students up to class 5. This is the second instance of an apparent mix-up in Cabinet briefing by Mr. Madhuswamy. In an earlier instance, had spoken about a “ban” on entry of people from five States with a high incidence of COVID-19. He later retracted it to say that the State had only requested the Civil Aviation Ministry to reduce the number of flights from high-incidence States.
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India reiterates civilisational and cultural ties with Nepal||As Nepal prepared to vote on Saturday for a new map amid the Kalapani territorial dispute, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Thursday reiterated India’s civilisational ties with Nepal. The Ministry’s official spokesperson, Anurag Srivastava, refused to respond to Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli’s comments condemning Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s remarks warning Nepal of long-term consequences of its assertive policies. “We have already made our position clear... India deeply values its civilisational, cultural and friendly relations with Nepal. Our multi-faceted bilateral partnership has expanded and diversified in the recent years with increased focus and enhanced Government of India's assistance for humanitarian, development and connectivity projects in Nepal,” he said. The vote in Nepal’s Parliament for the Second Constitutional Amendment, which will give legislative support to the new map, has seen extensive discussions. On Thursday, sources in Kathmandu said the final round of discussions was expected to be followed by voting in the Lower House on Saturday. The official spokesperson said the report on international religious freedom for 2019, published by the U.S. Department of State, was a document produced for the domestic audience. He said other countries did not have the right to criticise India on religious freedom. The Indian official also hit out at Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s social media posts, offering help to the poor Indian households facing economic distress because of the COVID-19 pandemic. “I am ready to offer help and share our successful cash transfer programme,” he had said. Mr. Srivastava pointed to the alleged corruption cases against Pakistan’s leaders and said the country was better known for cash transfer to banks abroad. “We all have known about their debt problem and how much they have been pressed for debt restructuring. It would also be better for them to remember that India has a stimulus package as large as Pakistan’s annual GDP,” Mr. Srivastava said.
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||U.P., Delhi, Telangana seek rail coaches for isolation||Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Telangana have requested the Railways for coaches modified into COVID-19 isolation wards. While Uttar Pradesh has requisitioned at least 240 coaches, Telangana has asked for 60 coaches and Delhi 10 coaches. “As per the guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, a few State governments have sent the requisition to the Indian Railways. The Railways has allocated these coaches to the States/Union Territories,” the Railways said in a statement. These coaches can be used for very mild cases that can be clinically assigned to the COVID care centres as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. “These coaches can be used in areas where the State has exhausted the facilities and needs to augment capacities for isolation of both suspect and confirmed COVID cases,” the Railways said. 5,231 coaches modified These facilities are part of the integrated COVID plan developed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the NITI Aayog. The Railways has modified 5,231 coaches into COVID care centres. Trains with a unit composition of 10 coaches and a patient capacity of 16 per coach have been made ready, it said. Uttar Pradesh has finalised 24 stations for deployment of these coaches. Telangana has chosen Secunderabad, Kachiguda and Adilabad, the Railways said.
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Navy to shield personnel from virus||The Navy is considering a proposal that personnel aged above 50 and co-morbid may be exempted from carrying out roles with increased risk of COVID-19 in the daily activities including sea going duties, Navy Chief, Admiral Karambir Singh, said in a video message to service personnel on Thursday. Stating that relaxation of lockdown restrictions under ‘Unlock 1.0’ does not mean business as usual, Adm. Singh said that personnel must adapt and adopt practices to prevent the spread of infection. Regional assistance Listing activities undertaken by the Navy to assist countries in the region, he said the Indian Navy has deployed medical assistance teams to the Comoros and Mauritius for COVID-19 containment and also provided assistance to the Philippines Navy. “Philippines Navy ships were deployed in the Indian Ocean. They sought assistance in repatriation of citizens from Indian ports and medical support for its crew. And Southern Naval Command has done some essential repairs of their ships and now they are moving back to Philippines,” Adm. Singh said. Under Mission Sagar, the Navy has deployed INS Kesari for providing medical aid and support to Indian Ocean littoral states. Concern on borders Stating that the security situation currently on the northern and western borders was not good, Adm. Singh said there is no let up in operational deployment by the Navy. Working under COVID-19 restrictions, Navy ships have been sailing continuously for 100 days at a stretch. In May, Navy’s offshore patrol vessel INS Sunayna entered Kochi after more than 80 days on anti-piracy deployment in the Gulf of Aden. “The ship sustained the last 80 days of the Mission Based Deployment without entering any port. She was fuelled and resupplied by tankers of the Indian Navy and U.S. Navy,” the Navy had stated.
12 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||194 students in Kyrgyzstan seek flights||Nearly 200 students from the northeastern States have appealed to the Indian embassy in Kyrgyzstan’s capital Bishkek for evacuating them out of the central Asian country. Many of the stranded students from Assam have also appealed to Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal for help. “The Vande Bharat mission has started but only four flights were operated in the first phase to take students of other parts of India to Delhi, Hyderabad and Gaya. We waited for the second phase and are aghast at not finding the names of the 194 students from the northeast,” said Sehil Akhtar Khan, who hails from western Assam’s Barpeta district. Arif Ahmed, also from Barpeta and a student of the International School of Medicine in Bishkek like Mr. Khan, said they have been facing food, lodging and health issues for almost three months now. “The embassy officials said evacuation was not in their hands while the Assam government contacted via email and Twitter has not given any satisfactory response. Only the Arunachal Pradesh government has responded properly and is ready to take back their students,” he said. There are 12 students from Arunachal Pradesh in Kyrgyzstan. Manipur has the most students (107) followed by Assam (72). Mizoram has two and Tripura one. Sanidul Hussain, a student of Kyrgyz State Medical Academy, said the students were being ignored by the embassy.
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. considering universal basic income, says NHRC||In its report on human rights in India, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has informed the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) that the recommended implementation of a universal basic income was “under examination and active consideration” of the Centre. As a part of the third round of the Universal Periodic Review (UPR) process, which is done every four-and-a-half-years, the NHRC submitted its mid-term report to the UN agency recently. The report, dated “May 2020”, reviewed the implementation of 152 recommendations of the UPR Working Group that the Indian government had accepted in September 2017. One of the recommendations was: “Continue studying the possibility of a universal basic income as a way to further reduce poverty levels with a view to possibly phasing out the existing social protection system, in full consultation with all stakeholders.” “This matter is under examination and active consideration of the GoI,” the NHRC report noted. After meeting stakeholders, including civil society, and representatives of the Ministries responsible for implementing the policies concerned, the NHRC said several issues had been highlighted, including the “ratification of international human rights instruments, issues in legislations of trafficking and protection against child sexual abuse” and “gaps in the implementation of schemes for food security and timely disbursement of wages under schemes for employment”. More funds for health The report stated that there had been a consensus on the need for increasing budgetary allocation for health and nutrition by the Centre and state governments. With regards to child rights, the report said the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights was working on a proposal for a pilot project to eliminate child labour in five “aspirational districts with high incidence of child labour”. On the issue of reproductive rights, the NHRC noted that the Centre had requested the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the Department of Financial Services, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India and the National Health Authority to consider the issue of sterlisation, birth control treatment and procedures expenses not being covered under health insurance policies currently. Rights of children The NHRC noted that it had found “gaps in policies as compared to obligations” under the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and had made recommendations to address the same. It added that it was in the process of setting up a committee to monitor the implementation of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. To make education more accessible to children with disabilities, the NHRC said it had recommended to the Human Resource Development Ministry in January 2020 to ensure “holistic inclusion” of such children in its Draft National Education Policy. The NHRC said it had expressed “concern over the inefficiencies in implementation of the Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities Act) 1989 and the Rules of 1995” and warned States of coercive action when they failed to submit reports on violation of human rights of SCs, STs and minorities.
12 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Govt. thwarts bid to stoke protest over Sabarimala||By deferring its decision on the entry of pilgrims to Sabarimala, the State government has aborted a bid to politicise the issue and keep it smouldering in the run-up to the local body and Assembly elections. After turning a deaf ear to the repeated assertions of the government and the Travancore Devaswom Board that the decision to open Sabarimala and other temples was made in consonance with the Central government guidelines, a group of Sangh Parivar organisations and the Bharatiya Janata Party were gearing up to raise a banner of revolt. Senses trouble But the government and the board sensed the trouble in store, refused to court the controversy and conceded the chief priest’s (Tantri) demand. The board and government could also dispel a notion which was sought to be created that they were at loggerheads with the chief priest. The government has taken the sting of the allegation that the decision to open the temples was motivated by its urge to fill the Devaswom coffers and not in honour of devotee sentiment. A restricted pilgrim flow would not have increased the volume of contributions but would have forced the board to spend a substantial sum from its paltry resources for disinfecting the temple and its precincts and also deploying more staff for observing the COVID-19 protocol. UDF stand While the Sangh Parivar organisations and the BJP attempted to kick off a political storm on the issue, the United Democratic Front chose to keep its options open. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and K. Muraleedharan, MP, vociferously raised the demand to reopen places of worship, while other leaders opted to steer clear of the issue. Prospects of the issue snowballing into an anti-government protest have been doused and the government has clarified that it prioritised public safety more than anything. An exhortation of the Parivar organisations not to make contributions to temples under various Devaswom boards may come in handy for the government to put them in the mat. Since the government has scraped the sheen of the temple issue, the Parivar organisations may look for new ones to take on the government yet again.
12 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana to file review petition in apex court||The State government has decided to present a strong case in the Supreme Court for continuing the order facilitating appointment of persons hailing from the Scheduled Tribe communities as teachers in the schools in the Agency areas. The government has decided to engage a senior and experienced advocate to take up the case on behalf of the State in the Supreme Court. The decision follows Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s instructions to the officials concerned to file a review petition in the apex court against its decision to scrap the government order (G.O. Ms. 3). The Chief Minister said the government is committed to protect the interests of tribes and it has therefore decided to file a review plea before the apex court seeking permission to continue the operation of the orders. Tribal Welfare Minister Satyavati Rathod convened a meeting of senior officials of the department to review the situation arising out of the scrapping of the government orders here on Thursday. She said the government would engage the services of senior advocate to take up the case on behalf of the State in the Supreme Court. The orders, issued in 2000, facilitate appointment of STs as teachers in the Agency areas. The Supreme Court had unfortunately struck down the orders at a time when the country was under lockdown due to coronavirus (COVID-19), she said adding the apex court should have studied tribes before delivering its verdict. The government took the views of legal experts before finalising its decision to file review petition and it was decided to nominate a senior advocate to fight for the State’s cause. The Minister urged the Central government to cooperate with the State in ensuring restoration of the orders which contributed significantly to the cause of the STs. She said she had briefed the Union Minister Arjun Munda about the development and lamented that the Supreme Court’s judgement came at a time when the State was impressing upon the Centre the need to enhance the reservation for STs in proportion with their population. Asked about the deeksha plan by the Congress which alleged that the State failed in protecting the rights of the tribes, she said the Opposition party’s criticism was part of its efforts to survive as people are totally in support of the government.
12 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Outrage in Kerala after two COVID-19 patients end lives||With two deaths in its COVID-19 ward on Wednesday sparking outrage, the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Thiruvananthapuram, has decided to step up the monitoring of patients admitted to the ward. Patients under observation would be shifted to a ward which would be under the watchful eyes of the hospital security staff, the hospital authorities said. Following the death of two male patients, aged 33 and 38 — both suspected suicides — Health Minister K.K. Shylaja issued strict instructions to the hospital authorities on Thursday to streamline the monitoring mechanism. More attention The new measures will enable hospital staff to pay more attention to patients who exhibit signs of emotional distress and alcohol addiction. Patients in this ward will be under round-the-clock surveillance of security officers. The decision was taken following a review of COVID-19-related measures, hospital superintendent M.S. Sharmad said. As a further measure, the services of mental health experts will be available round the clock to patients in the COVID ward. They will examine the patient and provide counselling. If needed, follow-up counselling would also be provided, Dr. Sharmad said. Hospital staff attached to the COVID ward would be provided psychological first-aid training by the Psychiatry Department of the hospital. The services of the Police Department would be enlisted for improving security, the superintendent said. Bodies cremated The bodies of the two male patients who died at the MCH on Wednesday were cremated at Nedumangad on Thursday. A 33-year-old man from Anad was found hanging in the isolation room around 11.30 a.m. The second patient, a 38-year-old man from Nedumangad, died in the evening. The cremation was held at the Santhitheeram crematorium. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan termed the deaths “unfortunate,” but ruled out the possibility of lapses. One of the patients was scheduled for discharge and he was also aware of it, the Chief Minister said. “It is unfortunate. You cannot say it was caused by inattentiveness. What we can do is try and prevent the recurrence of such incidents,” he said. The District Congress Committee took out a march to the residence of the Health Minister alleging lapses on the part of the Government. V.S. Sivakumar, MLA, demanded a comprehensive investigation into the deaths. The deaths had proven that the measures adopted by the government to fight COVID-19 had failed, he said in a statement. The Youth Congress and Yuva Morcha activists took out protest marches to the Secretariat. The activists also clashed with the police.
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC seeks CBI probe into Palghar lynching case||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Maharashtra government and the State police to respond to a petition filed by the relatives and fellow priests of two Juna Akhara sadhus, who were lynched by a mob at Palghar during the lockdown, to transfer the investigation to the CBI. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan issued a formal notice to Maharashtra, the Centre, the DGP and the CBI on the plea. The court listed the petition, filed by Balaji Srinivasan, for July second week. The case would be taken up with a petition filed by advocate Shashank Shekhar Jha alleging police complicity in the incident. It also sought an investigation by a judicial commission or a central agency like the CBI or the NIA. The petition also laid claim to the land on which the incident happened to construct a memorial for the two sadhus. “... the deceased persons were law-abiding citizens of India who were entitled to the guarantees and rights granted by the Constitution of India... and had every right to life and personal liberty which has been snatched away in a most deprecable, inhuman, barbaric and concerted [conspiratorial] manner..." the plea said.
12 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Probe ordered into gas well fire||Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Thursday ordered a probe into the fire that engulfed a natural gas-producing well of Oil India Limited (OIL) in eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district 13 days after it suffered a blowout. Additional Chief Secretary Maninder Singh has been tasked with investigating it and submitting a report within 15 days. The probe followed the death of OIL fire-fighters Tikheswar Gohain and Durlov Gogoi, who reportedly drowned in an adjoining pond after trying to escape the flames. Their bodies were recovered on Wednesday. Four other fire-fighters escaped with minor injuries, while at least 50 houses were reduced to ashes as flames spread from the well. “The fire [that began on Tuesday] in the periphery is fully controlled. The fire is now restricted to the well-head,” a spokesperson said from the OIL headquarters. On Wednesday, OIL suspended two officials without disclosing the reason. The suspension of chief engineer Bidyut Pawan Das and superintending engineer of drilling Debojit Das is believed to be linked to the Baghjan incident. In a statement, OIL said Rs. 4.83 crore was deposited with the Tinsukia district administration in immediate relief to 1,610 blowout-affected families at Rs. 30,000 per family.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Railways offers discount to compete with road hauliers||To boost goods traffic, the Railways will compete with the road transport sector, offering discounts on round-trip bookings. A new scheme has been rolled out to woo consignors with a 10% discount. After an analysis revealed that one of the reasons for consignors to move goods by road even when a rail network existed on the same route was that road hauliers offered customers a discount when traffic was assured in both directions, the Railway Board said in a note to the General Managers of Zonal Railways. Under the scheme, if a consignor commits himself to traffic back to the originating station, either from the destination station or from any point within 200 km, the outward and return traffic will be charged at a lower rate. This is because several trains ran back empty. If a consignor transports ‘A’ class goods in the outward direction, which has a prescribed rate, and ‘B’ class goods in the return direction, which has another rate, he/she will be charged lower for both directions. In case the same class of goods are moved in the round-trip, the consignor will be entitled to a 10% discount. Senior officials in charge of the commercial and operations departments were told to analyse the traffic flow by road of various commodities and hold discussions with potential customers about the new scheme that would be implemented from July 1, 2020, for a period of one year. The freight train kilometre across the network increased from 391 million km in 2016-17 to 415 million km in 2018-19. The revenue-earning freight traffic in 2018-19 was 1,221.48 million tonne. In November 2019, the Railways increased the freight rate for coal, raw material for steel plants, iron and steel, iron ore and other goods by 8.75%.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Disproportionate assets recovered during ACB raid on 4 govt. officials||Anti-Corruption Bureau officials who carried simultaneous raids on houses and office premises of four government officials across the State on June 10 have recovered disproportionate properties worth several lakhs. According to officials, L. Satish Kumar, Additional Commissioner, Department of Commercial Taxes, has a house in Saraswathipuram in Mysuru and two flats and five sites in Bengaluru. They also recovered 1.17 kg of gold valuables, 7.2 kg of silver articles and Rs. 2.9 lakh in cash from his properties. The documents related to the properties have been seized, said an official. The bureau also raided properties belonging to N. Ramakrishna, divisional forest officer, Srinivasapura, Kolar. He has a house in Kolar and two houses and three sites in Bengaluru, 1.2 acres of land in Chikkakamanahalli in Bangarpete. Around 877 gm of gold valuables, 1.5 kg of silver, Rs. 8.2 lakh in various bank accounts, Rs. 2.2 lakh cash, and Rs. 26 lakh-worth of household articles were recovered. Officials also seized property documents from the house of Mallikarjuna, executive engineer, District Development Cell, Raichur as well as 1.3 kg of gold and 10 kg of silver articles among other items. The fourth officer whose properties were also raided is Raghappa Lalappa Lamani, assistant engineer, Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam Ltd. in Alamatti Camp, Bagalkote. Among the valuables recovered are 334 gm of gold, 1.2 kg of silver articles Rs. 2,8 lakh worth deposits in various banks, Rs. 1.9 lakh cash, and Rs. 5 lakh worth household articles.
12 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Centre refuses to brief parties on key issues’||Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Thursday said the Opposition was forced to ask questions on sensitive international disputes on social media because the government refused to brief the political parties on issues of national interest and had failed to take them into confidence. Mr. Ramesh compared Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence to first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, who, when demanded by the Opposition, convened a Parliament session to discuss the Indo-China war of 1962. “China attacked India in two phases starting Oct 20, 1962. Vajpayee and others wrote to Nehru demanding Parliament be convened. Nehru readily accepted and listened to blistering criticism of his policies. Now we have Maunendra Modi. Not even a briefing to former PMs/pol party leaders!,” he tweeted. Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had chided former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday for raising questions on international affairs via social media. In response to Mr. Prasad’s prescription, Mr. Ramesh said, “Questions are being asked on social media because the government has not briefed former PMs, former Defence Ministers, leaders of political parties. These could be in-camera briefings. The reality is that the Chinese are sitting on 50-60 sq kms of strategic Indian territory in Ladakh and at least senior political leaders should be taken into confidence,” he told The Hindu . Virtual Parliament He said it was a shame that a country that called itself an IT superpower had failed to convene a session of virtual Parliament when Parliaments of over 30 countries had met online. “There is no excuse for not having at least virtual sessions of standing committees. In fact, the committees can easily have physical meets too, because although each committee has 31 members or thereabouts less than 50 per cent attend anyway,” he said. Mr. Ramesh heads the Parliamentary Committee on Science and Technology, Environment, Forests and Climate Change.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||IIT-Madras tops ranking||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Madras, is the country’s best in the field of higher education, according to the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) released on Thursday. The Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, stands at the second place, followed by IIT-Delhi. Under the universities category, the IISc topped the list, followed by Jawaharlal Nehru University and Banaras Hindu University. While Delhi University has dropped out of the top 10, all the best colleges are affiliated to it: Miranda House got the first rank in the colleges category, followed by Lady Shri Ram College for Women and Hindu College. ‘A subjective parameter’ These rankings come a day after the QS World University Rankings showed that India’s best — including the IISc and most IITs — have slipped in the global lists. This is due to the high weightage given to the perception parameter in most international rankings, Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said at the NIRF release. “The global agencies give us a lower ranking due to ‘perception’, which is a subjective parameter, and I do not agree with it,” he said. The NIRF, which was launched by the HRD Ministry in 2016, gives higher weight to parameters such as teaching and learning, student and faculty strength, use of financial resources, research papers and patents and graduation outcomes. Keeping in mind the social responsibility aspect of education in a developing country, there is a unique provision to judge institutions on inclusivity and outreach measures, including gender, geographical and socioeconomic diversity and the welcoming of differently abled students. “90% of the parameters in NIRF are completely objective and fact-based, while only 10% is based on the subjective parameter of perception by academic peers and employers,” Mr. Nishank said. Acknowledging that Indian institutions struggle on the “internationalisation” parameter in global rankings, he expressed confidence that the NIRF ranking will reach a point where international institutions will want to be included in the Indian ranking system rather than vice versa. The three best engineering institutions are all IITs, with the Madras, Delhi and Bombay institutes making up the top three in that order. The Indian Institutes of Management at Ahmedabad, Bengaluru and Kolkata took the top positions in the management category. National Law School of India University is the best for studying law, while the IIT-Kharagpur is the best place to study architecture, according to the NIRF.
12 June 2020||Kolkata,||Viral video of disposal of bodies triggers row||At a time when the health and administrative machinery of the city is grappling with the outbreak of COVID-19, a video of civic workers handling bodies outside a morgue in the city has created a major controversy in political and administrative circles here. In the alleged video, decomposed bodies are seen being dragged into a Kolkata Municipal Corporation van in broad daylight. The video was allegedly shot outside the Garia Crematorium under the Bansdroni police station where locals objected to the cremation. Some locals claimed that the bodies could be of COVID-19 patients who had died. The principal of the State-run NRS Medical College wrote to the Kolkata Police Commissioner on Thursday that none of the bodies were of COVID-19 patients. The letter calls the “subject of the video” to be “fake” and urged the police to take necessary action. West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar expressed anguish over “disposal of dead bodies with heartless indescribable insensitivity” and said he had sought a report from the Home Secretary on this matter. New cases, 10 deaths The State recorded 440 new virus cases in the past 24 hours taking the total number of cases to 9,768. Ten more deaths due to the viral infection were reported from the State in the past 24 hours, four from Kolkata, two each from Howrah, North and South 24 Parganas districts.
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Many Odisha pensioners may go hungry: survey||Although almost all of Odisha’s poor senior citizens received the four-month advance old-age pension promised by the State as COVID-19 relief, only half of them got free foodgrains, according to a survey conducted by the ISSRF, a research group formed by retired officials from the statistical and economic services. Wait till August About 40% spent the cash on immediate food and grocery expenses, which could leave them bereft until pension payments begin again in August. Odisha supplements the Centre’s pension payments to give Rs. 500-700 per month to all poor people above 60 years. In late March, it said it would give the advance pension to all beneficiaries as a lump-sum amount to alleviate the hardship imposed by the lockdown. At the same time, the Centre also announced an ex gratia of Rs. 1,000 for each pensioner and also promised extra free foodgrains for all ration cardholders. A telephonic survey of 1,701 beneficiaries in 30 districts found that 95% of them had received the advance pension by the first week of May. However, only 63% received the Rs. 1,000 from the Centre, while only 51% got the promised foodgrains. About 40% of pensioners spent the entire advance pension immediately, most on food, groceries and medicine. Three of the four pensioners spent at least 60% of the advance. “It may be more appropriate to extend such assistance more in kind and less in terms of cash during crisis,” said ISSRF’s statement, adding that the monthly payment timeline should not have been changed.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||IIT-Madras top institution in government ranking||The Indian Institutes of Management at Ahmedabad, Bengaluru and Kolkata took the top positions in the management category. National Law School of India University is the best for studying law, while the IIT-Kharagpur is the best place to study architecture, according to the NIRF. With regard to medical education, All India Institute of Medical Sciences stands first, followed by Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, and Christian Medical College, Vellore. The pharmacy category was topped by Jamia Hamdard University, while the newly introduced dental category had the Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences in the first place. Overall, 3,771 institutions registered in the ranking framework this year, which is a 20% increase in comparison to last year. All parameters are normalised to keep them size- and age-independent so as to ensure that larger and older institutions do not get any undue advantage.
12 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Devotees not to be allowed at Sabarimala||The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) has decided not to permit devotees to the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple during the monthly rituals in the Malayalam month of Midhunom in view of the growing public health risk arising out of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases, according to board president N. Vasu. The board has also decided to defer the 10-day annual festival scheduled to be held from June 19 to 28. Talking to The Hindu on Thursday, Mr. Vasu said the decision was taken at a meeting convened by Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday. Sabarimala being a pilgrim centre where people from different parts of South India congregate in large numbers, the risk involved in throwing the holy hillock open to devotees at this juncture is very high. Earlier, the TDB, in consultation with the Tantri, had decided to conduct the temple festival this month as the situation was not that scary then, he said. ‘No differences’ Tantri Kandararu Maheswararu Mohanararu told The Hindu that there was no differences between him and the board over the conduct of the temple festival. Mr. Mohanararu said it was he who had given the dates for conducting the festival and the board decision came at a time when the situation was not alarming. The Minister said the government decision to open places of worship was taken following a directive issued by the Centre in this regard. However, the case of Sabarimala had been taken separately in consultation with the Tantri and the board. The temple will open on Sunday for the five-day monthly rituals to be held from June 15 to 19. Only routine rites will be performed on these days. Devotees may book their offerings to the deity online, he said.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Slum population most at risk, says ICMR||The sero-surveillance study has two parts. The primary task of estimating the fraction of people who have been infected in general population has been completed and the second objective of estimating the infected population in containment zones of hotspot cities is in the process of completion. Speaking about the growing number of cases in Delhi, the question of community transmission in the national capital, and country-wide death reports compiled based on State data, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said: “If we get caught in grammar and let go of field action we will suffer. Also if the States take a day or two more in conducting ‘death audit’ and a change in numbers arises due to it, then, in next 2-3 days numbers are accounted for.” Maharashtra review Meanwhile, Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan, along with senior health officials, held a meeting with Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope and noted that all 36 districts of the State were COVID-19-affected. Dr. Vardhan noted that the increase in number of containment zones in the State needed immediate attention. “Vulnerability mapping of densely populated areas should be done for effective containment strategy to be put in place. Also, rise in case fatality rate should be looked into along with tests done per million population,” he said.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Economic recovery path still uncertain: CEA||His comments came a day after global ratings agencies S&P and Fitch forecast a contraction of 5% in the Indian economy this year, although they predicted a sharp recovery to record 8.5%-9.5% growth the following year. The CEA refused to put specific numbers on the Centre’s own growth expectation for this year, only saying that the Finance Ministry is working with a “large range” of estimates, adding that “very low” growth and a possible decline in output are part of the baseline assumptions. Both Fitch and S&P maintained India’s sovereign credit rating at the lowest investment grade, while Moody’s had also downgraded it to the same grade last week. ‘Merited better rating’ Mr. Subramanian insisted that India’s fundamentals merited a better rating, noting that the country’s willingness and ability to pay back its loans are gold standard, especially as most debt is in domestic currency. With regard to debt monetisation, he said the pros and cons of all options are being evaluated and kept under consideration. The CEA welcomed the agencies’ positive response to reforms announced in the stimulus package, especially in agriculture, saying that these would be critical for higher growth prospects next year. Investment grade The investment grade rating paves the way to move forward on the budget proposal for listing government bonds in international sovereign bond indices. In the long term, this could lead to the ability to raise $60 billion or more from these markets, he said. With regard to the privatisation policy announced in the Atmanirbhar package, he clarified that banking would be categorised as a strategic sector. This means that between one to four public sector banks will remain, while the rest will be merged or privatised.
12 June 2020||Hassan,||Protests after Dalit leader dies in attack by hotelier||A Dalit leader, allegedly attacked by an “upper” caste hotelier and his relatives for requesting a cup of water at Mallipatna in Karnataka’s Arakalgud taluk recently, succumbed to his injuries at a hospital on Wednesday, triggering protests. The victim’s family members and Dalit organisations have demanded strict action against the accused and a fair compensation for the family. Venkatesh, 50, was allegedly assaulted by Jagadeesh Gowda, hotelier, and others on June 4. With serious internal injuries, the victim was taken to hospitals in Arakalgud, Hassan and Bengaluru as well. However, his condition deteriorated, leading to his death at the Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences. The reasons for the death would be known after the post-mortem. Mr. Venkatesh is survived by his wife and two sons. Following the death, Dalit organisations staged a protest in front of the Arakalgud police station demanding the immediate arrest of the accused and compensation for the victim’s family. The protest was withdrawn after Hassan Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda told the protesters that three of the four accused had been arrested and steps would be taken to provide compensation to the victim’s family.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Cong. rushes to guard its flock in Rajasthan||Earlier, Mr. Gehlot said the Rajya Sabha polls had been “deliberately delayed” for two months to facilitate the “poaching operations” of BJP in Gujarat and Rajasthan. “What is the difference in the COVID-19 situation then and now? This politics by indulging in horse-trading will not succeed. They have violated all norms of democracy,” he said. BJP challenge State BJP president Satish Poonia challenged the Congress to prove its allegation of the party was trying to poach the ruling party’s MLAs and Independents. “The Congress should set its own house in order. Just nine days before elections, they are forced to hole up their legislators. Instead of blaming the BJP, they should resolve their internal differences,” he said in a statement A senior Congress leader clearly hinted at an internal divide when he told The Hindu that “the present crisis was a manufactured one that aimed at projecting some as saviours of the party”. For the three Rajya Sabha seats from the State falling vacant, the Congress has nominated K.C. Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi, while the BJP has fielded its State unit vice-president and former Minister Rajendra Gehlot and former Member of Parliament Onkar Singh Lakhawat. AICC general secretary Mr. Venugopal, who earlier represented the Alappuzha Lok Sabha constituency in Kerala, had opted out of contesting the 2019 general elections because of his organisational responsibilities. Mr. Dangi, a former Youth Congress State president, is considered a confidant of Mr. Gehlot. He had unsuccessfully contested three Assembly elections in the past. Easily win With its tally of 107 MLAs in the 200-member House and the support of Rashtriya Lok Dal and Independents, the ruling Congress can easily win two of the Rajya Sabha seats as 51 first preference votes are required to elect an MP. However, sources say the BJP could be looking to exploit a sense of ‘disenchantment’ among some MLAs for fielding Mr Venugopal, who is seen as an ‘outsider’ in the State. The Rajasthan development also lays bare the divide within the Congress, both in terms of the party’s choice of Rajya Sabha candidates as well as factionalism between Mr. Ashok Gehlot’s supporters and Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, who also heads the Rajasthan Congress. “While the BJP wants to send a message to Vasundhara Raje by steering everything from Delhi, Mr Gehlot is trying to send a message to Delhi Congress leadership against the State Congress chief. It’s all a well-planned exercise,”said the senior Congress leader who didn’t wish to be named.
12 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam govt. hints at community transmission||The Assam government has hinted at community transmission of COVID-19, but within a specific part of Guwahati. Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the spike in the number of cases reported among people without any travel history was a matter of grave concern. “Thirteen cases were reported from society. So, there is a strain moving. We have some worries about Guwahati,” he told newspersons on Wednesday. The Health Department has identified three localities where it suspects community spread. Health officials said the recent trend was worrying since 98% of the positive cases reported less than a week ago were linked to returnees lodged in quarantine centres. Mizoram on June 11 recorded 102 COVID-19 cases, all returnees. Assam has recorded 3,319 cases till now, followed by Tripura at 897 cases. Manipur has 309 cases and Nagaland 128. Arunachal Pradesh has reported 61 cases, Meghalaya 44 and Sikkim 13. So far, eight people have died – six of them in Assam and one each in Tripura and Meghalaya.
12 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM orders strict lockdown on holidays||Amid apprehensions of community spread of COVID-19 and projections that the pandemic peak in the State is still two months away, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered stricter lockdown on weekends and public holidays, with movement to be restricted to e-pass holders. All citizens, except medical staff and essential service providers, would have to download e-passes from the COVA app, the Chief Minister said at a video conference meeting. He also asked medical and health experts to consider imposition of strict conditions, including mandatory testing certification, for entrants from Delhi, where the situation had assumed alarming proportions. A decision on stricter curbs on those coming from Delhi would be taken after a review by the experts, an official spokesperson said after the meeting. “Industry, however, will be allowed to function normally on all days,” said the Chief Minister during the meeting, and asked DGP Dinkar Gupta to ensure strict implementation of these directives to prevent gathering of large crowds.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,||A. Vaidyanathan, former plan panel member, dead||A. Vaidyanathan, former Member of the Planning Commission, died in Coimbatore on Wednesday. He was 88. He was Professor at the Madras Institute of Development Studies and the Centre for Development Studies. Mr. Vaidyanathan had chaired the Government of India Task Force on Revival of Cooperative Credit Institutions in 2004 and was a member of the K.N. Raj Committee on Taxation of Agricultural Income (1969-70). An alumnus of Loyola College, Chennai, he received his doctoral degree in economics from Cornell University, U.S., and joined the National Council of Applied Economic Research in 1956. He was a member of the perspective planning division of the Planning Commission from 1962 to 1972 and worked along with Pitambar Pant during his stint at the Food and Agricultural Organisation, Rome. After a term at the World Bank between 1972 and 1976, he returned to join Prof. K.N. Raj as a member of the faculty of Centre for Development Studies, Thiruvananthapuram. He was associated with State-level planning in Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. He is survived by wife Shanta, daughters Rama Baru and Radhika Vaidyanathan.
12 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Last eligible ‘foreigner’ freed from Silchar centre||Siddeque Ali has paid the price of not being able to read the notice he was served more than 2 years ago. Ali is unlikely to be the last declared foreigner in any of Assam’s six detention centres. But on Thursday, he became the last to be released from the only detention centre in southern Assam’s Barak Valley as the beneficiary of a Supreme Court order. The ruling said those who had served two years could be released. A declared foreigner, or DF, is a person marked by any of 100 Foreigners’ Tribunals (FTs) in Assam for allegedly failing to prove his or her citizenship after being marked by the State police’s Border wing as an illegal immigrant. The 69-year-old Mr. Ali, an illiterate daily wager, did not know why the Border police picked him up from his residence at Hatikhali in Hima Hasao district on June 5, 2018. It was too late when he learnt that an FT in Dima Hasao district headquarters Haflong had on April 20 that year declared him a foreigner in a one-sided verdict. He was accused of not responding to a notice the Border police had pasted on the wall of his house, a notice he could not read.
12 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||Group torches Dalit huts in Jaunpur, Yogi orders NSA against accused||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday ordered officials to lodge the National Security Act (NSA) against persons accused of setting ablaze several huts of a Dalit community in Jaunpur. Police said 37 persons had been arrested and search was on to nab the others. The arson took place in Bhadethi village in Sarai Khawaja area on Tuesday. Reportedly, a scuffle broke out between two groups of youngsters who had taken their grazing buffaloes and goats to a pond. While sources said the dispute started over plucking of mangoes, the SHO said it started after a buffalo belonging to one community kicked a goat on the other side.
12 June 2020||Kolkata,||Trinamool launches youth network to help fight COVID-19||With an eye on the 2021 Assembly polls in West Bengal, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) has launched ‘Banglar Jubo Shakti’, an initiative that aims to bring together one lakh youth to support those whose lives have been devastated by the COVID-19 pandemic and Cyclone Amphan. Over the next month, the TMC Youth Congress, headed by MP Abhisekh Banerjee, will bring on board one lakh young women and men from “across blocks and towns” of Bengal, a party statement noted. Anyone in the age group of 18-25 can be part of the brigade called ‘Jubo Joddhas’. “After a period of 30 days, a mega virtual interactive session will be organised to meet and interact with the one lakh ‘Jubo Joddhas’ and to inform them about the activities that they need to undertake...” the statement said.
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||EPFO allows digital life certificates||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) on Thursday said pensioners of its Employees Pension Scheme (EPS) could submit life certificates closer to home, at any of the 3.65 lakh common service centres. “In recognition of the need to bring service delivery closer to the doorstep of EPS pensioners, especially during the challenging times of COVID -19 pandemic, EPFO has partnered with CSCs [Common Service Centres] to provide the facility to submit Digital Jeevan Pramaan. By leveraging the last mile network of over 3.65 lakh CSCs, EPFO provides its 65 lakh pensioners facility to submit Digital Jeevan Pramaan closer to their residence,” an EPFO statement said. The pensioners are required to submit the certificates every year to continue receiving pension. Apart from the CSCs, they can submit certificates through 135 regional offices and 117 district offices of the EPFO as well as banks that disburse pensions. “A key policy change has been to allow EPS pensioners to submit Digital Jeevan Pramaan at any time during the year as per their convenience. The life certificate will remain valid for one year from the date of submission. Earlier, the pensioners were required to submit the Jeevan Pramaan in the month of November,” the EPFO said.
12 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Student’s suicide: probe reveals serious lapses by college||With its interim probe on the suicide of Anju P. Shaji unearthing several lapses on the part of BVM Holy Cross College, Mahatma Gandhi University has relieved the college Principal of all examination-related duties till further orders. Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor, said Principal Fr. N.V. Joseph Njarakkattil, as chief superintendent of the examination, had unnecessarily made the girl remain in her seat for an additional 32 minutes even after seizing the answer sheets and hall ticket for alleged malpractice. This might have put her under severe mental duress. This situation could have been avoided “Upon detecting the malpractice, she should have been taken to the Principal’s chamber immediately and permitted to go home after recording her statement,” Mr. Thomas said. Contrary to the claims by the college authorities that the Principal had left the exam hall immediately after collecting Anju’s answer sheets, the inquiry by a subcommittee of the Syndicate revealed that the Principal had indeed spoken to the girl for nearly 10 minutes on that occasion. College faulted It further found fault with a decision of the college authorities to release the CCTV visuals from the examination hall in the public domain. “Releasing the footage without permission was indeed a serious error,” Mr. Thomas added. According to the VC, any further action on the issue will be based on a final report submitted by the Syndicate subcommittee. Final report “The final report will be prepared through a long and meticulous process, which includes verification of the student’s hall ticket and answer scripts, besides interviewing students who sat near her in the exam hall,” said the official. The interim probe also found that the college authorities had failed to collect the address and phone number of the student after the incident. “When she was finally permitted to leave the examination hall, nobody bothered to check where she was actually heading to,” said a university official.
12 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Congress leaders placed under house arrest||Senior Congress leaders in Telangana’s Hyderabad were placed under house arrest by the police on Thursday, in an attempt to foil the ‘Chalo Secretariat’ call. The protest was a bid to speak to Ministers on the inflated power bills that saw outrage from consumers. Sreedhar Babu was arrested near Ravindra Bharathi while on his way to the Assembly premises. Several others were forced to sit in their homes as the police stationed vehicles outside and asked them not to leave.
12 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Grave’ goof-up: Bodies of COVID patients get mixed up||A shocking incident of mix-up of bodies of coronavirus patients was reported here on Thursday. The 37-year-old patient’s body, his family claimed, went ‘missing’ and was later buried without their knowledge. According to the patient’s nephew, Obaid Ali Khan, the last rites were performed by the family of another COVID positive victim, also in his thirties, at a graveyard in Pahadishareef. “My uncle was being treated at a private hospital for lung related issues from June 8-9. In the evening on June 9, the hospital told us that he had developed coronavirus symptoms after which he was moved to Gandhi Hospital in an ambulance and admitted. I was there when all this happened,” Mr. Khan said. A day later, on Wednesday, the family received a call from the hospital informing them of the patient’s death. “I was told at 8 a.m. that he died around 4 a.m. I rushed to the hospital where I was told to identify the body. I checked, but none of the bodies there were of my uncle’s. I later called his father-in-law to identify the body, but it was not there,” he said. It was later that police informed him of the mix-up, and that his uncle’s body was buried by another family, Mr. Khan said. “The local sub-inspector called to tell us that he was already buried and apologised. I was shocked. We just wanted to see him one last time,” Mr. Khan said, adding that a grave was dug up to lay his uncle to rest at a graveyard in Muradnagar. On Thursday evening, the family visited the Pahadishareef graveyard. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Khan said, “We are at the graveyard. We will let you know of our next decision later.” Legislator Jafar Hussain Meraj, who represent Nampally Assembly constituency that covers Asif Nagar and Muradnagar, confirmed that the mix-up of bodies did take place. “There was a grave dug for the patient at Murad Shah Dhuti graveyard. I am in touch with the authorities and the family. Unfortunately, another family who lost their relative had misidentified the body and buried it at Pahadishareef,” he said. Majlis Bachao Tahreek leader Amjed Ullah Khan, who raised the issue on Wednesday, expressed anguish and demanded a CID probe. Calls and a text message to Gandhi Hospital superintendent M. Raja Rao remained unanswered.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,875 fresh cases take T.N. tally to 38,716; 23 deaths reported||With 1,875 fresh COVID-19 cases, Tamil Nadu’s overall tally rose to 38,716* on Thursday. The death toll increased to 349, as 23 more fatalities were reported. As many as 1,372 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the total number of recoveries to 20,705. Chennai recorded an all-time high of 1,407 cases in a single day. With this, the city’s overall case count reached 27,398. The State capital accounts for 279 of the deaths reported in Tamil Nadu so far. A total of 13,808 persons have been discharged so far, while 13,310 persons are undergoing treatment in the city. Cases continued to rise in Chengalpattu. The 127 fresh cases reported on Thursday took the district’s tally to 2,444. Tiruvallur reported 72 fresh cases, while Kancheepuram, Madurai and Tiruvannamalai recorded 19 cases each. There were 18 cases in Cuddalore, 17 in Ranipet and 15 each in Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur. Reporting of deaths As many as 21 of the 23 deaths occurred in government hospitals. Usually, deaths that had occurred in the last 24 to 48 hours are included in the Health Department’s daily bulletin. However, Thursday’s bulletin notified the deaths of two persons that had occurred earlier, including one who had died last month. One of them, a 50-year-old man from Tiruvallur, was admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on May 26. A diabetic, he died on May 28 due to factors including uncontrolled hyperglycaemia, acute encephalopathy, bronchopneumonia and respiratory failure. The second case was a 68-year-old man from Chennai, who was admitted to the Southern Railway Headquarters Hospital, Perambur, on June 4 and died on June 8. He died due to pneumonia, diabetes, systemic hypertension and chronic kidney disease. Four of the deceased were in their 40s. Active cases The total number of active cases in the State stood at 17,659. As many as 16,829 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 6,55,675. As many as 6,25,312 individuals have been tested till date. Returnee patients Thirty-eight persons who had returned from abroad and from other States tested positive for COVID-19. They included five persons from Kuwait, three from the United Arab Emirates and two from Saudi Arabia. Two persons who had returned by ship from Maldives tested positive, as did 12 persons who had returned from West Bengal by road/trains. A total of 1,986 persons who had returned to the State on flights, trains and ships and by road have tested positive for COVID-19 so far.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)   A total of 1,986 persons who had returned to the State on flights, trains and ships and by road have tested positive for COVID-19 so far
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Now, senior doctors, PGs of anaesthesia institute test positive||After the Department of Cardiology, a number of senior doctors and postgraduates at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital's (RGGGH) Institute of Anaesthesiology have tested positive for COVID-19. A majority of the PG doctors were posted in COVID-19 wards of the hospital. In April, a number of PG doctors and staff nurses at the Department of Cardiology tested positive, following which the building housing the department was closed for disinfection. Recently, 15 doctors, including heads of department, of the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital also tested positive for the virus. Sources confirmed that two chiefs of the Institute of Anaesthesiology had tested positive for COVID-19, while a total of 14 PGs, including four who were affected earlier, had been infected. Doctors said that the anaesthetists, whose services ought to be utilised only for airway management in patients, were posted on COVID-19 duty in several wards, resulting in regular exposure to the infection. “Anaesthesia PGs are posted on regular COVID-19 duty in eight-hour shifts. This includes wards 205 and 206, where symptomatic patients are received and tested. They are posted on the first floor of the Rheumatology Block (a COVID-19 facility), where sick patients are admitted, emergency operation theatre and at the trauma centre,” an official source said. No rotation Every day, at least 25 persons, including PGs and assistant professors of the department, are exposed to the infection. “At least one-third of the workforce should be kept on reserve but many of the department staff are exposed to the infection at the same time. The chiefs have 24-hour COVID-19 duty once a week, and also go on ward rounds,” the source added. Ideally, doctors from anaesthesia should be on-call duty for intubation. Doctors recently performed emergency surgeries on two patients - one COVID-19 positive and another of unknown status. “We cannot wait for swab results for patients in need of emergency life-saving procedures. In the post-operative period, the sample of the second patient returned positive for COVID-19. Two of the PGs who were on the team later tested positive for COVID-19. We have one emergency operation theatre (OT) with two cubicles. If a COVID-19 patient undergoes a surgery, we fumigate the OT and utilise it later. We have been demanding a separate theatre for COVID-19 patients with negative pressure cubicles,” said a doctor, on condition of anonymity. Tests not done Apart from anaesthesia, doctors, including PGs, of the urology and neurosurgery departments at RGGGH have also tested positive. “Healthcare professionals/workers should be tested for COVID-19 routinely, but this is not being followed. Unnecessary movement of people into the hospital should be prevented. We find patients' relatives in the Severe Acute Respiratory Infection ward,” another doctor said. Hospital authorities could not be reached for their comment.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to take tough action against quarantine norms violators||People who repeatedly violate home isolation/quarantine norms will be booked under the relevant provisions of IPC and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The Chennai Corporation has formed COVID Response Teams (CRTs) at the division level comprising officials from various departments and also roped in 250 police personnel to assist the teams in ensuring that people under home isolation/quarantine stayed in their houses for the mandated period. The Chennai Corporation has formed the CRTs by involving its own officials, police constables and volunteers to stop the transmission chain of coronavirus, official sources said on Thursday. Police personnel were posted for tracing contacts of COVID-19 positive patients. Home isolation/quarantine was put in place to ensure that the COVID-19 positive individuals, their contacts, returnees from foreign countries, domestic flight/train passengers, inter-state road travellers and any other notified individuals adhered to the mandatory 14 days self-isolation at their homes. However, after the spike in cases in recent days, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash and other senior officials reviewed the multi-pronged strategies in combating the virus. It was decided to form CRTs to monitor people under isolation/home quarantine on a daily basis. A list of such homes would be shared with the teams to facilitate door-to-door monitoring. The teams would physically verify and make sure that those mandated to remain home-bound were following the instructions and report the same through a web application. They would also assist such people in the supply of basic needs such as medicines, provisions etc. “Where repeated violation of the norms is noted, the team concerned would lodge a complaint with the local police under IPC and the Disaster Management Act, 2005 for booking of FIR on such identified repeated offenders,” a senior official said. The move comes a week after Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam wrote to Mr. Prakash pointing to certain gaps in the approach to managing COVID-19 and called for revising the strategy.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Patient ends life in Tiruvallur hospital||A 65-year-old COVID-19 patient reportedly ended his life at a hospital early on Thursday. According to hospital sources, the elderly man from Melmanambedu, Tiruvallur district, had throat pain and his family asked him to get tested. He visited a private hospital at Porur a few days ago and tested positive for COVID-19. “He wanted to be quarantined at home, but his family members asked him to get admitted to Tiruvallur General Hospital as there were little children at home,” said a source. He was admitted on the first floor of the new block, which has been converted into a COVID-19 special ward. On Wednesday night, nurses saw him speaking on the phone, standing in the corridor and asked him to return to his bed. “On Thursday morning, he was missing. Later, they found him dead in the corridor,” said the staff of the hospital. The staff of the hospital said there were 78 patients in the wards. “All of them are given counselling and yoga sessions. But despite this we are not sure why this happened,” said the staff member. The police were informed about the patient’s death. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline at 044-24640050).
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pvt. labs told to share real time data on COVID-19 tests||The Greater Chennai Corporation has asked all private laboratories to start real time data entry of RT-PCR testing for COVID-19. The civic body will monitor the spread of the disease in real time using an app. Tests for COVID-19 in the city have increased to 5,500 a day. With a rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in the city, the Corporation on Thursday started using the services of mobile hospital units from other districts. “At least 112 mobile hospital units have been sent to Chennai,” said City Health Officer Jagadeesan. The mobile hospital units with doctors, nurses and paramedical staff were found on the premises of Ripon Buildings in the evening. Civic officials have allocated the units to locations where a large number of active cases have been reported. Areas such as Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Teynampet, Kodambakkam, Anna Nagar, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar and Adyar continue to register a large number of COVID-19 cases. Such areas will get the largest number of mobile hospital units, officials said. The civic officials and the police have also equipped the checkposts on the outskirts to test those entering the city from other States for COVID-19. So far, the Corporation and the police have allowed 1,920 passengers from other States into Chennai. Of these people, 1,611 did not require quarantine. Former Corporation floor leader V. Sukumar Babu said that officials should provide adequate facilities for those quarantined in Chennai. “More than 300 residents are on quarantine after reaching the city. They need better facilities,” he added. The Corporation has increased the number of fever camps to 500. Each of the 200 wards in the city will conduct two to three fever camps. All government offices will remain closed. New quarantine rule Meanwhile, the Corporation, in a press release, said that patients who undergo tests in private labs should be on quarantine for 14 days along with the rest of their family members. However, senior officials later clarified that the patients and their family should stay at home till the results are known, which may take even three days.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. school teachers offer telecounselling services||Primary teachers of Greater Chennai Corporation schools have now donned a new role. They are handling calls at the Corporation’s 24-hour telecounselling centres, set up in all zones in the city. These teachers would trained to provide psychosocial counselling to callers in need. With a large number of calls pouring into the COVID -19 telecounselling centre at the GCC headquarters, officials decided to set up centres in the 15 zones across the city. Separate number “Each zone has been provided with a separate number and patients and families can call these numbers,” said a senior GCC official. To handle these calls, the GCC has roped in teachers of Corporation schools. “Each zone has 30 teachers and they are working on three shifts. There will be 10 teachers on each shift, lasting six hours. The teachers can handle the callers, who are most often emotional and in fear,” said the official. The teachers take the calls and then pass on the information to the zonal officer. “The patients and families can call us in case they need groceries, medicines or even if any of their families have symptoms. Corporation officials will attend to it immediately,” he said. Problem solving A teacher in one of the call centres said that patients had been calling to inform them that their family members had symptoms. “We are going to be trained in psychosocial counselling. Many patients and their families may feel depressed when they are quarantined. We will be taught how to calm them down and solve their problems,” said a teacher. The teachers said that the Corporation had assured them that they would be provided transport to reach the centres.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cities and towns in Tamil Nadu to get new names||When it comes to names of over 1,000 cities, towns and localities in the State, one cannot any longer ask “what’s in a name?” As many as 1,018 places have been provided with new names or rather new spelling. Here are some of the examples: one of the important industrial cities in the south – Coimbatore – should be called ‘Koyampuththoor.’ Ambattur, known for housing a large industrial estate in the State, has been rechristened as ‘Ambaththoor.’ A major Tier-II city in the northern belt of the State – Vellore – is to be known as ‘Veeloor.’ ‘Vepery,’ an old locality of Chennai, will have to be called ‘Vepperi.’ N. Panchampatti, a place in Dindigul district, has been renamed as ‘Ni. Panchampatti.’ Of course, Dindigul should be called hereafter ‘Thindukkal.’ These are highlights of a government order issued by the Tamil Development and Information Department in April, which has been out in the public domain only recently. The issue of the order follows an announcement in the Assembly two years ago that anglicised names of the areas be changed closer to their original names in Tamil. Apart from Dictrict Collectors, a high-level committee headed by Minister for Tamil Official Language and Culture K. Pandiarajan, went into the matter. For each of the 1,018 places, the order mentions the name in Tamil, the existing English name, the one suggested by the Collector concerned and the recommendation of the committee. Hereafter, it is for the departments of Revenue and Disaster Management, Municipal Administration and Water Supply, and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj to carry out the order.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cash-strapped State pinning its hopes on monetary assistance from Centre||Tamil Nadu, which has been reeling from the financial stress caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, is hoping for monetary assistance from the Centre, though several weeks have passed since the Chief Minister made a request for the same. With COVID-19 cases on the rise, especially in Chennai and three neighbouring districts, the containment and relief measures have placed an additional burden on the State exchequer. Officials pointed out that the State government had to spend on testing kits and relief measures for the affected sections of the population. The Chief Minister had sought Rs. 9,000 crore for launching a comprehensive plan for combating COVID-19 and its impact on the State’s economy, and a further grant of Rs. 3,000 crore for procuring PPEs, N-95 masks and ventilators, and under various other accounts. Despite the Chief Minister having repeatedly written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding the issue, the Centre’s response has not been positive, a senior official said. “Besides the austerity measures we have undertaken, we need funds from the Centre to deal with the situation. The Centre should sanction funds to help deal with the pressing needs arising out of the COVID-19 situation,” he explained. Though certain demands made by the Chief Minister, such as allowing the State to increase its borrowing limit from 3% to 5% of GSDP for the current fiscal, had been accepted, the imposition of “needlessly onerous” conditions had prevented Tamil Nadu from getting the intended benefits, another official said. Officials in the Tamil Nadu government are wondering whether any of the financial measures announced by the Centre in response to the COVID-19 situation would translate to a loan to the State. “Unless funds are transferred to the States, it (the measures) would not be of much use. The Centre could at least provide loans to us. Without any monetary support, the financial package announced by the Centre will remain an eyewash,” an official argued. As regards the amounts sanctioned by the Centre to Tamil Nadu under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) and the National Health Mission (NHM), he said, “We would have received the funds under SDRF and NHM even otherwise. The GST compensation that we received recently was something that was due to be paid to Tamil Nadu anyway. We would have received it even if the COVID-19 outbreak had not occurred.” Another official said that earlier, the sanctioning of funds by the Centre under the SDRF and the NHM was not made public. It was publicised this year only to give the impression that the Centre was providing funds to States to tackle COVID-19, the official added.  Without any monetary support, the financial package announced by the Centre will remain an eyewashAn official
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HCL Foundation joins Corpn.’s initiative to revive city’s coasts||HCL Technologies’ corporate social responsibility arm, HCL Foundation, has joined hands with Greater Chennai Corporation and Environmentalist Foundation of India to launch “Revive Chennai’s Coasts” initiative. The campaign aims at sensitising residents along the coast about the hazardous impact of ocean pollution and initiate localised community-based solution through a participatory model for behavioural change, according to a statement. The year-long campaign consists of coastal clean-up and to bring about awareness in Chennai, which is home to the world’s second longest beach. In the first phase of the campaign, the three partners will kick start clean-up and sensitisation activities in and around the 5-km beach stretch between Ashtalakshmi Temple in Besant Nagar and Kottivakkam. Further, as part of its commitment to help improve the coastal ecosystem in 25% of the Chennai’s coastline by 2025, HCL Foundation will create ‘Young Community Leaders’ in the form of ‘Ocean Fellows’ as an innovative and sustainable solution to ensure the prevention of waste accumulation, it added. The “Ocean Fellows” will undergo rigorous training by Environmentalist Foundation in the areas of Leadership, Management and Social Innovation, the statement said. Post training, the fellows will join various community volunteering efforts such as adoption and maintenance of a beach stretch, sensitising visitors on the use of plastic, to introduce ocean friendly fishing practices, enhanced management of harbours and fish landing sites, eco-sensitisation amongst fishing villages etc., it added.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. tops in disbursements to MSMEs under Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme||Tamil Nadu has come out on top in terms of the sanctioning of funds and disbursals under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS), which was announced by the Centre to support the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) sector amid the economic distress caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. According to data from the Union Finance Ministry, as of June 9, public sector banks had cumulatively sanctioned Rs. 2,636.76 crore and disbursed Rs. 1,727.46 crore under the scheme. Funds were sanctioned to 62,999 accounts and disbursements made to 34,626 accounts. The ECLGS was unveiled as part of the Rs. 20 lakh crore comprehensive package announced by the Union Finance Ministry. The scheme is aimed at providing additional credit of up to Rs. 3 lakh crore to help MSMEs restart business. All business enterprises/MSME borrower accounts, with combined outstanding loans of up to Rs. 25 crore as of February 29, 2020, and an annual turnover of up to Rs. 100 crore for FY 2019-20, are eligible for the scheme. Loans provided under the scheme by banks and NBFCs would be 100% guaranteed by the National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company. There is a moratorium period of one year on the principal amount. However, interest is payable during the moratorium period. The principal amount shall be repaid in 36 equal instalments after the moratorium period is over. Business enterprises/MSMEs covered under the Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana, under which loans were extended on or before February 29 and reported on the MUDRA portal, are also eligible for the scheme. Uttar Pradesh came second in disbursements, with a cumulative sanctioning of funds to the tune of Rs. 2,547.26 crore and cumulative disbursement of Rs. 1,225.49 crore. Gujarat saw a cumulative disbursement of Rs. 908.88 crore; Maharashtra, Rs. 852.26 crore; and Rajasthan, Rs. 831.13 crore.  The ECLGS was unveiled as part of the Rs. 20 lakh crore comprehensive package announced by the Union Finance Ministry
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kasimedu fisherfolk to get passes||While mechanised boat owners are holding discussions about leaving for fishing, the Fisheries Department has begun issuing passes for those, who require to enter the Kasimedu fishing harbour. As on Thursday, 6,000 applications were received from boat owners, wholesale traders and allied workers. Boat owners had announced they would send boats for fishing from June 15. Close scrutiny “We are issuing passes to avoid entry of consumers and retailers into the fishing harbour. Some people have applied for the sake of getting a pass. We will scrutinise all applications with the help of the associations,” said an official source in the department. Meanwhile, fishermen have been asked to remove their stuff, including ice crushers, ice boxes, boat parts from the wharf area in Kasimedu fishing harbour. This is to facilitate sale of fish while maintaining personal distancing. However, a section of fishers objected to the issuance of passes. They said without security personnel at the gates the passes would not be of any use.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Move sparks criticism||The Tamil Nadu government’s notification changing names of 1,018 towns and cities has come in for criticism from various quarters, including a few Tamil language experts, who have questioned the inconsistencies in the process. The change of name from ‘Vellore’ to ‘Veeloor’ was criticised the most. Senior officials in the Tamil Development Department told The Hindu that the names were finalised after experts looked at various suggestions. The team included linguistic experts proficient in Tamil and English. They clarified that the last column that provides the name changes also mentions “no change”. “This “no change” means that the names suggested by the Collectors will be maintained,” an official said. When specifically asked how ‘Vellore’ became ‘Veeloor’, an official said, “It was based on ‘Nedil’ (long vowel) and ‘Kuril’ (short vowel) words. For Vellore, in Tamil the word is ‘Waayloor’, ‘Nedil’, not ‘Wayloor’, ‘Kuril’. Hence in English, it becomes Veeloor,” a top official said. Another official said once the new names come into effect, people will get used to them. “The Britishers changed a number of names to their convenience. People need to get used to the new names and it will be fine,” the official said. Thennarasu’s remark DMK MLA and former School Education Minister Thangam Thennarasu asked: “Firstly, is this the right time to make these announcements? Did some astrologer tell this government that changing the names of these places will drive away the COVID-19 virus?” “You are saying Coimbatore is Koyampuththoor. But for Srivilliputtur, you are saying the correct spelling in English is Thiruvilliputthur. There is no consistency, there are errors” he said. “How can ‘Vellore’ become ‘Veeloor’? If you are going to say you went with ‘Kuril’, ‘Nedil’ words for the English names, why do you need a Tamil ‘Development’ Department,” he asked. About Krishnagiri, he asked, “It is mentioned as Kirutinagiri district. It’s a gazette notification. How can Krishnagiri become Kirutinagiri? Have you made any announcement changing the name anywhere,” he asked.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC directs ICMR to verify claim on effectiveness of drug in COVID-19 treatment||The Madras High Court has directed the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to consider a representation made by a medical researcher for conducting clinical trials of beta-adrenergic blockers, a drug that costs less than Rs. 2 per tablet, to treat COVID-19 patients. Justices Vineet Kothari and R. Suresh Kumar directed the ICMR to give an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner, N. Vasanthakumar of Uthangarai in Krishnagiri district, and then dispose of his representation by passing appropriate orders as expeditiously as possible. According to the petitioner, beta-adrenergic blockers could prove beneficial to COVID-19 patients with hypertension by regulating their blood pressure and decreasing cellular entry of the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). In an affidavit filed through his counsel Arvind Srevatsa, he claimed, “In low doses, beta-adrenergic blockers may be beneficial in COVID-19 patients with normal blood pressure as it may decrease the SARS-CoV-2 entry into the cell.” Regarding the credentials of the petitioner, the court was told that he had completed MBBS from the Madras Medical College in 2002 and had obtained an M.Phil in neurosciences from the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences in 2006. Thereafter, he did his MD in physiology from the Christian Medical College in Vellore and worked as a senior research fellow at a biological psychiatry lab under Dr. John P. John. He was also a visiting researcher at Dr. Sen Cheng’s Lab at Ruhr-University Bochum, Germany. In the meantime, he had penned articles and hypothesised a potential drug that might be beneficial to COVID-19 patients, and had sent copies of it to ICMR, along with a request to conduct clinical trials. However, since no concrete action had been taken, he approached the court. “The treatment through adrenergic blockers in COVID-19 patients will be very cost-effective and will benefit the public at large…It has been used by doctors for many years for treating various medical illnesses, and has a good safety profile,” he claimed.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No proposal as of now to intensify lockdown curbs in four districts||The State government currently has no formal proposal to intensify the lockdown curbs in Chennai and three neighbouring districts, a top official has said. But it may have to consider the option of allowing only essential services in the city sooner rather than later, he added. If the government decides to go for this option, the restrictions it would entail are likely to be equivalent to what the State had witnessed under ‘Lockdown 1.0’, which began on March 25 and was in force for about a month. On Thursday, Chennai, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur accounted for as many as 1,624 of the 1,837 fresh COVID-19 cases reported across the State. The present set of conditions is definitely expected to remain in force till Sunday, as Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami is currently in Salem, another official said. ‘Tighten movement’ Already, the police have been instructed to ‘tighten’ the movement of people out of Chennai, and e-passes are being issued only for ‘genuine cases’, the official said. When asked whether any formal order had been issued for this, the official said there was “no need for any separate order”.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pulse oximeter – a solution at your fingertip, literally||One of the answers to COVID-19 is probably at your fingertip, doctors say. With growing experience of dealing with sick people who report to hospitals with breathlessness, experts have recommended the use of a relatively cheap device at home that can forewarn you about any impending crisis – the pulse oximeter. The small device, which fits into the palm of your hand, measures the oxygen saturation in the blood in a non-invasive manner. All one needs to do is clip the device onto a finger tip, and it will show the SpO2 level (peripheral oxygen saturation), or the oxygen level in the blood. Its role in COVID-19 patients’ health monitoring is significant. “Silent hypoxia (deprivation of oxygen at the tissue level) has emerged as a major cause of death in COVID-19 patients,” said K. Kolandaswamy, former director of public health. “Usually, when your oxygen falls below 95%, you will have symptoms, breathlessness, a feeling of discomfort certainly. Now, in COVID-19, for some reason, that is not happening. Patients are not feeling the drop in oxygen levels at all until they are dangerously low. When they finally land up in hospital, they sometimes have a SpO2 of 80% or 75%, and are in respiratory distress,” he explained. The pulse oximeter, priced upwards of Rs. 1,000, will prevent the patient from reaching this level of distress, he said. Daily monitoring of SpO2 levels will indicate if there is hypoxia, and in case the levels drop below 95%, it would be prudent to seek medical care, he added. In government hospitals, patients’ SpO2 levels are monitored with a pulse oximeter and recorded at four-hour intervals. At the first sign of a drop in oxygen saturation, the patient is given high flow nasal oxygen in order to improve his or her condition. “We would advise people at home to buy this device and use it to test themselves often. Any drop below 95% is a cause for worry,” said a doctor at the Multi Super Speciality Hospital, Omandurar. R. Jayanthi, dean, Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, said intervention at an early stage, or detection of dropping oxygen saturation levels, could prevent deaths. When a cytokine storm occurs, there is supposed to be an “aberrant release of pro-inflammatory factors” that causes damage to the lungs and hypoxia, among other factors. Hence, noticing the drop in oxygen levels is key, experts pointed out. Unless prevented early, a cytokine storm sets in motion a cascade of events that becomes irreversible, and leads to death. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said a pilot project had been initiated at Chengalpattu Medical College, under which Bluetooth notifications would be sent to health workers from the pulse oximeter if the levels drop drastically. “All our hospitals and mobile teams have been instructed to use these devices, and they will also form part of the home kit we provide to people advised to go on home quarantine,” she said. ‘Will procure more’ The government will procure more pulse oximeters for the treatment of patients, especially those who are asymptomatic, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said. He said the government will launch a scheme under which the device will be provided to asymptomatic patients, who are allowed to remain in home quarantine, with conditions.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna University ranked 12th in NIRF ranking||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras has retained the top rank in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) released by the Ministry of Human Resource Development on Thursday. Among the engineering colleges in the country, it has secured a score of 85.31, topping the list. The State-run Anna University is ranked 12th among universities in the country and 14th among engineering educational institutes. In the overall category it is ranked 20th. Architecture education The university’s architecture education is ranked 18th among the top 20 institutes. The University of Madras, however, came 41st in the NIRF rankings. A total of 16 universities from Tamil Nadu, including private and public, feature among the top 100 institutions. For the first time the Madras Medical College has figured among the top medical colleges and is ranked 12th. Christian Medical College in Vellore has been ranked third in the country. Among the top 10 colleges are Presidency and Loyola College, both based in Chennai. The Presidency College’s ranking has, however, fallen from the third to the fifth position this year.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Tangedco will be shutting down power supply for maintenance work in parts of Chennai on Saturday from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. A press release said power supply would be suspended in Sidco Ambattur Industrial Estate covering Pattaravakkam, Mangalapuram, Sidco North Phase, Yadava Street, Katchanakuppam, Tass Estate parts, and BSNL exchange. Likewise, power supply would be disrupted in Perungudi areas of Kazura Garden, Renga Reddy, MGR Salai, Singaravelan Salai, Neelangarai Kuppam, and Chinna Neelangarai and in Pallavakkam areas including Canal Puram, Govindan Nagar, Kolavizhiamman Nagar, Kandasamy Nagar, Periyar Salai, MGR Nagar and Krishna Nagar.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||WB funds for fighting COVID-19||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday activated the Contingency Emergency Response Component (CERC) of Coastal Disaster Risk Reduction Project assisted by the World Bank to utilise funds of Rs. 376.60 crore for containment measures against COVID-19. A senior official said funds were available under the CERC.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. opposes Mekedatu project||Tamil Nadu has used the Cauvery Water Management Authority’s first meeting during the current water year to reiterate its opposition to the Karnataka government’s Mekedatu project, which has come to a standstill. At a meeting on Wednesday through video-conferencing, the State made it clear that it remained firm in its opposition to the proposal for the Mekedatu Balancing Reservoir and Drinking Water Project.
12 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||High Court asks govt. about lockdown plans||Justices Vineet Kothari and R. Suresh Kumar of the Madras High Court on Thursday sought to know whether the State government was planning to impose a complete lockdown in the territorial limits of the Greater Chennai Police. Making it clear that he was posing the question as a common man, Justice Kumar said the situation was grim. Despite the government’s efforts, the number of people being infected in Chennai appeared to be rising, he noted.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC closes cases as govt. cancels Class 10 exam||The Madras High Court on Thursday closed as infructuous a batch of cases filed against the conduct of Class 10 board examinations this month. The court disposed of the cases after recording that the State government, on its own, had cancelled the examinations this year due to the spread of COVID-19 cases in the State.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Not allowed to reveal truth’||The prime accused in the 2017 Kodanad Estate murder-cum-heist case, K.V. Sayan and Valayar Manoj, on Thursday alleged in the Madras High Court that the prosecution was not allowing them to reveal the truth because the crime involves high-profile politicians in power. Their bail plea came before Justice M. Nirmal Kumar. Senior counsel N.R. Elango said his clients filed petitions under Section 164 Cr.P.C. before a lower court to get their statements recorded. However, the prosecution objected to the recording of such statements.
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC grants pregnant woman bail||The Madras High Court on Thursday granted bail to a pregnant woman arrested for stabbing her husband to death supposedly because he chided her for yelling at their five-year-old child. Justice M. Nirmal Kumar said the alleged act of the accused did not appear to be commensurate with the reported provocation. However, considering the fact that she was carrying a four-month-old foetus in her womb, the judge granted her bail.
12 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Govt. to procure more oximeters||The Tamil Nadu government will procure more pulse oximeters, a device used to monitor oxygen saturation level, for the treatment of people with COVID-19, especially patients who are asymptomatic, said Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar here. He said that the government would be launching a scheme under which the small device would be given to asymptomatic patients, who are allowed to remain in home quarantine with conditions, so that they could monitor oxygen saturation level themselves. “As of now, we are not allowing asymptomatic persons to remain in home. If they request for home isolation, doctors can allow the same with conditions. They should have individual room and washroom at home,” he said after inspecting treatment facilities at Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, along with Minister for Municipal Administration and Rural Development S.P. Velumani. “We have procured 20,000 pulse oximeters. The government will procure more units,” he said. The Minister said patients who see any drop in the oxygen level could call 108 emergency services for which a separate dedicated control room has been set up in Chennai. “The drop in the oxygen level is an indicator of severity of infection,” he said. Doctors who are into COVID-19 management in the State opined that persistent hypoxia, reduced oxygen level in cells, was the main trigger for the deaths of those who contracted COVID-19. Mr. Vijayabaskar said it was up to the Central Government or Indian Council of Medical Research to say whether there was community spread of the disease in Tamil Nadu. “The Centre has not yet said whether there was community transmission,” said the Minister in reply to a query on results of antibody-based tests done by ICMR in some cities in Tamil Nadu to check community spread of COVID-19. Asked whether the State Government has plans to strengthen lockdown, Mr. Vijayabaskar said that the Chief Minister held discussion with senior Ministers and health experts on the same and it was he who was to take a decision. He said that Chennai now had 5,000 beds for COVID-19 management and the Government was taking efforts to set up 5,000 more. At ESI Hospital in Coimbatore, efforts were on to arrange 400 more beds in addition to the existing bed strength of over 350, he said.
12 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore to Koyampuththoor: renaming draws mixed reactions||The renaming of Coimbatore to Koyampuththoor by the State government has drawn mixed reactions. While local historians feel that Koyampuththoor could be a right literal translation of the Tamil name of the place, various citizen forums, non-governmental organisations, and a major chunk of the public felt that Kovai could have been a better choice or renaming was not necessary. The rewording of the place name in English also triggered discussions in social media and a signature campaign. “The early usage was Kovan Pudur for which there are epigraphical records from 12th century. Kovan is said to be a chieftain and Pudur means new place. Kuniyan Pudur is a similar usage for Kuniyamuthur,” says local historian C.R. Elangovan, who welcomed the change to Koyampuththoor calling it as an apt transliteration of the Tamil name. “There is nothing wrong in the change in my opinion. Why should we follow a spelling that was fixed by the British ?” asks historian Perur K. Jayaraman. Coimbatore chronicler Rajesh Govindarajulu was neutral about the change. “Such changes happen all over the country. Kovan Pudur, Kovan Pathy and Koniamman Pudur are cited as earlier usages. Some people, who could not pronounce the anglicised usage Coimbatore, even spelt it as Koyamuthur. There were milestones which had the name as Koyamputhoor in the past,” he says. “As a tier II city, the place is known all over the country and globally as Coimbatore. Hence, efforts must be made so that people from other parts do not get confused due to the spelling,” he adds. R. Raveendran of the Residents Awareness Association of Coimbatore, says that the government should have consulted the people of Coimbatore before making the change. “Kovai would have been a simple and better choice if the change was needed. Several NGOs, trade bodies and organisations are unhappy with the change. Efforts are on to represent the same to authorities,” says Mr. Raveendran. Mathavan, a resident of Singanallur and an employee of an industrial unit, says that no change was required. At the time of filing this report, over 4,000 people signed in an online signature campaign ‘Kovai not Koyampuththoor’ launched by Arun Lakshminarayan inchange.organd addressed to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Minister for Municipal Administration S. P. Velumani and Minister for Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture K. Pandiarajan. The petition said that the new name was very long and the spelling was difficult to remember whereas Kovai is the short Tamil Name that is easy to say and remember. The name suggested by the district administration for the change was Koyamputhur. Narasimma Nayakkan Paalayam for Narasimhanaicken Palayam, Chinna Thadaagam for Chinna Thadagam, Periyanayakkan Paalayam for Perianaicken Palayam, Thelungupaalayam for Telugupalayam and Nayakkanpaalayam for Naicken Palayam were among other places from the district spelling of which have been changed.
12 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Micro units without CC account struggle for bank support||Murugan and his brother have a micro unit with three milling machinery at Ganapathy. They started the unit in 2010, investing their savings, and provide employment to six workers. They have a current account with a bank for the last 10 years and have never taken a loan. “The two-month lockdown was a challenging period. We need to pay our workers and need funds to buy raw materials. So I approached the bank for loan,” says Mr. Murugan. However, the bank has refused support under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme. “They want to support only those who have taken loans already. I have all the documents that the bank needs. I visited the bank twice recently for loan, but they are not willing to support,” he adds. Though orders are not an issue for Murugan, he is struggling to mobilise funds to buy raw materials and to pay his workers. Similarly, Veerasekaran, who has a plastic moulding unit, said he had an account in a bank for nearly two decades and the officials knew all about his business and transactions. “When I go for loan, they are not helpful. They ask for collateral. I want money now because I need to pay rent. But I am unable to get the additional loan that the Central government has announced from the bank as I do not have cash credit (CC) account. If I had that support, resuming operations will be a lot easier,” he says. According to C. Sivakumar, president of Coimbatore and Tiruppur District Tiny and Micro Enterprises Association, those who have current accounts need working capital now. But, the banks have not supported such units so far. “We have spoken to all the regional heads of the banks. We are collecting the documents from such members. Our (the association) office-bearers are also talking to such units and the banks. We have also appealed to the banks to support such units by looking at just one year’s IT returns and not to ask for the returns filed for three years,” he said. Members of the Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations met the District Collector K. Rajamani on June 9 and explained the problems faced by the micro units. They pointed out that the banks were not coming forward to support the units that had taken loans less than Rs. 10 lakh without any collateral. Further, non-banking financial institutions and private banks were not willing to support the micro units through the scheme announced by the Union Finance Minister. Coimbatore District had more than 20,000 units that had only current account in the banks and they were not getting support under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme “The Collector has assured his support to help the micro units get benefits under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme,” said J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises. “We will collect details from all our members who have current account and will submit it to the district administration so that the officials can help these units get the additional loans,” he added.
12 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation removes encroachments in T.K. Market||Early Thursday, the Coimbatore Corporation began removing shops that had encroached Then Vadal Street near T.K. Market for 35 years. By afternoon, the Corporation had removed all the 88 makeshift vegetable and fruit shops whose traders had squatted on the Street, blocking traffic movement from Raja Street on the north to Big Bazaar Street on the south. The Corporation team led by Town Planning Officer in-charge S. Ravichandran and Assistant Town Planning Officer, Central Zone, A. Senthil Baskar also removed a building that housed a police outpost on the south, the wall that ran along both sides of the Street, said the Market sources. The team demolished three shops and another building inside the Market as well. By 5.30 a.m. or so, the Corporation with the help of police barricaded the market, blocking entry from all sides. In the presence of nearly 100 police personnel and with help from a dozen earth movers and lorries, the Corporation first demolished the encroachments within the Market and then moved on to the Then Vadal Street. The Corporation removed the encroachments on the street to comply with a Madras High Court order. Though the order did not mention anything on the encroachments inside the Market, the Corporation removed the three shops and another building to not give room for any communal tension, the Market sources said. The group that was to be evicted from the Then Vadal Street, at a meeting with the Corporation Commissioner a few days ago, demanded that the civic body also demolish encroachments within the Market, which it said was under occupation of people belonging to the opposite camp. In response, the Corporation had said that it would not distinguish between one type of encroachment from another and in keeping with the response, the Corporation had removed the encroachments inside the Market as well, the sources explained. The Corporation sources said that the civic body, after removing the makeshift structures of the 88 vendors and demolishing the compound wall, had started removing the waste and debris so as to throw open at the earliest the Then Vadal Street for traffic. Rs. 60,000 a day The demolition, the sources also said, would help the Corporation because the 88 traders would start paying daily rent to the Corporation. They were hitherto paying a syndicate, which was daily collecting over Rs. 60,000 a day, the Market sources added.
12 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual assault on minor||The All Women Police Station (AWPS), Thudiyalur, on Thursday arrested a 41-year-old man for alleged sexual assault on a minor girl, a class XI student. V. Saravanan of Sellanur near Annur, a cable television technician, was arrested based on a complaint lodged by the girl’s mother, said the police. The alleged incident took place on Tuesday evening at the house of the girl when her parents, both daily wage labourers, were away for work. The accused came to the house around 5.15 p.m. for a cable connection repair. The police said the accused attempted to assault the girl sexually. The girl ran out of the house and informed it to her parents. The girl’s mother lodged a complaint with the AWPS on Wednesday which led to the arrest of the accused under Sections 7 (sexual assault) and 8 (punishment for sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.
12 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Admissions banned in private schools||District Collector K. Rajamani said that admission process along with distribution of books and uniforms by private schools are banned until further notice. He was chairing a meeting at the district Collectorate, with officials from the Department of School Education on Thursday, to monitor private schools that demand fees from parents. Parents and students are not allowed to gather at any school for whatever reason in an effort to prevent the spread of COVID-19, Mr. Rajamani said according to a press release. Despite the directions issued by the district administration, complaints of private schools demanding fees keep surfacing, he said. This would be regarded as a violation of the State government’s orders and guidelines, for which strict action would be initiated against the respective private schools, the Collector warned. One of the DEOs, who attended the meeting, told The Hindu that the Collector instructed all the DEOs and Block Educational Officers (BEOs) to direct the Revenue Department officials to seal private schools violating these directions and initiate the process to de-recognise those schools. The DEOs and BEOs will be held fully responsible for all the violations occurring in their respective regions henceforth, the officer said. While the DEOs would monitor the Matriculation and CBSE schools, the BEOs would monitor the nursery, primary and government-aided schools in their regions. Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer P. Usha, District Educational Officers of Coimbatore, Perur, S.S. Kulam and Pollachi educational districts and District Revenue Officer Ramadurai Murugan were among the officials who participated in the meeting.
12 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Low demand for vegetables||With steep fall in demand and prices, vegetable arrivals to markets have also dropped, say traders here. Almost 90 % of the vegetables that come to the markets here used to be sent to Kerala. With the lockdown, the movement to Kerala has stopped. Even in the domestic market, consumption has reduced, says M. Rajendran, president of the Thyagi Kumaran Market Vegetable Traders’ Association. Though hotels have re-opened, the demand for vegetables is not much as the footfalls at the restaurants are also minimum, he said.
12 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Relief materials distributed||Community Awareness Research Education Trust (CARE T) has provided relief materials to 1,500 families of garment and textile workers The package included grocery, vegetables, and toiletries.
12 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Automated sanitiser dispensing unit at TNAU||The Department of Farm Machinery and Power Engineering at the Agricultural Engineering College and Research Institute in TNAU has developed an automated sanitiser dispensing unit. A release said the Department demonstrated the unit to Vice-Chancellor N. Kumar recently. The Department had modified a model of the battery-operated sprayer to dispense sanitiser. A sensor in the unit triggered the mechanism to dispense sanitisers when it sensed wrists nearby and stops the dispensing when wrists were taken away. A 15-litre tank attached to the unit would help eliminate the need for frequent replacement of dispensers or refill.
12 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Inauguration of Digital X-Ray unit||The inauguration event of Digital X-Ray and Post-Operative Care Unit (Project CARE) will be held at Government Hospital, Mettupalayam, on Friday at 10 a.m. The event is jointly organised by Rotary Mettupalayam and Mettupalayam Government Hospital, a release said.   The 33rd Shramik special train for migrant workers from Tiruppur Junction left to Dibrugarh, Assam on Thursday. Around 771 passengers boarded the train, which left the junction at around 3 p.m., railway officials said. The rest of the workers will board the train at Chennai. Salem Division of Southern Railway operated these 33 special trains to six States namely Bihar (17), Odisha (7), Uttar Pradesh (3), Jharkhand (2), Assam (2) and West Bengal (2).
12 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited||The Coimbatore District Industries Centre (DIC) has invited applications from individuals aged above 18 and who are interested in starting a venture under the Unemployed Youth Employment Guarantee Programme. According to an official press release, the annual income of the family should not be above Rs. 5 lakh. For general category candidates, the maximum age should be 35 and for special category it is 45. The applicant should have studied at least up to class VIII. The application can be downloaded fromwww.msmeonline.tn.gov.in/uyegpor can be obtained from the DIC office. The beneficiaries will have to invest 5% of the project amount and will get maximum subsidy of Rs. 1.25 lakh.     The Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, has appealed to the State Government to provide time to manufacturing industries and traders to find alternatives to use and throw plastic packaging materials and switch over to them. Welcoming the ban on plastic bags used for packaging, the Chamber president V. Lakshminarayanasamy said that all the sectors need to plan and find out sources for alternative materials. The Chamber will also collect views and suggestions from all sectors and make a detailed representation to the Government on the issue.
12 June 2020||COIMBATORE/Salem,TAMIL NADU||18 new positive cases across districts||A total of 18 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the districts of Coimbatore (6), Salem (10), Namakkal (1) and Dharmapuri (1) on Thursday. In Coimbatore, a 10-year-old girl from Peelamedu, who recently returned from Chennai with her mother and four-year-old brother on a flight, tested positive. While swab samples of the girl’s mother and brother collected by the Health Department staff on arrival at Coimbatore airport returned positive, the girl tested negative. A repeat test was done and she was found to have contracted the disease, said Health Department sources. The girl was admitted to a private hospital where her mother and brother were under observation. A 39-year-old woman and a 29-year-old woman from Vadavalli also tested positive. The two women were close contacts of a patient who had returned from Chennai. They were admitted to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. A 37-year-old woman from Olympus near Ramanathapuram, close contact of a patient who returned from Villupuram, was another person who tested positive. She was admitted to ESI Hospital. A couple from Peelamedu, a 37-year-old man and his 32-year-old wife, were the two others who tested positive. The man had returned from Chennai on June 6. They were also admitted to the ESI Hospital, said sources. As per the COVID-19 media bulletin issued by the Health Department on Thursday, there were 20 active COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore district which included domestic and imported cases. The total number of persons tested positive for the disease so far was 170 as per the bulletin. In Salem, 10 new positive cases were reported on Thursday. According to health officials, the patients have travelled to Salem from Chennai, Krishnagiri and Chengalpet and they are undergoing treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here. Officials said four patients, who were undergoing treatment, were discharged on Thursday. A 49-year-old lorry driver, who had returned to Namakkal from Chennai, tested positive on Thursday. The patient is undergoing treatment at the Namakkal government medical college hospital. In Dharmapuri, a 35-year-old woman from Papireddipatti tested positive. She has travelled to the district from Chennai and she is undergoing treatment at the Dharmapuri government hospital. A 35-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment, was discharged on Thursday.
12 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Decision soon on quota for govt. school students in medical colleges||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will soon make an announcement on providing exclusive reservation in medical college admission for government school students who clear NEET, School Education Minister K A Sengottaiyan said on Thursday. Interacting with journalists after inaugurating a vegetable market in Erode, he said the Justice P. Kalaiyarasan Commission, appointed to analyse reasons for government school students not getting admission in medical colleges, submitted its report to Mr. Palaniswami on June 8. The Chief Minister would soon make an announcement based on the Commission’s recommendations, he said. Only after consultations, Mr. Palaniswami announced that all class 10 State board students would be declared “passed” based on their quarterly and half-yearly exam marks and attendance. A decision on the fate of private candidates would be announced soon, he said. Asked about class 10 students, who had failed in their quarterly or half-yearly exams, the Minister said a decision would be taken on that too soon. Erode Collector C. Kathiravan, Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan, MLAs K.V. Ramalingam, and K.S. Thennarasu and Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan and officials participated.
12 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Couple held for stealing gold jewellery||Erode Taluk police on Thursday have arrested a couple for stealing gold jewellery and Rs. 17,000 from a lorry owner’s house at Thindal on May 30. The arrested were S. Anna of Sivagangai district, who currently runs a hotel at Anthiyur, and his wife Pandiyammal alias Devika. Police said the burglary took place when the lorry owner Periyasamy, who along with his family, returned from Tiruchengode on June 1 and found the front door lock broken and the jewellery missing. A special team reviewed footage from the surveillance cameras installed in the area and found the two involved in the burglary. The police recovered the jewellery and cash from the couple. They were produced in the court and lodged at prison.
12 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plea to operate powerloom units round the clock||Stating that the livelihood of thousands of workers in powerloom units were affected as the units were allowed to function only during the day, members of Tamilaga Valvurimai Katchi urged the district administration to permit the units to function round the clock. In a petition submitted to the district administration, the functionaries said there were thousands of units functioning in the Corporation limits in which workers in large numbers were working. But, due to lockdown, their livelihood was affected completely as they were forced to borrow money from money lenders to meet their expenses. Though relaxing norms for the units to function during day time for 14 hours was a welcome step, it was not benefiting the workers as they were given work only on alternate days. “Only if the units are operated round the clock, the workers will get the required wages,” it said.
12 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Villagers oppose shifting||Opposing the release of the wild tusker into the forest area near Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR), villagers staged a road roko at Thengumarahada Junction, near Karachikorai village, in the district here on Thursday. The villagers said that wild animals, particularly elephants, are invading their crops frequently and entering human habitations leading to conflicts. They said that the forest department is not responding to their emergency calls and they continue to face the trouble created by wild animals. “If the situation is so, how can we allow the tusker that had already killed three people to be released into the forests here”, they questioned. Forest department officials explained to the people that the elephant would be released into Thengumarahada forests and it would be moving in the Nilgiris slope. They said that the elephant was tranquillised and captured and is in sedation from the morning and needs to be released into a forest area, failing which the elephant will be in danger. However, the villagers failed to withdraw their protest. The elephant arrived at Bhavani Sagar forest area at 6.30 p.m. from Krishnagiri and continued to be kept in the vehicle.
12 June 2020||Karaikudi,TAMIL NADU||New technology to generate sodium hypochlorite||CSIR-Central Electro Chemical Research Institute, Karaikudi, has developed a zero-emission and cost-effective electrochemical technology by which sodium hypochlorite can be generated by directly oxidising sodium chloride (salt water) solution. Sodium hypochlorite is an effective disinfectant against bacteria, viruses, fungi and mycobacterium. Any micro, small and medium enterprise can use this technology to generate large quantities of disinfectants by investing between Rs. 3 lakh and Rs. 5 lakh. The demonstration and transfer of technology can be made available for any industrial client, a press release said.
12 June 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Wild tusker that killed three persons captured||Forest Department personnel on Thursday tranquillised and captured a 34-year-old wild tusker that killed three persons in forest ranges under Hosur division. According to forest department officials, the male elephant that has been camping near villages killed three farmers between May 26 and June 10. The tusker on Wednesday killed Srinivasan, a farmer from Denkanikottai, while he was on his way to the farmers’ market during the early hours of Wednesday. 60-member team Following the death, District Forest Officer S. Prabhu formed a 60-member team to capture the elephant. According to officials, efforts to capture the elephant started on Wednesday night in Denkanikottai reserve forest range. Two teams of veterinarians, a team from Bannerghata National Park and another team led by wildlife veterinarian Prakash tranquillised the elephant by 6 a.m. on Thursday. Later, the elephant was put on a truck with help of JCB machine. According to forest department officials, the elephant would be released into the forest area near Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve.
12 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||28 pregnant women cured, go home after testing negative||Twenty-eight pregnant women, who tested positive for COVID-19, were treated at Government Rajaji Hospital and discharged after full recovery, Dean J.Sangumani said here on Thursday. Out of them, 14 women delivered babies and the women and the newborns, after testing negative for COVID-19, were discharged, he told mediapersons. The 28 women hailed from Ramanathapuram, Theni, Madurai, Dindigul and Virudhunagar districts. Out of the 14 deliveries - nine baby girls and five baby boys - one was normal and the rest were caesarean section. The Dean said the labour room and maternity operation theatre at the GRH were recently ‘LaQshya-certified.’ The Labour Room Quality Improvement Initiative (LaQshya) is taken by the union health ministry. A two-member team assessed the facility at the hospital in mid-March. The labour room and the maternity operation theatre received a score of 97% each. The Dean said that with referrals from neighbouring districts, as many as 1,413 deliveries were perpormed in the hospital during the lockdown in May. “This number is high as usually 1,000 to 1,200 deliveries are performed every month,” he said. Gynaecologists, anaesthetists, paediatricians and nurses are working on a rotation basis in treating COVID-19 patients. “They had worked selflessly and performed exceptionally well during the crisis,” he said. Dr. Sangumani said the convalescent plasma therapy trial was successful at the hospital. “Abiding by ICMR guidelines, plasma was collected from two persons. So far, 200 ml was transfused to a patient, who is clinically improving,” he said. A total of 500 ml was collected from each donor. Out of it, 100 ml from each donor was kept aside to estimate IgG antibodies. “Once more and more recovered persons start donating plasma, we will transfuse it to more patients,” he said. On the recent murder of a patient inside the hospital, Dr. Sangumani said the case was under investigation and measures were under way to tighten security at the hospital, he added.
12 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to revoke order on packaging material||The State government’s withdrawal of exemption on usage of plastic bags as primary packaging material cannot be sustainable in the current economic climate, said Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry. In a press statement, its senior president S. Rethinavelu and president N. Jegatheesan objected to the June-5 order which said that food products that were sealed at manufacturing or processing units were not exempted any more from the plastic ban. Plastic packaging material was essential for protecting food and processed foods such as chips, biscuits and sweets. It prevented tampering and contamination before reaching the hands of customers. “As no viable and cost-effective alternatives have been found so far for plastic packaging - especially vacuum packaging which provides more shelf life and nitrogen blown packaging to maintain the crispness of the product - sudden lifting of the exemption on plastic bags will surmount the acute problems faced by the food and food processing units which are already affected by the lockdown,” the statement read. Since there were few or no financial resources to invent machines that could provide an alternative to plastic packaging, many industries would have to close down. So till a pan-India solution was arrived at, the recent order must be revoked, the statment said
12 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Passenger-friendly timings for Madurai-Villupuram train||Southern Railway has made changes in timings of Madurai-Villupuram-Madurai special trains with effect from Saturday. Following feedback from passengers on the timing of the trains on both directions, the departure in Madurai has been delayed by an hour. But the departure from Villupuram has been advanced by 90 minutes. The changes have been effected so that passengers can reach the railway station in Madurai with ease and go home earlier in the night when public transport is available. With limited TNSTC bus services in the early morning, passengers found it difficult to reach Madurai station on time and catch the train at 7 a.m. Now, the train will depart at 8 a.m. Similarly, under the new timings, the train will arrive Madurai at 7.30 p.m. instead of 9.20 p.m. The passengers can use the TNSTC buses that are otherwise taken to depots at 9.30 p.m. under the relaxed lockdown conditions. New timings The train will leave Madurai at 8 a.m., Dindigul at 9 a.m., Tiruchi at 10.15 a.m., Ariyalur at 11.10 a.m. to reach Villupuram at 1.05 p.m. In the return direction, the train will depart Villupuram at 2.30 p.m., leave Ariyalur at 3.55 p.m., Tiruchi at 5.10 p.m., Dindigul at 6.17 p.m. and reach Madurai at 7.30 p.m.
12 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Gym owners seek early reopening||Members of Madurai District Gym Owners Association on Wednesday petitioned Collector T.G. Vinay, seeking reopening of gyms. Association representative N. Vijay said gyms were closed on March 16. “Now restaurants and temples have been opened, and gyms too must be allowed to function. Clubbing gymnasiums with shopping malls is not fair,” he said. He said there were around 140 gyms in Madurai. Most of them barely covered an area exceeding 1,000 square feet and did not have air-conditioners. “Only a few elite gyms have the capacity to accommodate more than the prescribed number of people,” he said. He added that mounting costs in terms of rent, bank loans, salaries of trainers, etc., added to their misery. He said functioning of gyms outside containment zones would be of great help to sportspersons who wanted to train now. “If gyms are allowed to open, we will ensure the presence of only 10 people at any given point of time, and wearing of masks and gloves. After every slot, we will disinfect gyms,” he said. They would also check customers with thermometer guns, he added.
12 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Folk artistes in Madurai seek swift disbursal of assistance||Tamil Nadu Folk Singers’ Association has sought swift disbursal of assistance to folk artistes. In a petition submitted to Collector T.G. Vinay on Monday, members of the association said that despite being part of the Tamil Nadu Folk Artistes’ Welfare Board, 40% of them have not received assistance from the State government. Ever since the COVID-19 induced lockdown started, most of them were without work and income, they added. One of the artistes, S. Muthulakshmi, said that some of the artistes had started working as daily wage labourers in construction sites or agriculture fields. Maditchiyam Bala, a folk singer, said most of them did not know anything other than singing, dancing, acting and performing before an audience. “We would love to get back to performing at village festivals but with the COVID-19 scare, the very nature of our work could change,” he said. Ms. Muthulakshmi said even if they performed, they could not gauge the reaction of people who would be wearing masks. “Moreover, we must ensure that physical distancing is maintained between us and the audience,” she says.
12 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||SOP flouted in swab tests on passengers from Chennai, says MP||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has again complained about violation of State-government laid norms on conducting swab tests on international passengers and passengers from Chennai arriving in Madurai district. In a memorandum to Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management, R.B. Udhayakumar, Mr. Venkatesan said that already the rate of testing done in the district was one of the lowest in the State. He quoted two orders issued by the State government on standard operating procedures (SOP) for international and Chennai passengers. The State government, on May 31, had stipulated that passengers arriving from Chennai, irrespective of whether symptomatic or asymptomatic, should be tested for COVID-19. “Though media reports estimated that around 20,000 people would have come from Chennai in the last 10 days, no action has been taken to conduct tests on them. The district administration has the addresses of all the people who have come here using e-pass,” he said. Similarly, another order, dated 18 May, had made it mandatory to conduct swab test on all international passengers on their arrival. The passengers should be put in seven-days facility quarantine, if tested negative. A second test should be done on them before they leave for seven-day home quarantine. “A total of 27 international passengers had come from Dubai on June 4 and they were supposed to leave the quarantine after their second swab test on Wednesday. However, they were allowed to go home without the second test,” Mr. Venkatesan said. The MP expressed regret over the flouting of SOP in Madurai district. He wanted the district administration to take mandatory test on all passengers on a war footing, before things become worse. The MP has taken up the issue with the Chief Secretary.
12 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||200 street vendors submit loan applications||Around 200 street vendors affiliated to the Centre of Trade Unions (CITU) submitted applications at Madurai District Central Cooperative Bank here on Thursday, to avail themselves of micro personal loans to revive their businesses in these times of COVID-19 pandemic. S. Santhiyagu, general secretary, CITU-affiliated Street Vendors Association, complained that though the Cooperation Minister announced that micro personal loans up to Rs. 50,000 would be given to street vendors through cooperative societies and banks, it was an uphill task to obtain loans. “In the past 10 days, many street vendors had submitted loan applications at cooperative banks across the district. But, their applications were not even received by the branch managers,” he said. Officials often disregarded the applications, saying that they did not adhere to guidelines. “Hence, today all of us have jointly submitted our applications, stressing that many vendors desperately need loans. Due to difficulty in procuring raw materials, lower demand for products and transportation issues, many street vendors are struggling to restart their businesses,” he said. The officials had said that they would forward these applications and grant loans based on the eligibility of the applicants, he added.
12 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Typewriting institutes’ plea||Tamil Nadu Typewriting, Shorthand, Computer Institutes Sangam moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday seeking a direction to the State government seeking permission for reopening. The petitioner, S. Soma Sankar of Srivilliputhur in Virudhunagar district, said since the imposition of COVID-19 lockdown in March, the institutes had been remaining closed and the members and staff were finding it difficult to make ends meet. Most of the institutes operated from rented buildings and they were not able to pay rent and salary to staff. The institutes should be reopened for their welfare.More than 10,000 families were dependent on the income arising out of the institutes. The Sangam members would ensure strict adherence to sanitisation and physical distancing norms, he added. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi issued notice to the State government and adjourned the hearing till June 17.
12 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man who goes for police inquiry dies||A 68-year-old man, who came with an advocate to City Police Office here for an inquiry in a case, died on Thursday late evening. The man, M. Azhagar from Thavittu Santhai, was a witness in a case under investigation by Central Crime Branch. While coming out of the CPO building, he complained of uneasiness. He was rushed to Government Rajaji Hospital in an autorickshaw, but doctors declared him brought dead.
12 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Online viva voce||Madurai Kamaraj University plans to conduct viva voce for PH.D scholars through video conferencing. The viva voce notification along with synopsis shall be uploaded on the website 15 days prior to the date of viva voce after obtaining approval. The notification shall contain the details of date, time, venue, mobile app / software, meeting ID, contact details for technical assistance and other information.
12 June 2020||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||20 fresh cases recorded in Madurai district||Twenty persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai district on Thursday, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 363. The fresh cases include a 29-year-old man who had travelled from Oman to Kannur, Kerala, by flight recently and then to Madurai by car. Collector T.G. Vinay said he was quarantined in a facility. Five persons from Anuppanadi, including a 69-year-old man who is diabetic, tested positive. All of them were in contact with a positive person. A 28-year-old man, who had travelled from Madurai to Chennai by flight, also tested positive. Cases were also reported from Sellur, Mela Anuppanadi, Samayanallur, Vadipatti, S.S. Colony, Usilampatti and Santhaipettai. Three persons from Anna Nagar, who had fever, tested positive. A 51-year-old man from Vilangudi, who had recently travelled to Ramanathapuram, tested positive. The Collector said two cases would be cross-verified as they were from Chennai. According to the medical bulletin 13 patients were discharged on Thursday. While Thoothukudi district recorded six indigenous cases, Tenkasi and Tirunelveli districts reported five and three indigenous cases respectively. Three fresh cases, including two indigenous cases, were recorded in Kanniyakuamri district. Tirunelveli has so far recorded 410 cases and Thoothukudi district 395 cases. Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari districts have reported 111 cases and 108 cases respectively. Thoothukudi has 125 active cases, Tirunelveli 49 cases and Kanniyakumari 40 cases and Tenkasi 23 cases. After the Assistant Manager of a private sector bank near Palayamkottai bus stand tested positive, other employees and their family members were isolated and screened. Dindigul In Dindigul district, 11 cases were reported, which took its tally to 196. The fresh cases included a 31-year-old woman doctor in Dindigul and a family of five from Reddiarchatram, who had been to Chennai and returned four days ago. In Theni, three persons with travel history tested positive. They were from Aranmanaipudur and Bodi. In Ramanathapuram, seven fresh cases – four of them indigenous – were reported. In Sivaganga, six persons with travel history tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 50. So far, 35 patients have been discharged.  Virudhunagar While two new positive cases were reported in Virudhunagar district, three patients were discharged on Thursday. The number of active cases is 27. Five cases that were added to Virudhunagar district’s tally on Wednesday were cross-notified to other districts. The district’s tally stands at 154 and the number of discharged patients at 127.
12 June 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Mechanised boats to resume fishing from June 15||Decks have been cleared for resumption of fishing by mechanised vessels from June 15, after the fishing ban period ends, by the district administration by convening a meeting of representatives of boat owners and exporters on Wednesday. The meeting was conducted in the backdrop of demand by fishermen for fixation of minimum price for seafood items like cuttlefish, squid, shrimp and fishes that are exported in large quantities to France, Italy and other European countries. The concerns raised by both sides were addressed by the District Collector Praveen P. Nair in the presence of R. Amal Xavier, Joint Director of Fisheries; S. Pandiarajan, Deputy Director, Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA), Nagapattinam; G. Sankaran, Lead District Manager, Nagapattinam; and Assistant Directors of Fisheries Department. Representatives of boat owners raised concerns over what they described as low price offers by exporters. The importing countries had cancelled their orders, the exporters said. Responding to the demand of the fishermen for Kisan Credit Cards, the Collector advised the Lead District Bank to ensure bank loans for them. Exhorting exporters to fix a minimum reasonable price for exportable fishery products, the Collector said the administration will correspond with the Chairman of MPEDA, Cochin, to resolve the issue by exploring the possibilities for marketing the seafood items to other European countries. The district administration will also prevail upon the Director of Fisheries, Chennai, to ensure free movement of vehicle at State borders, the Collector said.
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||SC asks how 35 inmates of Royapuram home got infected||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Tamil Nadu government to explain how 35 children in a government-run home at Royapuram in Chennai tested COVID-19 positive despite the court’s express orders on April 3 to take care of children in protection and foster homes across the country. Taking cognisance of news reports, a Bench, led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao, ordered the Health Secretary to file a report on “why precautions were not taken”. The State government has to also brief the court on the status of the children affected by the disease and those who have not been. The government should come clean on what preventive action has been taken so far. The court listed the case for hearing on June 15. Justice Rao orally observed that it had come to the notice of the court that some State governments were not implementing its April 3 order. The court decided to circulate a questionnaire based on the directions made in the April 3 order to all States/Juvenile Justice Committees of High Courts for feedback on precautions taken in children protection homes. The court said Juvenile Justice Committees had to ensure State governments responded to the questionnaire. On this regard, the court listed the case for July 6. In a series of directions on April 6, the court had ordered that Juvenile Justice Boards across the country should take steps to release children alleged to be in conflict with the law on bail, unless there were clear and valid reasons, in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao had taken suo motu cognisance of the issue. It had directed JJBs and children’s courts to “proactively consider whether a child or children should be kept in the CCI [Child Care Institution] considering the best interest, health and safety concerns”. It had ordered video conferencing or online sittings for the speedy disposal of juvenile cases. Counselling service The court had ordered counselling services to be provided for children in observation homes. “It is important to consider that violence, including sexual violence, may be exacerbated in contexts of anxiety and stress produced by lockdown and fear of the disease. JJBs would need to monitor the situation in the observation homes on a regular basis,” the court had ordered then.
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Parties withdraw plea for quota||Parties across Tamil Nadu’s political spectrum seeking a direction to the Centre to implement 50% reservation for Backward Classes in the State in All India Quota seats for medical and dental course, withdrew their petitions from the Supreme Court on Thursday. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao allowed them liberty to approach the Madras High Court. The Tamil Nadu government, represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, the ruling AIADMK party through advocate Balaji Srinivasan, Opposition DMK through senior advocate P. Wilson, Tamil Nadu Congress, CPI(M), etc, filed separate petitions. At the very beginning, Justice asked Mr. Wilson, whose petition came up first, how the plea was maintainable. “The reservation is already existing. We are not asking the court to provide any further reservation...” Mr. Wilson responded. “But you have filed writ petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution. Article 32 petition is for violation of fundamental rights. What fundamental rights have been violated here,” Justice Rao asked. The senior advocate replied that the right to education and the right to reservation were violated. “Right to reservation is not a fundamental right... Do you want us to dismiss this or we can otherwise permit you to withdraw...” Justice Rao gave the lawyers an option. All the parties agreed to withdraw the petitions from the Supreme Court and move the High Court.
12 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records second COVID-19 death||Puducherry recorded its second COVID-19-related death with an 83-year-old man succumbing to multiple complications at IGMCRI. The patient, from Muthialpet, was admitted to the Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital before being referred to the IGMCRI after testing positive for COVID-19 on June 9. About 47 health workers at the GH and the IGMCRI who had treated the patient have tested negative in RT-PCR tests, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said.
12 June 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates two-tier flyover in Salem||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday inaugurated the Rs. 441-crore two-tier flyover connecting major junctions within the city. He also inaugurated the Rs. 46.35-crore Leigh Bazaar flyover. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Palaniswami said that works for Kandhampatti flyover is nearing completion and flyover at Ariyannur is progressing. On upcoming projects, the Chief Minister said that steps are being taken for construction of service road at Selanikenpatti junction and Centre has agreed for the construction of a flyover at Mamangam junction. He said that steps have been taken for construction of flyovers across railway level crossing in Attur, Vazhapadi and Ayodhiyapattinam. Inaugurating the projects, Mr. Palaniswami announced that 7.87 km two-tier flyover would be called Puratchi Thalaivi J. Jayalalithaa two-tier flyover and the 1.28 km flyover on Salem- Bengaluru Highway near AVR roundabout would be called Puratchi Thalaivar MGR. flyover. The first-tier of 2.86 km. connects AVR roundabout junction with Yercaud Road through Five Roads junction. The second stretch of 5.01 km. connects Kuranguchavadi with Anna Park through New Bus stand.
12 June 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Land acquisition for Ring Road on||Land acquisition for Sivakasi Outer Ring Road project has at last gained some momentum. The project that was announced in 2012 has been a non-starter as the land acquisition process was at a snail’s pace all these years. “The project is all about laying a green field road for 33.5 km to decongest the ever-busy vehicular traffic in Sivakasi,” said a Highways official. The project envisaged laying of the Ring Road that would connect five roads leading to Virudhunagar, Sattur, Vembakottai, Erichanatham and Srivilliputtur without touching Sivakasi. “At present all vehicular traffic connecting Srivilliputtur and Virudhunagar has to pass through at least six km of congested roads in Sivakasi. It often takes at least 30 minutes to go through the town limits,” the official said. Sivakasi was one of the fastest grown towns in southern districts, the official said, adding that the Ring Road was a long-felt need of the town. The road with faster connectivity to five roads leading to different important towns in the district would help expedite its growth. A Revenue official said 147 hectares of land required to be acquired for the project. This included over 132 ha of patta land and 14 ha of government poramboke land. “The first phase of land acquisition in five of the total 10 revenue villages is on the verge of completion. We are hearing certain objections regarding the land value fixed and also regarding alternative land,” the official said. Land acquisition was for a 30-metre stretch on which two-way road with shoulders would come up.
12 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||MLA flays deputation of sanitary inspectors to Chennai||The Thanjavur MLA, T. K. G. Neelamegam, has opposed the decision taken by the Commissionerate of Municipal Administration, to depute sanitary wing officials and staff to Greater Chennai Corporation from Thanjavur Corporation for COVID-19 containment exercise. In a letter addressed to the Commissioner, Municipal Administration, the MLA claimed that already 34,914 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 virus as on June 9. In Thanjavur district alone the number of positive cases have touched 125, he claimed. At this juncture, the MLA said that he had received information that the Thanjavur Corporation had been directed to depute some of its sanitary inspectors, supervisors and field assistants for the COVID-19 containment exercise at the Greater Chennai Corporation limit. Over the past few days it has been ascertained that tests conducted on persons who have arrived in Thanjavur district from other districts such as Chennai, had thrown up positive cases, Mr. Neelamegam said. Under the circumstances, deputation of sanitary staff from Thanjavur Corporation to Greater Chennai Corporation would hamper the containment exercises in Thanjavur, he said.
12 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Delay in movement of paddy from DPCs alleged||While the farmers and direct purchase centre workers have expressed apprehensions that paddy procured at the Direct Purchase Centres (DPCs) in Thanjavur district could be spoiled due to the vagaries of nature, the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation has allayed the fears stating that priority was being accorded for movement of paddy from DPCs. Normally, paddy bags would be moved to the godowns or storage points once in two days from a DPC. But in view of the COVID-19 pandemic this exercise was hit and the bags started piling up at the DPCs, said a DPC staff on condition of anonymity. Several thousands of bags remain in the open near the DPCs at Orathanandu and Thanjavur blocks, he claimed and added that in view of non-movement of paddy bags the staff were forced to hold further paddy procurement from farmers. Meanwhile, admitting that movement of paddy bags from DPCs had been affected, TNCSC official sources said that paddy bags from the DPCs were moved to the storage points even during the initial lockdown period at the places wherever it was possible to operate the fleet. As the lockdown norms were relaxed, priority was given to the movement of paddy bags from DPCs to other districts through rail and by road, they said.
12 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||‘Speed up bank account opening’||The Water Users Associations (WUAs) formed to execute the desilting and other works under the `kudimaramathu’ schemes have been urged to open banks accounts in order to receive the funds to be released by the government towards the works taken up by them. Chairing a meeting of WUA representatives and officials involved in the `kudimaramathu’ exercise, the Collector, M.Govinda Rao directed the officials to assist the WUAs to get bank accounts opened in their names and also to get the GST number and PAN.
12 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees steady rise in COVID-19 cases||The central region is witnessing a steady rise in COVID-19 positive cases over the past few days with 57 persons testing positive on Thursday. Most of the patients, who tested positive for the virus, had returned to their natives from Chennai. Thursday’s count was among the sharpest spikes for a single day in the region in recent days. Out of the 57 cases, the maximum number of cases were reported in Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts. The two districts accounted for 16 cases each. Ten persons tested positive in Tiruchi, eight in Thanjavur, three in Ariyalur and two each in Pudukottai and Perambalur. Karur recorded no fresh cases on Thursday. According to sources in Nagapattinam district, one of the patients was an Iraq returnee. Upon arrival in Tiruchi International Airport, his swab sample was collected and sent for laboratory analysis. Fourteen patients had returned from Chennai. Another person hailed from Vedaranyam and had contracted the virus from a person, who was diagnosed positive a few days ago. The cases were spread across Nagapattinam district. Nagapattinam, Mayiladuthurai, Sembanarkoil and Vedaranyam reported 2 cases each. All 16 of them were asymptomatic patients and are under treatment at the Government Hospitals at Mayiladuthurai and Nagapattinam. Since May 20, 54 persons had tested positive for the virus in Nagapattinam district. Of them, 44 were Chennai returnees. “There is a sudden increase in arrival of people from Chennai. Since cases are on the rise in Chennai, the people tend to return to their natives. We have made arrangements to screen all of them,” a senior official in Nagapattinam told The Hindu . In Tiruchi, 10 patients were found to have contracted the virus on Thursday. One case each was reported from Mettutheru in Woraiyur, Allithurai, Neithalur Colony, Thennur and Puthur Agraharam. Four persons tested positive for the virus upon arrival from Middle East countries. Of them, 2 were from Villurpuram and one each from Thanjavur and Pudukottai. Eight patients, who were treated for COVID-19 at the K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital, were discharged on Thursday, said Tiruchi Collector S. Sivarasu. Of them, four were from Tiruchi district and two each from Ariyalur and Chennai. In Ariyalur, out of three new patients who tested positive, two had contracted the virus from a woman belonged to Koovagam. Another patient was a Chennai returnee. While two of them had been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Ariyalur, one was under treatment in Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. Both patients, who were diagnosed for the virus, belonged to Alangudi. They had returned from Chennai and were under treatment at the Ranee Government Hospital in Pudukottai. All the 16 persons who tested positive in Tiruvarur district had come from other districts and States, taking the total number of active cases in the district to 52. All the patients were undergoing treatment at the Tiruvarur Government Medical College hospital as on Thursday. Eight patients were admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital after testing positive on Thursday and seven persons were discharged after treatment.
12 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Parapet of bridge over Peruvalai Canal head sluice collapses||The parapet of the bridge over the head sluice of the Peruvalai Canal near Upper Anicut (Mukkombu) collapsed on Thursday morning. The canal, which branches off from Upper Anicut, is one of the major irrigation canals in the district with an ayacut area of about 19,500 acres. The head sluice was built in 1934. On Thursday morning, the parapet along with the supporting wall on one side of bridge over the head sluice caved in. Public Works Department officials attributed the collapse to the more than 80-year-old brick masonry structure weakening due to age and possible seepage of water from drinking water pipeline passing across. Public Works Department officials acted swiftly to clear the debris and closed the bridge for traffic. With the Mettur dam scheduled to be opened on Friday for the irrigation season, the incident caused a flutter among the farming community, rekindling memories of the collapse of a portion of the barrage across Kollidam river at Upper Anicut in August 2018. A new barrage is currently under construction close by to replace the British built structure. However, PWD officials sought to allay apprehensions and sought to emphasis that the structure was not connected in any way to the irrigation structures on the Cauvery and Kollidam rivers. The damage to the structure would in no way affect release of water for irrigation in the Peruvalai canal too. “Water is normally released in the canal only after water reaches the tail-end of the Cauvery river. Nevertheless, we have commenced repairs and the structure will be reinforced with concrete. The work will go on round-the-clock and completed within the next 15 days,” S. Ramamoorthy, Chief Engineer, PWD, WRO, Tiruchi region, told The Hindu after inspecting the spot. He inspected the site along with S. Thiruvettaiselvam, Superintending Engineer, PWD Mid-Cauvery Basin, R.Baskar, Executive Engineer, PWD, Tiruchi, and Jayaraman, Assistant Executive Engineer, PWD. Farmers too hoped that the PWD would be able to complete the work in time. “Water is due to be released in the canal after 15-20 days from now and some farmers are preparing for kuruvai paddy cultivation. We hope that the officials will manage to complete the repairs in time,” said M. Mathivanan of Pallapuram, a farmer dependent on the canal for irrigation. PWD officials also dismissed allegations that the desilting works going on in the vicinity of the sluice had triggered the collapse of the parapet. “The works were taking place well away from the sluice,” an officer said.
12 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T attains ninth position in NIRF India Rankings 2020||Improving its performance over last year, National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T) has attained ninth position among all engineering institutions in the country in the ‘India Rankings 2020’ of National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), and has retained its first position among NITs for the fifth consecutive year. The institution has improved its overall score to 64.1 from 61.62 last year, to go up in ranking position by one percentage point. The scores improved considerably under the parameters of teaching-learning resources, recruitment of new faculty, improvement in student strength and financial resources and their utilization. In research and professional factors, there was a substantial increase in score due to increase in number of application and improvement in quality of publication, NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said. The Institute gave a strong push to Intellectual Property Rights and filing of patents and this proved to be game changer. The emphasis on submitting more projects and receiving grants, Consultancy and Continuing Education Programme also brought in credits. In graduation outcome, there was considerable improvement in placement and the medium salary offered to graduates. The number of Ph.D. scholars also improved substantially. “Ninth ranking of NIT-T among engineering institutions, next only to the eight established IITs, and ahead of renowned universities and other institutes, is indeed a great achievement. It is a dream come true. In overall ranking also, NIT-T retains its 24th position with marginal improvement in the overall score from 54.3 to 55.92,” she said. Commending the continued support of faculty, staff, students and alumni, the NIT-T Director said continued improvement in ranking of the institution over the last three years from 12th to ninth position in Engineering category was a tough feat. Faculty will be further encouraged to improve the number and quality of publications. Graduating Ph.D. scholars, placements, and improvements in projects and consultancy will pave way for the institution to achieve greater glory in the years to come, Prof. Mini Shaji Thomas said.
12 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||69 surveillance cameras at Tiruvanaikoil, Woraiyur||The city’s prominent Tiruvanaikoil and Woraiyur areas have been brought under the scope of round-the-clock monitoring with a host of surveillance cameras installed at both places. A total number of 69 surveillance cameras have been fixed with 35 of them installed at various places in Tiruvanaikoil and the remaining 34 in Woraiyur area. The cameras have been installed at a total cost of Rs. 20 lakh under the Member of Parliament’s Local Area Development Fund of Tiruchi MP, Su.Thirunavukkarasar. The cameras in Tiruvanaikoil would also cover areas such as Kondayampettai, while those put up in Woraiyur area would cover the famous Sri Vekkali Amman temple, said police sources. All the cameras have been connected to the city police master control room for round-the-clock monitoring, the police sources further said. Mr. Thirunavukkarasar commissioned the cameras at a programme held at Tiruvanaikoil on Thursday. Collector S. Sivarasu, Commissioner of Police V. Varadharaju and senior city police officers were present on the occasion.
12 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Poor facilities at G. Corner Grounds have traders fuming||Poor amenities at the G. Corner Grounds, where the temporary wholesale vegetable market is currently functioning during nights, have caused concern among traders and local residents. Due to inadequate toilets, open defecation is one problem that both traders and local residents are complaining about. Just two mobile toilets have been stationed at the market. They are totally inadequate to meet the requirements of traders, who assemble in large numbers during night hours every day. To prevent the people assembling in large number to buy vegetables and fruits, the Tiruchi Corporation closed the Gandhi Market about 10 weeks ago and shifted it initially to the Chennai Bypass Road and later to the G. Corner Ground, which is generally used for political meetings. Trading was restricted between 8 p.m. to 6 a.m. To facilitate the traders to do business in the night, lighting arrangements were made. In addition to it, a few mobile toilets were also stationed. According to a rough estimate, it receives on an average of about 4,000 to 5,000 traders. In the absence of sheds or enclosures, upon arrival of vegetable lorries, the loadmen offload the vegetables at different spots. While a section of traders have brought chairs and tables for transacting business, others prefer to sit on the ground to do business. “We really struggle as there are absolutely no basic amenities,” said Abdul Hakkim, a wholesale trader.  “We understand the crisis situation in view of spread of COVID-19 virus but it is time the authorities improved basic amenities,” said G. Venkatachalam, another trader.
12 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Expatriates from Ethiopia arrive||For the first time, a group of 75 passengers hailing from Tamil Nadu arrived here from Ethiopia by an Ethiopian Airlines flight on Thursday. The evacuation flight, from Addis Ababa, carrying passengers from various districts in the State landed here at around 9.40 a.m. All the passengers were screened by the State Health Department teams deployed at the airport to check for symptoms of COVID-19. Official sources said they were all sent to be quarantined at a hotel in the city. Collector S. Sivarasu, accompanied by revenue officials monitored the screening of passengers at the airport. Expatriates hailing from various districts in Tamil Nadu had arrived here on various dates from Singapore, Dubai and Kuwait earlier. However, this is the first time that expatriates have come here from Africa. From Kuala Lumpur A total of 177 passengers hailing from various parts of the State arrived from Kuala Lumpur by an Air India Express flight here on Thursday. Official sources said all the passengers were screened at the airport by health department teams. Swab samples were collected from the passengers. Buses were arranged to take them to their respective districts.
12 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Parents held for kidnapping married daughter||The Lalgudi Police on Thursday arrested the parents of a 19-year-old girl,who had married against their wishes, on the charge of kidnapping their daughter. Acting swiftly on information, the Lalgudi Police rescued the girl after intercepting the car in which she was allegedly being kidnapped. The girl belonging to Madurai had stayed in her aunt’s house near Lalgudi and completed her Plus Two. Police sources said she was in love with a man by name Hariharan while she was staying in her aunt’s house. Later, she went to Madurai to pursue her higher education. The parents who came to know of their daughter’s love affair had planned to get her married to another person. Learning about this, the girl left her home and got married to Hariharan at Samayapuram near Tiruchi in January. Her parents, along with some relatives came in a car and forcibly took the girl when Hariharan was away. The girl and the boy were caste Hindus. On information from the neighbours, the Lalgudi Police tracked the vehicle near Valadi. The girl was rescued and the police arrested her parents Marirajan and Vijayakumari besides four others.
12 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||628 out of 29,723 samples tested positive, says TVMCH Dean||The Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TVMCH), which tested 29,723 blood and throat swab samples since the outbreak of the pandemic, identified 628 positive patients including a two-year-old girl, two pregnant women and three patients undergoing renal dialysis, according to hospital dean M. Ravichandran. “Barring an 83-year-old male, others have responded well to the treatment being given at TVMCH,” he told reporters here on Thursday. Dr. Ravichandran said out of a total of 29,723 persons from Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari and Namakkal districts screened at TVMCH, 628 tested positive. Of this, 471 were from Tirunelveli district when 18,518 samples were tested and only 54 were undergoing treatment at TVMCH now. The positive patients, who were in the age group of two to 80 years, were responding to treatment. “Unfortunately, an 83-year-old positive man, who also had other health complications, succumbed while he was under treatment at TVMCH,” he recalled. “On the other hand, a two-year-old girl and two pregnant women got cured. In fact, the pregnant women gave birth to healthy babies when they returned home. We have even cured three positive patients even though they had to undergo renal dialysis,” Dr. Ravichandran pointed out. The Dean said TVMCH, having 1,000 beds, was equipped with massive clinical oxygen tankers with a capacity of 19,500 litres and, hence, there was no need for panic. On the availability of personal protection equipment for doctors, nurses and sanitary workers in COVID–19 treatment ward, Dr. Ravichandran said there was no dearth of PPEs, “which are of excellent quality”. Since patients had to take nutritious diet, the TVMCH was serving the COVID – 19 positive patients with 4 types of nourishing food everyday, which was playing crucial role in early recovery of the patients. Moreover,kabasura kudineerand ginger-based concoctions were also being given to patients along with vitamin tablets and other medications. Deputy Dean Shantharam, Nodal Officer and former Dean, TVMCH, S.M. Kannan, COVID–19 treatment ward in-charge Alagesan, and Head, Department of Nephrology, Ramasubramanian were present.
12 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Blaze destroys bikes in workshop||Two-wheelers and bike spare parts worth a few lakhs of rupees were destroyed in a fire that broke out here on Thursday. The security guard of a commercial complex opposite Central Theatre noticed smoke billowing from one of the shops in the building and informed fire and rescue services. Even before the fire tenders from Palayamkottai, Pettai and Cheranmahadevi could reach the spot, the blaze that broke out in a workshop spread to nearby outlets. Due to westerly winds blowing around 1 a.m., the fire spread rapidly and destroyed bikes in the workshop and spare parts in adjacent shops. Led by District Fire Officer Mahalingamurthy, five fire tenders were pressed into service. The blaze was brought under control after four hours. Electrical short circuit is suspected to be cause of fire.
12 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||SHG women accuse microfinancing institutions of demanding payback||Nearly 30 women from a self-help group (SHG) based in Anupparpalayam petitioned Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Thursday, accusing private micro financing institutions of insisting them to pay the monthly repayments for loans. The women alleged that the micro financing institutions allegedly threatened the SHG members that the interest would be doubled if the instalment was not paid. Their livelihoods had been affected for the past three months due to the COVID-19 lockdown and they were “without any income,” the petition said. “None of us are in a situation to pay back the money now,” said N. Geetha, a member of the SHG, who runs a petty shop at Anupparpalayam. She said the SHG members at Anupparpalayam were involved in various businesses such as tailoring and making of candles, with some members depending entirely on these businesses and others working in factories. As businesses had only resumed a few days ago following the lockdown relaxation, all of them were finding it difficult to mobilise money, despite which the institutions demanded repayment of loans, Ms. Geetha alleged. District Manager of the Lead Bank N. Sathiyamoorthy said that the District Administration has asked the Tiruppur City Police and Tiruppur District Police to take action against such micro financing institutions. While the Reserve Bank of India said that the moratorium for lending institutions was only for the period from March to August, some micro financing institutions had allegedly claimed that they were asking for the loans from February. “Hence, we need to look into this on a case-by-case basis,” he said.
12 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for murder||The Tiruppur District Police arrested a migrant worker from Assam on charges of murdering his roommate near Palladam here on Thursday. The police said Ruhini Raman Saikia (31) murdered his roommate Naba Phukan (29) at the hostel inside a powerloom unit in Kallampalayam near Palladam. The duo from Assam came to Tiruppur district from Kanniyakumari district earlier this month as they were out of jobs due to COVID-19 lockdown. They were staying in a room with two other migrant workers. The police said Saikia had lent money to Phukan before they came to Tiruppur district. On Wednesday night, Saikia demanded the money back and it led to a verbal altercation with Phukan. At around 2.30 a.m. on Thursday, the accused reportedly attacked Phukan with an iron rod on his head while he was asleep, leading to his death on the spot. The accused absconded following the incident. The Palladam police secured the accused on Thursday afternoon at Ammapalayam. He was remanded in judicial custody.
12 June 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Common man badly affected by lockdown, says CPI(M)||Communist Party of India (Marxist), Virudhunagar district unit, on Thursday demanded that the State government waive crop loans to farmers affected by COVID-19 and issue new loans. A memorandum to this effect was handed over to Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan by the party’s district secretary, K. Arjunan. The survey was conducted among 3,000 families in urban and rural areas of the district. Mr. Arjunan said the four phases of lockdown from March 25 to May 31 for 67 days has led to job loss, income loss and economic crises among families. The survey was aimed to elucidate the expectations of the people belonging to all section of the working class from the government. “At least 169 people said they had to make up their daily meals with only ration goods during the lock down,” the survey said. While most of them said that they had to borrow money to run the family, many pledged their jewels. For many, their long-term savings was eroded during the lock down. Only 758 people revealed that they managed to get assistance given by political parties and other organisations. Many farmers complained that they were hit hard during the lockdown. The demand for flowers saw new low with no festivals and functions during the lock down. Several small shopkeepers and service providers complained that they struggled a lot to pay rent for their buildings and meet power bills. The party had recommended that all ration cardholders, who were not income tax payers, should be paid Rs. 7,500 a month to overcome the present crisis. Essential goods including rice, dal, sugar and oil should be given to all poor families for six months. The State government should find market for handloom products and help supply yarn to keep the handlooms running. With rural masses affected more under the lockdown, all workers should be given job for six days a week under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme and all applications seeking jobs should be registered. Small shopkeepers should be given interest-free loan sof up to Rs. 10 lakh. Moratorium for six months for repayment of loans should be ensured for members of self-help groups. Party leaders S. Balasubramanian, M. Mahalakshmi and P.N. Deva were among those who took part in a demonstration held here to highlight their charter of demands.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Partial treatment plants set up||To check the uncontrollable flow of domestic sewage into the Tamirabharani, which is meeting drinking water needs of people of three southern districts, the Corporation has embarked upon constructing partial treatment plants at 10 places closer to the river. This is only a temporary arrangement as the completion of ongoing second and third phases of the underground drainage (UGD) scheme is expected to provide everlasting solution to this nauseating issue that is seriously contaminating the perennial river. After being polluted by some of the devotees visiting Papanasa Swamy Temple, as they dump their dresses in the Tamirabharani upon taking bath as it touches the ground from the Western Ghats at Papanasam, domestic effluents are discharged by the local bodies en-route even as a few industries are also discharging the waste water into the river. On entering Tirunelveli city limits, a stream of sewage mixes up with the river at several places that drove the Corporation to think of executing UGD scheme as part of its liquid waste management programme. Subsequently, execution of the scheme’s first phase was taken-up in 2007 on an outlay of Rs. 52.26 crore, which was jointly shared by the Central and State Governments and also by the Corporation. The Corporation, which completed the first phase, had signed an agreement with Larsen and Toubro to execute the second phase of the project at a cost of Rs. 289.01 crore. Once the second phase is over, it will be able to give 90,818 UGD connections for the benefit of 2,14,850 individuals in wards 1 - 7, 39 - 55 and part of ward 38. When the first phase of the scheme was implemented, 10 wards, 13, 20, 21, 23, 24 (Palayamkottai zone) and 28, 30 to 33 (Melapalayam), were covered, while nine wards in Thatchanallur, seven in Palayamkottai, six in Melapalayam and 13 in Tirunelveli were partially covered. In the second phase, 24 wards will be covered fully and ward 38 partially. In the third phase, to be executed at a cost of Rs. 440.19 crore, 18 wards will be covered fully and 13 wards partially. Also, 50% cost of this Rs. 729.20-crore project, meant for the second and third phases, will be borne by the Central government under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) Scheme. Meanwhile, the Corporation has established a few partial treatment plants near the Tamirabharani at 10 places on an outlay of Rs. 37.13 lakh to treat the domestic sewage, now flowing directly into the river, which is the source of drinking water for the 5 lakh population living within the Corporation limits and also in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar districts. “As per this scheme, we are creating the partial treatment plants at Kailaasapuram (Rs. 4.95 lakh), Sindhupoondurai (Rs. 1.98 lakh), Kokkirakulam (Rs. 70,000), Mariamman Temple Street in Kokkirakulam (Rs. 1.50 lakh), Meenakshipuram (Rs. 5 lakh), Anna Street in Meenakshipuram (Rs. 5 lakh), Kurukkuthurai (Rs. 5 lakh), Vannnarpettai (Rs. 4 lakh), Valayapathi Street (Rs. 4 lakh) and Udaiyaarpatti (Rs. 5 lakh),” G. Kannan, Corporation Commissioner, said. While construction of the treatment plants has been completed at Kailaasapuram, Sindhupoondurai, Kokkirakulam and Meenakshipuram, the structures will be ready within a fortnight. The treated sewage water from these plants will be clear and can be used for nourishing vegetables to be cultivated near the treatment plants, Mr. Kannan said.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man dies trying to swallow live fish||A 22-year-old mason died here on Wednesday night after he attempted to swallow a live fish. According to the police, the deceased was identified as S. Vetrivel, a resident of Parvathi Nagar. Vetrivel along with his friends had gone for fishing at a lake near his house and he tried to swallow a live fish. Vetrivel faced breathing difficulties due to this and though he was rushed to Hosur Government Hospital, doctors pronounced he was brought dead. Hosur police have registered a case and and are investigating.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four Tiruchi colleges move up the ladder||Four arts and science colleges from Tiruchi district have made it again into the first 100 institutions in the category of Colleges in the India Rankings 2020 under the National Institutional Ranking Framework. They have moved higher up the ladder this time with improved performances. The ranking of St. Joseph’s College has gone up from 39 to 31, and the score under six parameters: Teaching Learning and Resources, Research and Professional Practice, Graduation Outcome, Outreach and Inclusivity, and Perception, has improved from 54.70 to 58.31. Bishop Heber College has improved its position from 44th rank last time to 39 this year. The score went up to 56.65 from 53.89 last year. Jamal Mohamed College has been ranked 54th this time from 59 last year. The college improved its score from 52.27 last year to 54.53 this time. Holy Cross College has improved its position substantially from 85 last year to 66th rank this time. The college's score under the six parameters was 53.27 this year, compared to 50.17 last time.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nothing to hide on COVID-19 deaths: CM||The government was taking decisions based on advice from medical experts, he said. Asked if COVID-19 tests would be increased, Mr. Palaniswami, citing statistics, said that Tamil Nadu had so far tested over 6.09 lakh people. “Doctors say that deaths are higher among persons with co-morbid conditions,” he said, reiterating that the mortality rate was the lowest in Tamil Nadu when compared to the rest of the country. Mr. Palaniswami said that the primary responsibility of the government was to treat and cure persons affected by the disease. The government had made all arrangements in this regard. “In Salem alone, 2,000 beds have been arranged to treat affected persons and things are in a state of readiness to increase bed strength to 5,000. We have the most number of ventilators in the country, about 3,384 devices. The government has appointed healthcare workers as required,” he said. ‘No community spread’ The CM insisted that there was no community spread in the State and as far as Chennai was concerned, the spike in numbers was on account of its population density and narrow lanes. “During the R.K. Nagar byelections, we saw 30 houses in just three-ft-wide lanes. If one or two persons test positive here, it can spread to others. This is a new kind of viral disease and a drug has not be found for it. Healthcare workers are dedicating themselves to saving us from COVID-19 and it is only due to their expertise and experience that over 19,000 persons have been cured”, he said. Appreciating the efforts of all departments involved in COVID-19 prevention, Mr. Palaniswami insisted that the disease was under control in all districts and persons coming from other States were being tested and provided treatment at hospitals. Mr. Palaniswami on Thursday inaugurated the 7.87-km two-tier flyover here and named it after former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. He also announced that a 1.28-km flyover on the Salem- Bengaluru Highway near AVR roundabout would ber called Puratchi Thalaivar M.G.R. Flyover.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bull pelted with stones, dies||A bull which used to participate in traditional sporting events died after it was pelted with stones by a few youth an in inebriated state. According to the police, K. Vetrivel a farmer of Papparapatty here has been rearing a bull for the past few years and on June 5, he had tied his bull to a tree and let it graze. After sometime, he found the animal’s horns broken and blood injuries in its mouth and assumed that the bull could have succumbed to injuries after hitting the tree violently. He later buried the animal in his farmland. Later, Vetrivel saw a tik-tok video in which three persons in an inebriated state were seen pelting stones on the animal and turning it violent. According to police, the bull suffered injuries attempting to hit the trio.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kits to be distributed||Ekki Pumps is distributing PPE kits to plumbers, mechanics, and pump installing personnel across the country. According to a press release from the company, it plans to distribute over 50,000 kits, partnering with its 500 dealer network. Called “Battle Covid”, the project is rolled out initially in seven States - Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, and Maharashtra. The kit will include three ply masks and sanitisers. Kanishka Arumugam, co-chief executive of Ekki, said about Rs. 10 lakh worth PPE kits have been distributed, so far, as part of the CSR activities of the company. The aim is to make the plumbers, mechanics, and other field personnel remember that they will have to use masks and sanitisers whenever they are at a location.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Online viva voce at Alagappa university||Alagappa University, Karaikudi, has initiated the process of conducting viva voce examinations for Ph.D. scholars through video conferencing. According to a press release from the institution, till now two Ph.D. scholars have completed their viva voce through online platforms during May and the first week of June. The viva voce is being conducted through Alagappa University’s online portal and other online platforms in accordance with recent UGC guidelines. With the objective of helping Ph.D. scholars, Vice-Chancellor N. Rajendran permitted the online viva voce examinations. The video conferencing was conducted in a dedicated room set up for this purpose. Personal distancing norms are strictly being enforced during the conduct of the online examination. More Ph.D. scholars will appear for viva voce online examinations during June and July, the press release added.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till June 11   Persons tested +ve so far: 170 Domestic cases: 160 Imported cases: 10 Persons recovered: 148 Death: 1 (Another death cross-notified to Kerala) Active cases: 20      Home quarantined: 1,289 Positive: 114 (No fresh cases on Thursday) Discharged: 114 (No active cases)
12 June 2020||BALLARI,KARNATAKA||34 new positive cases in Ballari district||Ballari district recorded 34 new positive cases for COVID-19 on Thursday. Of the 34 cases, 27 are linked to JSW Steel and five persons had had a history of travelling to Mumbai. One each from Ballari and Hosapete also tested positive and their contacts are yet to be traced.
12 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Trees transplanted in Belagavi||Some fully grown trees that could have been cut down for road widening were rescued by Belagavi Smart City officials in Belagavi on Wednesday. They were safely uprooted and transplanted on the campus of KMF Dairy on Kanabaragi Road. As many 28 trees of native species were taken away from Srinagar in Belagavi to the dairy premises. At first, the branches of the trees were cut, leaving the trunk and the roots. Each tree was uprooted using earthmovers and some workers to see that the roots were intact. It was then carried on large trucks to the dairy premises where pits were dug large enough to hold the roots. Kiran Nippanikar, consultant for the project, said that the rate of survival of such transplanted trees was over 90 %. “We can scale up the process and transplant all trees on sites that require trees to be cut down. But the availability of space to transplant the trees reduces the chances,” he said. Mr. Nippanikar’s team has successfully transplanted over 100 fully grown trees till now. “We prefer to transplant native Indian species trees such as ficus, mango, banana, jackfruit and Audumbar. The great disadvantage is that when you cut down a tree and plant a sapling in its place, we are not sure of its survival. Secondly, we are losing a huge tree that in itself is an ecosystem. If a tree is properly transplanted, it will start growing back in a few months,’’ he said. Smart City Managing Director Shashidhar Kurer claimed that it was the first such initiative in the city’s development. He said that the task was completed in association with a team of Forest Department officials led by Deputy Conservator M.V. Amarnath. He said that transplanting will be the standard operating procedure for all sites that need clearing of trees for all Smart City-related works. “We will try to follow it wherever feasible,’’ he said.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police personnel fight crime and COVID-19 as virus spreads in the force||The pandemic is wreaking havoc in the rank and file of the police force. According to senior officials, in less than a week, as many as 10 policemen have tested positive for COVID-19. Since Tuesday, nine police stations were sealed for 48 hours and over 200 personnel are currently in quarantine. With the easing of lockdown restrictions, crime has increased, and the police have become more vulnerable to contracting COVID-19. “Morale is low. Every time we arrest someone, or question a suspect, we worry if today is the day we will get COVID. Uneasiness and fear are rampant among constables,” said a senior police officer. In a recent case, the J.B. Nagar police arrested a man for sexual harassment. He was produced in court and remanded in judicial custody. “He was asymptomatic, and we got to know that he was positive after the procedural medical examination,” a police officer said. The entire station was sealed and sanitised, and staff have been quarantined. “This puts pressure on neighbouring jurisdictional police stations, as they have to take over the cases until the station re-opens,” the officer added. The XI Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate court in Mayo Hall was sealed for two days after a head constable from Hennur police station, who was on court duty, tested positive on Wednesday. According to a source, earlier in June, the police headquarters was sanitised and an entire squad of 24 personnel had to be replaced after one of them tested positive. The question on everyone’s mind is how will they fight crime if the pandemic continues to spread. “With so many personnel in quarantine, the pressure on the rest of us increases,” said a constable pointing to the fact that the police are already short-staffed. A Deputy Commissioner of Police said, “It is difficult to get all policemen on ground duty tested as the health department says that only symptomatic personnel will be tested. Though we take precautions and issue PPEs, it's difficult for police to wear them while enforcing the law,” Measures against virus With the situation unlikely to ease, senior police officials have introduced a slew of measures to contain the spread of the pandemic. Personnel have been instructed not to detain or summon anyone to the station for questioning unless absolutely necessary. While handling cognisable cases, which are serious in nature and need immediate attention, and when arrest is imminent, investigating officers have been directed to ensure that the accused or suspect is tested. They can be brought to the station only after the result is known. This is in addition to the already existing protocol on the usage of masks, sanitisers, and social distancing. Senior police officers have taken preventive measures, like installing glass enclosures at every police station, to maintain social distancing from visitors. Personnel who are 50 years and above are not being deployed for ground duty. Boosting morale In an effort to boost the morale of his force, Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao has introduced several measures, including a shift-based system where police personnel get a week off. “Our policemen are doing an excellent job enforcing law and order despite all odds. I am sure they will continue with the good work,” he said. A welfare officer has been appointed at every unit to motivate police personnel. Stress management programmes have been introduced to ensure that police personnel stay fit, both physically and mentally. Recently, Director General and Inspector General of Police Praveen Sood directed the police to consider the quarantine period of personnel as on-duty days. A senior police official told The Hindu that 67 personnel across Karnataka have tested positive of whom 36 have recovered.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Monsoon has covered entire State: IMD||The southwest monsoon covered entire Karnataka on Thursday, according to the Meteorological Centre Bengaluru. The State had two back-to-back normal monsoons and is likely to have a normal monsoon season this year too, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said. With a low pressure area over west central Bay of Bengal of south Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh, in association with circulation extending up to 7.6 km above sea level, rainfall is predicted over Karnataka in the next five days, with north-interior Karnataka getting more rain than south-interior, C.S. Patil from IMD Bengaluru told The Hindu . On the coast Coastal Karnataka is expected to receive widespread rainfall over the next five days, with the first two days seeing heavy rainfall at a few places and isolated areas receiving very heavy rainfall. The third day will see widespread heavy to very heavy rainfall, and heavy rainfall has been forecast on the fourth day. “North-interior Karnataka will be experiencing widespread rainfall in the next three days, thereafter it will become widespread and then scattered. For the first two days, the region may see very heavy rainfall at isolated places and heavy rainfall on the third day,” Mr. Patil said. In south-interior Karnataka, there will be widespread rainfall in the next three days, with the first two days witnessing heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places, and heavy rainfall at isolated places on the third day. “More rainfall is concentrated over Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Belagavi, Dharwad, Haveri, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kodagu, Bidar, Kalaburagi, Bagalakot, Koppal, and Gadag,” he said. He added that the remaining districts may experience light to moderate rainfall. By Thursday morning, the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre had recorded widespread rainfall in Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Shivamogga, Vijayapura and Raichur, among 11 others. Yadgir, Hassan, Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru had recorded fairly widespread rainfall, while 11 districts, including Bengaluru, Mandya and Mysuru, saw scattered rainfall. Excess last year Last year, Karnataka received rainfall in excess of 23% during the monsoon period. Alerts have been issued to districts where heavy or very heavy rainfall is forecast, as well as those areas where heavy lightning is expected.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NIRF ranking: Two Bengaluru institutions retain top positions||Two Bengaluru-based educational institutions have bagged the topmost rankings in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) announced on Thursday. While the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) bagged the top spot in the universities ranking and the second spot in the overall ranking, the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) claimed the top spot in the law category. Both institutes retained their earlier rankings. However, the Indian Institute of Management Bangalore (IIMB) ranking under the management category slipped by one position to be ranked second. An IIMB official said that they were happy to be in the top-three category and will analyse the scores in all parameters in detail. Meanwhile, NLSIU in a statement said that their perception, teaching and learning outcomes, as well as graduation outcomes have been key contributors for its success in the rankings. “We aim to sustain our performance in these parameters, but will redouble our efforts and focus on research and practice as well as our outreach and inclusivity,” said Sudhir Krishnaswamy, Vice-Chancellor of NLSIU, in a press release. Anurag Kumar, IISc. director, said he was happy they retained the ranking in the universities category. “We are working on improving our research and international position,” he said. Educational institutions in the State in the engineering, medical and dental category have bagged several top spots. Seven out of the 40 top spots in the medical institutions category have been bagged by institutions in the State. Twenty-one out of the top 200 spots in the engineering category and 10 of the 30 spots under the dental category have been bagged by the State.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru seeing spurt in deaths in June||Although Bengaluru has a recovery rate of 51.4% among COVID-19 patients, the death rate of 3.95 here — the highest in the State among the districts — has raised concerns. The State’s average is 1.15%. This average excludes the death of two positive patients owing to non-COVID cause. Kalaburagi follows Bengaluru with the death rate of 1%. There has been a sudden rise in the number of deaths in Bengaluru since June 1. According to the State health bulletin, 23 people, of the total 581 positive cases in the city as on June 11, have succumbed to the infection. Thirteen of these deaths occurred in the last 11 days. This is apart from another death of a positive patient owing to non-COVID reason. What is also worrying is that the recovery rate in Bengaluru has also come down from 64.7% on May 31 to 51.4% as on June 11. While 70 people have recovered during this period, 224 people have tested positive. Reasons for mortality Doctors treating COVID-19 patients in the designated hospitals attribute the deaths to late reporting and late referral by other hospitals apart from severe comorbidities. It is expected for the deaths to go up as the number of positive cases increase, they said. Uncontrolled diabetes with sugar levels above 400 has been a common factor among all the deaths. The State’s Expert Committee on Death Analysis of COVID-19 cases headed by S. Sachidanand, Vice-Chancellor of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS), has so far analysed 42 of the total 72 deaths. In Bengaluru, 16 of the 23 deaths have been analysed. Based on the analysis done so far, the committee has recommended to the State government that health education should be aggressive on early reporting by those who develop symptoms, especially the aged. “Mortality rate among patients who are aged above 60 is higher when compared with that of the rest of the population. As monsoon has already set in, people may ignore respiratory symptoms assuming it to be common cold. Surveillance should be stepped up and it is important that people get tested as soon as they develop influenza like illness (ILI) or SARI symptoms,” Dr. Sachidanand told The Hindu on Thursday. Asymptomatic cases With over 96% of cases being asymptomatic, the committee has also recommended that measuring oxygen saturation should be taken up just like BP checks. “We have recommended that pulse oxymeters be made available in all health facilities, especially in rural areas,” he said. President of the Karnataka Pulmonologists Association K.S. Satish, who is also part of the expert committee, said among the 16 deaths in Bengaluru that have been analysed so far, not a single death was without any comorbidity. “While all the deaths were of those who were aged above 55, we were surprised about a 32-year-old patient’s death as he was the youngest among the lot. But on analysis, we found that he was not just immunocompromised but also addicted to smoking and alcohol. Another 39-year-old, did not have any other comorbidity but he collapsed owing to a heart attack,” Dr. Satish said and added that almost all the patients who died reported with fever, chills, and breathlessness. Obesity a factor too According to a doctor in the COVID-19 ward at Victoria Hospital, obesity is also an important factor that deteriorates the health of a COVID-19 patient. Recalling the first death in the ward on April 13 of a 65-year-old male SARI patient, the doctor said: “The patient weighed 130 kg and it was difficult to move him. With PPE on, the ICU staff found it difficult to ventilate him. At least five of the patients who died in Victoria were obese.”
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Evolve mechanism to send back registered migrants: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the State government to evolve a mechanism to identify the migrant workers registered on Seva Sindhu portal who wish to go back and to specifically inform them to reach mustering centres for boarding Shramik Special trains. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna issued the direction while hearing PIL petitions related to issues arisen owing to COVID-19 lockdown. Noticing that even the Supreme Court, in its June 9 order, had specifically directed the State governments to identify the migrants wishing to return to their home States, the Bench said that despite several directions, the government has not come out with a rational and transparent method to send back those registered on the portal. Though Additional Advocate-General Dhyan Chinnappa pointed out that SMSs were sent to registered migrants to reach mustering centres, the Bench said that the latest circular issued by the government was silent on the aspect of how registered migrants were informed to reach mustering centres to enable them to board particular special train. Pointing out that nothing placed on record to show that officials were deputed to identify the migrants wishing to return to their home States, the Bench also said that mustering centres were opened in only 13 districts though migrant workers are there in all most all the districts. Earlier, Mr. Chinnappa told the court that SMSs were sent to around one lakh migrants registered on the portal during last one week but only around 3,000 migrants came to board the special trains. Most of the special trains are running with only a few migrants, with many coaches being empty. Further hearing was adjourned till June 18.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC asks govt. to come clean on ‘Cauvery Calling’ project||Observing that the State government appears to be not coming out with facts on the ‘Cauvery Calling’ project, the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the government to explain how it was allowing Isha Foundation to claim that it is its project even after “accepting” the project report submitted by the foundation. The court said that the government has made contradictory statements as on one hand it has stated that it had accepted the project report submitted by Isha Foundation and on the other, it has contended that the government is neither sponsoring nor financing the project. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice E.S. Indiresh made these observations while hearing a PIL petition, filed by city-based advocate A.V. Amaranathan, who had raised several questions on the project particularly raising of donations from the public. Government’s statement Though the government’s written statement claimed that the foundation’s proposal was accepted only for the limited purpose of mobilisation of farmers and enrolling them to the government’s 2011 scheme of Krishi Aranya Protsaha Yojane (KAPY), the Bench found that the government has not produced before the court the orders passed in this regard. The Bench also noticed that while the government claimed that it had “accepted” the proposal of the Isha Foundation, the latter is claiming that it is only creating awareness about the project, which actually is implemented by another organisation, Isha Outreach. Meanwhile, the counsel appearing for the foundation said that it is not collecting any money or donation in the name of the project as it is implemented and managed by Isha Outreach. On the arguments made by Additional Advocate General that the proposal of the project was only “considered” and “not accepted” by the government, the Bench said that this argument is contrary to what has been stated in writing. At one stage, the Bench orally observed that the respondent organisation is somehow trying to create an impression that it is implementing the government project and the government should not be influenced by the fact that some important people are involved with the project. Hearing adjourned The Bench adjourned further hearing till July 2 while allowing Isha Outreach to join the proceedings and directing both the organisations to respond to an application filed by the petitioner, who sought direction for depositing with the court the donations collected so far for the project.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. under pressure to clear bills||As the State is struggling to raise resources to maintain revenue expenditure, it is also under tremendous pressure from contractors whose bills are pending for payment. The two major spending departments — Public Works and Water Resources — alone have a total of about Rs. 10,700 crore payment due to contractors. Many other departments also have a pile up of pending bills. Government sources pointed out that PWD has pending bills worth Rs. 5,200 crore and Water Resources has about Rs. 5,500 crore. “All efforts are now to prioritise projects and bill payments will come later. Government is under pressure from contractors to release the money. It is important because the contractor has to restart operations for which money is required,” government sources admitted. Sources also said that only those projects that are identified as priority work would be receiving money. “This is to be identified based on how much money is required and how much is available. There is no scope for new works as already the cost of approved and ongoing works is very high,” he said. Big ongoing works The government estimate of big ongoing works is more than Rs. 55,000 crore, PWD alone accounting for about Rs. 29,000 crore. Sources confirmed that the allocation cut to departments would affect the capacity to execute these works too. “Priority will be accorded to only the much needed works,” said a source in PWD. Multiple sources said that the State-funded projects could get affected drastically while the State is also expecting cuts for Centrally-funded projects. “The State finances are precarious and everyone knows about it. A guidelines issued by Finance Department recently also cautioned the departments to be alert about the Central funding to the projects that are likely to be cut,” said a government source.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMTC employee tests positive; depot sanitised||In a first, an employee of the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday night. He was attached to Depot 24, Dooravaninagar, near K.R. Puram, which has since been sanitised. According to sources, the employee had been on duty on two long routes for a few days before he fell ill. A few of the patient’s primary contacts, including BMTC employees, are now in institutional quarantine. BMTC managing director C. Shikha has urged commuters and BMTC staff not to panic. “He had availed of leave for three days before he tested positive and had a travel history to Kalaburagi and Vijayapura before he reported for duty at the end of May. He did not show any symptoms at the time. We cannot say that he was infected while he was on duty,” she said. Health Department officials have initiated contact tracing and are trying to ascertain who he contracted the infection from. “As per norms, all the crew members are screened every day when they report to duty and buses are also sanitised regularly,” Ms. Shikha said. An official attached to Depot 24 said that a few employees were hesitant to report to duty and a few buses in the fleet had been transferred to other depots temporarily. ‘More steps needed’ The recent increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in the city has caused anxiety among transport service employees. “The BMTC should initiate measures so that both employees and passengers are safe,” said an employee and added that they should be screened while they go home as well. Another employee demanded that conductors and drivers be given protective gear and disposable gloves. “We are only given sanitisers and masks, which we have worn out. We need new masks,” said the BMTC employee. Vijaya Bhaskar of the All India Trade Union Congress urged the BMTC and other public transport corporations to increase the insurance provided to employees. “We have written to all the corporations on the issue. Now they are provided with insurance amounting to Rs. 30 lakh. That apart, all buses should be sanitised at least twice a day,” he said.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State Cabinet upgrades Government Science College to university||The State Cabinet on Thursday decided to upgrade Government Science College, located on the premises of Central College in Bengaluru, as a university and name it Nrupatunga University. The government will inform the University Grants Commission about the decision on upgrade. It has also proposed to rename Bengaluru Central University as Bengaluru City University. University Vice-Chancellor S. Japhet has been demanding the renaming of the university. Informing the Cabinet decisions to presspersons here, Law and Parliamentary Affairs minister J.C. Madhuswamy said special officers would be appointed for Maharani Cluster University, Bengaluru and Mandya Cluster University, Mandya. It also approved establishment of a science gallery in Bengaluru at an estimated cost of Rs. 89 crore. By amending the Karnataka University Act, the Minister said only Karnataka State Open University would be made the eligible university in the State for providing distance education.  The Cabinet approved the upgrade of 1,307 health sub-centres and 1,694 primary health centres into health and wellness centres. The centres are located in 47 taluks in eight districts. It was decided to withdraw 53 criminal cases registered in various police stations in the State against farmers during protests and people during procession and immersion of Ganesha idols, Mr. Madhuswamy said. The Cabinet gave the green signal for holding polls to cooperative bodies, except sugar cooperative factories. In March, the Cooperative Department postponed polls to cooperative bodies following the lockdown.  The Cabinet dropped proposals on setting up of two horticultural colleges at Somanahalli Kaval, horticulture farm, in Hassan, and Alamela horticultural farm, Sindagi taluk, Vijayapura district. Three gram panchayats, Byndoor, Yadathare, and Paduwari, will be upgraded to town panchayats in Udupi district, he said.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shivakumar thanks CM for nod to hold ‘Prathigna’||KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar on Thursday thanked Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for permitting him to go ahead with ‘Prathigna’ event, the ceremony of his taking over as KPCC president. “Thanks you @CMofkarnataka for permitting us to go ahead with ‘Prathigna’ event. A new date will be confirmed in due course,” Mr. Shivakumar tweeted. The State government had initially denied permission to hold the programme by citing COVID-19 guidelines. The Chief Minister said the ceremony could be held with limited number of party leaders and workers.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||AITUC condoles death of former MLA Narasimhan||M.C. Narasimhan, 98, trade union leader, senior advocate and former MLA from the Communist Party of India, who passed away on Wednesday, was laid to rest on Thursday at Bengaluru. “His contributions to the debate on minimum wages led to the formal institutionalising of dearness allowance as part of minimum wages,” said M.D. Harigovind, general secretary, AITUC, Bengaluru district. B.C. Prabhakar, president, Karnataka Employers’ Association, said: “His commitment to his core beliefs never wavered.”
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six deaths in Victoria?||Although six persons are said to have succumbed to COVID-19 in the ICU of the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre at Victoria Hospital from Wednesday night to 5 p.m. on Thursday, the State health bulletin recorded only two Bengaluru deaths. While doctors in the hospital said they had reported all the deaths to the department, a senior health official said only two had been reported and they were included in the bulletin. Sources in the hospital said all, including a 35-year-old male who collapsed in the ICU and died and a 45-year-old woman, had comorbidities. While four were referred from Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital, two were referred from private hospitals.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||One college makes the cut||Only one college in Karnataka has been ranked among the top 100 colleges in the country. The Bengaluru-based St Joseph’s College of Commerce bagged the 72nd spot in this category.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State releases Rs. 325 cr. to RTCs to pay salaries||The State government has released Rs. 325.01 crore towards the payment of salaries of employees of four road transport corporations. Due to lockdown, all the four road transport corporations — KSRTC, BMTC, NEKRTC, and NWKRTC — have suffered huge revenue losses and are not in a position to pay salaries to 1.25 lakh employees. Due to shortage of revenue sources, employees have not yet received their previous month’s salary. Though the corporations resumed bus services in the mid of May, fare box revenue remains low due to poor ridership. Officials say corporations will face revenue loss for a couple of more months. The corporations have already approached the State government seeking funds of Rs. 812.5 crore to pay the salaries of June and July. Earlier, the State government had supported corporations to pay the salaries of April by releasing Rs. 325 crore.
12 June 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||15-year-old boy tests positive for COVID-19||A 15-year-old boy, studying in Class 10, tested positive for COVID-19 infection in Chikkamagaluru on Thursday. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautam said that the boy is a native of Dasarahalli in Kadur taluk. It is not clear how he got the infection. The district administration has shifted the patient to the designated hospital in Chikkamagaluru for treatment. As many as 55 contacts of the patients have been traced for quarantine.
12 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||‘Ensure students reach exam centres without any hitch’||Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa has directed the officials to make all arrangements to help students write the SSLC and PU examinations in a hassle-free manner. Chairing a meeting of officials here on Wednesday, Ms. Deepa said that the officials concerned should ensure that no student appearing for SSLC examination is deprived of a chance to write the examination. They should also see that every student reaches the respective examination centres without any hitch. The safety of candidates should get top priority. All examination centres should be sanitised well before the examination commenced. The education officials should have the domicile address of students and make public transport arrangements for them. Using sanitisers, wearing masks and social distancing should be strictly followed. Scouts and Guides volunteers would be roped in to help students reach their examination halls. Face masks are being provided by Scouts and Guides. Officials should visit examination centres and check roofs to avoid leakage in case of rain, she said. DDPI Mohan Hanchate said that 27,841 candidates have enrolled for the SSLC examinations in the district. The department has set up 90 examination centres. There are 17 additional centres and all centres have been provided with CCTV cameras. Along with other staff, para-medical staff would also be present. Seating arrangement for 18-20 students has been made in each one of the rooms, he said. Deputy Director, Pre-University, Sharada Kiresur said that nearly 22,000 students would write the PU examination in 38 centres of the district.
12 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Two areas in Dharwad dist. sealed||Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa issued orders on Thursday declaring Yalakki Shettar Colony and Hukkerikar Nagar in Dharwad and Annigeri town in Navalgund taluk as containment zones. These area have been sealed. An area in a 200-m radius of the containment zones has been declared as buffer zone. The decision comes in the wake of a 31-year-old female (P-5,970), a resident of Yallakki Shettar Colony in Dharwad testing positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. She developed Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and was admitted at KIMS. Her test had confirmed that she was positive for COVID-19. She is a teacher in an English-medium school in the Fort area in Dharwad. Since she had also attended a teachers meeting in the school last week, the authorities have instructed all those who attended the meeting to get tested at the district civil hospital and be in home quarantine for a week. A 40-year-old CRPF jawan (P-5,972), a resident of Annigeri town in Navalgund taluk, tested positive on Wednesday and hence, Annigeri town has been sealed.
12 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Doctors say they too need time to de-stress||The death of a paediatrician on COVID-19 duty, reportedly following work-related stress, has upset the medical fraternity. They are all worried about their health as many, particularly those in government hospitals, have been working without taking a break for months. Shivakiran, a paediatrician at the Alur taluk hospital, collapsed while on duty last week and suffered a hematoma. He died in the Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences in Hassan on Wednesday. He had been working at the hospital for the last three months without taking a weekly holiday or leave, like many others in the fraternity.  Appeal to govt. Forums representing doctors have appealed to the State government to bring down pressure on the medical staff by taking necessary steps. K. Shankar, president of the Hassan unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), said, “It could be managed by dividing the staff into three batches and giving them breaks, holidays on rotation. The State body of the IMA has given its suggestions to the State government in this regard. I hope they will follow these steps to ease the situation.” “We have all been working without a break all these days,” said a government medical officer, who wished not to be named. The staff members have been given the responsibility of handling fever clinics, where every patient has to be treated as a suspected COVID-19 patient. “Forget leave, we have not availed of weekly holiday or general holiday in the last three months,” he said. Even at the workplace, attending to the duty was not normal. They have to take extra care of themselves, besides attending to patients. There have been instances of public picking up arguments with doctors and other staff on the services provided. “We cannot expect every visitor to be educated and be aware of the present condition. Many people walk in without masks. Sometimes we attend to accident cases where the injured is carried by a group of people. The staff members have to instruct all of them to wear masks and take precautionary measures. All this increase the stress on the staff,” said another doctor. Besides the pressure at workplace, the doctors had difficulties in taking care of the family needs during the lockdown, said the doctor.
12 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Student designs sanitiser dispenser||A student of Malnad Engineering College in Hassan has made automatic sanitiser dispensers, which can be placed at the entrance of public buildings. H.P. Shashank, a final year student in the automobile branch, has designed the dispenser using sensors so that a person can sanitise his/her hands without touching the dispenser. Two models, one with the capacity to hold five litres of liquid and another of one litre, are ready to use. He has also handed over 15 units to the Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences (HIMS), where COVID hospital is located. Shashank initially designed a face shield and had plans to take up its mass production. He shared his design and idea with the district administration. By then, the administration had taken steps to procure the shields. During the interaction with officers, he learnt that automatic sanitiser dispensers were needed. “I aimed at designing the model with minimum expenses. I reduced the cost by avoiding the micro-controller as well. Motors have been put to pump the liquid. I have spent up to Rs. 2,000 per unit as of now. If it is taken up for mass production, we have to procure machinery. Then the unit cost will come down. Even then, the cost will be lesser than that of similar products available in the market,” he said. Apart from the district administration, college faculty and friends, and family members have encouraged him to take up this project. Naveen Bhat, Assistant Commissioner of Hassan sub-division, gave him motivation. Senior officials at HIMS have been supporting him. Shashank, who is about to complete his studies, has two job offers. Along with his friends, he launched a startup ‘Tech Kids’ two years ago. Through this, he and his friends conducted classes for students on various aspects of engineering, including micro-controller programming and robotics. “All these activities influenced me to do something during the time of this pandemic. I’m happy with the response my efforts are getting,” he said.  I aimed at designing the model with minimum expenses. I reduced the cost by avoiding the micro-controller as well. I have spent up to Rs. 2,000 per unit. If it is taken up for mass production, the unit cost will come down.H.P. Shashank
12 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Sewing training centres in six districts||The former Rajya Sabha member and Chairman of the Kalyana Karnataka Human Resources, Agriculture and Cultural Association Basvaraj Patil Sedam has said that a proposal would be made to the government seeking an allocation of Rs. 500 crore to the association for the development of region. Mr. Patil said that the association would appoint district, taluk and village level staff in six districts of the region in the next four months. The association will set up one sewing training centre in each gram panchayat in all the six districts for empowering women and youths in rural areas.
12 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. college to offer integrated courses||P. Dayananda Pai and P. Satish Pai Government First Grade College, Car Street, here will offer integrated BA B.Ed and B.Sc B.Ed courses from the academic year 2020-21, according to Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath. The duration of the integrated course will be four years and the maximum intake for the two courses will be 100 — 50 each. Though the government has selected three government first grade colleges, which are lead colleges in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Kodagu districts, under Mangalore University, for the courses, these courses are being offered only in the college on Car Street here.
12 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CAMPCO begins retail sales of premium chocolates||Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Co-operative Ltd. (CAMPCO) has now begun retail sales of its premium assorted chocolates launched two years ago, according to its managing director M. Suresh Bhandary. Speaking at a “meet-the-press” organised by Dakshina Kannada Union of Working Journalists at Mangaluru Press Club on Tuesday, he said that when launched in 2018, the cooperative sold them in six variants but only in gift boxes. The six variants were Crunch, Dietier, Funtan, Milk Marvel, Milk n Milk and Ganache. Of these, the cooperative is not manufacturing the latter two now based on feedback. Milk n Milk was white chocolate with rice crispies and Ganache was milk chocolate with cocoa nibs. Their manufacturing have been discontinued. Shelf life for Milk n Milk was less compared to Milk Marvel. Cocoa nibs in Ganache gave one the experience of crunchy sand, eating it, Mr. Bhandary said and added that these were teh reasons for dropping these variants. While the Crunch, Dietier, Funtan and Milk Marvel are being sold in retail as a marketing strategy. The four variants are also being sold in gift boxes, he said and added that Crunch is milk chocolate with rice crispies, Dietier is sugar free chocolate, Funtan is dark chocolate and Milk Marvel is a milk chocolate. “We sold about 300 cases of these assorted chocolate gift boxes each month. Each box had around 12 kg of premium chocolates,” Mr. Bhandary said. Milk Marvel, Crunch, Dietier and Funtan are in the same league as premier MNC premium chocolates, he said. Cooperative president S.R. Satishchandra said that the cooperative’s chocolate factory at Puttur resumed operations on April 20 after closing down initially during the lockdown. The cooperative purchased about 8,000 quintals of wet cocoa beans from farmers during the lockdown, he said.
12 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Ravi urges Centre to expedite process of granting autonomous status to CESK||Minister for Kannada and Culture C.T. Ravi has urged the Union government to expedite the process of granting autonomous status to the Centre of Excellence for Studies in Classical Kannada (CESK). CESK was established in 2011 and functions under the Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL), but Kannada writers and activists have averred that lack of autonomy status has hindered the growth of the centre. Recently, around 20 prominent Kannada littérateurs urged the State government to secure autonomy for CESK so as to expedite research and academic work. Mr. Ravi had also expressed his indignation over the lack of progress in Kannada compared to the work of the Central Institute of Classical Tamil (CICT) in Chennai. In his letter, he said though Government of India accorded classical language status to Kannada in 2008, CESK was established after three years in 2011. Later on, the Policy-cum-Monitoring Board was constituted by HRD Ministry after four years, while the project director was appointed recently, he said, pointing out that autonomy for CESK was the demand of all writers and Kannada activists. Mr. Ravi’s letter to Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Minister for Human Resource Development, pointed out that when a demand was made for transferring CICT to Chennai, the request was conceded “immediately”. “MHRD provided a full-fledged office building at a cost of Rs. 76 crore, opening up avenues and opportunities for Tamil research in a big way,” he added. After its separation from CIIL, CICT as an autonomous organisation did much meaningful work. Pro-Kannada organisations and writers who noticed this have appealed for autonomous status for CESK, said Mr. Ravi. The University of Mysore has sanctioned three acres of land for the construction of a temporary office for the classical Kannada centre, said Mr. Ravi. The establishment of Central Institute of Classical Kannada as an autonomous institute would be a landmark in the preservation of Indian heritage, the letter added.
12 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||State planters seek package from govt.||The Karnataka Growers Federation has sought financial and economic package from the government to overcome the crisis plaguing the plantation sector owing to the COVID-19 lockdown. In a press release, the association said the sector has faced back-to-back crisis in three years — floods and landslips in 2018 and 2019, and the fallout of COVID-19 in 2020. Despite the crisis plaguing the sector, the Centre failed to offer them anything under the Rs. 20 lakh crore package which was announced to stimulate the economy, it added. ‘May come to a halt’ Cautioning the government that the plantation sector may come to a grinding halt in the absence of a package, federation president U.M. Tirthamallesh and general secretary B. Muralidhar said multiple representations were made to the Union government and the Ministry of Finance highlighting the major problems plaguing the plantation sector. Yet, their demands have not been considered, it added. According to the federation, the crop loss owing to floods and landslips in 2018 and 2019 ranged from 35% to 70% and it came in the backdrop of a steep increase in the cultivation cost, resulting in enormous loss to growers. The arabica and robusta varieties of coffee were being sold at a considerable loss from the last five years, according to the federation, which said that COVID-19 has had a devastating impact on the sector. It highlighted the labour issue and said that migrant workers had returned to their respective States and districts as a result of which all plantation works had come to a halt and it would affect production. Financial institutions, including banks, were reluctant to sanction or renew loans to the planters as many were in financial crisis and unable to clear the outstanding dues, according to the federation. It said exports took a hit owing to COVID-19 as Italy, which is one of the major markets for coffee, is badly affected by the pandemic. The federation also urged the government to convert short-term loans into long-term loans, extend a moratorium on repayment of loans for three years, and extend the loan repayment tenure at 3% interest rate to 10 years to revive the plantation sector.
12 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Yellow, Orange alerts in Kodagu||Heavy rain has been forecast in Kodagu with India Meteorological Department (IMD) issuing Yellow and Orange alerts over the next three days. Monsoon has already set in with several parts of the district receiving moderate rain. Light to moderate showers was expected over Kodagu on Thursday as well besides the forecast of heavy rain in interior and hilly areas. The IMD has declared a Yellow alert for Friday with a forecast of isolated rain in the range of 64.5 mm to 115.5 mm. An Orange alert had been issued for Saturday, predicting 115.6 mm to 204.4 mm rainfall. Number for assistance Kodagu district administration has asked the public to be watchful over the alerts and urged them to remain in safer places. It has told the public to call the district control room 08272221077 or reach the WhatsApp number 8550001077 for assistance. A team of NDRF has arrived in Kodagu and carried out a mock drill on the preparedness.
12 June 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Six staff of designated hospital test positive||Six staff — four staff nurses and two assistants — working at the COVID-19 hospital in Rachur have tested positive, Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar told a press conference here. He also said that including these six, there were 14 fresh cases in the district on Thursday.
12 June 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Kimmane wants lockdown on SSLC examination days||Welcoming the decision taken by the State government to conduct SSLC examinations, Kimmane Ratnakar, former Minister for Primary and Secondary Education, has suggested enforcement of State-wide complete lockdown on the examination days for the safety of the students. On the examination days, no other economic activities should be allowed. This would create a sense of security among the students. The State government should also put in place proper arrangements to ensure that the students get easy access to the examination centres, he said at a press conference here on Thursday. Mr. Ratnakar said that when S. Suresh Kumar, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education, had called him over the telephone to discuss the issue, he had told him that it was necessary to conduct the examination. Terming both SSLC and second year PUC examinations as decisive phase in the academic life of the students, he said that, to maintain academic standards, assessing the learning abilities of the students through examination was necessary. On online classes, he said “In Indian society where the digital divide is prevailing, holding online classes amounts to denying of education for many children. The remote areas in Malnad region of Karnataka don’t have access to internet. Moreover, the academicians and psychiatrists have opined that online classes would exert unnecessary pressure on the students.”
12 June 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Lifetime awards||Karnataka Sangha, Shivamogga, has announced a lifetime achievement award instituted in the name of poet Da.Ra. Bendre for writer Chandrashekhar Patil in recognition of his contribution to the field of Kannada poetry. It has also announced a lifetime achievement award instituted in the name of Ti.Nam. Srikantaiah to literary critic H.S. Raghavendra Rao. Each one of the awards carry a purse of Rs. 25,000 and a citation.
12 June 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Shivamogga registers 10 new positive cases||As many as 10 persons in Shivamogga district, including a seer of an ashram located on the outskirts of the city, tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. Of these 10, eight had had history of travelling to Maharashtra. The source from which the seer aged 52 contracted the disease is yet to be ascertained. The ashram located in Kallagangur has been sealed.
12 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Govt. bus services to be increased in Udupi||K. Raghupati Bhat, MLA, said on Thursday that the frequency of government city and service (intra-district) buses would be increased once schools and colleges start functioning in Udupi district. Addressing presspersons here, Mr. Bhat said that at present, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) was running skeletal services because of lack of demand for city and service (intra-district) buses in the district. People were not enthusiastic about travelling on buses on account of COVID-19. This was the case not just with government buses but also private buses. It was to instil confidence in the people that he had got private city bus operators to provide a week-long free service about a fortnight ago. About 30,000 persons travelled on city buses during that week. But the response since then to private city bus service was lackadaisical. At present, only 22 out of the 95 private city buses were operating in the city, Mr. Bhat said. Meanwhile, chairing a meeting of private bus operators at the District Offices Complex, Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said that social distancing should be compulsorily maintained on buses at all times. Passengers should be given sanitisers while they entered buses. All passengers should compulsorily wear masks. No bus should take more than 30 passengers. Officers of the Transport Department would carry out surprise checks, he said. Private operators said that buses were attracting passengers only during peak hours and the rest of the time, they hardly had any passengers and that it was difficult to maintain social distancing during peak hours. Mr. Jagadeesha said that operators should run more buses during peak hours, he said.
12 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||22 test positive for COVID-19 in Udupi||As many as 22 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi district on Thursday. The district had not recorded any positive cases of COVID-19 for the last two days. In a video message released here, Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said here that of the 22 cases, 20 persons had had history of travelling to Mumbai. The remaining two cases are corona warriors — a health worker and a Group D employee.
12 June 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Officials taken to task for supplying poor quality foodgrains in Yargol||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies K. Gopalaiah has said that the State government would adhere to the regulations while withdrawing BPL cards from holders who have more than seven acres of land. However, those who have four acres of land for cultivation for their livelihood will continue to enjoy the facility. Earlier, the Minister attended a meeting of officials. With an intention to reaching foodgrains to the last person in society during COVID-19, the Union and State governments have been supplying foodgrains even to those who did not have cards. Under the Atma Nirbhar Yojana, 40 lakh people are getting benefits, he said and added that officials have been instructed to supply foodgrains even to hamlets that are situated three or four kilometres away from PDS shops. Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana is been strictly implemented in the State and LPG cylinders are being distributed for three months. Another 2,500 gas connections were given under the Chief Minister’s Anila Bhagya Yojana, he said. He also said that he would study a proposal being submitted by the district administration for a new godown to be set up on five acres of land and take suitable action. Meanwhile, Mr. Gopalaiah took officials to task for supplying poor quality foodgrains to people in Yargol village. The Minister asked officials “Will you take such poor quality foodgrains to your home? Will your family members consume such foodgrains?” He directed the officials to collect back the foodgrains from people in Yargol. He also visited a few PDS shops in the district. ‘No comment’ “I am too small to comment on party’s internal issues,” he told presspersons in Yadgir. Mr. Gopalaiah has said that he is too small in politics and he did not want to comment on any internal issues related to the party. Mr. Gopalaiah was replying to a scribe who asked him about the internal issues of the party. He said that “the party high command will take a decision on whom to give an opportunity to contest. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has fulfilled the promise he made to us.” “But, I cannot comment about any position to senior leaders H. Vishwanath and N. Nagaraj (MTB),” he added.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC seeks report on burning of huts||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday directed the State government to submit report of the Fire and Emergency Services Department on the burning of 90 huts at Sunday Bazaar slum in Kacharakanahlli in the last week of March. Also, the court directed the government why no action was taken by officers for about a month after the incident as a First Information Report (FIR) was registered only on May 1 after a complaint was lodged by an inmate of one of the huts, which was not burnt, belonging to migrant workers from Kalaburagi district. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice E.S. Indiresh passed the order while hearing a PIL petition, which was initiated suo motu by the court on a letter written to the Chief Justice by advocate Vaishali Hegde expressing concern over the plight of inmates of the huts. Earlier, the government counsel said that 30 huts were burnt on March 28 and another 60 huts were burnt on March 30 after inmates of the huts had gone to their native places. The police registered an FIR on May 1, and it appears that those residing in some of the huts were threatened by some persons against registering a complaint. The government counsel also informed that three persons were arrested and it appears that some persons wanted to use this land for parking of vehicles to benefit a nearby marriage hall. As the court was informed that the land, on which huts were put up, belongs to the Bangalore Development Authority, the bench directed the government for what purpose the land was acquired and whether any portion of the land belongs to a lake.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Schools continue to hold online classes despite ban||Many schools on Thursday continued to hold live online classes even though the government had on June 10 scrapped them for pre-primary and lower primary students. School managements said they had not received the order from the Department of Primary and Secondary Education. “We will not cancel classes till we receive the order in writing,” said the principal of a private school in Bengaluru. Other schools said that they will continue classes till this week as their teachers had already prepared their lessons. The government’s decision to stop all forms of internet learning modules, including pre-recorded videos for students up to class V, has not gone down well with a section of parents. An online petition against the decision had received 13,000 signatures since Wednesday. Parents petitioned Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar and officials for online classes. “Schools are putting great effort to continue giving education to our children even during the pandemic,” the petition stated. The signatories said that they would prefer to see their children use the time – spent on their gadgets and iPads – in a productive manner. However, an equal number of parents are pulling up their schools for continuing online classes. A father of a class I student said, “I am appalled that even after the minister announcing the ban on Wednesday, the school is continuing with classes.” The parent of a child enrolled in a school in south Bengaluru said, “My child is in class III. The school has classes in four subjects per day. If the school continues to conduct classes next week, I will register a complaint against the management.” Officials on Thursday received complaints from parents about schools violating the ban. K.G. Jagadeesha, Commissioner for Public Instruction, said that the department would submit a draft order to the government on Friday. “The government needs to approve the order,” he said. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar had written to the Commissioner for Public Instruction urging him to issue the order.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||4 taxi drivers arrested for fraud||The Central Crime Branch on Wednesday arrested four taxi drivers for allegedly duping ride-sharing platforms of lakhs of rupees by logging in fake rides. The police recovered two cars, 500 SIM cards, a laptop and 16 mobile phones from Nagesh, 36, Ravi, 37, Manu M.M., 27, and Satish, 32. They registered the taxis on the platforms and booked 15-20 random trips using different SIM numbers every day. “They tampered with trip details, GPS data and forged details to get incentives,” said the police. The accused had allegedly earned several lakhs of rupees. “The accused had been running the racket for several months before the CCB probed the matter,” said Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (crime).
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A new season||
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Saying it with flowers||
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Striking a pose||
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Administrative officers for GPs||The Cabinet on Thursday decided to appoint administrative officers for gram panchayats in the State owing to postponement of elections scheduled between June and August, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said. Following the suggestion of Deputy Commissioners, elections to gram panchayats were postponed. The district administration and its staff were busy handing COVID-19 cases and Deputy Commissioners suggested the State Election Commission postpone the elections for a few months.
12 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Cyclone shelter set to open in Alappuzha||The multipurpose cyclone shelter being constructed at Mararikulam North grama panchayat is all set to open. District Collector A. Alexander, who visited the shelter earlier this week, directed officials to complete the pending work in a week. Officials said only finishing touches had been remaining and the district administration was planning to open the facility at the earliest. Other calamities The shelter has facilities to accommodate around 1,000 people at a time. It consists of halls, kitchens, ramp for the differently abled, toilet blocks, and generator. The facility can also be used during floods, coastal erosion, and other natural calamities. The three-storey shelter is being built by the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority under the National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project (NCRMP) of the Union government at a cost of Rs. 3.53 crore. The project is funded by the World Bank and State government on a 75:25 basis. The shelter will be under the control of District Collector. Earlier, a committee with Mararikulam North grama panchayat president as chairman and panchayat secretary as chief executive officer was constituted for the functioning of the shelter.
12 June 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||FCC province to initiate stern steps against Sr. Lucy||The authorities of St. Mary’s Province of the Franciscan Clarist Congregation (FCC) are adopting stern steps against Sister Lucy Kalappura, who had raised her voice against Franco Mulakkal, a bishop accused of sexually assaulting a nun. The congregation intends to expel her from its convent at Karakkamala, near Vellamunda, in the district. Jyothi Mariya, Provincial of the FCC, said in a release on Thursday that Sister Lucy, who had already been dismissed from the congregation, was staying at the convent without the permission of the authorities. The convent authorities had been considering her as a trespasser since her dismissal, the Provincial said. The press release was issued in the wake of a mass petition submitted by the parishioners of the Karakkamala church on June 9 demanding that Sister Lucy be expelled from the convent after she had made some allegations against the convent, the Provincial said. The authorities were suffering because of the blatant lies, false accusations and actions by Sister Lucy, she said in the release. The parish priest of Karakkamala and the Mother Superior of the FCC convent, Karakkamala, had already initiated legal steps against Sister Lucy, she added. Her response However, Sister Lucy told The Hindu that the convent authorities had been trying to expel her from the convent for many months for raising her voice against injustice. “I had appealed thrice to the higher Church authorities at the Vatican but all were rejected, including an appeal to the Supreme Tribunal of the Segnatura Apostolica a few months ago,” Sister Lucy said. “As I was repeatedly being denied justice by the Church, I approached a court at Mananthavady,” Sister Lucy said. “I will not leave the convent as I have spent nearly 38 years with the congregation. I trust the judicial system of the country,” Sister Lucy said, adding that she was waiting for the final decree of the court.
12 June 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Developing scientific temperament, through ‘Budding Scientists’||Budding Scientists, an innovative science outreach programme being organised by the Hume Centre for Ecology and Wildlife Biology in various schools in Wayanad district, is gearing up to reach out to more schools and community organisations through online classes. The programme, launched at four government schools in the district last year with the support of the ANAHA Trust, an NGO based in Bengaluru, is targeting school students to impart scientific temperament in younger minds through small-scale and systematic field research, C.K. Vishnudas, director, Hume centre, told The Hindu . Inspiring initiative Four students among them had participated in the State-level Children’s Biodiversity Congress last year and two of them became winners for their presentation on carbon sequestration by trees in farms and how maintaining old trees could help check climate change in the long run. “The success of the children inspired us and we are planning to expand it to 25 more schools in the district this academic year,” he said. “As the COVID-19 lockdown compelled us to go online, we started a WhatsApp group named Chuttu Vattatharokke (who are all around us) that gets children to record and share biodiversity around them and subject experts interact with students about various organisms,” Mr. Vishnudas added. The organisation has started community digital learning centres at Vantyampetta and Panamaram for students from tribal communities who do not have access to online learning. Providing smart television sets for village clubs, where tribal children can attend online classes with the support local mentors, and launching a Kids Science Learning Channel are also on the anvil.
12 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||High Court orders removal of encroachers from Konthuruthy river||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has ordered the removal of encroachments from the Konthuruthy river in one year after encroachers are rehabilitated by the State government and the Kochi Corporation. The Bench comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali also directed the Revenue Secretary to convene a meeting of the District Collector, corporation officials, MLA, and the MP, to find ways to provide land to the corporation for rehabilitating encroachers. The civic body has also been directed to ensure that waste is not dumped into the river and take steps to remove silt and waste on a war footing. The corporation should also ensure that no dirty water is drained out into the river by residents of the locality. The court also restrained the corporation from permitting further constructions on the river bed and assigning permanent building numbers to constructions already carried out by encroachers. It said that after removing encroachers, embankment should be done on both sides of the river by the appropriate authorities. All steps should be taken to remove the bund by constructing a bridge to ensure free flow of water. No assignment shall be given to anyone who have encroached on the river puramboke. The court issued the directives on a public interest litigation filed by K.J. Tomy of Konthuruthy. The Bench observed that in order to avoid future calamities due to flooding and other ecological imbalances in the corporation areas, necessary action should be taken to remove encroachments, failing which, the State would be doing gross injustice to residents. According to the petitioner, owing to widespread encroachments, the width of the river has come down from 48 metres to three metres.
12 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||COVID-19 tally rises by two in Ernakulam district||COVID-19 tally in the district rose by two on Thursday. One case is a 32-year-old Maharashtra native who arrived at the Kochi airport on June 8. He was under institutional quarantine and was tested as part of norms before joining duty. He works with a private shipping company. The second is a 49-year-old Kadavanthra resident who reached here from Mumbai on June 8 by train. A close relative, who had travelled with the person, was diagnosed with the disease on Wednesday. Both are undergoing treatment at Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Ernakulam. Meanwhile, the medical board at the MCH transferred 14 persons to the first line treatment centre at Adlux Convention Centre, Angamaly. They have been asymptomatic so far. The 300-bed facility will now take care of asymptomatic patients, while the MCH will take in more serious patients. Six discharged Six persons were discharged on Thursday after getting cured of the disease. They are an Uttar Pradesh native who tested positive on May 17, an Ayyambilly resident who tested positive on June 3, a Mulamthuruthy native who tested positive on June 5, a Chengamanad resident who tested positive on June 2, and a Parakkadavu resident who tested positive on May 30. Of the total 54 persons under treatment in the district, 36 are in at the MCH, 14 at Adlux, and four at INHS Sanjeevani. As many as 16 persons were placed in hospital quarantine on the day. The number of patients in various hospitals is 113. There are a total of 11,811 people in quarantine. Of them, 10,184 are in home quarantine, 530 at COVID care centres, and 1,097 at paid centres.
12 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Report recommends centralised biowaste treatment||Only 9% of the households under the Kochi Corporation have source-level systems for treatment of biodegradable waste compared to 40.44% and 34.3% in the Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur Corporations respectively. The gaps in the efforts of the cities to adopt decentralised waste treatment methods have emerged in the latest status report on the solid waste management scenario in local bodies in the State submitted by the State Level Monitoring Committee before the National Green Tribunal. The data revealed that only 1.7% of the establishments in Kochi Corporation had source-level treatment of wet waste compared to 9.8% and 26.2% in Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur Corporations respectively. The civic body’s dependence on centralised systems became evident as the data showed that 89.7% of the households and 7.3% of establishments were using the Brahmapuram dumping yard for disposing of biodegradable waste. The report stated that the quantity of waste generated in areas under the Kochi Corporation was 326 tonnes per day while the waste collected on a daily basis was 308 tonnes. About 211 tonnes were processed at the composting site daily while 97 tonnes remained dumped at the Brahmapuram site. Based on land availability and optimal operational planning, biomethanation technologies have a high potential in light of the constraints observed in existing technology adaptation in the cities. Scaling and modular potential of such technologies make them viable for adaptation at the city or regional level, according to the report. Pipe compost unviable The report observed that pipe composting failed to function effectively owing to the lack of aeration, leading to issues like worms and foul smell. Pipe and pit composting were not found suitable owing to the long spell of monsoon and high water table in several parts of the State. Biogas plants have shown some encouraging results where 60-70% success rate is observed, but the number of such plants set up/supported is hardly 5%. Decentralised technologies have limited potential (20% to 25% if optimally leveraged) to manage the biowaste in cities. Centralised (citywide or regional level) treatment is critical and necessary, it said.
12 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||State cell to be set up for blood disorders||The government will set up a State Blood Cell for Haemophilia and Haemoglobinopathies. Haemophilia treatment centres will come up in all districts either in the district hospitals or government medical college hospitals (MCHs). The government order on Wednesday also proposes to set up treatment centres in a few taluk hospitals too where there are more haemophilia patients. Thalassemia and sickle cell disease are among the other blood disorders covered by the project. All district hospitals will be provided with diagnostic facilities for blood disorders. Technical committees will be set up with experts, stakeholders, and NGOs before procuring the costly anti-haemophilia factors (or blood factors, the absence of which causes the disease) from the market. Haemophilia prevents clotting of blood and the bleeding is managed by injecting the missing clotting factor into the patient. Research projects The mandate of the State Blood Cell would be to work on State, national and global research projects on blood disorders. The State Blood Cell committee members should meet at least twice a year to review the work on the research projects, should visit the treatment centres across the State once every quarter, and closely monitor the requirement of anti-haemophilia factors at all treatment centres. The State-level steering committee for the cell will be chaired by the Minister for Health and Family Welfare with Principal Secretary, Health, as vice chairperson and project director of the Kerala State AIDS Control Society (KSACS) as member secretary. There will be 13 members, including senior State officials and doctors heading haemophilia treatment centres, blood banks, and one representative from the community. Assessing products The technical committee of the cell will be headed by the State Mission Director, National Health Mission, that will evaluate all products available in the market and select products based on needs of the patients.
12 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||A ‘bag’ to help the poor save their wallet||During this season of job losses and salary cuts, many families are likely to feel the pinch as they hit the market for school accessories as and when the government announces the reopening of schools. The postgraduate commerce department at Al-Ameen College, Edathala, has embarked on a project, Pusthakasanji, to ameliorate the financial woes of such families by opening an online market for school accessories at a price 30% less than the MRP. This is for the third straight year that the department is running the scheme, and proceeds from the sale will go into buying school accessories for residents of SOS Children’s Village at Aluva and other special schools. In the last two years, the sale was held at a building at Choondy, which was made available by the Edathala Service Cooperative Society free of rent. The market was made online this year in line with physical distancing norms. “Last year, we did sales in excess of Rs. 3 lakh, though this time it may fall steeply owing to the pandemic blues,” said M.B. Sasidharan, who recently retired as principal of the college. The postgraduate commerce students are at the heart of the project as they are involved in everything from taking delivery of stock and handling sales and publicity over social media platforms, and this time they will also have to deliver the products to customers. “We are able to offer a discount of 30% by purchasing goods from companies directly and keeping the margins at the lowest. Customers can place orders through the Instagram id [pusthaka_sanji_20_21] and Facebook page [Pusthakasanji 20-21],” said K.R. Daly, head of the department of commerce. Besides the noble intention of helping children in need, the college also has the goal of familiarising its students with hands-on trade practices, which may prove handy for them in the future. In the previous years, students associated with the project were given a nominal daily remuneration for their work. Pooling it together amounted to a not so negligible sum, which was useful pocket money for them during their annual college trip.
12 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Temples continue to receive devotees||Around 400 temples under the Cochin Devaswom Board (CDB) will remain open for devotees though the Sabarimala Ayyappa Temple will remain closed. All places of worship had remained closed for almost three months since the COVID-19 outbreak. With no devotees and offerings, the institutions had plunged into financial difficulty. There has been a significant drop in the number of devotees visiting temples since Wednesday, said CDB president A.B. Mohanan. The highest turnout was recorded at the Kodungalloor and Chottanikkara Devi temples. Around 300 persons visited the temples on day one. On a normal working day, the number would be up to 1,000 at the Kodungalloor Temple. The absence of proper public transport is a key reason for the drop in numbers. The past two days witnessed around 120 persons worship at the Ernakulam Siva Temple as against the earlier daily average of 500 devotees, said Kshetra Kshema Samiti president P. Rajendraprasad. Sabarimala Though the authorities have decided not to allow devotees to the Sabarimala Temple, the situation at other temples under the CDB is different from that of the hill shrine.
12 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. files appeal against stay on bus fare order||The State government on Thursday filed an appeal before a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court against a single judge's order staying revocation of an earlier government decision in allowing private bus operators to collect the increased fare from passengers in view of the COVID-19 situation. In its appeal, the government pointed out that it took the decision to increase the fare by 50% as the operators were allowed to carry only half of the seating capacity, keeping in view the social distancing norms. Tax waiver Besides, it had also waived the motor vehicles tax till June 30. These measures were taken to make up for the loss incurred by the operators during the lockdown period. However, when the lockdown restrictions were relaxed from June 1, the government had revoked its earlier directives on the fare increase. The earlier directives were issued in view of the extraordinary circumstances and now the situation had changed. The government said in its appeal that the common travelling people could not afford the 50% hike in fares as they had also suffered loss of income and job due to the pandemic. Stakeholders’ stand The government had already referred the request of the operators for fare increase to the fare revision committee, which had started hearing all stakeholders, the appeal said. The committee was yet to hear the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation, students and the public. The committee might take more than a month to finalise its recommendations after hearing all the stakeholders, the appeal said The government contended that the single judge, while passing the interim order, did not take into consideration the change in the situation.
12 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Rs. 9 lakh reward for policemen||Busting a gambling racket has made a group of policemen richer by Rs. 9 lakh, thanks to a court order. The raid was conducted by the Nedumbasserry police on October 15, 2017 at a club in Aluva. The team arrested 33 persons and seized Rs. 18.06 lakh. As per Section 18 of the Kerala Gaming Act, half the money seized in such operations should go to the officials involved as reward. When this was not forthcoming, the Nedumbasserry police moved the court, and the Angamaly First Class Magistrate Court has ordered in their favour.
12 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Six flights to bring in 1,250 passengers today||The Cochin International Airport is scheduled to receive six international evacuation flights with 1,250 passengers from West Asia on Friday. A total of 320 passengers, comprising mainly healthcare professionals, will depart for Kuwait on one of the return flights. One GoAir flight is scheduled to land at 3.30 p.m. with 180 passengers, and another is to arrive with an equal number of passengers at 4.40 p.m. The Indigo flight from Kuwait will land at 8 p.m. with 180 passengers and Kuwait Airways flight will land at 11.05 p.m. with 350 passengers. That flight will return in an hour with 320 healthcare professionals. A chartered Air India flight from Doha will arrive at 6 p.m. with 180 passengers and an Air India Express flight from Doha will land 180 people.
12 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Centre’s grant for hardware start-ups||Hardware start-ups have something to cheer during this otherwise gloomy pandemic times as they may land a grant of up to Rs. 10 lakh if they are innovative enough. They can apply for the grant through Maker Village under the Union government’s Nidhi (National Initiative for Developing and Harnessing Innovations) Prayas programme. Spearheaded by the Department of Science and Technology, the programme supports early stage innovators, with “Innovate Without Fear of Failure” being the motto. The applicants should be above the age of 18 and their start-ups should be less than seven years old with an annual turnover of not more than Rs. 25 lakh. Applications can be submitted online (https://makervillage.in/ nidhiprayasprogram. php) on or before June 20.
12 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC: provide medicines free of cost to transgenders||The Kerala High Court has directed the State government to ensure that medicines are provided free of cost to transgender persons whenever any of them approaches the authority concerned with a doctor’s prescription. The order was passed on Thursday on a writ petition filed by Kabeer, alias Aneera Kabeer, a transgender from Palakkad, seeking a directive to ensure relief for them.
12 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Cashew factory owner ends life in Kollam||With COVID-19 intensifying the crisis in the cashew sector, a factory owner based at Nallila ended his life on Thursday. The deceased was identified as Simon, 40 , owner of Nirmalamatha Factory. He is the fourth cashew processor to commit suicide in the past couple of years. His friends said Simon was under pressure as he had mortgaged his house and factory and the loan moratorium would end next month. “With the industry at a standstill for the past few months, he was left with no option to repay the Rs. 4-crore loan. He was worried that banks will soon initiate recovery procedures and attach his properties,” said Nizamudeen I., president, Federation of Cashew Processors and Exporters. Following the crisis in the sector, many cashew processors are now facing revenue recovery due to default in interest payments. The State government had intervened declaring a moratorium after two processors committed suicide in 2018 when served with Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (Sarfaesi) notice. Exports, sales hit Later, interest-free loans for private processors and provision to restructure their loans were introduced, benefiting many. “Even then many banks refused to cooperate and issue fresh loans. Many processors had incurred huge losses with the pandemic affecting both the export market and domestic sales. The industry is in a deep crisis once again,” Mr. Nizamudeen said. Meanwhile, Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation chairman S.Jayamohan demanded strict action against bank authorities. He alleged that the Centre was trying to destroy the cashew industry in Kerala by denying loans while promoting the sector in other States. (Suicide Prevention Helpline: Disha - 1056, 0471-2552056)
12 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||8 more cases in Kollam||The district reported eight COVID-19 cases, all of them Non-Resident Keralites, on Thursday. Among the new cases are three 20-year-old students who travelled from Moscow and arrived in Kannur on June 1. The medical students reached Karunagapally on a special Kerala State Road Transport Corporation service and were in institutional quarantine there. Three other patients came on a Nigeria-Kochi flight on May 31. They reached Kollam on a KSRTC special service and were in institutional quarantine at Vallikavu. A 33-year-old who came by a Bahrain-Kochi flight on June 6 and a 54-year-old from Mumbai who reached Kollam on June 5 by Netravathi Express are the other two cases.
12 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Collector’s online adalats in Kottayam||The online adalats by the Kottayam District Collector to address complaints by the public will begin at Kanirappally Taluk on June 19. According to officials, the programme envisages the applicants to interact directly with the District Collector through various Akshaya centres. The e-applications, to be submitted through the Akshaya centres, will be scrutinised for further action while the applicants selected for the online interaction will be informed of the time and venue of video conference over phone. Officials join During the adalats, the Collector will be also joined by the respective tehsildars and officials from various other departments. The Akshaya centres, where the registration and video conferencing have been arranged, are required to follow the COVID-19 prevention guidelines. Meanwhile, the window for submission of e-applications for the the first adalat will be closed at 4 p.m. on Friday.
12 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MGU gets nod for Rs. 132.75-cr. project||Mahatma Gandhi University’s attempts to elevate its academic research programmes to international standards have received a boost with the government giving administrative sanction to a Rs. 132.75-crore project to be implemented through the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). According to Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor, Rs. 75 crore will be spent for completing the first phase of the project, which envisages the establishment of a centralised laboratory complex. An order assigning the Kerala Industrial and Technical Consultancy Organisation (KITCO) as special purpose vehicle (SPV) for executing the project has been issued. “The new lab complex will be constructed at the place where old Pareeksha Bhavan is situated,” Mr. Thomas said. Meanwhile, a meeting of the varsity’s senate the other day adopted resolutions on making the service and payment structure of university employees in line with the Secretariat pattern, besides requesting the government to initiate steps to start courses in aided colleges in the academic year of 2020-21. The annual report, financial estimate, and annual accounts and audit reports were presented on the occasion.
12 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Two more positive in Kottayam||Amidst the continuing influx of Non-Resident Keralites to the district, two more tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. According to Health Department officials, two women who returned from New Delhi by train on June 2 have contracted the virus. The first patient, a 34-year-old woman from Vellavoor, was undergoing institutional quarantine at Kangazha while the second patient, a 31-year-old woman from Erumeli, was in home isolation. Meanwhile, the husband and child of the woman from Vellavoor, who had travelled along with her from New Delhi, have tested negative.  With this, the total number of patients under treatment for COVID-19 in Kottayam has increased to 43. Of the 202 samples collected on Wednesday, 200 tested negative. As of now, a total of 7,821 persons are undergoing quarantine in the district.
12 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Rubber Products Incubation Centre||The Rubber Products Incubation Centre (RPIC) will cater to the non-tyre manufacturing sector that registers export earnings of Rs. 11,700 crore, K.N Raghavan, Chairman and Executive Director, Rubber Board, has said. Inaugurating the facility at a function here the other day, Mr.Raghavan said the RPIC would function as a centre where ideas and innovations could find expressions and get converted into marketable products .
12 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Faculty, reforms brought the honours: IIM-K Director||After drawing flak for slipping down in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) under the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) the previous year, the Indian Institute of Management Kozhikode (IIM-K) has bounced back by winning the sixth position in the management category this year. By climbing up two slots from the previous year, the IIM-K has surpassed IIM Indore and XLRI and is placed fifth among all IIMs in the country. The ranking was released by the MHRD on Thursday. The parameters for the ranking include Teaching, Learning & Resources (TLR, 30%), Research and Professional Practice (RP, 30%), Graduation Outcomes (GO, 20%), Outreach and Inclusivity (OI, 10%) and Peer Perception (PP, 10%). IIM-K’s overall score has improved from 64.8 in 2019 to 69.96 in 2020. In 2019, the IIM-K not only failed to retain its fifth position but also lost to the two-year PG programmes conducted by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Mumbai. Commenting on this achievement, Prof. Debashis Chatterjee, Director of IIM-K, said that the institution had been consistent in coming out as one of the top management academies in the country for the past two decades and it was glad to have put Kerala on the national education map, time and again. “The methods of NIRF ranking have been very transparent as it is conducted by Ministry of Human Resource Development. The improvement in rankings is a testimony not only to the quality of the faculty members but also to the array of dynamic reforms that have been consistently embraced by IIMK,” he said. Prof. Chatterjee, who returned as IIM-K Director two years ago for the second time after the post had been lying vacant for four years, has been credited with admitting more than 50% women for its flagship PG programme.
12 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||NIT-C emerges top again||The National Institute of Technology Calicut ( NIT-C) has not only retained its number one position in the engineering colleges category in the State but has also ascended five slots to the 23rd rank at the national level. In the architecture category, the NIT-C has retained its last year’s all-India rank. It is in the third position after IIT Kharagpur and IIT Roorkee. The ranks under the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) released on Thursday showed that the NIT-C has improved its score in all parameters when compared with last year. “It has secured the first position in (Outreach and Inclusivity) parameter and second in Graduation Outcome parameter among all NITs in the country,” K.A. Abdul Nazeer, Chairman, UG Admissions, NIT-C, said. He said that the NIT-C had scored along with the NIT-Karnataka (Surathkal) in the Graduation Outcome parameter which covers the percentage of campus placement, salary offered to students, and the number of students obtaining opportunities for higher studies. “The NIT-K had a score of 78.67 while the NIT-C, got 78.29. Also, the NIT-C secured the third position among the NITs in TLR (Teaching Learning Resources),” he said. Dr. Nazeer said that the NIT-C had improved on various counts such as student strength, faculty-student ratio, financial resources and their utilisation, research, and projects. Defying the COVID-19 gloom, the NIT-C has been able to get record placements with 600 of its students hired by leading companies in India and abroad. The students had received job offers with annual packages ranging from Rs. 5 lakh to Rs. 50 lakh. The NIT-C, formerly Regional Engineering College, also set an all-time record by admitting 1,202 students to various B.Tech programmes last year. The students are admitted based on the ranks of the Joint Entrance Examination (Main).
12 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Six-member poaching gang nabbed near Thamarassery||After an intensive investigation of three weeks, a Forest squad from the Thamarassery range office on Thursday arrested a six-member poaching gang at Muthappanpuzha near Thamarassery. The squad also seized a country-made gun, remains of hunted wild squirrels and a car which they allegedly used for travelling. The suspects, Junaiz, Satheesh, Prakashan, Rajeesh, Sunil, and Tomy, were arrested after several rounds of surprise inspections by the Forest squad. All of them are natives of Thiruvambadi and Areekode in the district. Forest Department officials said that poachers had been encroaching on the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary following the extension of the lockdown. Range officers under various Forest stations were constantly on the lookout for the poachers’ gangs with the tip-offs they received from various sources, they said. The officials found that the gang had hunted an endangered species of squirrels in the wildlife sanctuary. The meat was meant to be sold at a high rate to buyers. Officials said they would also investigate the details of persons who allegedly bought the hunted meat from the gang. In a similar incident earlier in the region, the Forest squad had arrested two persons.
12 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Man drowns in Koodaranhi river||A 32-year-old man drowned in the Koodaranhi river on Thursday. The police identified the dead man as Shameer, a native of Koodaranhi. The man was went missing in the river around 8 a.m. According to Fire and Rescue Service personnel who recovered the body, there was an increase in the water level of the river following heavy rainfall. He met with the accident while bathing in the river in an unsafe stretch, they said. The incident came to the notice of a few local persons who spotted a mobile phone and some dress in an abandoned state on the riverbed. They informed the Fire and Rescue Serives for support. It was the second incident in the rural area after the arrival of the monsoon season. In the wake of the fresh incident, the local panchayats in the area have called upon the public to be cautious against flashfloods. They also said efforts were on to intensify the activities of community rescue squads in vulnerable areas.
12 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||NSS collecting TVs, tablets, smartphones||National Service Scheme (NSS) volunteers in the higher secondary schools in the district are reaching out to the students who have no television sets or computers or smartphones to attend online classes. Within a couple of weeks after the online classes started in the State because of the Covid lockdown, the volunteers supplied 34 TVs, 27 smartphones and two tablets to the most deserving students in the district. NSS District Coordinator S. Sreechith said the volunteers were continuing their efforts to get more TVs and smart phones from individuals and institutions. There was good response to the project, which was formally opened by Minister for Excise and Labour T.P. Ramakrishnan, he said. About 14,000 volunteers from 140 NSS units were working for the project which aimed at enabling all students to attend online classes in two months. ‘Not I, but You’ is the motto adopted by the volunteers to reach out to the needy students in their neighbourhoods. A fund was being mobilised for the project. Teachers too were associating with project. Some of them had also contributed their salary, he said.
12 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Fear continues to stalk tribespeople of Vaniyampuzha||Three dozen tribal families that escaped into the jungle from the floods that devastated their houses at Vaniyampuzha in Pothukal grama panchayat on August 7 last year continue to live in tarpaulin tents in the forest. The anniversary of the worst floods that the Chaliyar river witnessed in a century is nearing, but nothing solid has been done to rehabilitate these tribal families. Their life has not improved a bit since August last. Broken bridge They got many more tarpaulin sheets from various charity groups, but never a home that protects them from wild animals, especially elephants. They got a temporary hanging bamboo bridge built by the Collectorate revenue staff, but never a solid structure to reach across the Chaliyar during the monsoon. The tottering bamboo bridge looks almost like it will not survive this monsoon. The floods had washed away the two concrete bridges connecting the colony with the outside world. The authorities have no idea when the bridges would be reconstructed. Like the Vaniyampuzha folks, the tribespeople of Tharippapotti, Iruttukuthi, and Kumbalappara too have been using bamboo rafts to cross the Chaliyar since last year’s devastation. For every three or four families, there is a tree hut made of bamboo and tarpaulin. The women and children sleep on trees while their men stand guard below. “Elephants are the main cause of fear for us. They come down the hill every night. There has not been a single night in which we could sleep fearlessly since the August floods,” said V.K. Sudha, who has been a member of the Vana Samrakshana Samiti. When it rains and when the wind moves the trees, their life becomes all the more awful. The humming sound of the wind would often seem treacherous, said forest watcher Sasi V.K. Risky affair “The tarpaulin sheets vibrate vigourously and the trees will generate a feeling that they would uproot any moment. Sleeping in the tarpaulin tents and the tree huts are equally risky. But we have little choice,” he said. “It is nearing 5 p.m. It is time they (elephants) came out. You had better move out now,” a forest officer warned The Hindu reporting team. But the 100-odd people — men, women, and children — still live in the Vaniyampuzha forest, exposed to the elements. But they have hopes. “A day will come when we lead a better life,” said S. Gireesh, a youngster who studied hotel management, with a smile on his face.
12 June 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Probe into cremation of body without COVID-19 test||District Collector D. Balamurali has ordered an investigation into the incident in which the body of a man who died in Chennai had been brought here without conducting COVID-19 tests. The Collector has sought a clarification about how the ambulance that carried the body was allowed to cross the Walayar checkpost. The confirmation of COVID-19 for the widow of the deceased has sent panic waves among health workers and the family. The cemetery where the body was cremated has been closed. The 52-year-old man died in Chennai on May 22. The body was brought to Vattakkat on the same night in an ambulance. His widow and son accompanied the body in the ambulance. The body was taken to the cemetery straight as the doctor at Elavanchery health centre asked them not to take the body to their house. The widow visited their relatives at Vadakkanchery. Later, she tested positive for COVID-19. Sixteen persons who were there at the cemetery, including their relatives, health workers, police personnel, and the ambulance driver were asked to go into quarantine. The District Medical Officer will investigate the incident and submit a report to the Collector.
12 June 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Ambulance staff to go on strike||The employees of 108 Ambulance in Palakkad district will go on strike from Friday. They have not been paid salaries for two months. The Hyderabad-based ambulatory care provider GVK Emergency Management and Research Institute has been running 108 Ambulance service in the State. As many as 112 employees are working in the district with 28 ambulances. They complained that they were made to work without protective gears. The 108 Ambulance service is being used to transport COVID-19 patients and those under observation for tests and treatments.
12 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Sand, silt being removed from river ghats||The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) chaired by the District Collector has launched a project to remove sand, silt, and other remains of the deluge of 2018 from 44 ghats that have been obstructing the natural flow in the Pampa, Achencoil, and Manimala rivers. According to Collector P.B. Noohu, the deluge of August 2018 had left huge quantities of silt, clay, sand and other debris in the course of these three major rivers in the district, flooding many villages even in the first few rains during the monsoon. Bid to avert calamity The DDMA decision was to avert chances of any such natural calamity against the backdrop of this year’s heavy monsoon forecast made by the Meteorology Department. Mr. Noohu said Rs. 2,25,47,000 have been sanctioned for the work from the Disaster Management Fund on the basis of the estimate prepared by the Irrigation Department. As per the estimate submitted by the Executive Engineer of the department, 1,04,427.55 cubic metres of silt and sand would be removed from the three rivers, he said. 44 ghats Of the 44 ghats, 26 are in Ranni taluk, six each in Kozhencherry and Thiruvalla taluks and two each in Adoor, Konni, and Mallappally. The Collector took stock of the silt and sand removal work progressing at the Plaveli kadavu, Mattappally kadavu, and Kailathu kadavu in the Pampa in Ranni on Thursday. He said the plan was to complete the work by June 15.
12 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||5, including 4 from family, test positive||Five more Non-Resident Keralites, four of them belonging to a family that came from Delhi on June 6, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday. With this, the total number of COVID-19 patients in the district touched 121, including 37 who have been cured of the disease. A 40-year-old man from Payyanamon, his 36-year-old-wife who was working as a nurse in a Delhi hospital and their two daughters, aged seven and five, tested positive for the viral infection. The fifth patient is a 27-year-old woman from Koipram who came from Mumbai on May 30. A total of 120 persons, including 78 patients, are under observation at the isolation wards of various hospitals and at a Firstline Treatment Centre in the district as on Thursday.
12 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Scattered and limited lockdown to fight the pandemic||The State government on Thursday announced a targeted containment strategy to prevent new COVID-19 flare-ups. In his customary news briefing, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the plan focussed on locking down localities within a limited radius of the fresh outbreak for a minimum of seven days while allowing life to continue as usual outside the perimeter of the hotspot. The scheme signalled a new stage in the State’s response to the outbreak wherein the government hoped to halt a possible rise in infections without risking further economic collapse. The government would impose future lockdowns in a distributed manner based on the community-level pandemic situation instead of a district, panchayat, or municipality as a whole.  The government will notify new containment zones before midnight every day. It has accorded district authorities considerable latitude in imposing lockdown restrictions at the street, market, neighbourhood, harbour, shopping mall, and residential colony level. In cities, authorities will restrict containment zones to sub-ward level and in villages up to the ward level. The authorities would lock down a neighbourhood if at least one person contracted the infection through “local contact”.  Containment zone If any arrival quarantined in a particular house tested positive, that building and the adjacent ones would be reckoned as an independent containment zone. Authorities could cut off an entire street or a cluster of houses from the rest of the ward if more than two persons in quarantine in the locality tested positive. If more than 10 persons got infected through primary contact or 25 persons have to go into quarantine because of secondary contract, the entire ward will be shut down. A panchayat, municipality, or Corporation will be categorised as colour-coded red if there are containment zones in more than 50% of its wards. The District Collector will decide whether to extend the lockdown after the mandatory seven-day period. Inside the containment area, residents can leave their home only for emergencies. The police will severely restrict entry and exit and will not allow mobility, gatherings, or non-essential shops and services. Health workers will regularly visit the locality and conduct tests. Law enforcers will arrest those who break quarantine. Mr. Vijayan said quarantine in containment zones meant not “home quarantine but room quarantine” from now on.
12 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||More colleges in State make the cut this year||The National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) grading for 2020 have brought good tidings for the State higher education sector with more colleges making the grade this year. However, many colleges that fared well in the previous editions fell in the rankings as they struggled for consistency, with only a few bucking the trend. Kerala University managed to hold on to its position as the highest-ranked university in the State, despite falling a rung in the pan-India standings. No university While three other State universities figured among the top 100 like last year, no other university could break into the elite league this time around. Arts and science colleges, yet again, stood the State in good stead with 20 colleges ranked among the best 100. Besides bettering the previous tally of 18, some colleges managed to improve their position. University College, Thiruvananthapuram, was the best in the lot with a ranking of 23. In an apparent reflection of stagnancy that is feared to have set in the technical education sector, the status quo was maintained in the case of ranked engineering colleges. State-run institutions continued their struggle to become the ‘best’ in Kerala with the Centrally funded National Institute of Technology, Calicut, and the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram, topping the category. A concern Raising further concern, the ranking of the College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram, (CET) fell from 71st to 85th. Medical education presented a dismal picture with no colleges from the State making it to the top 40 medical, top 30 dental, and top 75 pharmacy colleges. Three private colleges figured in the categories last year. Former Kerala University Vice Chancellor and health activist B. Ekbal rued the inability of State medical institutions to force their way into the rankings. “Lagging behind in medical education, even while Kerala matched up to developed countries in terms of health indicators, is a paradox. We lag behind other States in academic achievement and research by a long distance,” Dr. Ekbal pointed out. Indicating that State universities also have a long way to go to achieve excellence, Dr. Ekbal said none of the universities could make any vital contributions during the COVID-19 crisis as made by the likes of the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology and the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology. Lack of drive Educationist R.V.G. Menon attributed the failure of engineering colleges in figuring among the country’s elite to the lack of drive in academic excellence. “Besides being unable to leverage favourable factors, the CET has not been able to progress much in terms of quality. In the case of self-financing colleges, while most had scant regard to improving academic standards, the few good ones have not been able to attract the best among students,” Mr. Menon said.
12 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU is State leader in NIRF rankings||The State capital has maintained its National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) rankings’ tally to firm up its reputation as a traditional education hub that held much potential. The University of Kerala continued to lead universities in the State by a distance, despite falling a position to become the 23rd best in the country, while the 83-year-old institution is ranked 42nd across categories. Poor fare While the parameter of ‘graduation outcomes’ that factors in university examinations and the number of PhD students who graduated remained the strong points for the university (86 out of 100), it continue to fare poorly in terms of research, publications, patents and ‘peer perception’ that is evaluated through a survey to ascertain the preference of employers and academics for graduates from the particular institution. University authorities attributed its good performance to reforms that were introduced in various avenues of its functioning including teaching and IT-enabled pedagogy. The university also fared well in ensuring inclusivity by providing education for students from economically-disadvantaged sections in the colleges that it directly managed. Moreover, much importance was being provided for extra-curricular activities including sports. The recent appointments made to 49 teaching posts also augur well for the university, the university in an official release. Trio among top 100 The grand old triumvirate of University College, Government College for Women and the Government Arts College continued to figure among the top 100 arts and science colleges in the country, while Mar Ivanios College and MG College also managed to find a place in the rankings despite falling several rungs. While the top-ranked Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology, Valiamala, continued its high standards of education, the College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram, remained the best among engineering colleges that came under the purview of the State government.
12 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Railways mull coach reduction||Following poor patronage to special inter-city and inter-State trains, Railways are mulling reduction of coaches in the inter-city trains in the State. The graded restoration of passenger train services in the State that began on June 1 is a big setback to Railways due to poor patronage. Jan Shatabdi special trains in both directions in the Thiruvananthapuram Central-Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram Central-Kannur sector are often plying with less than 100 passengers. Thiruvananthapuram Central-Ernakulam Junction daily special is also running almost empty in both directions. The train was introduced as a link for Delhi-bound Mangala Express following the State’s request. Patronage to 02618/02617 Hazrat Nizamuddin-Ernakulam Express, 06345/06346 Mumbai LTT-Thiruvananthapuram Central Netravati Express and the weekly 12283/12284 Ernakulam-Nizamuddin Express is also poor. “These long-distance trains reaching here have some occupancy now. But, the seats in these mail and express trains from Delhi and Mumbai are empty after June 6,” sources said. Various factors Divisional Railway Manager Shirish Kumar Sinha says fear over using public modes of transport, economic crisis, closure of educational institutions and lockdown have resulted in the poor demand. “We have decided to reduce the coaches from 18 to 10 in the rake used for operating the Thiruvananthapuram Central-Ernakulam Junction daily in both directions as the first step. Jan Shatabdi is running with 18 coaches and is causing loss to Railways,” he told The Hindu . These trains are part of 100 pairs of trains being run by Railways in addition to the 30 special passenger trains that started operations on May 12.
12 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Patients can now opt for private hospitals||COVID-19 patients in the State can now seek treatment in private hospitals if they desire so, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Thursday. Till now, the entire burden of COVID-19 care was being borne by government hospitals. In a shift in policy, the government has now decided that people who contract COVID-19, while in home quarantine or otherwise, should have the choice and facility of going to a private hospital for care, should they desire so, he said. Patient volume There will be a stage in the pandemic when the volume of patients goes up and the public health system might not be able to shoulder the entire burden alone. The government has been in talks with the private hospitals and steps are being taken early on to identify those private hospitals which are capable of offering COVID-19 care. These hospitals will function as COVID centres. The Health Department will draw up protocols, including a uniform treatment rate or a separate COVID-19 package, Mr. Vijayan said. Front-line treatment centres, a facility for those in home quarantine to report health-related concerns, would also be set up. The Health Minister held a videoconference with representatives of the Indian Medical Association and private hospitals on Wednesday. A point raised by the private sector was the danger of treating COVID-19 as well as non-COVID-19 patients in the same hospital, which could result in hospitals becoming amplifying centres of transmission, as has happened in Mumbai and Delhi. “One suggestion was to maintain public sector hospitals as COVID-19 hospitals as far as possible. The private hospitals can take over the care of non-COVID-19 patients in the public sector and provide treatment under schemes like Karunya,” P. Gopikumar, IMA State secretary said. As Plan B “Another suggestion was that the private hospitals be roped in when Plan B is rolled out or when government facilities are near exhaustion. A separate COVID-19 care package can be drawn up for the private sector. Another option is for private hospitals to let out whole blocks to the government for COVID-19 care,” he added. Private hospitals are preparing for COVID-19 care by maintaining separate entry and exits, triaging of fever patients to prevent them from mixing with general patients and insisting that an inpatient should have only one caregiver.
12 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘One year too short a tenure to sort out KSRTC’s issues’||A fixed tenure of three to four years is needed for the Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) for the crisis-ridden Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) to come out of the red, outgoing CMD M.P. Dinesh has said. “One year is a short tenure for the CMD to grasp the realities and make changes. A fixed tenure will help the person overcome these issues and to plan and execute changes,” Mr. Dinesh, who is stepping down from the post of CMD after 16 months, told The Hindu . The former IPS officer said at the helm of the KSRTC he could usher in rationalisation of schedules overcoming stiff opposition from trade unions and political pressure, reduce the monthly revenue-deficit gap from Rs. 50 crore to Rs. 42 crore, and settle long-pending bills of less than Rs. 1 lakh. Dead trips avoided “Rationalisation of schedules is a big achievement. By reducing 500 schedules, we could reduce 1.4 lakh km daily without impacting revenue and commuters. More than 1,000 schedules were rearranged. Dead trips could be avoided on 4,700 km in the ordinary service route and around 48,500 km was saved in the case of fast passenger and super fast services. The crew requirement came down by 1,500 and the collection went up as the schedules were made need-based,” he said. The KSRTC has approached the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) for purchasing 412 buses for Rs. 128 crore. A switchover to e-buses was being worked out. He described the employees as the ‘biggest asset’ of the KSRTC. The officers in the middle management level were equipped to take up any challenge. “As a person who came from the police force, I had my own style of functioning. I did not have any rift with trade unions.” Eight-hour duty Though Mr. Dinesh cited personal reasons for stepping down days after getting extension of one year as CMD, he said the higher-ups had not extended much support. “The ground work was done for bus branding and for the rollout of the eight-hour duty with overtime. But, it could not take off,” added Mr. Dinesh, who would move to Bengaluru after handing over charge to the new MD, Biju Prabhakar.  By reducing 500 schedules, we could reduce 1.4 lakh km daily without impacting revenue and commuters M.P. Dinesh Outgoing CMD, KSRTC
12 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||13 child marriages stopped in district in a year||Childline intervened to stop 13 child marriages in the district from April 2019 to March 2020. Fifteen calls regarding child marriages were received at the Childline helpline during this period. However, information on two cases was received only after the marriage. The calls pertained to fixing marriages or engagements by parents. While one of the girls was in the 13-15 age group, the remaining 14 were in the 16-18 age group. Two grooms held The 13 marriages were stopped after total injunction was taken by Child Development Project Officers. The grooms were arrested in the other two cases. Twelve of the girls were Hindus, two Muslims, and one Christian. While in one case, the girl herself made a call to the Childline helpline number 1098, information on other cases were passed on by school and anganwadi teachers, friends, neighbours or panchayat members. In six of the cases, ‘love affair’ was the reason for the proposed marriage, but in nine cases the families had arranged the matrimony. According to Childline authorities, in some cases, children eloped to get married. In others, families fixed the marriages after getting to know about the relationships. In some cases, such as separated parents or in the case of single parents, they preferred to get their wards married off early and fixed engagements. In a couple of cases, parents did not give much importance to the legal marriageable age and found nothing out of place in daughters getting married before 18. Childline also intervened in 1,105 abuse cases, including child sexual abuse, physical abuse, emotional abuse, child labour, begging, corporal punishment and so on, during the period. There were 11 cases of child labour and 18 cases of begging. The number of child sexual abuse cases reported to it came down from 195 in 2018-19 to 174 in 2019-20. As many as 538 children who needed emotional support and guidance were given counselling.
12 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No new case in capital||No new COVID-19 positive case was reported in the district on Thursday. This is for the first time in almost two weeks that a day has gone by without a single new case being reported in the district. Sixteen recovered from COVID-19 in the district on Thursday. Meanwhile, 777 people were newly placed under surveillance, even as 585 others completed the observation period without exhibiting symptoms. As on Thursday, 14,818 persons are under surveillance in the district, of which 13,620 are in home quarantine, the district administration said. As many as 996 people are in coronacare centres and 202 others in hospitals. In all, 66 people, including 30 women, entered the State through the inter-State check-post at Inchivila. Fifty-seven people arrived from Tamil Nadu, five from Karnataka, and four from Maharashtra.  Of the total arrivals through Inchivila, 22 people had come from various red zone areas. Home quarantine was recommended for 20 people in this list, while the remaining two were shifted to institutional quarantine. Cases against 37 The City police have registered cases against 37 people under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, for violation of COVID-19 containment measures. Action was also taken against 146 people who travelled without face masks or failed to wear them properly, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said.
12 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A day to mark fight against child labour||There is need for strengthening awareness of child labour, Minister for Women and Child Development K.K. Shylaja has said. World Day Against Child Labour will be observed on Friday. The Minister said not many cases of child labour were reported in Kerala, but children were brought from other States to work. From November 2018 till now, 54 children had been rescued from child labour. All belonged to other States. Owing to the socio-economic conditions in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, there was the possibility of an increase in child labour.  Under the Sarana Balyam scheme for getting rid of child labour and child begging, 279 children had been sent to safer places since November 2018, Ms. Shylaja said. The maximum number of children rescued were from Pathanamthitta (36) and Idukki (35) districts. Sarana Balyam was launched in November 2016, and two years later were expanded across the State. DNA testing through the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology to help rescued children unite with their families was being done under the scheme, the Minister said.
12 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Asymptomatic can opt for home quarantine||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said the government would henceforth allow returnees to quarantine themselves at home. He said the home quarantine system in Kerala had proven highly successful due to high social vigilance and cooperation. It had rendered the need for institutional quarantine on arrival irrelevant except in select cases. On entry, authorities would test the international and inter-State travellers for flu symptoms.  Asymptomatic entrants would be allowed to proceed home in their vehicles after signing an affidavit that they would adhere to the pandemic control protocol. They would also have to testify that they had a bath-attached private room at their disposal in their house. Those who could afford board and lodging could opt for the 14-day strict quarantine at hotels designated by the government. Returnees who have no access to safe isolation could opt for institutional quarantine in government facilities. They could go to their homes, hotels or institutional quarantine centres in hired or own vehicles. The police would monitor their check-in time. The government had categorised persons who arrived in the State from within the country or abroad as ‘high risk’ persons. So far, 2,19,492 persons had returned to Kerala. An estimated 64% of them were from COVID-19 ‘red zones’. Jagratha portal Mr Vijayan clarified that only persons who register their identity particulars and proposed travel plan on the COVID Jagratha portal of the State government could enter Kerala legally. They should give an affidavit in advance stating that the details they rendered were valid and would adhere to outbreak control law. The government would examine the testimony. If the authorities noticed any inconsistency, they would send the traveller to institutional quarantine for a mandatory period of 14 days.
12 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||P.K. Kunhanandan dies in hospital||P.K. Kunhanandan, the CPI(M) leader convicted in the case pertaining to the murder of Revolutionary Marxist Party (RMP) leader T.P. Chandrasekharan, passed away at the Government Medical College Hospital here on Thursday. He was 72. The 13th accused in the murder case, Kunhanandan had been sentenced to life imprisonment in January, 2014. Kunhanandan had been undergoing treatment at the MCH, Thiruvananthapuram, since January 14 last year for a stomach infection. His condition had worsened on Sunday. Kunhanandan was a member of the CPI(M)’s Panur area committee. Born to Kelothantevida Kannan Nair and Kunhanamma in 1948, Kunhanandan joined the CPI(M) in 1970. For nearly 15 years, he served as the local secretary of the party in Kunnothuparambu. T.P. Chandrasekharan, who had left the CPI(M) and formed the RMP, was murdered on May 4, 2012. The murder had kicked up a political storm in Kerala. The CPI(M) has consistently maintained that Kunhanandan was the victim of a political conspiracy. Kunhanandan leaves behind his wife Santha and children Shabna and Shiril. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan offered his condolences and said that Kunhanandan had, as a politician, earned the respect of society.
12 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Licence must for fish seed centres’||Fish seed production centres and seed farms in the State should register with the State Fish Seed Centre and obtain licences to operate, Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma has said. A major step towards ensuring high quality fish seeds to farmers, the decision was meant to prevent the import and sale of low quality fish seeds in the State, Ms. Mercykutty Amma said here on Thursday.   Registration For registration and licence, contact either the State Fish Seed Centre at Thevally, Kollam, (0474-2797188) or the fish farmers development agencies in districts.
12 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Guidelines on attendance in colleges||The Higher Education Department has issued further guidelines to ensure better attendance of staff in institutions in view of the gradual relaxation of the current lockdown. The government had earlier fixed the class hours from 8.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. and the latest order seeks to align other activities of colleges and other institutions accordingly by fixing the office hours from 8.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. Though the Principals and non-teaching staff are required to turn up on all working days, the department has decided to persist with the flexible system of attendance for the faculty, by way of which teachers who face hardships in reporting for work on account of the COVID-19 restrictions can continue to deliver online classes from their homes. The order mandates that the period after 1.30 p.m. on working days must be reserved for other academic activities, including research, remedial class and applying for project funding and NAAC/NBA accreditation.
12 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Arrange facilities for special children’||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights on Wednesday directed the government to arrange special facilities for differently abled students to get the benefits of online classes. Services of sign language experts and Braille study material should be made available, it said. The commission was acting on a petition by the State coordinator of the Bachpan Bachao Andolan. The petition said that mentally challenged children and those with learning disabilities were not getting the benefits of the online classes.
12 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP plans protest||The Bharatiya Janata Party would launch a series of agitations against the State government’s lapses in attending to COVID-19 patients. The decision was made at a BJP core committee meeting here on Thursday. State president K .Surendran said in a release that the State-level inauguration of the agitations will be held in front of the Secretariat on June 15. District-level protests will be launched on June 17. The party will hold a virtual rally at 5 p.m. on Tuesday highlighting the achievements of the National Democratic Alliance government, he said.
12 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Athirappilly project not on LDF agenda: Kanam||The Athirappilly project has not figured on the agenda or election manifesto of the Left Democratic Front (LDF), CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran has said. The State government had not said that it would implement the project. Kerala State Electricity Board will present the project before successive governments and issuing the no objection certificate was only a routine procedure, Mr. Rajendran told reporters here on Thursday.
12 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KSIDC pact with IISER||The Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) has entered into an agreement with IISER, Thiruvananthapuram, to provide research facilities for companies investing in the first two phases of the Life Science Park at Kazhakuttam. Under the pact, IISER will provide facilities for collaborative research and animal trials. Managing Director, KSIDC, S.Harikishore and Director, IISER, J.N.Narasimha Moorthy signed the agreement.
12 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur records 25 new cases||The district recorded 25 new COVID-19 cases even as four more places were declared containment zones on Thursday. Seven persons recovered from the disease on the day. So far 202 cases were reported in the district while 145 people were undergoing treatment. Vadanappilly and Engandiyur panchayats, areas of Chavakkad municipality coming under Manathala village, and Thrissur corporation divisions 24 to 34 and 41 were declared containment zones. Earlier Section 144 was imposed in six zones. Of the new 25 cases, 14 were hit by the disease through contact. Eight persons had come from other States and three from abroad. Four workers with the Kuriachira warehouse were tested positive on Thursday. They are 25-year-old from Chiyyaram; 32-year-old from Anchery; 26-year-old from Thrissur, and a 30-year-old from Kuttanellur. Four sanitation workers of the Thrissur corporation too were hit by the disease. They include 26-year-old from Marathakkara; 36-year-old from Anchery; 51-year-old from Cherukunnu and a 54-year-old from Kuttanellur. Three health workers, 51-year-old from Chavakkad; 30-year-old from Kuriachira and 34-year-old woman from Parappur, were among COVID positive cases on Thursday. A 37-year-old Ambulance driver from Alagappa Nagar; a 51-year-old ASHA worker from Chavakkad, and a 33-year-old remand prisoner from Irinjalakuda were the other cases. Of the patients came from other States, six were from Maharashtra. They included a six-year-old boy, a seven-month-old baby, a 35-year-old woman of Chalakudy (arrived on May 31); a 22-year-old from Puranattukara, and 36-year-old from Poomangalam (arrived on June 4) and a 56-year-old-man from Irinjalakuda who arrived on June 2. A 24-year-old man of Punkunnam who came from West Bengal and a 22-year-old of Irinjakuda who arrived from Madhya Pradesh too tested positive. A 45-year-old man from Kunnamkulam who arrived from Kuwait on June 2, a 40-year-old from Wadakkancherry who arrived from Africa on June 2, and a 30-year-old man from Kodungalloor who arrived from Dubai on June 1 too tested positive. In all, 12,834 people were under observation in the district. In Kozhikode Only one person was declared positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode on Thursday even as three others were cured of the infection in the district. As many as 79 active COVID-19 cases are there in Kozhikode now. The patient is a 32-year-old native of Vadakara, who had returned from Mumbai on May 26 by car and had been under observation at a Covid care centre. He is right now at the first-line treatment centre at the Lakshadweep Guest House. Those tested negative were at the Government Medical College Hospital and the first-line treatment centre. The number of people under observation rose to 10,177, of whom 3,115 are expatriates. In Kannur A 70-year-old man from Iritty, who had been suffering from multiple health problems and was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, died at Kannur Medical College Hospital, Pariyaram, on Wednesday night. The deceased, who came with his family from Muscat on May 22, had been advised to stay in hospital quarantine, but chose to stay under home observation. However, he left his house later to stay at his son-in-law’s house at Kuthuparamba, said Deputy Medical Officer Dr. Shaj. His son, daughter-in-law, and granddaughter were earlier tested positive. When tested positive, on Wednesday, he was shifted to the hospital where he died around 11 p.m. He was buried with all the precautionary measures at a graveyard near the new bus stand at Iritty at 2.15 p.m.  In Kasaragod Ten more people were tested positive for SARS-Cov-2 in Kasaragod on Thursday. Eight of them were returnees from Maharashtra, while two had come from abroad. With this, the number of infected people in the district rose to 104.  (With inputs from Kozhikode, Kannur, and Kasaragod bureaus)
12 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plan to convert Anantapur GGH into a COVID hospital||With the total number of COVID-19 positive cases increasing by the day and standing at 590 in Anantapur district as on Thursday, the district administration is looking at various options of meeting the demand for hospital beds that could cater to the needs of the new patients and one of them is to convert the entire GGH, Anantapur, into a district COVID hospital. Officials in the district are deliberating on ways and means to convert the GGH into COVID hospital by shifting the non-COVID patients to elsewhere and having mobile clinics in all mandals with a doctor and paramedics being available for such normal cases supporting the existing Primary Health Centres (PHCs). The idea is to have 700 COVID beds in the GGH, which is already accommodating close to 100 COVID patients. Meanwhile, the number of COVID cases is increasing in double digits in Anantapur district though the total number remained very low till May-end. Now people are fearing visiting large shops and restaurants, though permission has been given for opening them. The shops in Anantapur, however, are being closed at 5 p.m. instead of 9 p.m. elsewhere. Thermal guns are being used even at the District Court premises and majority of the large shops.  Beds being readied In the phase one, the GGH is readying 150 beds out of its sanctioned strength of 500 beds exclusively for the COVID cases, while there are 445 non-covid serious cases being treated at the lone tertiary hospital. The GGH has some specialised services to cater to the neonatal intensive care, cardiac and gynaecology. The only big private hospital, KIMS Saveera, with all modern facilities is being used for COVID cases, while RDT Bathalapalli Hospital and Hindupur Government Hospital are being currently used for COVID patients. The number of ventilator beds and oxygen-supported beds are also being slowly increased by operationalising the new Super Specialty Hospital.
12 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman doctor not cooperating with CID, says SP||CID SP Ratna has said that the woman medical officer of the Penumuru PHC in Chittoor district, Anitha Rani, was not cooperating with them in the probe into her harassment allegations by the hospital staff and political involvement of Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy. Dr. Anitha Rani had lodged a police complaint alleging that she was subjected to harassment by senior departmental officials and the hospital staff. She alleged that she was put under confinement at a hospital room. However, the DMH&O P. Penchalaiah said departmental action was mooted against her following complaints that she denied medical attention to patients on March 22, saying that the services would be limited to only COVID-19 cases. He also said that the woman doctor had made allegations against senior officials of the department. In this backdrop, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had ordered a CID inquiry into the issue. ‘Didn’t open door’ Addressing a the media after visiting the residence of the medical officer, the SP said that Dr. Anitha Rani did not open the door and the CID team had to speak to her over the phone. The SP said that the doctor had told the team that she would not cooperate with them. “Dr. Anitha Rani said that she had no confidence in the State investigation agencies. She had put conditions that she would cooperate only when Mr. Narayanaswamy is dismissed and the hospital staff are suspended,” Ms. Ratna said. The SP said the team had thoroughly inspected the toilet at the hospital following the allegations that she had been photographed. “After scrutiny, we concluded that the chances of taking a photograph at the toilet are very remote,” she said. Though the Pakala circle inspector said that security would be provided as she feared threat to her life, Anitha Rani had also refused it, the SP added.
12 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gang stealing crude oil from ONGC pipeline busted||The Malkipuram police on Thursday arrested a gang of four persons while they were stealing crude oil from a pipeline belonging to the Oil and Natural Gas Company (ONGC) near the Toorpupalem well under the Malkipuram police limits in the East Godavari district. Amalapuram DSP Sk. Masum Basha said, “The gang has been caught while stealing the crude oil from the ONGC pipeline through the quality checkpoint near the Toorpupalem well in the early hours of Thursday.” The ONGC collects the crude oil through the quality checkpoint for preliminary investigation before it reaches the processing unit. 170 litres seized According to Malkipuram SI M. Nagaraju, the accused have been identified as Pydi Ravi Kumar of Rajole and J. Durga Prasad, J. Nagaraju and I. Nagababu of Allavaram area in Konaseema. Mr. Masum Basha said 170 litres of crude oil, 15 plastic tins and a car had been seized from the gang, which reportedly collected the crude oil throughout the night. The police have registered cases on the charges of public property damage and under the provisions of Essential Commodities Act and Petroleum & Minerals Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land) Act, 1962.
12 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boat with 20,000 litres of ‘stolen diesel’ seized||The police on Thursday seized a boat with 20,000 litres of diesel that was reportedly stolen from the merchant ships anchored off the Kakinada coast in East Godavari district. The police led by Amalapuram DSP Sk. Masum Basha found the mechanised boat loaded with the diesel soon after it arrived at the landing point at Bhyravapalem village under the I. Polavaram police limits. “Eight persons involved in smuggling and transporting the fuel from the merchant ships off Kakinada coast have been arrested. The alleged nexus between the crew of the merchant ships and the gang is being investigated,” Mr. Masum Basha told The Hindu.  The arrested were Sangadi Gangadri (boat driver), S. Adinarayana, Ch. Kalastri, R. Dorababu, Ch. Devadasu, K. Srinu, S. Beera Swami and K. Raju. All of the belonged to Bhyravapalem and traditionally engaged in fishing in the sea, he said. “They were suspected to be hired by smuggler gangs. A kingpin Malladi Byrava Swami has been arrested and search for six more smugglers is on,” he added.
12 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Godavari Kalakshetra will be ready by Dec.’||Kakinada Municipal Corporation Commissioner Swapnil Dinakar on Thursday said that the construction works of Godavari Kalakshetra and the Centre for Science and Innovation (CSI) would be completed by December. “The Godavari Kalakshetra and the CSI are being set up involving an expenditure of Rs. 40 crore under the Smart City Mission. The Kakinada Smart City Corporation Limited (KSCCL) is executing the projects. A sum of Rs. 20 crore is being spent on developing the Kalakshetra alone. The two projects are coming up adjacent to the Vivekananda Park,” said Mr. Dinakar. The lockdown imposed to check the COVID-19 pandemic has delayed the work. “However, the construction activity has been resumed and we will complete the construction by December,” said Swapnil, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the KSCCL. Facilities The Kalakshetra will have three floors housing a theatre with a seating capacity for 1,200 people, art gallery space, multipurpose hall for live concerts and screening facilities. The two-storied CSI building will have six exhibition galleries, a planetarium and two seminar halls.
12 June 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recovery of Srisailam temple tickets begins||The Revenue Department on Thursday initiated action against the persons including Endowments Department employees of the Bhramarambha Mallikarjun Devasthanam for recovery of close to Rs. 2.56 crore allegedly siphoned out of the temple tickets sale proceedings over three years. Acting on the inquiry report of Endowments Additional Commissioner K. Rama Chandra Mohan, Endowments Special Chief Secretary J.S.V. Prasad issued G.O.518 on Thursday suspending the employees involved, initiating recovery proceedings, filing criminal cases, and conducting a special audit of all accounts. The 11 regular and other outsourced staff of the temple including software providers had allegedly siphoned off Rs. 2.56 crore by exploiting the loopholes in the software used for issuing Arjitha Seva and Rs. 150 special darshan tickets, along with acknowledgements issued for the amounts donated to the temple. The Director of State Audit will conduct an audit to know the exact amount of misappropriation, the procedural lapses in issuing tickets and remittance to the bank and etc.
12 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||21 people test positive from Nellore, Prakasam||There was no respite for Nellore and Prakasam districts from coronavirus as 21 more fresh cases were reported from both the districts on Thursday. With 15 new cases, the total confirmed cases went up to 370 in Nellore district and the same for Prakasam district has been put at 98. Three patients being treated in Ongole hailed from outside the district. As many as 25 patients, including 15 in Prakasam, were discharged from COVID-19 hospitals in the two districts. Proximity to Chennai is proving costly for Nellore district as Sullurpeta accounted for five fresh cases and Tada bordering Tamil Nadu four new cases. Marripadu registered two positive cases. Nellore, Doravarisataram, Buchireddipalem and Sangam registered one case each, a health bulletin said . As many as 539 persons were put under quarantine in Nellore district. Rural Prakasam accounted for the new cases as a 40-year-old man and a 15-year-old girl from Santaravuru, near Chinnaganjam contracted the infection, said COVID-19 nodal officer John Richards. A 33-year-old woman from Takilapadu and her 11-year-old daughter were tested positive after visiting Vijayawada. A 31-year-old man and a 24-year-old woman from Chirala town have also got infected.
12 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco growers agitate for remunerative prices||Irate tobacco growers staged a demonstration in front of the Tobacco Board’s regional office here on Thursday in protest against the plummeting prices of various grades of tobacco in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Leading the protest, former Tobacco Board member P. Bhadri Reddy said that the commodity board should first ensure sale of bright, medium and low-grade varieties before allowing sale of black perished low (BPL) grade variety for a low price of Rs. 25 per kg. “Sale of BPL variety will take a further toll on the market,” feared Ongole II Tobacco Growers Welfare Association president V.V. Prasad. “Farmers will not allow the sale of BPL variety fixed for Saturday as this will go against the interests of the growers,” said another farmer leader B. Ramanjaneyulu. Authorised quota The Tobacco Board should allow its auctioning only at the fag-end after completion of the authorised quota for each grower, he said. There was no improvement in the prices of various grades of tobacco now, they said, adding that the rejection rate by traders was more than 30%. Farmers in Southern Black Soil region have sold 11.34 million kg of tobacco so far while their counterparts in Southern Light Soil (SLS) region had liquidated 12.24 million kg as against the total estimated production of over 85 million kg in both the regions put together.
12 June 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Not in a hurry to allow more devotees for darshan: TTD chief||TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Thursday said the management was in no hurry to increase the number of devotees allowed for darshan of Lord Venkateswara. At present, about 6,000 devotees are being allowed on an average every day. “The intention is to ensure a hassle-free darshan to the devotees. We will explore the feasibility of increasing the number later. We will not jump to any hasty conclusion at the cost of devotees’ comfort,” Mr. Subba Reddy told the media here. He lauded the devotees for adhering to the COVID-19 protocols by voluntarily maintaining the mandatory physical distance and sporting face masks. Mr. Reddy made a surprise inspection of the Vaikuntam, free meal and Kalyanakatta complexes as the general public were allowed into the temple after a long interval of 82 days. He interacted with the employees and sought to know from them about the supply of PPE kits. He spent ample time in the kitchen at the Nitya Annadanam Complex, besides taking stock of the new procedures adopted in the supply of food to the devotees. Mr. Reddy said he was buoyed at the positive feedback from devotees who, he said, had expressed their satisfaction over the arrangements made. He further said that random tests were being conducted to the devotees at the security checking point at Alipiri in Tirupati, and appealed to the devotees from the containment zones to either cancel, or postpone their pilgrimage.
12 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Reopen Venkateswara sugar factory’||The BJP has demanded that the State government reopen Sri Venkateswara cooperative sugar factory at Gajulamandyam, saying that it was promised by the YSRCP in its election manifesto. Established in 1974, the factory was closed down and plan were afoot to auction it in 2003-04 fiscal year, which was stopped by legal intervention from farmers. “Though the factory was revived by the government in 2004-05 financial year, it was again closed down in 2014-15 fiscal, forcing the cane growers to depend on private sugar factories,” BJP cooperative cell State convener Akula Satish Kumar told the media here on Thursday. He recalled that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, during his Padayatra ahead of elections, had promised to revive the factory. Pending salary “A year has passed since the party assumed the office, but there has been no talks in this regard,” said Mr. Satish Kumar, adding that the factory employees had been waiting for salary for the last five years.
12 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Multivitamin syrup given away in Chandragiri||In an attempt to building immunity among the residents of Chandragiri amid the COVID-19 pandemic, Government whip and TUDA Chairman Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy has made arrangements for the distribution of multivitamin syrup among 1.60 lakh households in the constituency. Mr. Bhaskar Reddy launched the distribution at Mukkoti temple at Thondavada village near Tirupati on Thursday.
12 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIIT M. Tech course gets Centre’s nod||The M.Tech programme in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning being offered by Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT), Sri City has got the approval from the Union Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD). “The curriculum has been designed with the inputs from experts from academia and industry,” said IIIT Director G. Kannabiran. More details pertaining to the course are available at www.iiits.ac.in.
12 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. decides to order CBI probe into ‘irregularities’ during TDP regime||The State government has decided to order a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) investigation into the alleged irregularities during the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) regime in the State. The Cabinet, which discussed the findings of a Cabinet Sub Committee, on Thursday, decided to write to the Centre seeking a CBI probe into Chandranna Sankranthi Kanuka, Ramzan Tohfa and AP State FiberNet project. Addressing a press conference on Thursday, Minister for Information and Public Relations Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) said the Cabinet Sub Committee, which probed the irregularities during the TDP regime, had submitted its report to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The report was discussed in detail and it was decided to seek a CBI probe, he said. FiberNet project Referring to the Cabinet Sub Committee report, the Minister said “huge irregularities” took place in the FiberNet project. It was also found that favouritism and nepotism allegedly took place in the project. The project was entrusted to an ineligible company, he claimed. Many companies that were eligible were ignored while awarding the contract to Terra software, a company owned by Vemuri Hari Prasad, a close associate of TDP leaders and accused in EVM tampering case, Mr. Nani said. Mr. Hari Prasad was made head of the project with fake certificates, he alleged. “Huge irregularities took place in purchase of set top boxes. Irregularities to the tune of Rs. 200 crore took place in the FiberNet project, the committee felt. Keeping in view of these facts, it was decided to order a CBI probe,” Mr. Nani said. The Sub Committee also felt that irregularities took place in schemes such as Chandranna Sankranthi Kanuka and Ramzan Tohfa. Preliminary estimates peg the irregularities at Rs. 158 crore. The government spent Rs. 40 crore per annum on purchase of Heritage buttermilk, he said.
12 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A ray of hope for underprivileged children||“I came from a broken family and stopped education while in a primary class. One day, the field staff of the National Child Labour Project (NCLP), who came to my village noticed me roaming in streets, took me along with them, offered new clothes and admitted me in the Special Training Centre (STC), run under the NCLP. Thanks to the project, which gave me a fresh lease of life, now I completed my MBA,” says Nagamani, who is searching for a job. Another girl, a domestic help, Rama Lakshmi, who completed SSC and also a vocational course, is running a lamination centre at a bank, and is leading a decent life. She recalled how the NCLP officials helped her complete school education and imparted vocational training. Likewise, there are many children who completed intermediate, graduation, lab technician, engineering and other courses. Now, they settled in their lives and secured jobs in different companies, while a few have set up their own business, says NCLP Krishna district Project Director (PD) D. Anjaneya Reddy.  Vocational courses "We focus on imparting vocational training for students along with academics. Vocational courses are a must for all students in the NCLP Schools (STCs) and separate instructors have been appointed under the project in all schools," says Mr. Reddy. “We introduced painting works, bouquet making, pottery, interior decoration, phenol and surf making and other courses in our schools. The courses have good demand. Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, who interacted with our students complimented them for their talent,” says NCLP coordinator B. Prasanna.  “At present, 450 students are studying in 16 STCs. Our students are participating in ‘Badi Pilustondi’, ‘Badi Bata’, ‘Ammaku Vandanam’, ‘Manam Vanam’, ‘Awareness on Amma Vodi’, ‘Jagananna Kanti Velugu’, ‘Girl Child Literacy’ and other government programmes.” The response for vocational courses is overwhelming. Children from Yanadi, Yerukala, Chenchus and Gujarati and Sindh communities are enrolled in the NCLP Schools. Meetings are being conducted for better teacher-parent coordination, according to vocational teachers K. Padma and K. Aruna.
12 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State announces two more welfare schemes||The State Cabinet on Thursday approved two new welfare schemes – ‘Jagananna Thodu’ and ‘YSR Cheyutha’. I &PR Minister Perni Venkataramaiah told the media here that under ‘YSR Cheyutha’, a sum of Rs. 75,000 per annum would be provided to the women belonging to the SC / ST / BC / Minority communities. About 25 lakh women in the age group of 45 to 60 would stand to gain, the Minister said, and added that the amount would be provided to them in four equal instalments of Rs. 18,750 each. “It is proposed to launch the scheme in August,” he added Under ‘Jagananna Thodu’, an interest-free term loan of Rs. 10,000 per year would be extended to the hawkers, street vendors, and artisans engaged in traditional handicrafts through banks. It was decided to launch the scheme in October to benefit nearly nine lakh people, he said. These apart, the Cabinet decided to expand the scope of the ‘YSR Sampoorna Poshana’, under which nutritious food was being supplied to children and pregnant women. Titled ‘YSR Sampoorna Poshana Plus’, the scheme was now expanded to benefit 77 tribal mandals. The Cabinet also effected changes in the housing scheme as per the directions of the High Court. The allocated site can be sold only after the beneficiary constructs a house and resides in it for a period of five years.
12 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Why no action against defectors, asks Naidu||Ahead of the Legislature session from June 16, the TDP has appealed to the people to ponder as to why the YSRCP has not yet suggested the Legislative Assembly Speaker and the Legislative Council Chairman to disqualify the MLAs and MLCs who crossed over to the ruling party from the TDP. In an open letter to the people on Thursday, TDP national president and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly N. Chandrababu Naidu said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had forgotten his statements that he would invite the elected representatives of other political parties into the YSRCP only after they tendered their resignation. “The MLAs / MLCs / leaders have either been lured with money and mining contracts, or intimidated with hefty penalties, forcing them to join the YSRCP. Why are the three MLAs and two MLCs who defected to the YSRCP not yet disqualified?” he asked. “The government attacked the four pillars of democracy during its one-year rule. Fundamental rights had been violated and constitutional bodies destroyed. AP has been turned into Bihar of South,” he alleged, and appealed to people to join hands with TDP in fight against the YSRCP’s “anti-people policies.”
12 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire destroys footwear store near Benz Cirle||A fire in the Reliance Trends building close to Benz Circle on Thursday morning caused panic and inconvenience to locals and road users as it took nearly 10 hours for the fire-fighters to put out the blaze. A fire-fighter sustained a grievous injury in the operation. Around 8.30 a.m. a fire broke out on the first floor of the building. Due to the burning of the footwear in the store thick smoke kept billowing out for several hours. However, no casualties were reported and most of the stock and interiors of the store were reduced to ashes. The firemen struggled for nearly 10 hours to put it out using seven fire tenders. “The accident was reported around 8.50 a.m. and fire tenders were rushed to the spot immediately. As it was a footwear store there was a lot of smoke due to the burning of plastic, rubber and other such material that released thick fumes with lots of pollutants. By 7 p.m. the flames were extinguished and the situation brought under control. Over 70 personnel and officers took part in the operation,” said fire officer K. Naresh. No openings “There was only one door for exit and entry which made the operation difficult. We made three holes to the walls and gained entry after which the building was cooled down gradually,” Mr. Naresh said. The source of the fire and the extent of damage was yet to be assessed, Mr. Naresh added. On Friday, officials will revisit the spot and check if the building is equipped with fire-fighting equipment. Meanwhile, a firefighter, Pavan, suffered a deep cut on his leg after a drilling machine he was using to make a hole in the wall of the store slipped and fell on him. His condition was stable and he was out of danger, an official said.
12 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Release of pending funds for BAS demanded||Members of Andhra Pradesh Best Available Schools (BAS) Management Welfare Association on Thursday staged a protest in front of the Department of Girijan Welfare office at Mogulrajpuram, demanding immediate release of the pending funds to the tune of Rs. 150 crore. Association president Paruchuri Srinivasa Rao said to impart English medium education to children belonging to the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities, the Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy government had established 380 Best Available Schools across the State. But under the rule of Jagan Mohan Reddy, the future of these schools was under threat. He said these schools, which had nearly 40,000 student strength, had not been given any funds since 2018-19. He said the absence of funds and the pandemic that had resulted in the lockdown had been posing a threat to the survival of these schools. The purpose of setting up these schools was to enable children from SC, ST communities to study in English medium schools till X class. Reiterating his demand to release the pending funds, Mr. Rao said the government should do the needful without any further delay. The Best Available Schools were identified and categorised for imparting quality education to the SC/ST students from classes I to X. Association secretary P.K Reddy from Anantapur, co-convenor M.B. Sarma from West Godavari, treasurer C.L. Naidu (Srikakulam), G.V. Rao (East Godavari), Ramachandra Reddy (Chittoor), Tulasi Prasad (Guntur) and others were present.
12 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two more deaths and 182 new cases in State||The State reported two more deaths and 182 fresh COVID cases during the past 24 hours as of Thursday morning. According to the bulletin by the Health Department, 135 of the 182 cases are locals and 38 are migrant workers. The State tally has gone up to 5,429 as it crossed the five-lakh tests mark on Thursday. Of the total cases, 2,968 patients have recovered leaving 2,381 active patients under treatment. The two new deaths occurred in Krishna and East Godavari districts. The toll now has gone up to 80. Sample testing Meanwhile, the State completed testing five lakh samples on Thursday. So far, 5,10,318 samples were tested, and in the past 24 hours 11,602 samples were tested. The tests per million population ratio is now at 9, 557 and the recovery rate came down to 54.67%. The mortality rate is at 1.47% and the positivity rate is 1.06%. 25 new cases in Krishna Krishna district which has now become the second worst-hit district in the State reported 25 fresh cases, the highest in the State. It is followed by Kadapa with 24 cases. Kurnool reported 16 cases and Anantapur and Visakhapatnam reported 15 cases each. East Godavari reported nine cases, Nellore(8), West Godavari (7), Vizianagaram (6), Chittoor and Guntur (4 each), and Prakasam (2). The district tallies are as follows: Kurnool (849), Krishna (632), Guntur (584), Anantapur (366), Nellore (362), Chittoor (331), East Godavari (301), West Godavari (256), Kadapa (213), Visakhapatnam (182), Prakasam (97), Vizianagaram (54), Srikakulam (34). Of the total cases reported so far 4, 261 are of locals, 197 are of foreign returnees and 971 are of migrant returnees and people from other states.
12 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bhogapuram airport project area reduced to 2,200 acres||The State government has decided to limit the Bhogapuram airport project to 2,200 acre instead of the original plan of 2,700 acre. The government would take back 500 acre. The company has agreed to develop the airport in 2200 acre, according to Information and Public Relations (I&PR) Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani). Addressing a press conference on Thursday, he said that the State Cabinet had cleared a proposal to set up a 10,000 MW solar power project to supply 9-hour free power during day time to the farmers in the State besides setting up of an Integrated Renewable Energy Project (IREP). As part of the IREP, 550 MW of wind power, 1200 MW of hydel power and 1,000 MW of solar power would be generated, he said. Under the Green Energy Development Charge, the State government would be earning a revenue of Rs. 32 crore. During the TDP regime, the government paid only Rs. 2.5 lakh per acre for the project, but Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had decided to award Rs. 5 lakh per acre, he said. Ramayapatnam port The Minister said that the Cabinet had approved the Detailed Project Report (DPR) submitted by RITES for the Ramayapatnam port. Under phase-I of the project, the government would spend Rs. 3,736 crore on construction of the port in 802 acre in 36 months.
12 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One more death, 25 new cases in Krishna||Krishna district reported one more COVID-19 death and 25 new cases in the 24 hours that ended at 10 a.m. of Thursday, according to the State's COVID-19 dashboard. The district so far reported 632 cases and 365 patients have been discharged upon attaining full recovery. The death toll has gone up to 25 and currently 242 patients are undergoing treatment. Only seven patients were discharged during the past 24 hours. Meanwhile, the district administration is yet to notify containment zones as per the locations of the new patients. As per the announcement made two days ago, 42 of the 64 municipal wards in the city are under Containment Zones and lockdown restrictions have been reimposed. As the number of cases is going up, the district administration has designated the hospital of Nimra Institute of Medical Sciences in Ibrahimpatnam as the third COVID hospital in the district, said Collector A.Md. Imtiaz in a meeting with officials concerned. Mr. Imtiaz said that 2,000 samples were being tested in the district every day at four labs and so far 54,385 tests were conducted.
12 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ALC gets recognition at national level||Andhra Loyola College (ALC) has been ranked 36th at the national level in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) Ranking 2020. The list was released by the Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Thursday. Besides securing 36th ranking at the national level, the ALC in Vijayawada stands first in both Telugu-speaking States of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The MHRD ranks universities and institutions across the country annually based on certain parameters. St. Francis College for Women, Hyderabad, has been ranked 76th while the Government College, Rajamahendravaram, has secured 116th rank. This year, a total of 5,805 institutions, which include 294 universities, 1,071 engineering colleges, 630 management institutions, 334 pharmacy institutions, 97 law institutions, 118 medical institutions, 48 architecture institutions and 1,659 general degree colleges applied for NIRF ranks. A core committee constituted by the MHRD looked into the stipulated parameters like 'teaching, learning and resources', 'research and professional practices', 'graduation outcomes', 'outreach and inclusivity,' and 'perception'. College principal Rev. Fr. Victor Emmanuel, Rector Fr. Balashowri and correspondent Fr. Sagayaraj lauded the efforts of the staff and students who made it possible for the college to make an impressive forward march. Fr. Immanuel said the college would continue to work relentlessly for uplift of the lesser privileged students in society and that the recognition had given the management more strength to launch new initiatives and take them forward effectively.
12 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Assembly session from June 16||The fourth session of the 15th Legislative Assembly will be summoned on June 16 at 10 a.m. The government issued G.O. 52 in this regard on Thursday. The government will present the annual budget for the financial year 2020-21 during the session.
12 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Smart City projects put back on track||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation has kickstarted work on several Smart City projects, worth a cumulative Rs. 400 crore, that were suspended in the wake of the COVID-19 lockdown. Hit by hurdles like lack of labour, the GVMC is now getting the projects back on track and is aiming to wrap them up by the end of this year. “Of the 19 projects, work has resumed on all except for two - the Multi-Level Car Park (MLCP) and Municipal School Upgradation at Dandu Bazaar - as both projects are in areas that are still containment zones,” said V. Sudhakar, Executive Engineer (Smart City). Among the major Smart City projects on which work has resumed are the 24x7 water supply project worth Rs. 86.4 crore and a sewerage project worth Rs. 67.68 crore. The sewerage project includes upgradation of two sewerage treatment plants (STPs), besides revamping of the existing network and filling the gaps under the Area-Based Development (ABD) zone, which is spread over 1,600 acres. Work has also resumed on the Sports Arena project in MVP Colony, worth Rs. 25.5 crore, which when completed will facilitate courts and all facilities for indoor games. The Smart City projects also include setting up ‘Smart Signals’ – Vehicle Actuated Control (VAC) system at 50 traffic junctions in the city worth Rs. 8.9 crore. About 90% of the work related to this project has been already finished, he said. Similarly, setting up of ‘Soukaryam centres’ at various zones for citizens, covering open drains and a few other projects are to be taken up. “The MLCP project lies near the border of a containment zone. Moreover, there are no habitations nearby except commercial establishments. We will seek the permission of the police to take up work. Most of the structures have already been erected,” he said. “The GVMC plans to complete most of the projects by the end of this year if work continues at this pace,” he said.
12 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 12 new cases, district’s coronavirus tally rises to 238||Twelve new COVID-19 cases were reported in Visakhapatnam district on Thursday, taking the total count to 238. With the new cases, the number of active cases stands at 118. Eight more COVID-19 patients who were being treated got discharged from hospital after testing negative on Thursday, taking the total number of discharges to 119. One person died from Chengalraopeta from the district. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 Dr P.V. Sudhakar, the number of clusters in the district climbed to 60 with the new cases. The new clusters are Dayal Nagar, Bharat Nagar and Narsapuram. As of Thursday, there are 33 very active clusters which reported cases in the last four days. The number of active clusters and dormant clusters are eight and 19 respectively. Meanwhile, nine clusters which did not report any case for the past 28 days have already been denotified, he said.
12 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police Commissioner to lead woman’s murder investigation||The investigation into the recent murder of a 22-year-old woman in the city will now be headed by Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena, senior officers said. “Several intricacies have come to light in the probe into the woman’s murder. There is a multiple murder angle that is now being investigated,” Mr. Meena said on Thursday after taking up the lead in the investigation. Police suspect that the woman’s mother, brother and grandmother were also murdered by one of the accused, in 2014 in East Godavari district. “At that time, the murder victim was around 15 or 16 years old and she had become an orphan after the deaths of her family members. She was brought to Vizag by her aunt and her uncle and was allegedly pushed into prostitution,” Mr. Meena said. However, while the woman’s grandmother’s body was found by the police in a field, the bodies of her mother and younger are yet to be found. “We are trying to ascertain what actually happened to them, and if they are even still alive. In 2014, her mother was around 35 years of age and we are looking into whether she too was pushed into the flesh trade,” Mr. Meena said. Police on Thursday took custody of the deceased’s aunt, who is one of the main accused, for further questioning and are probing if she played a role in forcing other girls into prostitution. According to the police, the 22-year-old was not fed for over six days and underwent severe abuse at the hands of her killers, who tonsured her and burnt her with spatulas and cigarette butts. There were 33 injury marks on her body, and the cause of her death was a severe head injury, police said.
12 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sale of Simhachalam prasadam from today||A total of 1,110 devotees, including 401 who had special darshan by buying a ticket for Rs. 100 ticket, prayed at the temple of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy at Simhachalam on Thursday. Executive Officer D. Bhramaramba said that prasadams began to be sold at the temple from Friday. She held discussions with temple authorities and Vedic scholars in this regard and inspected the functioning of the temple kitchen. She directed officials to get the boilers inspected. The EO announced that special pujas will be performed on June 16. Dwadasa Mantra Japam, Sudarshana Narasimha yagnam and Maha Mruthyunjaya Homam would be performed, she added.
12 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aug. 31 deadline for secretariat buildings||Collector V. Vinay Chand directed officials to hasten the construction of village/ward secretariat buildings in the district and ensure their completion by August 31. The Collector said the construction of buildings for 734 secretariats, 705 Rythu Bharosa Kendras and YSR Health Centres and 1,085 Anganwadi centres was pending in the district.
12 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ‘ends life’||A woman reportedly ended her life at her home in Sarada Nagar at Narsipatnam Town in Visakhapatnam district on Thursday morning. She was identified as R. Charuthya (19), of Nathavaram and living in Narsipatnam. Charuthya’s husband works as a constable at Anakapalle Town police station. The woman’s parents alleged that the couple had disputes since the beginning of their marriage, and that harassment by their son-in-law forced their daughter to take the extreme step. Narsipatnam Town police have registered a case and have launched a probe. Those battling suicidal thoughts are urged to call 100 for free counselling.
12 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Dr. Sudhakar must stop visiting police station’||The Visakhapatnam Commissioner of Police, Rajeev Kumar Meena, will take up with the CBI the issue of Dr. Sudhakar “visiting the police station on a regular basis”, after being discharged from the Government Hospital of Mental Care. “Now that the case is taken up by the CBI, the suspended anaesthetist from the Narsipatnam area hospital has no business to go to the police station,” he said. “The case is under investigation by the CBI on the direction of the AP High Court and it is not correct on the part of Dr. Sudhakar to go to the police station with some political leaders and later address the press,” he said. Doctor wants job back Meanwhile, Dr. Sudhakar said that he did not abuse Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy and neither was he affiliated to any political party, and demanded that he be reinstated in his job.
12 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Widespread rain likely in coastal A.P.||The Southwest monsoon covered the entire State on Thursday. This, coupled with the low-pressure area, brought more rain to the city and district, which had been experiencing intermittent showers for the last couple of days. There was continuous rain at Araku Valley in the Agency area, following which the police swung into action to barricade the areas where streams were in spate. Meanwhile, the low-pressure area over east-central and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal persists, and lies over west-central and adjoining north-west Bay of Bengal along and off north Andhra and south Odisha coasts. It is likely to move in the west north-westward direction. The associated upper air circulation extends up to 7.6-km above the mean sea level. Under its influence, there may be rain or thundershowers at most places over coastal A.P. with heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places and extremely heavy rain at one or two places over coastal A.P. during the next 24 hours, according to the Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC) here. Strong surface winds from north-westerly direction with speed reaching 45-50 kmph are likely along and off north Andhra coast, and from the westerly direction with speed reaching 45-50 kmph along and off south coastal A.P. during the next 24 hours. CWC Director Bibraj R advised fishermen not to venture into the sea along and off coastal A.P. The chief amounts of rainfall recorded (in cm) during the last 24 hours ending at 8.30 a.m. on Thursday were: Racherla (Prakasam) 16; Kavali (Nellore) 12; Eluru (West Godavari) 11; Veligonda (Prakasam) and S. Kota 8 each; Kaikalur (Krishna) and Kandukur (Prakasam) 7 each; and Visakhapatnam 4.
12 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister seeks plying of trains to Araku||Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao urged Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava to make efforts to resume train services between Araku and Visakhapatnam. The Minister wrote to the DRM explaining the plight of the tribals, and other passengers, here on Thursday. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that before the lockdown, three train services - Visakhapatnam-Kirandul Express, Visakhapatnam-Kirandul Passenger, and Visakha-Araku Special - used to run between Visakhapatnam and Araku. He said that these train services used to cater to the needs of tribals who used to visit the city for essential services, agricultural needs and medical purposes. Tribals have been facing a transportation crisis, he said. Even tourism has been hit due to lack of train services and resuming these trains would benefit this sector, he added.
12 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three Maoist ‘supporters’ nabbed||The Visakhapatnam Rural police arrested three persons for allegedly helping a Maoist team during a recce, at G. Madugula mandal in Visakhapatnam district on Thursday. The arrested persons were identified as G. Bhaskara Rao (25), P. Suri Babu (31), and G. Arjun (22), all from G. Madugula mandal. Police said the trio helped a Maoist action team by arranging food and landmines for them. Police said the Maoists were planning to kill three villagers as they had revolted against the rebels. The arrested persons were produced in court, which sent them to remand.
12 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Masks, sanitisers distributed||The students of International School of Design in Visakhapatnam distributed 10,000 face masks and sanitisers to the frontline workers, here on Wednesday. The masks are specially manufactured by the students in the institute and are washable and comfortable to wear, the institute said, applauding the workers for their services.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister to release Inter results today||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh and Principal Secretary, Department of School Education, B. Rajasekhar will release the results of the Intermediate Public Examinations (March 2020-both first and second year) at 4 p.m. on Friday in the city. The results are available in the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) official website:https://bie.ap.gov.inand also in a few other websites. Students can access their results with hall ticket number and their date of birth, on Friday immediately after the official release of the results. Marks and grades Subject-wise marks will be given to the first year students as grading system has been cancelled. For second year regular students, it will be subject-wise grade points as their result was declared with subject-wise grade points in the first year. The short marks memo will be available for downloading from the “bie.ap.gov.in” website from June 15. In view of the prevailing situation due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Board of Intermediate Education will release the results through cloud service. Other websites The following is the list of websites addresses where the results will be available:http://bie.ap.gov.in,http://results.bie.ap.gov.in,www.sakshieducation.com, results.eenadu.net,www.andhrajyothi.com,www.manabadi.com,www.vidyavision.com,www.schools9.com,http://examresults.ap.nic.in,www.jagranjosh.com,www.exametc.com,www.visalaandhra.com, http//telugu.news18.com,www.results.shiksha,http://results. prajasakti.com,www.examresults.netand www.indiaresults.com.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rainwater fishing||
12 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Adilabad-Mudkhed railway line electrification work starts||In a significant development, work on electrification of the nearly 183-km long Mudkhed-Pimpalkhuti railway line under Nanded division of the South Central Railway (SCR) has started. Once the electrification is done, this line will most likely see some trains running on the main line connecting south and north getting routed from Hyderabad via Nizamabad, Mudkhed (in Maharashtra) and Adilabad in SCR, merging into the main line at Majri in Central Railways. Electrification of the 80-km stretch between Pimpalkhuti station, the last station in SCR on the Telangana-Maharashtra border and Majri, is in an advanced stage of completion according to sources. Work on this side of the border is taking place at a brisk pace with electric poles being erected on the line near Umram station at present. Adilabad railway station was developed as a model facility with six lines back in 2007. Though the station was meant to handle a traffic of 40 trains per day, some of them by way of diversion from the main line, only a few run on this line especially trains transporting coal to the Parli Vaijnath Thermal Power Station in Maharashtra. Some of the trains which were originally planned to be run on this line were eventually run through other stations in Maharashtra the Nanded-Sriganganagar Express being a case in point. In order to reiterate the utility aspect of this line, observers recall the August 2009 accident on the main line in Ramagundam railway station which saw trains being diverted through Adilabad. “Actually, electrification is taking place in almost all un-electrified sections in the Nanded division now,” revealed a source in the SCR. “Works on the Parli-Parbhani line and Purna-Akola line are going on simultaneously,” he added. Goods traffic Adilabad-Mudkhed line has seen only goods traffic during the ongoing lockdown period besides berthing of three or four Shramik Specials in the yard. The period actually seems to have come in handy for the authorities to carry on the work speedily.
12 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Area under vegetable cultivation to go up||The rainfall that lashed parts of Adilabad district in the small hours of Thursday got sowing operations started at many places. Though a bit early in the season farmers have also started planting vegetables in some areas thanks to the spell of rainfall. The area under vegetable cultivation is likely to go up this Vanakalam, according to officials in the Horticulture Department. The normal area under vegetable cultivation is about 4,400 acres in the district and it could go up by about 300 acres this instance.
12 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||RGUKT postpones exams||The Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT), also known as IIIT, Basar, in Nirmal district, has postponed exams for the P2 and E4 second semester examinations in view of the COVID-19 situation. The exams would however be conducted when the situation improves. According to IIIT Basar sources, the institution has adopted the scheme of carry forward for the students of P1, E1, E2 and E3 batches. The students from these batches are to get promoted to the next semester or year but will need to clear the exams whenever the institution holds exams.
12 June 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Heavy rain lashes Bhadradri-Kothagudem dist.||Moderate to heavy rains lashed many parts of the Kothagudem coal belt region and rest of the district for the second consecutive day on Thursday raising hopes of timely onset of monsoon this year. During the last 24 hours till 8.30 am on Thursday, Kothagudem mandal recorded a rainfall of 58.2 mm followed by Gundala 47.2 mm, Yellandu 45.2 mm, Chandrugonda 41.2 mm and Palvancha 39.8 mm. The district has received an average rainfall of 23.9 mm during the 24-hour period. A 32-year-old person suffered cardiac arrest and died minutes after reportedly hearing the deafening sound of lightning strike on a coconut tree in the immediate vicinity of his house at Rama Talkies area in Kothagudem on Wednesday night, sources said. In view of the forecast of heavy rains in the next 24 hours, the district administration has activated its official machinery to deal with any exigency. A control room has been set up at the Collectorate to receive phone calls on rain-related incidents over phone number: 08744 241950. Collector M V Reddy held a meeting with the heads of various government departments in Kothagudem on Thursday to chalk out a monsoon preparedness plan. He asked the officials concerned to set up control rooms in all the four municipalities, DM&HO office, and other offices of public utility and essential services to ensure prompt response during emergency situations, if any, in the upcoming monsoon season. Meanwhile, heavy rains pounded the catchment areas of Munneru river in Khammam district resulting in fresh inflows into the river.
12 June 2020||Bhongir,TELANGANA||Yadadri Collector goes into self-quarantine||District Collector Anita Ramachandran has gone into self-quarantine on Thursday, after a senior executive of the Bhongir Zilla Parishad, who attended meetings with her, tested positive. The 53-year-old official sat next to Ms. Anita last on June 5, to address a video conference with local officials. He went on leave after that due to illness. On Wednesday, samples of both the official and his 45-year-old wife were collected by doctors at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bibinagar. “The results showed the couple tested positive,” District Medical & Health Officer B. Sambha Shiva Rao confirmed. Ms. Ramachandran was to address a meeting with municipal officials on prevention of seasonal illnesses scheduled for 4 p.m., but soon after the results at around 2 p.m., she left the office. She would remain in self-isolation at her official residence here for one week, officials said. Along with the Collector, a dozen other officials were also identified as “primary contacts” and some 25 others were “secondary contacts”. None of them showed symptoms, and all are under home quarantine. The office rooms and premises of the District Collectorate at Pagidipalli, on the outskirts of Bhongir, were quickly sanitised with sodium hypochlorite following the development. ‘Working from home’ Ms. Ramachandran, when contacted, said she was with the official for some ten minutes during a meeting, and her voluntary self-isolation was only a preventive measure. “I am not on leave, I am working from home. Since it has been a week, and I don’t have any symptoms, I will not go for tests. I am all right,” she said.
12 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana bid to lure firms moving out of China||Telangana Industries and Information Technology Minister K. T. Rama Rao on Thursday said the State government would start focusing on investments and enterprises that are looking to move away from China and other large manufacturing countries. Addressing a special session on ‘Rebuilding and Rebooting Telangana’s Economy Post COVID-19’ organised by FICCI, the Minister sought to highlight how such a derisking strategy of the enterprises and investors, in the wake of the pandemic, could open a window of opportunity for the State. Webinar Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan was already in touch with several entities such as European Business Group and Indian High Commissions in many countries to spread the word on the benefits of investing in the State. “Telangana is open to business and we are looking for investments in high employment generating sectors like textiles, electronics, life sciences and IT,” Mr.Rao told the webinar organised by the leading trade and industry body. Towards attracting investments, creating employment and to make it conducive for businesses to thrive, the focus of the State government is not only on the ease of doing business but also on reducing the cost of doing business and improving the quality of doing business. The government was focusing on these steps and engaging with industry and all stakeholders at multiple levels, he added. Pharma City Stressing the need for India to think on scale, he said the world’s largest pharma cluster in the form of Hyderabad Pharma City would be coming up in Telangana in the next few months. This would reduce dependence on any other market across the world. On micro, small and medium enterprises, the Minister said “we need to also ensure that our MSMEs receive the much-needed support. We have to make efforts to increase consumption, increase demand, invest more in infrastructure projects, attract more investments and create employment.” With regard to the steps taken by the State government to reduce the impact of COVID-19, Mr Rao said “we have been following the WHO and ICMR guidelines diligently. COVID-19 has been a challenge for governments across the world. In a developing nation like India, we will have to ensure that lives and livelihoods are balanced.” FICCI president Sangita Reddy said Telangana was among the few states which opened agriculture and industrial activity with requisite standard procedures. On COVID-19, she said while the pandemic had significantly impacted the world, it also offered many opportunities. “India is a stable and large market with liberalised economy. It has an attractive policy regime and implementation of these have been very proactive.”
12 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID cases touch record high of 209||Telangana recorded the highest number of COVID–19 positive cases in a single day on Thursday with the State government putting the number at 209. Nine patients persons also died, taking the tally of fatalities so far to 165. The surge in cases on Thursday took the total number of recorded positive cases to 4,320. The number of cases in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation continued to remain the highest in the State with as many as 175 testing positive. Medchal district recorded as many as 10 cases and Rangareddy district saw seven cases. The total number of active cases thus far stand at 2,162. So far, 1,993 persons have been discharged. The Health department noted that since relaxations in lockdown were announced, there has an increase in mobility of people across age groups. Those under 10 yearsold and senior citizens have been discouraged from going outdoors. Meanwhile, the Telangana Junior Doctors Association at the Gandhi Hospital refused to relent and continued with their strike. Several medicos boycotted duties and continued to protest near the hospital’s outpatient block. The medicos went on strike after attendants of a deceased COVID-19 patient allegedly roughed up one of the doctors. The accused were taken into custody. Among other demands, the medicos have sought decentralisation of COVID-19 positive cases. In a letter written to Gandhi Hospital Superintendent the TJUDA communicated the intention of going ahead with the strike as their demands have not been met by the State government. Talks between the TJUDA and government officials remained inconclusive.
12 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Stage set for crediting Rythu Bandhu amount||The stage is being set for crediting the amount assured under the Rythu Bandhu Scheme (RBS) into the accounts of farmers during the current kharif season. The government is said to have transferred Rs. 5,000 crore into the account of the Agriculture Commissioner through the Finance Department recently for making payment at Rs. 5,000 an acre to all eligible farmers enrolled under the RBS. In spite of the constraints on the financial front, the government made budgetary allocation of Rs. 12,000 crore for two crops under the RBS for the current financial year. Crediting of the amount into the farmers accounts was, however, delayed a little as the official machinery is busy with enumeration relating to what crop should be raised where. The enumeration process follows Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s direction that farmers should cultivate crops in a regulated manner so that they would get remunerative price for cultivating crops which enjoy demand in the market. The Chief Minister took the decision in view of the losses being incurred by farmers due to excess supply than demand as all of them were raising the same crop. The agriculture extension officers have accordingly taken up awareness campaign at the field level educating farmers on the need to opt for particular crops based on soil suitability and other factors. In addition, enumeration of new farmers as well as those who purchased lands from existing farmers who got the Pattadar passbooks transferred on their names is also underway so as to include them in RBS. The government has fixed January 30 this year as cut-off date for such transactions for inclusion under RBS. These farmers were asked to submit their application forms along with a copy of their passbook, Aadhaar card and bank account details to the agriculture extension officers concerned. Verification of these claims is said to be underway and expected to be completed before this month end. Meanwhile, the Finance department is learnt to have issued budget release order for Rs. 300 crore towards construction of Rythu Vedikas, platforms for farmers’ interactions.
12 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress seeks CBI probe into ‘custodial death’||The Congress party has demanded a CBI inquiry into the ‘custodial death’ of Srilam Rangaiah, a Dalit, who was found dead under mysterious circumstances in Mantha police station toilet a few days ago. In an letter to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, MLA D. Sridhar Babu, ex-Deputy Chief Minister Damodar Rajanarasimha and SC Cell chairman Pritam said the circumstantial evidences clearly show that Rangaiah died allegedly due to third-degree torture by the police. The TPCC chief said that Rangaiah, a resident of Ramayyapalli village in Ramgiri mandal of Peddapalli falling in Manthani Assembly constituency, was arrested by the police on May 24 under Wildlife Protection Act. On May 26, he was found dead in Manthani police station toilet. He said as per FIR No. 127, Rangaiah was arrested on May 24 and was remanded to judicial custody on the same day. In that case, how was his body found on the police station’s premises on May 26. This leads to suspicion on the veracity of details furnished in the FIR. Further, the letter said that the post-mortem was conducted in haste. As per religious rituals Rangaiah was to be buried, but the police forcibly cremated the body so as to wipe out evidence of torture. The haste with which post-mortem was conducted and the cremation strengthens the suspicion that Rangaiah was killed in the lock-up, the letter alleged. The TPCC chief alleged that the family members of Rangaiah were now being threatened by the police to hush up the case. “Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao often talks of ‘friendly policing’. But the behaviour of police personnel is completely against it,” he alleged. He said the Hyderabad City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar appointed as Inquiry Officer to probe into the incident by the High Court could not be expected to investigate in a non-partisan manner. So the Congress leaders have urged the Governor to intervene and order a probe by the CBI. Further, the Congress leaders demanded payment of Rs. 50 lakh as compensation to the family of Rangaiah and stern action against those involved in the incident. They said there were at least 10 lock-up deaths across the State after formation of Telangana.
12 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Cholesterol levels rising in Asia’||“Cholesterol is rising in the Asian region, but declining sharply in Western nations, though the total cholesterol is still higher when compared to the levels in the Asian region,” said Avula Laxmaiah, scientist and head, Division of Public Health Nutrition, ICMR-National Institute of Nutrition. She was one of the authors of the recent research paper that is based on what is claimed to be the largest ever study of global cholesterol levels. 200 countries The study titled ‘Repositioning of the global epicentre of non-optimal cholesterol’, published in the scientific journal Nature recently, was led by the Imperial College, London and had hundreds of researchers from across the world contributing. The research used data from 102.6 million individuals and examined cholesterol levels in 200 countries, across a 39-year period, from 1980 to 2018. Dr Laxmaiah said non-HDL cholesterol among Indian men ranked 128th in 1980 and remained the same in 2018. However, in case of women, the rank increased marginally from 139th to 140th at global level. “The work funded by Wellcome Trust and British Heart Foundation, revealed that high cholesterol was responsible for about 3.9 million deaths worldwide,” said ICMR-National Institute of Nutrition director Hemalatha. Cholesterol is a waxy substance found in blood. The body needs cholesterol to build healthy cells, but too much can lead to a build-up in the blood vessels. Cholesterol comes in different types — High-density Lipoprotein (HDL) ‘good’ cholesterol, is thought to have a protective effect against heart attack and stroke, by mopping up excess ‘bad’ cholesterol. Results of the new study revealed decrease in total and non-HDL cholesterol levels in high income nations, particularly those in North-western Europe, North America and Australasia, while they are rising in low and middle income nations, particularly in East and Southeast Asia. “This suggests we now need to set into place throughout the world pricing and regulatory policies that shift diets from saturated to non-saturated fats, and to prepare health systems to treat those in needs with effective medicines. This will help save millions of deaths from high non-HDL cholesterol in these regions,” said lead author Majid Ezzati of Imperial School of Public Health.
12 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘No community transmission in sero-surveillance 1st phase’||Health Minister Eatala Rajender had, on Wednesday, claimed that there was no community transmission in the State, going by the results of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) sero-surveillance survey conducted in three districts and in the twin cities, because of “effective lockdown and containment measures”. Four cases in rural TS Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao also tweeted that the “Sero Prevalence survey by ICMR showed four positive cases out of 1,200 samples in rural areas and 15 positive cases out of 500 samples in GHMC”. Random blood samples ICMR-NIN teams with medical and health department and local officials had carried out the rapid survey in three districts of Jangoan, Kamareddy and Nalgonda, from May 15-17, when they collected random blood samples, as part of the countrywide exercise in 69 districts to check for community transmission among general population. A similar exercise was repeated in five randomly selected containment areas of Hyderabad; Adibatla, Balapur, Tappachabutra, Miyapur and Chandanagar, on May 30 and 31, where about 100 samples from each cluster was collected from individuals in comparison to the 400 samples collected in the three districts mentioned above. The director also projected a table indicating the results that buttressed the claim that there has been no community transmission. Hyderabad was part of the exercise as it was among the 13 hotspots identified from 21 states. However, ICMR-NIN sources claimed that the survey results conducted were yet to be received and they were expecting it within a day or two. Harshvardhan tweet Meanwhile, Union Health Minister Harshvardhan tweeted that he had called up Mr. Rajender here for an ‘update’ on COVID-19 and was categorical in stating that Hyderabad continues to be the epicentre with adjacent districts majorly affected. No district is free of coronavirus, he pointed out It is pertinent to note that ICMR-NIN director R. Hemalatha was categorical in stating that “surveillance of antibody based sero-positivity indicates the extent of spread of infection and on role of asymptomatic and mild infections in transmission. It is, however, only the first phase of the study to serve as a baseline”. “The ICMR proposes to carry out four more rounds of surveys in the coming months at different times in the same rural and urban clusters. Subsequent rounds will help us monitor the trends of infection and study findings will be useful to guide in designing and implementing appropriate public health preventive measures,” she added.
12 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ramulu Naik stages protest||Former MLA Ramulu Naik sat on a fast protesting against the government’s failure to fulfil its promise of 12% reservations to the Scheduled Tribes (STs) and the harassment of tribal farmers on podu lands. He demanded the government to file a review petition in the Supreme Court on GO 3 and said the Chief Minister was not showing any interest on the podu lands issue despite promising so on several occasions. TPCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and senior leaders V. Hanmanth Rao, Balaram Naik, Mallu Ravi and Preetham offered him lime juice to break the fast.
12 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP plans march to Pragati Bhavan||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders including former party president K. Laxman, city president and Member of Legislative Council (MLC) N. Ramchander Rao, MLA T. Raja Singh and others will try to march towards the Pragati Bhavan from the Punjagutta crossroads to meet Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on the COVID-19 issue on June 12. This was stated by Mr. Laxman on Thursday after he released his letter written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, urging him to send a “high-power delegation on war-footing with the power to take instantaneous decisions and accord instructions to save the people of Telangana and Hyderabad, already showing signs of rampant community spread”. ‘Inexplicably callous’ The State government was charged with being “inexplicably callous” in extending quality treatment to the affected, in taking measures of containment, equipping hospitals with necessary wherewithal like requisite number of intensive care unit (ICU) wards with ventilators, oxygen cylinders, (PPE kits for the front line warriors, N95 masks etc. “It is neither testing people on a large scale nor is allowing them to approach labs and hospitals for tests when they have an element of doubt,” said Mr. Laxman and pointed out that save for Gandhi Hospital, under severe strain due to manpower and infrastructure deficiencies, no other hospital has been made ready in the last two months. Bringing the 1,500-bed Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences hospital at Gachibowli into use immediately would facilitate shifting a few patients from Gandhi Hospital. The State government had conducted 38,470 tests when national testing average per million was 3,686, Telangana’s average is just 646. The percentage of positive rate in TS was 10%, twice the national average. While the government had not fully permitted private hospitals to extend treatment, some of them were charging huge sums in the name of a package. “People are gripped by fear over voronavirus, hence treatment should be brought under Arogyasree/ Ayushman Bharath scheme and every hospital should be permitted to treat as per ICMR guidelines,” said the BJP leader. “This is no time to make complaints but the TS government is nonchalant and apathetic, leaving people to their fate even as the medical fraternity is completely demoralised with junior doctors on strike. There have been cases of bodies being misplaced or handed over to wrong families. Under the circumstances, we have no option but to request your intervention,” he added. Flights to Gulf BJP TS chief Bandi Sanjay also wrote to the Union government requesting running of special flights to the Gulf nations to bring back the scores of labourers stranded there ever since the pandemic broke out as their condition was pitiable with no jobs and incomes.
12 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||UoH 6th best varsity in India||The National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) rankings released by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) on Thursday saw several universities and institutions from Telangana figuring in top leads and the best placed was the University of Hyderabad (UoH). The UoH was at the sixth place in the universities category but 15th place in the overall educational institutions category that consisted of universities, engineering colleges and all professional colleges. The UoH slipped to sixth from the fourth position last year and officials say the difference in scores was less than 0.5 points. More than 200 universities were surveyed for the rankings. Other institutions in Telangana that figured in the overall top 100 included IIT Hyderabad (17th), NIT Warangal (46th) and Osmania University (53rd). Andhra University, Visakhapatnam, was at the 36th rank in the overall educational institutions category and 19th in universities category. OU was at 29th position in the universities category. Some other top institutions from Telangana were placed at different levels of ranking. The International Institution of Information Technology (IIIT-H) figured in the 101-150 rank band overall and English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU), Anurag Institutions, VNRVJIT and Vardhaman College of Engineering figured in the 151-200 rank band. Among the engineering colleges category, IIT-Hyderabad was at eighth place, NIT Warangal (19th), IIIT-H (43rd), JNTU Hyderabad (57th), OU College of Engineering (88th), CBIT (124th), VNRVJIT (127th), Vardhaman College (143rd), SR Engineering College, Warangal (160th), Institute of Aeronautical Engineering (IARE) (170th), Gokaraju Rangaraju Institute of Engineering and Technology (172nd), Anurag Institutions (180th) and BVRIT, Narsapur (199th). KITS Warangal, Sreenidhi Institutions, MGIT, MREC for Women, and Vignan College, were placed in the 201-250 rank band while CMRCET, MLRIT, MVSR, OU College of Technology and St. Martin’s Engineering College were in the 251-300 rank band nationally. Chairman of Rythu Bandhu Samiti and MLC Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, who is also the chairman of Anurag Group of Institutions, said that their colleges secured best ranks among all private institutions in Telangana in different streams like pharmacy and engineering. Responding to the UoH ranking, Vice-Chancellor Appa Rao Podile said, “We have to work hard as we have identified a few gaps, to move up in the ranking system. UoH will increase its efforts to ensure that it is recognised as a top institution not only in India, but also internationally for its quality of teaching, outreach, inclusivity and research.” The NIRF methodology parameters broadly cover “Teaching, Learning and Resources,” “Research and Professional Practices,” “Graduation Outcomes,” “Outreach and Inclusivity,” and “Perception”. Placements, research publications, outreach programmes are all key parameters within the above.
12 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Filmstar Prabhas’ green initiative||As the monsoon is all set to get active, filmstar Prabhas planted three saplings at his residence, as part of the Green India Challenge initiated by TRS MP J. Santosh Kumar. Prabhas was nominated by his uncle, rebel star Krishnam Raju. Speaking on this occasion, Prabhas hailed the efforts of Mr. Santosh Kumar for this innovative challenge to increase green cover in the State. He also said that the Keesaragutta Reserve Forest development programme has inspired him and expressed his willingness to adopt a reserve forest of not less than 1,000 acres and develop it into an eco-tourism destination. After planting the saplings, he nominated actors Ram Charan Tej, Daggubati Rana and Bollywood heroine Shraddha Kapoor for the green challenge. Mr. Santosh Kumar thanked Prabhas for launching the third phase of Green India Challenge, according to coordinator Sanjeev Raghava.
12 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mayor’s driver tests COVID positive||Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan’s driver has tested COVID positive as per results declared on Thursday evening. Following this, Mr. Ram Mohan and his family have been advised home quarantine, sources informed. He is the second person in Mayor’s peshi and third person from GHMC head office to test positive during the last four days. However, there is no official confirmation from GHMC about this. His samples were reportedly collected during a mass COVID-19 testing drive conducted exclusively for employees in Mayor’s peshi, after the first positive case in GHMC head office was reported in the Solid Waste Management (SWM) wing. An office subordinate was the first person to be declared positive from Mayor’s peshi on Wednesday, and the second from the GHMC head office. According to details shared by sources, the driver accompanied the Mayor on all his city tours, including his latest one on Thursday morning to Eash Anandbagh and Nagole. Mr. Ram Mohan might need to undergo COVID-19 tests a second time on Friday, following the latest positive from his peshi. He recently tested negative for the infection, and shared the report with general public on his social media account. He got himself tested the first time after concerns were raised about his visit to a cafe in Musheerabad during the recent sanitation drive. A waiter at the cafe had tested positive before Mr. Ram Mohan’s visit. An atmosphere of fear pervades all sections in GHMC, and several employees in the head office did not report for duty on Thursday, in view of rising number of COVID-19 positives, sources informed. Meanwhile, the results of employees from the Sanitation and Health wings, who were tested on Wednesday, are yet to arrive.
12 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||South Central Railway removes 131 manned level crossings||The South Central Railway (SCR) was among the first zones to eliminate all un-manned level crossings (UMLCs) across its entire network by October 2018 and now it has removed 131 manned level crossings too, including four taken up during the lockdown, after constructing limited height subways, road-underbridges and road-overbridge. General Manager Gajanan Mallya said on Thursday that there were a total 1,411 manned level crossings still and divisional officials were asked to ensure 100 % implementation of putting up caution/sign boards with statutory warning indicating mandatory precautions to be observed when the railway gate was kept closed for an approaching train. Proper lighting arrangements and removing encroachments adjacent to the level crossing gates hampering the vision of road users should be taken up. Existing manned crossings would be removed in a phased manner with the cooperation and participation of State governments, he said, in a press release, on the occasion of ‘International Level Crossing Day’.
12 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A peek into the world of pelagic birds||Ever wondered how the sea birds fly days on without getting tired? Or how they quench their thirst or satiate hunger in the vast expanse of nothing but saline water? These and many other aspects of the life of pelagic birds or sea birds were unravelled for birding enthusiasts by renowned birder Deepu Karuthedath through a webinar on the theme ‘Pelagic Birds of India’ organised by Deccan Birders. Major portion of the life of pelagic birds is spent in flight, which curiously does not tire them out due to a special wing locking mechanism in their body. After attaining certain altitude, the birds do not need to flap their wings, and lock them, so that the flight does not exhaust them. Floating objects in the ocean serve as perches for them, which include dead bodies of whales, fish, and also flotsam discarded from human activity. Except for breeding, which they do on isolated islands for protection, the birds rarely approach land. With sharp sense of smell and sight, the avians survive on fish, squid, and krill from the ocean, while a few species also specialise in thieving from other birds! Sadly, plastic covers recklessly thrown into the sea too are consumed some times, mistaken as food. Pelagic birds are endowed with a salt gland in their head, which acts as filter for the extremely saline sea water. After filtering, the salt water is ejected, for some birds through beaks and for some others, through special nostrils above the beak. Mr. Karuthedath, who is a software engineer by profession and birder by passion, delved deep into the native varieties of pelagic birds including storm petrels, shearwaters, boobies, petrels, frigates, tropic birds, skuas and terns and noddies.
12 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. leaders placed under house arrest||Senior Congress leaders of Telangana were placed under house arrest by the police on Thursday, in an attempt to foil the ‘Chalo Secretariat’ call to speak to Ministers on the inflated power bills that saw huge outrage from the consumers. Police vans were parked in front of the residences of TPCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy, Bhongir MP, Komatireddy Venkata Reddy, MLA T. Jagga Reddy, former PCC chiefs, Ponnala Lakshmaiah and V. Hanmanth Rao, former MP Anjan Kumar Yadav, and they were not allowed to move outside. Congress leaders said police gave no reason for blocking them to come out of their residences. Manthani MLA, D. Sreedhar Babu was arrested near Ravindra Bharathi on his way to Assembly premises. Several other leaders across the city were forced to sit in their homes as the police stationed vehicles and men and asked them not to leave their houses or they would be arrested. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy also posted a video of the policemen sitting right in front of his house. Mr. Bhatti Vikramarka wondered why the government was so scared if the Congress party wants to meet the Ministers and represent to them. He said no Chalo Secretariat call was given and all that the party wanted was to meet the Chief Minister and the Ministers to represent to them on the inflated power bills affecting crores of consumers and the rising cases of coronavirus. Revanth Reddy asked the police at his house to take him to Gandhi Hospital in their own vehicles to speak to junior doctors on strike assuring that he would not go to the Secretariat. Hitting out at KCR, Mr. Komatireddy said Telangana was facing a dictatorial rule.
12 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Up to govt. to initiate criminal proceedings against doctors: HC||Telangana High Court on Thursday left it to the government’s discretion to take up criminal action against doctors responsible for the maternal death of a woman from Jogulamba-Gadwal district during lockdown period. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy closed two PIL petitions praying for orders to initiate criminal proceedings against the doctors. Twenty-year-old Jenila, a pregnant woman hailing from the district, went to the Primary Health Centre in Rajoli, complaining abdominal pain on April 23. After being compelled to run from one government hospital to another by doctors who suspected her to be coronavirus patient, the woman delivered a baby boy on April 25 at Petlaburuz government hospital in Old City of Hyderabad. The infant died within a few hours. The woman was shifted to Osmania General Hospital as her condition deteriorated. She died the next day. Two lawyers Sreenitha and K. Kishore Kumar wrote letters to the Chief Justice stating that the maternal death and the death of the child could have been avoided had the doctors responded adequately. They said medical negligence killed the mother and the newborn baby. Taking up the two letters as PIL pleas, the High Court issued notices to the government to explain its stand on the points raised by the lawyers. ‘Six doctors responsible’ Meanwhile, the government conducted a departmental inquiry and found that six doctors of different government hospitals were responsible for the maternal death. In a report presented to the HC, the government said departmental action was being initiated against those doctors. During the hearing of the pleas, the bench headed by the CJ sought to know why criminal proceedings should not be initiated against the doctors since their negligence killed a mother and an infant. Ambulances Following the maternal death case, the government started acting and deployed ambulances along State Highways and National Highways for free transportation of pregnant women to and from hospitals. The government assured, through a series of instructions and review meetings, that all government hospitals would attend on pregnant women irrespective of the ailments they have.  Departmental action being initiated against six doctors. State government
12 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Alert sounded on seasonal diseases||Even as people are struggling with COVID-19 pandemic and the ever-increasing number of positive cases in the city and surrounding districts, doctors sound alert about seasonal diseases with the onset of monsoon. Rainy season is associated with water-logging and stagnant water is a breeding ground for mosquitoes that can cause a host of febrile (fever causing) illnesses such as malaria, filaria, dengue and chikungunya, says Aftab Ahmed, senior consultant physician at Apollo Hospital, Secunderabad. Come monsoon, there is a steep spurt in the number of these cases and every year, thousands of people fall prey to these infections. While malaria has a specific treatment, dengue and chikungunya are mostly treated symptomatically. There is no vaccine for these diseases and thus prevention is the only strategy, Dr. Ahmed says. He added that change in weather can precipitate asthma and sinus problems. However, with regard to COVID-19, it is not known how temperature and humidity can influence transmission in India. The expected drop in COVID cases in the State and country at large was not witnessed in summer and one may or may not see the surge in monsoon.
12 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Hyderabad students in pause mode for online classes||A surge in demand of computers and peripherals and disruption in supply chain has upset the plans of many students from accessing online classes. “There are no webcams. We have visited almost all the shops here but they are not available,” said a Class IX student who came with her father to make a purchase at Chinoy Trade Centre. Their home computer doesn’t have a webcam, which is in great demand for online classes. A large number of students faced a similar dilemma at Chinoy Trade Centre, which is a hub of sales of computers, laptops and a range of computer peripherals in the city. Presently, the students are making do with cellphones. Plug-in headphones, mics, webcams and a few branded computers and laptops have disappeared from the market. “There is a 30-40% increase in sales and in demand. But we have run out of supplies. Most of the computer goods are manufactured in China and that supply chain has been disrupted,” said Sunil Kumar of Saraf Computers. “Most of the customers now are school students and their parents. But we are helpless. The situation hopefully will ease by September,” said Mr. Kumar. Outside the shop, customers almost bounced off each other moving from one shop to the other without a care for social distancing. The computer market is popular for a variety of reasons, including the choice, lower prices, as well as the option to tweak computer configurations according to needs. “We have been seeing this increase in demand over the past 15 days. The prices have also gone up as there are doubts about supplies. Even movement of goods from Mumbai and Delhi has been affected by lockdown,” said Sandeep of Shweta Computers. Online stores are of little help as the choice is limited to higher priced models and the delivery time is a week or fortnight for webcams.
12 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||5-year-old dies after falling into pit||Lack of safety measures at a construction site claimed the life of a five-year-old boy at Meerpet here on Thursday. Nenavath Manoj, who was playing with his elder brother and a few friends, accidentally fell into a pit filled with rainwater and drowned. The incident took place around 11 a.m. in New Nandi Hills in the area. The victim, whose father Nenavath Ramesh is an auto rickshaw driver, was in LKG at a private school. The pit had been dug by the colony association for construction of a community hall, and the work was reportedly suspended due to coronavirus lockdown. No barricades or signage were put to keep people away. “The pillar pit was filled with water after Wednesday’s rains. While playing with his friends and seven-year-old brother, Manoj fell into the pit and drowned. Soon, his brother rushed home and called his mother, but by then the boy lost his life,” Meerpet police said. A case of suspicious death was registered and the body was sent to Osmania General Hospital for autopsy.
12 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two die after seizures in separate incidents||A 38-year-old tailor suffered a bout of seizures and died at Abdullapurmet here on Thursday. Bolloju Praveen, a native of Warangal district, was working at a clothes unit in Batasingaram village near Abdullapurmet. According to the police, the victim’s wife, Bolloju Pallavi, got a call from the former’s friend Santosh, stating that her husband had suffered seizures and died on the spot. Based on her complaint, a case was registered. In a similar case, a ‘homeless’ person who suffered epileptic fits at Malakpet on Monday, died while undergoing treatment at Osmania General Hospital on Thursday . Dial 100 call On Monday, police received a Dial 100 call stating that a man, aged between 40 and 45 years, had suffered seizures and was lying unconscious on the footpath opposite Moosarambagh bus-stop. “A patrol team rushed to the spot and shifted the unidentified person to Osmania General Hospital (OGH) for treatment, where he died while undergoing treatment,” said Malakpet sub-inspector (SI) of police Jyothi.
12 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man held on charge of stalking woman online||The Cyber Crime unit of the Rachakonda police on Thursday arrested a 23-year-old graphic designer from Jammalamadugu in Kadapa for creating a fake social media account of a woman and sending derogatory and objectionable messages to her friends and family members. The cyber stalker Nadhindla Rohit Aryan created the account to defame her in society, police said. WhatsApp group Following a complaint lodged by the victim, a case was registered and Aryan was arrested for gathering technical evidence. “In 2017, the accused and the victim had worked at a private firm in Punjagutta where he got acquaintance with her. For the past six months, differences had cropped up between them and she stopped responding to his calls and started avoiding him,” Cyber Crime Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) S Harinath said. As a result, Aryan nursed grudge against the woman and decided to take revenge on her by creating a WhatsApp group and posted vulgar and derogatory text messages, about the woman, the ACP said
12 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Crop drying platforms in all villages soon||The Cabinet Sub-Committee on Agriculture has recommended construction of harvesting/drying yards (platforms) in all villages in 32 districts to prevent farmers occupying roads to dry their produce causing obstruction to the free movement of vehicular traffic and also leading to accidents sometimes. Headed by Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy the sub-committee also comprises Ministers T. Harish Rao (Finance), G. Jagadish Reddy (Energy) and E. Dayakar Rao (Panchayat Raj and Rural Development). The meeting held here on Thursday was also attended by Secretary (Agriculture) B. Janardhan Reddy. The sub-committee has observed that farmers were occupying roads to harvest and dry their crops and to overcome the problem of lack of ‘kallalu’ (harvesting yards/drying platforms) felt that there is a need to construct the platforms in all villages and hamlets under the MGNREGS. The committee has come to an understanding that platforms with 45 square meters area on the raised bed of 45 cm height would serve the purpose and construction of each of such platforms was estimated to cost about Rs. 46,000. Recommendation of the sub-committee would be taken to Chief Minister’s notice for approval. The sub-committee has also estimated that cultivation of paddy would be taken up in about 45 lakh acres during 2020-21 in Vaanakalam and Yasangi crop seasons together.
12 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Heavy rain likely in city||The Southwest monsoon finally set in over Telangana on Thursday morning with heavy rain reported in most parts even though there was not much rain in the twin cities. The forecast for Friday is generally cloudy sky with rain or heavy rain for the twin cities and most parts of the State. Mahabubabad received the highest 14 cm, Hanamkonda received 12 cm, Yadagirigutta 11 cm, Warangal 11 cm, Khammam 9 cm. Hyderabad recorded a maximum temperature of 28.4 degrees C, a steep seven degrees falland minimum of 23 degrees C.
12 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cement firms told to reduce price||The State government has asked the cement companies to reduce the prices of cement in the light of slowdown in the market. Ministers K.T. Rama Rao and V. Prashant Reddy, accompanied by senior officials led by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, interacted with the representatives of the cement companies. Mr. Rama Rao told the representatives that on the lines of other sectors which faced difficulties due to impact of coronavirus, the real estate sector too is facing problems post-lockdown. There is a need to extend a helping hand to the sector and the government is therefore seeking cooperation of the cement companies in bringing down the prices so that real estate picks up momentum. The cement companies’ representatives responded positively to the government’s request. They assured that they would hold internal discussions for finalising the quantum of reduction of price per bag and communicate the same to the government within a week. The cement companies which agreed to provide a bag of cement for Rs. 230 for construction of 2BHK agreed to extend the concession for three more years for government projects.
12 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||10 policemen from Banjara Hills PS positive||In an alarming development, 10 policemen from the Banjara Hills police station tested positive for coronavirus. The news has sent shock waves across the city police since this is the first time such a large number of contingent from a single police station has tested positive. Speaking to The Hindu , a police officer said that the patients include a Sub-Inspector (SI) and nine constables. “The health officials have collected swabs from 30 personnel of whom 10 tested positive,” the officer said. While a few of them with symptoms were sent to Gandhi Hospital for isolation, others were home quarantined.
12 June 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Farming operations begin in old Nizamabad dist.||Agricultural activity in the district has started with farmers getting busy with sowing operations and with monsoon rains lashing across the integrated undivided district since the last 24 hours. Rain brought cheer to people in general and farmers in particular. Day temperatures considerably fell down giving relief from the sultry summer. Rain lashed Kammarpally, Armoor, Balkonda, Bodhan, Bheemgal, Bodhan, Dichpally, Nizamabad city and rural last night. An average of 14 mm rainfall was recorded in the district. In Kamareddy district, 36 mm rainfall was recorded. It rained heavily in Gandari, Domakonda, Biknoor and Sadasivanagar mandals too. Meanwhile, reports reaching here said that most of the farmers are sowing regular ID crops such as maize, despite the State government advised them not to grow it as a major crop in the kharif. They are sowing it as an inter-crop in turmeric as well separate crop. Farmers somehow are disinterested to raise cotton, redgram and soyabean saying that the soil is not suitable to them. They apparently do not care the government's warning that they would have to lose the farm investment under Rythu Bandhu if they do not heed the advice. Farmers of Armoor and Nizamabad divisions are planting turmeric as that is their traditional crop. Sivakumar, a farmer in Mupkal mandal says he wants to reduce maize sowing at least by 20% this year and would like to raise soyabean. However, he adds that soyabean seed is not available and authorities failed to supply sufficient quantity of seed. As a result, he purchased the seed from private agents. “Generally, farmers grow thin varieties of paddy in kharif -- and as regards this crop -- there is no dispute with government advisory. However, there is no guarantee for profitable price as the Central government decided to implement One Nation One Market,” argued a farmer, Sagar Reddy, of Sirikonda. Moreover, some farmers of Navipet and Sirikonda said that they do not want to take the risk sowing soya as its seed failed in the district last year. Redgram is raised in a negligible area in the district while cotton is limited to Jukkal constituency where the CCI purchases it. Thus, by and large, farmers have tilted towards the traditional crops rather than the crops advised by the government.
12 June 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||DDS wins environmental award||The Deccan Development Society (DDS) has won the Prince Albert II of Monaco Foundation Award for the year 2020. This is in recognition of “the individuals who dedicate their actions and organisations for their deep commitment to preserving our planet, in each of the Foundation’s three priority areas: limiting the effects of climate change, preserving biodiversity, managing water resources and fighting against desertification.” In a global teleconference that took place on Thursday the award of 40,000 Euros (approximately Rs. 35 lakh) was announced by Prince Albert II of Monaco Foundation vice-president and CEO Olivier Wenden.
12 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,TELANGANA||‘Reclaim ceiling surplus land from LG Polymers’||Social activist and former IAS officer E.A.S. Sarma asked the AP State government why it has not yet reclaimed the ceiling surplus land under the possession of LG Polymers at R.R. Venkatapuram in the city, and sought an independent probe into the issue. In a representation to Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, the former IAS officer cited the letter dated May 14 he had addressed to the Special Chief Secretaryand the Chief Commissioner of Land Administration regarding the need for taking possession of the land in question, and regretted that no action had been initiated in this regard so far. “If no step has been taken in that direction, the State should order an independent investigation into the circumstances that led to the lapse and the culpability of the politicians and officers so that stringent action can be initiated against them,” Mr. Sarma observed.
12 June 2020||Balrampur (U.P.),||Man dies outside govt. office, body removed in garbage van||The body of a man, who collapsed and died outside a government office in Balrampur, was removed from there in a garbage collection van, prompting the district administration to suspend seven, including three policemen, officials said on Thursday. The incident took place on Wednesday with its videos surfacing soon after on social media, purportedly showing four municipal workers dumping the body in the van as a couple of policemen watched it standing nearby.  ‘Insensitive incident’ Balrampur police, which described the incident as insensitive and regrettable, said Superintendent of Police Dev Ranjan Verma has suspended a Sub-Inspector and two Constables, holding them prima facie guilty. The district administration suspended four municipal workers too, involved in the episode, which has drawn serious criticism. A Sub-Inspector and two Constables who are seen in the now viral video have been prima facie held guilty. They have been suspended with immediate effect. The district administration has also suspended four municipal workers, the Balrampur police tweeted. A detailed probe has also been launched in the case with a Deputy Collector and a Police Circle Officer being entrusted with the investigation, it said. Necessary action would be taken on the probe report, the police added.
12 June 2020||BERHAMPUR,||‘Protect rights of Odia migrant workers in Surat’||A delegation of ‘Prabasi Odia Samaj Trust’, an organisation for migrant Odia workers in Gujarat’s Surat, has reached Odisha’s Ganjam district to press on the State government to protect their rights when they return back to textile mills in Surat again. Since Wednesday, the 18- member delegation of this organisation on a four-day visit to Ganjam is moving around villages that have returned migrant workers. “We have also requested the Odisha government to depute a nodal officer in Surat to coordinate with the Gujarat government for the well-being of Odia migrant workers,” said Pradip Kumar Sahoo, president of the organisation. According to Mr. Sahoo, till now there is no documentation of Odia migrant workers who serve textile mills in Surat. Most of them are from Ganjam district. So, the organisation wants all Odia migrant workers to be registered under the labour department of Odisha as skilled or unskilled workers before they again get back to Surat in search of employment. Without documentation, their plight in Surat remains unnoticed by both the Odisha and the Gujarat governments, said Mr. Sahoo. According to him, around seven lakh Odia migrant workers were in Surat before the start of COVID-19 pandemic and 40% of them are still there. Odia migrant workers serving textile mills have no job security and prescribed wages.
12 June 2020||Bhopal,||Students protest against hostel takeover for quarantine facility||Students of the Maulana Azad National Institute of Technology (MANIT) and the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) here are protesting against their institutions’ hostels being converted into quarantine centres during the COVID-19 pandemic, fearing loss of belongings and a blow to academics and placements. The Bhopal district administration towards May-end acquired seven of the nine hostels at the MANIT and two of the seven at the IISER, using powers conferred by COVID-19 regulations under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1857. Both the Central institutions had to break padlocks, empty rooms and move belongings of hundreds of students elsewhere, even as they remained away at home across the country with the academic session stalled in view of the lockdown. “When the lockdown was declared, we left in a hurry carrying with us only a few items,” said a third-year engineering student at MANIT, requesting anonymity. “So our laptops, certificates and bike keys were all left behind. The institute hasn’t given us an assurance that they will keep them safe.” Further, the student feared academics and job placements would be affected too. “We don’t know for how long the pandemic will last and our institute will continue to be a quarantine centre,” he said. Hundreds of students have taken to Twitter to demand the suspension of the takeover.  ‘Exempt us’ MANIT Dean, Students Welfare, J.L. Bhagoria said the institute had appealed to the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development to exempt it from being made into a quarantine centre. “We can’t deny any order of the government, but moving belongings of around 5,000 students is a task. Hostel wardens have kept the belongings safe inside almirahs, “ he said.
12 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Maintain strict social distancing, says Naveen||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday urged the people of the State to strictly maintain social distancing during celebration of the three-day-long Raja, an annual mass festival beginning on Saturday. Quoting the Chief Minister’s message, State government’s chief spokesperson for COVID-19 Subroto Bagchi asked people not to put their lives at risk during the festival and avoid crowded places. “The festival will come every year, but no one should put his life at stake by violating social distancing norms and disobeying the rule of mandatory use of mask and prohibition of spitting at public places,” said Mr. Bagchi. He also said that municipal authorities and police will keep a close watch at crowding in shops and market places and violators will be taken to task. 136 new cases As many as 136 new COVID-19 positive cases were detected in the last 24 hours in the State taking the total to 3,386. The 136 new cases include 54 personnel of National Disaster Response Force and Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force who were in quarantine after returning from West Bengal where they were engaged in restoration work in areas hit by Cyclone Amphan.
12 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Alleged bid to poison policeman in Punjab||A local court In Ludhiana on Thursday extended the police remand by one more day of three persons accused of attempting to murder a constable deployed at a quarantine centre in Ludhiana, the police said. The three accused, identified as Gunia, Gaurav and Bunny, were arrested on June 9. “The accused were impersonating as eunuchs and had allegedly poisoned a drinking water tank at a quarantine centre in Krishna Colony of Jodhewal Basti,” Station House Officer Arshpreet Kaur told The Hindu . Ms. Kaur said that Constable Gurpinder Singh in his complaint stated that on June 9, while he was on duty he went to drink water, where on opening the tap he noticed foul smell. He got suspicious and checked the water tank, in which the water apparently seemed toxic. As he investigated the matter, nearby residents disclosed that they had seen the three accused near the water tank, adding something into it.  Revenge angle Ms. Kaur said the motive behind the crime apparently was to take revenge from Constable Gurpinder Singh, who was instrumental in the arrest of Jatinder Singh Pappi, the brother of accused Gunia.
12 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||82 new cases in Punjab||Punjab recorded 82 fresh COVID-19 cases and four deaths on Thursday, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 2,887. The patients who died were from Amritsar, Sangrur and Jalandhar districts. The major chunk of new cases, 18 and 14 were reported from Ludhiana and Amritsar districts respectively.
12 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||Aspiring teachers in U.P. stuck in a quagmire of litigation||Who was the originator of the Nath Panth cult? When Rahul Yadav of Hathras encountered this question in January 2019 in an examination for recruitment of 69,000 assistant teachers in Uttar Pradesh, he confidently ticked ‘Gorakhnath’ as the answer. His conviction was based on the Class VI book on Indian icons certified by the State Council of Educational Research and Training. However, to his shock, the answer key published soon after revealed “Matsyendranath” as the correct option. He raised objection as per procedure but the amended answer key did not feature his grievances. The result was declared. Mr. Yadav scored 89 out of 150 marks, falling short by one (cut off for OBC candidates was 90) to qualify for the next stage of recruitment. Had it not been for a dozen-odd such disputed, incorrect and ambiguous questions and answers, he believes he would have been in the reckoning for counselling. Rather, 1.5 years after the exam, Mr. Yadav is embroiled in a litigation battle in the Allahabad High Court, which on June 3 put a stay on the recruitment process on writs filed by candidates challenging the results citing discrepancies in the answer key. The court referred the provisional answer key to experts appointed by the UGC.  ‘Not among choices’ On the specific question on Nath Panth, the petitioners’ argued that when the same was asked in the Trained Graduate Teacher exam, Gorakhnath was listed as the right option while Matsyandranath was not even among the four choices. “I belive it was a deliberate attempt to fail me,” alleged Mr. Yadav. “Since 2013, I have been waiting for this appointment. But for no fault of ours, we have been hanging, running from court to court. Why does the government bring faulty orders and answer keys that forces us to go to court?” Another candidate from Moradabad scored 87 marks, falling three short. One of the contentious questions he faced was on the first President of the Constituent Assembly of India. Like many candidates, he answered Dr. Rajendra Prasad but the answer key said it was Dr. Sachidananda Sinha. In court, one of the petitioners cited authoritative text and the official Lok Sabha website in favour of Dr. Prasad. Also, when the same question was asked in the 2011 PCS Judicial exam, Sachidananda Mishra was not even an option, they argued. The Moradabad candidate, a Dalit, desperately needs a job as his father is retired and he has a sister to get marry off. But the litigation process has demoralized him. “A student who graduates at 22 is stuck in filling forms and petitions till the age of 30. When will he start earning and plan for his future,” he asked.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Winged invasion||
12 June 2020||Mumbai,||BJP hits back, says Pawar giving wrong info on foreign varsities||The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday attacked Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, alleging that Mr. Pawar was purposely misleading people with wrong information about foreign universities such as Oxford and Cambridge cancelling their examinations. “These universities are holding examinations online. Even IIT Delhi is set to conduct online exams. Our education pattern is different from that of foreign countries. We have the final paper of 100 marks, and therefore, not holding the exams would go against the merit of students,” BJP leader and former higher and technical education minister Vinod Tawde said. The BJP’s reaction comes a day after Mr. Pawar snubbed Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari over his interference in the State government’s decision to not conduct the final year university examinations. Mr. Tawde referred to the NCP chief’s statement at a press conference in Ratnagiri’s Dapoli town on Wednesday, where Higher and Technical Education minister Uday Samant was present. “A number of well-known universities in India, foreign universities like Oxford, and many private universities have cancelled examinations. If private universities too are taking a similar decision, then I do not think any such decision taken by the State government is wrong. Honourable Governor may have more knowledge in this subject and that’s why he must be saying differently,” Mr. Pawar had said. Mr. Tawde said he does not believe that the NCP chief was misinformed about Oxford University. “It is intriguing to know what purpose Mr. Pawar wants to serve by giving wrong information and safeguarding a minister at fault,” he said. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has already announced that the final year examinations will not be conducted owing to the COVID-19 pandemic and has even offered an option of appearing for the exams in October to those who may want to improve their grades. For others, average marks or grades of last seven semesters will be given as final score. The State has been saying that holding the examinations for a few lakh students by maintaining physical distancing will not be possible and students could be exposed to the threat of the virus. Mr. Koshyari, along with Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh-affiliated Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad is against the decision, with the Governor hinting that it is his domain to take the final call.
12 June 2020||Mumbai,||‘Woman has indefeasible claim to natural guardianship of child’||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday upheld an order passed by a family court granting a minor child’s custody to his mother and said, “woman has an indefeasible claim to natural guardianship of her child”. A single Bench of Justice S.C. Gupte was hearing a petition filed by a man challenging an order passed by the family court, Pune, on an interim application made by him. The application had sought an interim custody of their minor son and also an interim injunction on the woman from taking the boy out of India. Since the application was rejected, he moved the HC. The couple had met in 2008 and were in a romantic relationship over 2011 and 2012, and their son was born in December 2012. The woman was staying with their son in a flat jointly owned by the couple, while the man was staying with his parents and his son from his marriage in Pune.  Access denied The man would visit his minor son three to four times a week when he used to be with the woman. However, since June 2018, the woman denied the man access to the child. The man contended that the woman was mentally unfit to take care of their son, and she had applied to the Foreigner Regional Registration Office for an exit visa for their son in order to go to New Zealand as the mother-son duo were citizens of that country. The woman said that the man had not accepted their marriage and that he abandoned her when she was pregnant. She also said that the man had never looked after the child and that she had single-handedly brought him up. The woman said the child had autism spectrum disorder and she had admitted him to a reputed school in New Zealand. She further said that New Zealand was free of COVID-19 and that moving there was in the best interest of the child. Illegitimate child The High Court said at the very outset, it must be noted that the man himself had come before the court with a case that the minor child was born not out of a wedlock but out of a romantic relationship. In other words, it was his own case that the son was an illegitimate child. If that is so, the court said, it was difficult to see how the man, who claimed to be his putative biological father, could claim the custody of the child over his biological mother. The Bench said, “The woman has an indefeasible claim to natural guardianship of her child. There is no case in law for the man to claim guardianship or custody of the child over her.” Rejecting the man’s claim that the woman is of unsound mind, Justice Gupte said the material did not even prima facie imply the woman’s “unsoundness of mind” or “her incapacity to look after her own child”. While dismissing the petition, the HC noted that the family court order had fairly and adequately addressed prima facie merits of the case as also the question of balance of convenience.
12 June 2020||Mumbai,||CM urged to hold meeting to finalise names||The Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) have urged Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to hold a meeting of the three ruling parties at the earliest to finalise the names of 12 members for their nomination to the Legislative Council. The parties said that the names should be finalised soon as they need to be recommended to Governor B.S. Koshyari for their nomination. According to a source, Maharashtra Congress president Balasaheb Thorat and State NCP chief Jayant Patil have recently requested the CM to convene a meeting. “However, no decision has been taken so far,” the source said. Eight members of the Upper House retired on June 6, while two others are set to retire on June 15 and 16. Two NCP members, whose term also ended on June 6, had quit to join the BJP last year. However, the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is yet to take a decision on finalising the names. A senior Congress leader said, “It has already been decided during the formation of the MVA government that each of the three parties will get four members each. But the Sena is now asking for five seats, which we will not agree at any cost.” The Congress leader expressed hope that the meeting to finalise the names of the members will be held soon although Mr. Thackeray is busy in handling the COVID-19 situation in the State and providing relief to the people from coastal parts affected by cyclone Nisarga. “Finalising the names of the Governor appointees is very important. The Cabinet needs to make recommendation to the Governor soon,” he said. Meanwhile, Congress ministers in the State held a meeting to discuss the probable candidates to be nominated to the Council . “The other issues discussed were development works in the constituencies of Congress MLAs and appointments to the State boards and corporations,” a party minister said. Congress ministers had also met on Wednesday to discuss the policy decisions of departments, held by the party ministers, being taken without taking them into confidence.
12 June 2020||Mumbai,||Three city colleges now under second cluster varsity in State||Three city colleges have been brought under the ambit of Maharashtra’s second cluster university, unveiled on Thursday. The launch of the H.S.N.C. University, Mumbai, was announced by Hyderabad (Sind) National Collegiate University Board (HSNC) provost Niranjan Hiranandani, taking the H.R. College of Commerce, K.C. College and Bombay Teacher’s Training College under its fold. It was unveiled through videoconferencing by Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and State Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad. “It is an unprecedented situation to be launching it online, but we did not want to postpone education due to the pandemic,” Mr. Hiranandani said. The university is gearing up to begin its admission process for students and will roll out guidelines by the end of June. It received clearance under the Centre’s higher education funding programme, the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA), in January this year. Principal of K.C. College, Dr. Hemlata Bagla, said at present, they are awaiting Higher Secondary School examination results, which are expected by the month-end. “Once the results are out, the admission guidelines will be published online,” she said.
12 June 2020||Pune,||PM’s optimism on resurgent Indian economy ‘unrealistic’, says Chavan||Direct cash transfers were imperative to cushion the livelihoods of financially distressed people from the ravages of the novel coronavirus pandemic, former Maharashtra Chief Minister and senior Congressman Prithviraj Chavan said on Thursday. He also questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s optimism on the resurgence of the economy and said it was “unrealistic”. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Chavan said: “The Prime Minister is being ridiculously sanguine when he talks of his government bringing the economy back on track this financial year. This flies in the face of bleak forecasts by international credit rating agencies as well as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor.” Mr. Chavan said despite credit agencies predicting negative growth and a downturn for the first time in 40 years of India’s economy, the Prime Minister was saying exactly the opposite. The former Maharashtra chief minister was alluding to the Prime Minister’s June 2 speech at the annual session of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) where he had spoken of the country getting its growth back. “The need of the hour is for the Centre to inject massive cash injection via direct benefit transfer into the accounts of small farmers, labourers and other financially backward sections to increase their spending capacity, ” Mr. Chavan said. He also warned of anarchy and disorder if the poor were not helped immediately with direct cash transfers, as a majority of the industries were still closed. “A fraction of the Centre’s recent stimulus package of Rs. 20 lakh crore has been earmarked for cash transfer, which is wholly inadequate. It proves that the Centre is totally divorced from reality. In this bleak scenario, the Centre must print notes, borrow credit and do everything possible to put money into people’s pockets to get the economy buzzing,” Mr. Chavan said. Noting that the industry was currently in distress and that people’s spending capacity was significantly reduced, he said direct cash transfers were not impractical given that the United States, the United Kingdom and other countries were doing the same. He observed that credit rating agencies, including Moody’s, had not downgraded India’s rating only because of the slowdown induced by the Covid-19 pandemic, but because of the manner in which the economy was handled in the past few years. “The agencies had said that the downgrading of the economy had begun right from the Centre’s demonetisation policy and its GST implementation. In fact, under the Modi regime, the economy has been plummeting in the past six years,” Mr. Chavan said.
12 June 2020||Pune,||Farmer leader Raju Shetti may get berth in Council||A confidential meeting between Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and minister Jayant Patil and Swabhimani Paksha chief Raju Shetti has triggered speculation of Mr. Shetti being offered a seat in the Legislative Council from the Governor’s quota, with the NCP’s backing. Speaking to The Hindu ,Mr. Shetti confirmed the development and said while his followers are eager to see him as an MLC in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, he is yet to formally announce his decision. “Mr. Patil met me in Shirol [in Kolhapur] a couple of days ago and told me that NCP chief Sharad Pawar was keen on having me as part of the MVA government. I have relayed this to my party leaders and workers. While they are of the opinion that I accept, I will announce my decision very soon,” the farmer leader said. Sources said Mr. Shetti is likely to announce his decision on Friday. After his defeat in the Lok Sabha polls in May last year, Mr. Shetti, a former two-time MP from Hatkanangale in Kolhapur, was left somewhat adrift in the political wilderness. After winning the Shirol Assembly seat as an Independent in 2004, Mr. Shetti had trumped the NCP’s MP, Nivedita Mane, in the 2009 general elections, to win by a margin of more than 95,000 votes. In 2014, he allied his party with the BJP and was re-elected by an even greater margin of 1.77 lakh votes. However, since Mr. Shetti severed ties with the BJP-led NDA in August 2017, he had been a vociferous critic of the Narendra Modi and the Devendra Fadnavis governments at the Centre and in the State. Before the 2019 parliamentary elections, Mr. Shetti had cast his lot with Mr. Pawar’s NCP instead. But the new alliance proved costly with Mr. Shetti’s seemingly sure grip on Hatkanangale undercut by the Shiv Sena’s youthful Dhairyasheel Mane, who defeated him to snare the vital constituency in Kolhapur. According to Swabhimani Paksha sources, the party had a kind of quid pro quo arrangement with the NCP, who had secured Mr. Shetti’s support before the Lok Sabha polls. “After he was defeated in the general elections, we had hoped that the NCP would compensate Mr. Shetti by helping to send him to the Rajya Sabha given his experience as an MP, but that unfortunately did not happen,” said a senior Swabhimani Paksha leader, requesting anonymity. He further said Mr. Shetti’s acceptance of the NCP’s new ‘offer’ would only stand to benefit the party and help strengthen its base in western Maharashtra — a fact acknowledged by Mr. Shetti himself.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Shopping under the sky||
12 June 2020||WASHINGTON,||Trump targets ICC with sanctions over Afghanistan war crimes case||U.S. President Donald Trump on Thursday issued an executive order authorising sanctions against individuals involved in an International Criminal Court (ICC) investigation into whether U.S. forces committed war crimes in Afghanistan. A senior White House official, without providing details, said the ICC probe is “being pushed forward by an organisation of dubious integrity” and accused Russia of having a role. The order authorises Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, in consultation with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, to block assets in the U.S. of ICC employees involved in the probe, the official said. It also authorises Mr. Pompeo to block entry into the U.S. of these individuals. Mr. Trump has repeatedly assailed The Hague-based ICC set-up to prosecute war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity. It has jurisdiction only if a member state is unable or unwilling to prosecute atrocities itself. Afghanistan is a member of the ICC, though Kabul has argued that any war crimes should be prosecuted locally. The U.S. government has never been a member of the court, established in 2002. The government imposed travel restrictions and other sanctions against ICC employees a year ago. The ICC decided to investigate after prosecutors’ preliminary examination in 2017 found reasonable grounds to believe war crimes were committed in Afghanistan and that the ICC has jurisdiction. The senior administration official said the directive authorises sanctions against any individual directly engaged in any effort by the ICC to investigate U.S. personnel without American consent. ‘Mass killings’ The official said the probe threatens to infringe on U.S. sovereignty and that while the ICC was established to provide accountability, “in practice the court is an unaccountable, ineffective and out-of-control international bureaucracy that threatens American service members and intelligence officers. ICC prosecutor Fatou Bensouda wants to investigate possible crimes committed between 2003 and 2014, including alleged mass killings of civilians by the Taliban, as well as the alleged torture of prisoners by Afghan authorities and, to a lesser extent, by U.S. forces and the CIA.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Who killed Sweden’s Olof Palme?||Close to midnight on February 28, 1986, Sweden’s Prime Minister Olof Palme and his wife Lisbet were walking to a metro station after watching a movie with their son and his girlfriend at Stockholm’s Grand Cinema. Palme had already dismissed his security for the day. While crossing the central Stockholm street Sveavagen, they came under attack. He was shot in the back at close range. At the Sabbatsberg Hospital, Palme, who was 59, was pronounced dead on arrival. Lisbet survived. Palme’s murder had been the most high-profile mystery in Scandinavia, a region known for its top-quality crime fiction. Palme, a long-time protégé of Tage Erlander, who ruled Sweden from 1946 to 1969, led the Swedish Social Democratic Workers Party from 1969 until his assassination. Since 1986, several investigators followed multiple leads, interviewed hundreds of people, tested several hypotheses. Current Prime Minister Stefan Löfven called the case an “open wound” in Swedish society. Thirty-four years later, on June 10, the Swedish police held a press conference and announced that they finally know who the killer is. No dearth of enemies With his support for anti-colonial movements and strong opposition towards the apartheid regime in South Africa, Palme was a controversial Prime Minister. A vocal critic of both the U.S. and the Soviet Union, he was a champion of the non-alignment movement. He headed the privy council government (in which the King had greater powers) from 1969 to 1976 and later returned to power in 1982 to head the Cabinet government. In 1975, Prime Minister Palme visited Fidel Castro’s isolated communist island. In Santiago, Cuba’s second largest city, he shared stage with Castro and lauded the island’s revolutionaries. “Long live the solidarity of the peoples! Long live this free and independent Cuba,” Palme said in his concluding remarks. Palme had no dearth of enemies. He had openly supported the African National Congress, which was fighting the apartheid regime. Right-wing groups within Sweden were opposed to him because they thought he was too leftist. He supported the Prague Spring, the uprising in Czechoslovakia and attacked the Soviet Union’s intervention in the country in 1968. He slammed the U.S.’s sanctions on Salvador Allende’s socialist government in Chile and Sweden continued to provide aide to the South American country. And Palme was one of the most vocal critics of the U.S.’s war in Vietnam. Conspiracy theories Conspiracy theories were galore. In January 1986, a year after the murder, journalist Stieg Larsson, who would posthumously acquire global fame for his Millennium trilogy, delivered a 30-page memo to the police about the alleged role of a middle man, who had close ties with the Swedish, South African and American intelligence agencies. Police took Larsson’s memo seriously and were exploring the theory that South African intelligence got him killed through the help of local right-wing groups. Another theory was that the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), the Kurdish militia group fighting the Turkish state, was behind the killing. Palme’s government had termed the PKK a terrorist group. But the investigation reached nowhere. In December 1988, Christer Pettersson, a drug addict and local criminal, was arrested and charged with the murder. But the prosecutors failed to prove the motive. Nor did they find the murder weapon. Pettersson was freed by an appeals court exactly a year later. Authorities continued to believe that Pettersson was the killer until a new chief prosecutor officially stated in 2018 that it was not Christer Pettersson who killed Prime Minister Palme. The ‘Skandia Man’ The new chief prosecutor, Krister Petersson, had shifted the probe to the material linked to the crime scene and those who were present at the time of the attack. They found contradictions in the statements made by one of the early witnesses — Stig Engstrom, a graphic designer known as the “Skandia Man” because he had worked at the insurance company, Skandia. Engstrom was working in an office that’s close to the crime scene. He had been trained in military and had access to guns. He was also critical of Palme’s leadership. The police say the statements he made as a witness were not corroborated by the other witnesses. For example, he had told the police that he had given first aid to the injured Palme immediately after the attack. None of the witnesses recalled this account. Based on his statements and those of other witnesses, the police concluded that Engstrom was the killer. Engstrom committed suicide in 2000. There won’t be any prosecution. The police have no new forensic evidence to offer. The murder weapon is still not found. They haven’t established the motive either. But the case is closed.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Statue of Jefferson Davis toppled||Protesters toppled a statue of Jefferson Davis, the President of the Confederate States of America during the Civil War, in Richmond, Virginia, on Wednesday night, as demonstrators across the country continued to target symbols of white supremacy after the death of George Floyd. Demonstrators knocked down the statue at about 11 p.m., according to the Richmond Times-Dispatch , and local news reports showed photographs of it lying on the street, with the police nearby before a tow truck carted it away. The statue was among a number of prominent Confederate monuments that had stood on Monument Avenue in Richmond, which was once the capital of the Confederacy. It came down one week after Mayor Levar Stoney of Richmond said that he would propose an ordinance to remove all four Confederate monuments that the city controls along Monument Avenue. Mr. Stoney said he would introduce the Bill on July 1, when a new state law goes into effect giving local governments the authority to remove the monuments on their own. In 2018, a commission appointed by Mr. Stoney recommended that the Davis monument be removed and replaced with a new statue. Floyd protests The statue came down amid a national reckoning over racist imagery and emblems fuelled by the protests that have erupted after the death of Floyd, a black man in Minneapolis, who was killed after a white police officer knelt on his neck for nearly nine minutes. Across the country, at least 10 monuments to Confederates or other controversial historical figures have been removed, and people have challenged similar monuments in more than 20 cities.NY Times
12 June 2020||Bratislava,||Teacher killed in stabbing attack at Slovakia school||A teacher died in a stabbing attack in an elementary school in central Slovakia on Thursday, police said, adding that officers responding to the incident killed the assailant. Police identified the killer as a 22-year old male, a former student of the school in the town of Vrutky, some 180 km northeast of the capital Bratislava. The assailant stabbed and killed the deputy principal and injured several others, including a female teacher and two children. Officers opened fire on the man, killing him around 200 m from the school. “He broke the glass door to get in, the staff tried to stop him and he used a knife he had brought with him,” Slovak police chief Milan Lucansky said on his official Facebook page. “He dealt a lethal injury to a deputy principal and injured the caretaker, then he got inside the building where he caused a serious injury to a female teacher and then injured two kids with multiple stab wounds,” he said. “He then tried to escape with the caretaker running after him. A policeman chased him, but he tried to defend himself with the knife so they used their guns and killed him.” Police had no immediate comment about the motives of the attacker. The injured were taken to a hospital in the nearby city of Martin. Prime Minister Igor Matovic conveyed his “sincere condolences” to the family of the victim. The Interior Minister was flying to the scene, Mr. Matovic told journalists.
12 June 2020||Beijing,||Harvard study full of holes: China||Beijing on Thursday criticised a preliminary study by U.S. researchers suggesting the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) may have been circulating in China since August 2019, calling it proof of a disinformation campaign. The virus first emerged late last year in the central city of Wuhan, but the U.S. has repeatedly accused China of a lack of transparency about the outbreak and its origins. The new paper by researchers at Harvard and Boston universities analysed photos of parking lots at Wuhan hospitals and search trends on the Chinese search engine Baidu. The team led by Elaine Nsoesie at Boston University said they found “a steep increase in volume starting in August 2019” at Wuhan hospital parking lots, “culminating with a peak in December 2019.” The authors said that while they could not definitively confirm that the data they documented was linked to the virus, it supported conclusions reached by other research suggesting that the virus began circulating earlier than the first reported cases at the end of 2019. But China's Foreign Ministry criticised the paper as “full of holes” and “crudely manufactured.” U.S. blamed Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said she believed the study was evidence of coordinated efforts in the U.S. to “deliberately create and disseminate disinformation against China.” “Some U.S. politicians and media acted like they found buried treasure and wantonly spread (the study), treating it like new proof that China concealed the epidemic,” Ms. Hua said.
12 June 2020||Abidjan,||10 Ivory Coast soldiers killed in jihadist attack||Dozens of suspected jihadists attacked a frontier post on Ivory Coast’s border with Burkina Faso before dawn on Thursday, killing around 10 soldiers, security sources said. It is the first assault by Islamist extremists on Ivorian soil since March 2016, when a raid on the southeastern beach resort of Grand-Bassam left 19 people dead. Thursday’s shooting attack “targeted an Ivorian frontier post at Kafolo,” where an anti-jihadist operation had just ended, one Ivorian source said, in an account confirmed by a Burkinabe source. An Ivorian source said 12 people were killed — 11 soldiers and a gendarme — while six people were injured and two were listed as missing. Another Ivorian source put the toll at nine dead, while a Burkinabe source said 10 troops, a gendarme and an assailant had been killed, and two people were missing. “There were sounds of rifles toward the river,” an anonymous Kafolo resident said in a telephone interview. The attack was carried out by dozens of armed individuals believed to be from the Group to Support Islam and Muslims (GSIM), which has a hold in the area, according to a source.
12 June 2020||Washington,||U.S. COVID-19 case tally crosses 2 million mark||The COVID-19 pandemic has infected more than two million people overall in the United States. It has caused 1,082 fatalities in the past 24 hours in the country, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. The world’s leading economic power is by far the country most affected by the pandemic, both in terms of the number of reported deaths — 1,12,833 — and the number of diagnosed cases, which stood at crossed 2 million on Thursday. The U.S. continues to record around 20,000 new cases of COVID-19 every day. The country is struggling to come down from that plateau as the level of infections wax and wane in different parts of the country. In Texas and North Carolina, for example, there are currently more COVID-19 patients hospitalised than there were a month ago. With half a million tests performed per day, the country is the world champion in screening per capita.
12 June 2020||ISLAMABAD,||Pak. to soon restart polio vaccinations: Army chief||Pakistan’s Army chief has told Microsoft co-founder and billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates that despite the challenge of COVID-19, Pakistan plans to restart polio vaccination campaigns across the country. In a statement on Wednesday, the military said General Qamer Javed Bajwa spoke with Mr. Gates by phone and assured him the campaign to eliminate polio in the impoverished Islamic nation would begin again soon. No start date was given. Polio is a disabling and life-threatening disease caused by the poliovirus and Mr. Gates has worked to try and eradicate the disease worldwide. Pakistan had hoped to eliminate the disease in 2018 when only 12 cases were reported, but there was a surge in new cases the following year. Pakistan halted its anti-polio campaign after the first COVID-19 case was reported in February. Gen. Bajwa told Mr. Gates that the government is planning to restart campaigns against polio in the coming weeks. Mr. Gates apparently called Mr. Bajwa because the military provides security for polio workers administering vaccinations in former militant strongholds bordering Afghanistan.
12 June 2020||Beijing,||Virus hits U.S.-China trade deal||Beijing and Washington need to resume strategic communications, a senior Chinese government advisor said on Thursday, noting relations were “very unsatisfactory” and that the coronavirus had hit the implementation of their trade deal. Under the deal, Beijing agreed to import an additional $200 billion in U.S. products over two years, although economists question if this will happen with business activity hammered by the virus. Zhu Guangyao, a State Council counsellor, told a press briefing that “objectively speaking, the epidemic has an impact on the implementation of this deal”. “But even under such circumstances, China has been emphasising that both sides should work together,” added Mr. Zhu, who is also a former Vice-Finance Minister.
12 June 2020||Seoul,||Seoul, June 11, 2020 (AFP) -||North Korea rebuked Washington on Thursday for criticising its decision to cut communication links with Seoul, warning it to stay out of inter-Korean affairs if it wanted to ensure a smooth presidential election. Washington should “hold its tongue and mind its internal affairs first”, said Kwon Jong Gun, Director General of the Department of U.S. Affairs.
12 June 2020||DAMASCUS,||Syria's Assad fires his PM amid worsening economic crisis||Syrian President Bashar Assad on Thursday fired Prime Minister Imad Khamis, a month ahead of elections and as the economic crisis worsens and public anger rises. Mr. Assad has replaced Mr. Khamis with Housing Minister Hussein Arnous as interim premier.AP
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Is work from home feasible in the long run?||The COVID-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdowns have made work from home an imperative for several industries. Having said that, some job profiles lend themselves to working from outside the office more than others do. In a conversation moderated by K. Bharat Kumar, Ashwini Deshpande and Ramkumar Ramamoorthy discuss whether work from home is likely to become a constant even in a post-COVID future. Edited excerpts:  Prof. Deshpande, you have said that the bigger question is how long the pandemic itself would take to exit our lives. Where do you see this going? Ashwini Deshpande (AD):At least for the next two years, as we go through the cycle of lockdowns and containment, we will go in and out of work from home. What will happen once this is completely behind us? It’s a little bit hard to speculate, but yes, the possibility that some kinds of work can be done from home is now here to stay. Ramkumar Ramamoorthy (RR):  While much of the focus seems to be on work from home, it’s actually work from anywhere. In the last 12-18 months, for example, I have worked from the office, from home, from hotels, coffee shops, a hospital, beaches, marriage halls, moving cars and airplanes. We will get to a mode where people could potentially work from anywhere based on the job that they do at a given point in time. But, this is not new; this has been in vogue in the IT industry for many years. [Speaking of the automobile industry] until recently cars were sold only through distributors with physical stores. When MG Motor launched the Hector brand in India, they attempted to sell cars largely online. Hyundai is attempting this. With uneven distribution of skills across the world, this phenomenon has been gaining momentum for the last few years. COVID-19 will accelerate and catalyse it further. AD:A lot of the services are difficult to deliver from remote. Teaching, to a certain extent, can be done remotely. But it’s just not of the same quality as teaching inside the classroom. A lot of other services are not actually conducive to being delivered remotely. I don’t think that the traditional workplace is going to completely die out. It might undergo certain kinds of transformation. Maybe [there won’t be] thousands of people working in one building. Post-COVID, would work from home aggravate the divides already present today — like gender, migrant vs. native, etc.? AD:If a family has only one computer, who is going to get priority to use that computer? It’s highly probable that the man would get priority. [Work from home] will certainly worsen the gender divide; it will also worsen the older-versus-younger divide because youth unemployment is an issue and if that one computer in the household is going to be going to be monopolised by the father, then others are not going to be able to use it. Third is the notion of Internet connectivity. We know that that’s heavily differentiated by where you live, rural-urban location, which State of India you belong to, the neighbourhood, etc.. The other part of the story is the combination with all kinds of household and domestic needs. And here, unless there’s a major change in social norms in the coming two years, women who are more responsible for delivering domestic work are going to be that much more hard pressed to combine it withr̥ workplace responsibilities. As regards migrants, if there was enough work available in localities where they resided, not everybody would need to migrate. So, I think that there is the much larger issue of availability of jobs and the matching of the supply with the demand for workers. Certain States are more able to provide better quality jobs than other States. And if workers are not going to be able to migrate, it affects the overall distribution. So, industry could be guilty of aggravating such divides... RR:Unlike the prior waves of technology, which were largely monolithic, digital technologies today are democratising the way people use them. They create a platform for greater diversity and inclusion, with greater mobile and bandwidth penetration, more smart boards coming into classrooms and in rural areas. The question is, are we using it for greater inclusion or will we end up creating a deeper wedge in society? We have a great opportunity to become more inclusive. The government has a role to play. Some good steps have been taken, including last-mile connectivity taken to the villages through BharatNet. The implementation of some of these backbones could be very patchy across different States. At least in rural south India, they’ve made some meaningful investments in technology. Companies also have a very important role to play. If you take the Cognizant example, we have about 2,00,000 employees in India with about 20,000 in tier-two locations such as Coimbatore and Mangaluru. About 38-39% of our India workforce comprises women but in our tier-two locations women constitute about 50% of the workforce. We have employees who volunteer to teach in schools in the hinterland of India. Our employees or their spouses who are in the U.S. actually teach English, Math and the basics of computing to students in villages over Skype. I do agree that we need to do this at scale. And we need to institutionalise some of these. AD:So far, the tone of this conversation is implicitly assuming that work from home is a really good idea; that it’s something to hold on to and transmit to the future. I want to put a little bit of a question mark on that. Other than social divides, there are other dimensions to this problem also. There is something to be said for actual human-to-human contact. Yesterday, I was at a seminar online. Normally, a seminar would have tea/coffee breaks, we talk to each other, we bounce ideas off each other. [Part of] the joy of attending a seminar is [with respect to] the social angle. Work from home eliminates that almost completely. That’s a very big negative. The second part is that the home is not always a very happy place for everybody. Homes can also be centres of abuse. That’s the elephant in the room that we never talk about, because we always focus on safety outside the home. For many women and children, the home is the most unsafe place. And by forcing people to be inside the home, we are really forcing them to be inside with their abuser. The pandemic has actually brought about this phenomenon which the UN Women has called a shadow pandemic. Third, in education, one of the things that a college environment does is that it erases the socio-economic differences between the students when they come into the classroom; with online classes, we actually get a little glimpse of their homes, and suddenly the class divide becomes apparent. Would it be too idealistic to expect industry to move to where the migrants are? It could be factories, R&D centres or labs moving to the hinterland... AD:If that could happen, that might not be a bad thing. I’ve spoken against the problem, now let me say something in favour of it. All this time, because women would drop out of the job market either completely or would negotiate with their employers to have a more flexible arrangement, women were stigmatised for doing that, because it was seen as an insufficient commitment to their work. Also, just as there can be discrimination within the home, there can be discrimination even at the workplace. Some people might say, ‘it’s better for me to work from home, because now I don’t have to face the daily insults that I used to face earlier in office’. But I think on balance, human beings are social creatures. A lot of the work we do in the university is just, you know, sitting in the coffee house bouncing ideas, talking to each other, learning from each other. In education, a lot of the learning happens outside the classroom. Online teaching closes that channel completely. RR:The real big topic is about greater flexibility. Sometimes, we tend to get a little binary and look at some of these structural shifts or changes in an ‘either-or’ mode, instead of an ‘and’ mode. The physical spaces won’t go away completely; we will see the proportion of office as a space and its usage undergo a change. But it’s too early to call out what the ratios would be. It will still be a physical-digital world. Multiple models will emerge. In some respects, we are shorting human imagination here. ‘Hoteling’ is a concept many large corporates have started, where people can dynamically book a seat, a cafeteria slot or a meeting room and use it as you do it with a concierge. Co-working spaces may emerge in interior places too. Some of these could potentially start creating satellite or small office-home office kind of an environment. Maybe it’s a big opportunity for realtors to start thinking about an entire block or an entire floor just being created for co-working. There could be all kinds of hub-and-spoke workplace models that could come up. This could be clusters based on a given industry. In education, could we not have a common lab in every district or town just as we have a common library; wherein students can perhaps go home on short vacation, still use the labs locally? There are certainly going to be challenges; not everybody has a well-defined home office; there’s a big difference between corporate-grade Net bandwidth and home grid bandwidth. If more work from home happens, would the perks enjoyed by employees actually come down? AD:Flexibility and insecurity are two sides of the same coin. So what can be seen as flexibility in a good context can equally lead to vulnerability and insecurity in another context. For industrial workers, the changes in labour laws are completely in the direction of removing any protection for minimum wages or fixed hours of work… things that protect workers in terms of overtime work, etc. If employers say we will give you security, but also flexibility, that, of course, is great. RR:Progressive employers will always lead the way and ensure they are employment-friendly. In India, about 92 million people are going to enter the workforce between 2020 and 2030. In the next 10 years, we need to ensure that the employment climate in the country is good for this to happen. And if we don’t create that framework, that could have far-reaching consequences. When the Prime Minister announced the Rs. 20 lakh crore relief package, he also spoke about making structural reforms in the country in four key areas: land, law, labour and liquidity. Labour is one area that needs a lot of attention. It’s a little too early for us to discuss the impact on perks in the medium to long term.  A home is not a happy place for everyone. It can also be a centre of abuse Ashwini Deshpande Academic
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||A case for quiet diplomacy||On June 9, sources in the Indian Army said Indian and Chinese troops began a partial disengagement from some of the stand-off points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, which has seen tensions since early May. That was the first official confirmation that there were ongoing multiple stand-offs along the LAC. The government has come under fire from the Opposition for its silence on the month-long stand-offs. “The Chinese have walked in and taken our territory in Ladakh,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted on June 10. “Meanwhile, the PM is absolutely silent and has vanished from the scene.” Strategy in dealing with China The picture that emerged on June 9 indicated we are at the beginning of the process to resolve the situation, and not at the end. Both sides have agreed on a broad plan to defuse four of the five points of discord. The situation at the fifth, Pangong Lake (in photo), remains uncertain, as also in Galwan valley and north Sikkim. At Pangong Tso, the Chinese have entrenched their positions with tents and remain on India’s side of the LAC. There is a major point of difference which will not be easy to resolve. The pattern of resolution of past stand-offs underlines the key role played by quiet diplomacy in unlocking complicated stand-off situations. Both the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) and National Democratic Alliance (NDA) governments have followed an approach that has coupled quiet diplomacy with a strong military posture, while at the same time allowing the adversary a way out. This has been the broad strategy in dealing with challenges from China across the LAC. And this strategy has generally worked. Consider 2013, when Chinese troops pitched tents on India’s side of the LAC on the Depsang plains, similar to Pangong Tso. The UPA government was under fire, both for being weak on China and for its reticence. Former National Security Adviser Shivshankar Menon recently explained how the stand-off was resolved. While the government was being publicly attacked for doing nothing, it had privately conveyed to China that if the stand-off didn’t end, an upcoming visit by Premier Li Keqiang would be off. If that demand had been made public at the time, China would have only dug in its heels, even if the government may have won the headlines of the day. “The key to arriving at a successful outcome,” Mr. Menon wrote in Choices: Inside the Making of India’s Foreign Policy, “was keeping public rhetoric calm and steady, displaying strength, and giving the adversary a way out, which was our preferred solution.” The NDA government adopted a similar strategy during the 2014 stand-off at Chumar, which coincided with President Xi Jinping’s visit to India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi then was criticised by the Opposition for sitting on a swing with Mr. Xi in Gujarat while Chinese troops had crossed the LAC. Mr. Xi’s visit went ahead, while India quietly but forcefully stopped the Chinese road-building and deployed 2,500 soldiers, outnumbering the People’s Liberation Army (PLA). The PLA withdrew, and as then Northern Army Commander Lt. Gen. D.S. Hooda (retd) explained recently, both sides disengaged and followed a moratorium into patrolling into contested areas, which was observed for many months thereafter. If the government had publicly announced in 2014 it was following a moratorium on patrolling up to India’s LAC to ease tensions, there would have likely been an uproar, just as there was in 2013 after Depsang. Then, Mr. Modi, who was the Gujarat Chief Minister, slammed the government, asking at the time: “What are the reasons we have pulled back from our own land?” Ultimately, in both cases, the objective was achieved. China, faced with firm resistance, was prevented from changing the status quo. In 2017, the government came under particularly intense fire because it stayed studiously silent through a 72-day stand-off at Doklam, amid a barrage of threats from Beijing. Indian troops crossed over into Bhutan to stop a Chinese road construction on territory India sees as Bhutanese but China claims. By extending the road, India argued, China was unilaterally altering the India-Bhutan-China trijunction. Beijing demanded an unconditional withdrawal. When both finally disengaged, neither divulged the terms. It would later emerge that the deal struck involved India withdrawing first. China then stopped construction, and the status quo at the face-off site was restored. Politics over border stand-offs is not new. One only needs to go back to the intense public debates in the early 1960s. The Opposition and the media are certainly right to hold the government to account. Indeed, neither the Opposition nor the media would be doing its job if they weren’t. As Mr. Modi’s comments from 2014 remind us, this is par for the course. And if questions weren’t being asked last month, perhaps we may still be in the dark. Coming to terms with reality The tensions on the LAC are neither the first nor likely to be the last. With every incident, they are, however, getting increasingly politicised in an environment where there is a 24/7 demand on social media for information — and unprecedented capacity for disinformation. Rather than wish away this reality — and adopt a stand that it is above questioning — the government needs to come to terms with it. First, it needs to keep the Opposition informed, which it is clear it hasn’t. Second, it needs to proactively engage with the media, even if that may be through low-key engagement as was the case on June 9, that does not escalate into a public war of words. The media cannot be muzzled. India, after all, is not China. So it is in the government’s own interests to ensure what’s reported is well-informed, and not speculative or exaggerated. At the same time, expectations of having a public debate about the intricacies of every border stand-off — or for the Prime Minister to weigh in even while negotiations are ongoing — need to be tempered. This will only risk inflaming tensions, and reduce the wiggle room for both sides to find an off-ramp. The broader objective shouldn’t get lost in political debates. That objective is to ensure India’s security interests remain protected — and that the status quo on India’s borders isn’t changed by force. Past incidents have shown that quiet diplomacy, coupled with strong military resolve that deters any Chinese misadventures, has been more effective than public sabre-rattling, even if we may be inhabiting a media environment that misconstrues loudness as strength, and silence as weakness. ananth.krishnan@thehindu.co.in
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The Gandhis, Mandelas and Kings of today||We cannot celebrate Mahatma Gandhi today nor Nelson Mandela nor Martin Luther King Jr. without inviting their immediate and stern reprimand. All three would say, each a bit differently from the other: ‘If you are gathered to celebrate us, stop right here. If you are gathered to think with us, then listen. Not to us or to those who speak in our names but to your consciences, for that is all we did. We did look back to our heroes and heroines, we did celebrate their anniversaries, but only in order to look more clearly at the world around us and into the future that beckoned. India is a free country today, the colonised world is gone. South Africa’s sharp, bruising chains of apartheid iron have snapped. The U.S., with its Civil Rights Act in place, has made slavery a thing of the disreputable past. It has gone on to elect a distinguished President, Barack Obama, from among people who did not, until very recently, even have the right to ride in a bus on a seat of their choice. But are you — Indians, South Africans, Americans — a happy and contented people?’ They would ask us this question in anxiety and in pain. We know the answer. The gluttony of a civilisation India, South Africa, the U.S., and the whole world are in the grip of the vicious virus that goes by the name of COVID-19 but are in reality in the grip of the gluttony of a civilisation that is disembowelling the earth of its resources and is hunting down the earth’s life forms to gratify its craving for commercial profit. There is a wild animal market in every city and town and, more significant than that, within each of us who are not among the poor, in the shape of a callous disregard of life and the sanctity of due proportion. The ‘crown’ of the novel coronavirus microbe is not different either in its human origins nor its inhuman effect from the giant plumes that rose over the embers at Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Its victims are like those of the bomb: innocent human beings, invariably poor and marginalised. Blaming China’s opacity or Nature’s insentient actions shifts our own guilt for the willed depredations of the human species’ powerful segments. Nature is not taking it out on us. It has caught our hegemons destroying what we are meant to respect, to nurture. Zoonotic pandemics are modern powerhouses’ most diabolic, if unintended, creation, after our fabrications of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons and the propensity of nation states to practise custodial torture. Albert Lutuli’s and Mandela’s South Africa has signed and ratified without any objections or reservations the United Nations Convention Against Torture. Abraham Lincoln’s and Martin Luther King Jr.’s U.S. has done so with reservations. Rabindranath Tagore’s and Gandhi’s India has signed but has not ratified the Convention Against Torture. What would those two men have had to say about this? Is something about torture more valuable to a state than its outright abolition? George Floyd’s dying words, “I can’t breathe”, rival Martin Luther King Jr.’s living words, “I have a dream”. That Floyd’s words were uttered when the world was breathing through masks, inhaling with fear, expiring in despair has given us a chilling picture of the human origins of the crisis that we have brought upon ourselves. A long walk home Gandhi was thrown out of a train on the night of June 7 in 1893, in Pietermaritzburg. That train journey changed the course of colonial history. Trains have captured India’s headlines today — only very differently. Not by someone being thrown out of one of them but by millions bundling themselves into them. They are all migrant workers, exactly as Gandhi himself was in South Africa, except that he was a lawyer with a solid income and in a different country. These migrant workers were locked out of livelihoods and of ways of travel in their own country but in a far distant part of it when a lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of the virus. While for the upper class of society lockdown meant staying home, watching films, baking, eating, doing stationary exercises and staying one metre away from one another, for these millions it meant the sudden disappearance of wages or work, of every security and, ironically, because they were now obliged to stay cooped up in their tiny dwellings, it also meant overcrowding, inhaling others’ exhalations for hours together. So they moved on foot, no matter how far they had to go, just to get back home. And for the reason that they were breaking the lockdown rules, they were pushed back. Until it dawned on those who mattered that these fellow human beings had to get home to stay home. And trains were deployed. Too few for too many, they saw the opposite of social distancing. I believe the Railways when they say that as many as 80 migrant workers who died on these trains died not due to infection or starvation. I want to believe that, for I trust the Railways and the government to speak the truth. But even the Railways do not say these persons did not die. We are thinking of heroes today. May I speak of a little heroine? The indefatigable documenter of rural livelihoods in India, P. Sainath, and his colleagues Pushpa Usendi-Rokade, Purusottam Thakur and Kamlesh Painkra tell us: Jamlo Madkam was a 12-year-old from the tribal Muria community of Chhattisgarh who went with others of her village to Telangana to work on chilli farms. When the lockdown was announced she was told her work had stopped and she might as well leave. So, with others the little one walked. Over three days and 140 kilometres she walked and when she was just 60 kilometres from her village and could walk no more, collapsed and died. The virus did not kill her. She was thrown out of no train. But she was thrown out of opportunity, pushed out of life. No government, no politician, no employer but the whole lot of India’s consumerist population, we, did that. Will post-COVID-19, the world return to the profligate misuse of its natural inheritance? Will it learn any lessons from the deaths of thousands? If the way in which the upper classes are hailing relaxations of the lockdown is any indication, the old story seems set to be back. After all only those dying and meant to die, die. Rays of hope And yet we must not on this day let hope down. Rajmohan Gandhi has reminded us of Li Wenliang, the Wuhan doctor who first sounded the world about the virus that he had found in patients and then himself succumbed to. Li had been pilloried for having started a rumour and disrupted social order. He is now receiving honours. “I think there should be more than one voice in a heathy society,” Li said before dying. There are Lis among Indian, African and American doctors, nurses, lab assistants, police and guards and there are many who are speaking up not only against racism but against what Sainath has described as classism, a new form of callous elitism. Protesters in the U.S. and in England and Australia and elsewhere saying ‘I can’t breathe’ are not doing so in Gandhi’s or Mandela’s or King’s name. But they are doing exactly what Gandhi, Mandela and King were doing. They are, in fact, Gandhi, Mandela and King. Together with Li and Floyd and Jamlo they are saying we are with them. We are them. Gopalkrishna Gandhi is a former administrator, diplomat and governor This is the edited text of a speech made online by him on June 7 for a commemoration of June 7, 1893 when Mohandas K. Gandhi was expelled from the train at Pietermaritzburg station. Two others who spoke with the writer were Ndileka Mandela, head of the Thembekile Mandela Foundation, and Clayborne Carson, History Professor and Director of the Martin Luther King Jr. Institute, Stanford University. David Gengan, Chairman of the Pietermaritzburg Gandhi Memorial Committee, which hosted the programme, moderated it.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||At their infotaining best||A recent TV news clip of a journalist reporting from the midst of a cyclone shows him buffeted by strong winds and swept off sideways at one point, as a prim voiceover asks viewers to note how powerful the storm is. It’s a dramatic moment, but somewhat spoilt by the fact that the camera unwittingly catches another person just behind the reporter, walking normally, clearly unaffected by the gale. A cyclone is a cyclone, its strength measurable, its effect obvious, its damage assessed after it passes over. So why did the TV reporter feel the need to enact a fake drama to “show” viewers the strength of the winds? An eyewitness account At its inception, the chief thrill of television was that it provided an “eyewitness” account of events happening far away, making news authentic, intimate, and real-time. In a strange volte face, television today is increasingly taking away the authenticity of the eyewitness account by adding artifice, as if it were not ‘news’ it deals with any longer but creative narratives, the domain of entertainment. When a skirmish breaks out on the borders, TV studios become war rooms and anchors wear military fatigues. They recreate the surface of the moon to report space missions. They pretend to report while wading in flood waters while held aloft on someone’s shoulders. They smudge eye makeup to suggest tearfulness. Television has turned the idea of reporting about events on its head by itself becoming a participant, a bit player in the political, medical or weather drama unfolding on screen. The reportage is no longer about the incident alone, but also about itself, as actor-director-producer. When news is recast as ‘performance’, the borders between truth and fiction get more and more blurred. The phenomenon has been spawned by what Professor Jean M. Twenge called the era’s “narcissism epidemic”, which has made the news anchor more important than the news. Acquiring popstar status means the anchor now markets himself or herself and, as a subset of that, markets the news as well. Thus, even cyclones have to be ‘packaged’ and sold. The parallel between TV news and WWE wrestling is unmistakable. In a WWE match, the wrestlers enact elaborate spectacles of blood, gore and broken limbs but the whole thing is fake, scripted to the last detail. French philosopher Roland Barthes wrote: “The function of the wrestler is not to win; it is to go exactly through the motions which are expected of him.” Similarly one might say of anchors today that presenting news is no longer their job — their function is playacting. Their carefully orchestrated performances are meant to provoke suitable responses of anger, revenge or sentiment from viewers. If WWE was built on the premise of entertainment masquerading as sport, what we have today is entertainment masquerading as news. Following a script A rocket launch or the introduction of a Rs. 2,000 note can no longer simply be reported but must be scripted into a show with the anchor in a metallic faux spacesuit or waving a magnifying glass at a giant currency note, contortions that don’t necessarily present more information for the viewer but certainly produce spectacle. What former BBC chief John Birt spoke of as a weakness of television, the “bias against understanding”, because its inherent format — show rather than tell — prevents it from properly establishing context or deep-diving into background, has been exacerbated by television now smudging facts and fantasy into one messy thing called infotainment. It is, as Barthes said of WWE, a “spectacle of excess”. It is no coincidence that the two most visible formats on Indian television today are reality TV and news programmes, both of which titillate by claiming to be a ringside view of real life but are, in fact, aggressive showbiz. By mimicking reality TV, news shows challenge the credulity of viewers and implicate them in the make-believe, thus succeeding in neutralising all content. vaishna.r@thehindu.co.in
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Back from the brink||An agreement reached between India and China on June 6 for a partial disengagement of troops from some of the points of stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is a step in the right direction. It is, however, just the first step. Both sides face what is likely to be a long road ahead to restore the status quo ante prior to China’s multiple incursions that began one month ago. On June 9, Indian Army sources presented a measured appraisal of what had been agreed to at the Corps Commander-level talks, as well as of the challenges that remain. Both sides identified five locations of conflict in the western sector in Ladakh — a separate ongoing stand-off in Naku La in Sikkim was not on the agenda. The five spots include Patrolling Points 14, 15 and 17, Chushul, and the north bank of Pangong Lake. A broad plan has been agreed to hold a series of talks at lower ranks of Colonel, Brigadier, and Major General at four of those points in the coming week to take forward the disengagement process. There, however, appear to be serious differences on Pangong Lake, which may require another round of higher level talks at the Corps Commander level. Chinese troops have dug in at the Finger 4 area on the lake’s northern bank, and still remain present on India’s side of the LAC, which runs at Finger 8. The Fingers 1 to 8, running from west to east, refer to mountain spurs on the north bank. By erecting tents, China has unilaterally changed the status quo. India has made clear it will accept nothing less than restoring the status quo ante, and will not dilute its build-up in the area until and unless China draws down the artillery, bombers, rocket forces, air defence radars and jammers that it has amassed behind the frontlines on its side of the LAC. The demands made at ground-level talks suggest China’s moves may, in part, be motivated by its insecurities at India’s recent improvements in infrastructure on the Indian side of the LAC, which have helped reduce the enormous asymmetry that China has enjoyed, and now wants to preserve. India has correctly made clear it will not stop construction activity on its side of the LAC, which it is entirely entitled to. One important takeaway from the June 6 talks that could have a long-lasting impact is a proposal that the Corps Commanders have formal meetings once or twice a year for better interaction between the two armies at a higher level. If there is one thing that the recent tensions have made clear, it is the urgent need for better communication to address the strategic mistrust that prevails on both sides of the LAC. China’s actions over the past month, have, unfortunately, only deepened it. Ill-advised posturing at the top political levels of the Indian leadership with threats last year to reclaim Aksai Chin didn’t help either. Both sides must now look ahead at what can be done, with lessons from the mistakes of the recent past.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||A better rate||Focusing on the positives in a bleak scenario is sometimes useful in avoiding fatigue from a prolonged campaign. That the total number of discharged people with COVID-19, from the time the first ever case was recorded in India, has exceeded the number of active cases is definitely a milestone. As of Thursday, a total of 1,46,716 people have recovered, while the number of active cases was 1,42,697. The steady increase in the number of people discharged is to be expected, especially given that the disease is now known to have a case fatality rate that is just about 2.8%. At that figure, the rate of recoveries has no other way to go but steadily upwards, unless there is gross mismanagement of the health system. Nevertheless, for the warriors on the front lines, and for the people who run the health system in the country, this is one metric that is a direct measure of the success of their interventions. However, it must be remembered that the Indian government revised its discharge policy, as have some other nations. No longer does a patient have to test negative twice over an interval of 24 hours; any patient who does not show any symptom over three days is allowed to go home now. And patients who were on critical care require only one negative test to be discharged. Discharge is likely to be followed up with home isolation for a period of seven days or two weeks, with restrictions on movement outside the home. While the natural path of this curve is upwards, any slackening here will have disastrous consequences. The focus on health care must not be lost at any point in the continuum of fighting this epidemic, especially at a time when the number of people testing positive for COVID-19 in the country is rising steadily. The threat of this epidemic reaching a peak and overwhelming stretched health-care resources and facilities is clear and present; in some States it is possibly already happening. In this scenario, a proper triage at the first instance, to distinguish people with mild symptoms or none, from sick patients, is essential to ensure that the health system remains responsive to the really sick, and helps them recover. Providing adequate facilities and easy access to emergency care services are important in the COVID Care Centres and COVID Health Centres, and adequate monitoring of home quarantined people, possibly in association with local bodies and voluntary organisations, is essential. Everything the government does here on must be to allow the recovery rate reach its natural proportion of the total number of cases, and to keep the case fatality rate down.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The first-night-first-show experience||The clock strikes 12. Everyone else is asleep as I gingerly switch on the wi-fi to start my work for the day... err, night. I’m watching a ‘first-night-first-show’ of a film for the first time. Jyotika’s Ponmagal Vandhal has been uploaded on Amazon Prime, making it among the first mainstream Tamil films to be released directly on an OTT platform instead of theatres. There are more such films to follow — with Amitabh Bachchan’s Gulabo Sitabo and Keerthy Suresh’s Penguin lined up — even as OTT players fight it out for the rights of new films. That the COVID-19 pandemic has changed all our lives is a given. It has also drastically changed the way audiences and reviewers consume their films. Even just a few months back, early morning shows were the in-thing for the Tamil cinema fraternity. Most superstars and aspiring-to-be-superstars actors felt immense pride when they were given a 4 a.m. slot on opening day... it made them feel like they had arrived. Early morning shows For fans and reviewers, the story was completely different. A 4 a.m. show, mostly held in theatres that are not exactly in the heart of the city, meant an early morning routine that would take some effort. I’ve had varied experiences in pursuit of a seat in such shows, ones that required constant following up with fan clubs and theatre sources to buy these ‘prestigious’ tickets. If you’ve managed to get a ticket for such a show, it means that you have arrived, and cracked the Kollywood code. The scenes outside the theatre on release day are to be seen to be believed. There would be huge cut-outs of the leading star and songs from the movie would be blared from a loudspeaker, even as fans dance and make merry. Tea shops outside the theatres would make a killing, and the chances of you spotting a member of the crew or the director of the film inside the cinema hall are pretty high. I have a strict schedule whenever there’s an early morning show. I’d sleep early the previous night. I’d set multiple alarms, and once they all go beeping, I’d wake up and trudge sleepily towards my bike and head to the cinema hall that is usually more than 10 km away. Amidst the early-morning chill, I’d ride on, with dreams of how the big screen would come alive. I’ve been highly excited at times and mightily disappointed during others. It looks like I’ll have to bid goodbye to this schedule henceforth. I doubt if films like Vijay’s Master and Suriya’s Soorarai Pottru , two big Tamil films slated for release soon, will have the same ‘FDFS’ craze, even if they were to release in theatres. I doubt if fans will queue up to catch a glimpse of their favourite stars, and whistle and cheer whenever there’s a ‘mass moment.’ For, early mornings will never be the same again for fans of Tamil cinema. For now, staying up at night looks to be the new cool. Srinivasa Ramanujam writes on films for The Hindu
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||‘No Undertaking By R.S.S.’||As a corollary to the cold war now raging between the Ruling Congress and the Jan Sangh, a new controversy has erupted between the Government and the R.S.S. whether Mr. Golwalkar had given any undertaking in July, 1949, before the ban was lifted on the organisation. The Government, on its part, continues to maintain that the ban had been lifted on the specific undertaking by Mr. Golwalkar that the R.S.S. would function as an open organisation, pledging complete loyalty to the Constitution and National Flag, and abjuring violence and secrecy. But Mr. Golwalkar to-day [June 11] not only challenged the Government’s contention, but also came forward with the disclosure that Sardar Patel was keen that the R.S.S. should “enter the political arena and pull its weight behind the Congress.” In a letter dated September 11, 1948, the Sardar wrote to him: “I am thoroughly convinced that the R.S.S. men can carry on their patriotic endeavour, by joining the Congress, and not by keeping separate or by opposing it.” But the Government is sticking to its version of events based on the official records of the correspondence that passed between Sardar Patel and Mr. Golwalkar, and between the then Home Secretary, Mr. H. V. R. Iengar, and the R.S.S. leader before the ban was lifted.
12 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Optimistic about IPL 2020: Brijesh Patel||Almost three months after the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) suspended the Indian Premier League (IPL) on March 13, the league’s governing council chairman Brijesh Patel sounded optimistic about the prospects of staging the tournament in 2020, in an interview with The Hindu. Excerpts: How much have things changed in these three months vis-a-vis IPL 2020? A lot, I would say. There was a lot of uncertainty back then. Now everyone is cautiously looking for a way forward, so we are quite positive about hosting the IPL this year. Obviously it all depends on the ICC [International Cricket Council] to take a call on the T20 World Cup. Since the T20 World Cup andthe IPL are interlinked, interms of the availability of the window, do you expect the T20 World Cup to be postponed shortly? They can’t leave it till the last minute. All the teams have to prepare if they are going ahead with it. Otherwise all the alternative plans have to be in place. They should decide shortly. If the World Cup cannot happen, each Board will have to think of how to utilise the October window in consultation with the respective governments. How optimistic are you about the fans being able to witness the IPL in 2020? I am quite optimistic. See, we are looking at the September-October window as of now, depending on the T20 World Cup and Asia Cup. And I am optimistic that we can play the IPL this year. If it happens, will the 13th edition of the IPL be played in India, Sri Lanka or the United Arab Emirates? They [Emirates Cricket Board and Sri Lanka Cricket] have informed us that they are prepared to host the IPL. But our first preference is India, if we get the government’s permission. It is certain that we cannot play at more than three or four venues in India, but the permissions will depend on how the COVID-19 outbreak pans out. Otherwise we will have to explore playing overseas, which will be the last option. Once you are playing without spectators, it doesn’t really matter where you are playing as long as it suits television timings.
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ankita reminisces Bhambri family’s tennis journey||Yuki Bhambri may be the most famous name in the family, but it was the lessons learnt from the tennis journeys of sisters Ankita and Sanaa that set up the foundation for his career. Ankita, more familiar as the coach of the current Fed Cup team which qualified for the World Group playoff, went on a nostalgic journey in an Instagram conversation with coach M. Balachandran. Ankita won more than a dozen titles in singles and doubles, but had to step back at her prime. “What Yuki has done is phenomenal. We don’t tell him that. He has been injured for a while. Once he is back, he will continue to reach the heights. He is very talented and very sharp,” said Ankita, who was equally proud of younger sister Sanaa who after tennis has flourished in the marketing world. Ankita recalled that she learnt the advantages of training in the evening during tournaments and strategising for the next match from the week-long training with Balachandran in Pune in 2002. “I had just about made the Masters of the $5,000 circuit, as I had lost in the first or second round for three weeks. My dad had arranged training with you for that week. I won that tournament,” said Ankita. She also recalled the significant role played by her father Dr. Chander. In making Sanaa and her study during the 30-minute drive to the tennis centre daily, he ensured that education was not neglected. She stressed that education had a big role in developing a player. “It keeps you focused and disciplined,” she said.
12 June 2020||Kozhikode,||Harikrishna excited about taking part in strong Sharjah event||The World Stars Sharjah Online international chess tournament which opens on Friday boasts of a strong line-up. Among the six players competing in the double round-robin event is India’s No. 2 player P. Harikrishna. He is also the second seed in the tournament, behind World No. 11 Shakhriyar Mamedyarov of Azerbaijan. World No. 28 Radoslaw Wojtaszek of Poland, former FIDE World champion Rustam Kasimdzanov of Uzbekistan, Egyptian Bassem Amin and Salem Saleh of UAE are also in the fray. With an average FIDE rating of 2709, it is a pretty strong tournament. “It should be an excellent event and I am really looking forward to it,” Harikrishna told The Hindu over phone from Prague, where he has been living for the past couple of years, along with his Serbian wife Nadezda Stojanovic. “I have been playing online for the last couple of decades and it was on the Internet Chess Club — which is co-hosting the Sharjah tournament — that I began my foray into digital chess,” he said. “You cannot compare that to the feeling of playing a game inside a tournament hall, and I miss that experience.” It may be a while before he could play a game of chess physically. “But I am told there is a tournament coming up here in Prague next month,” he said. “And I think some other European countries would also have tournaments before long.” Big improvement The World No. 26 said the situation had improved considerably in the Czech Republic. “The state of emergency has been lifted and small gatherings — up to 200 people — are now allowed,” he said. “You still have to wear a mask when you go out.”
12 June 2020||Chennai,||We have a pool of players now: Senthilnathan||When do we start? How do we start? Where do we start? Tamil Nadu senior cricket team selection panel chief M. Senthilnathan is seeking answers to these questions ahead of a fresh season. Lives under threat With the number of coronavirus cases shooting up in the country, Senthil said to The Hindu on Tuesday: “People’s life is under threat. Everyone is worried. “The way we live our lives has changed. At this point, sports takes a back-seat. Saving lives is more important.” The lack of domestic competitions leading to the Ranji Trophy season has meant the State selectors will have to rely on last year’s performances. “This makes things more complicated. How do we assess form? Fortunately we blooded around five promising cricketers last season so we have a pool of players now.” Senthil sees a lot of hurdles along the way. The central government has not yet cleared the decks for cricketers to practise as a team. Team sport “Cricket is a team sport. We need to train together, have nets together, have some practise matches between the probables at least. At this moment, I wonder how we are going to be able to do that,” Senthil said. He added, “Nobody, the BCCI or the State association can be blamed for this situation. Who could have foreseen such a virus hitting us.” Even if the Ranji season commenced, there were challenges, Senthil said. “Firstly, the cricketers have to travel safely in flights without catching the infection.” Senthil asked, “And what if a player tests positive on the second day of a Ranji duel? Would you put the entire team under a quarantine since the players share the dressing room? Then what happens to the match?” Transition Senthil, the former India under-19 captain, felt the transition from u-16 to u-19 was extremely important. “It is from the u-19 group that we unearth First Class players.” He elaborated: “Now with the u-16 matches not happening, how can you bring in new players into the critical u-19 group?” Senthil hopes there will be more clarity in the coming months. “Let’s all pray and hope for the best,” he signed off.  It is from the u-19 group that we unearth First Class players
12 June 2020||CHENNAI,||MMRT to open for practice from June 14||With the easing of lockdown restrictions, the Madras Motor Sports Club (MMSC) will open the Madras Motor Race Track (MMRT) at Irungattukottai for paid practice sessions, for both car and bikes, from June 14. The track has been active for the past few days because of testing sessions by vehicle manufacturers. Safety protocols Keeping in mind the situation arising out of COVID-19 virus, MMSC will implement safety protocols, as mandated by the government, at the MMRT. Simultaneously, a new grandstand, digital flags that can be operated from the race control room, and self-contained 21 marshal posts are being added to the facility that conforms to FIA and FIM standards.  Regarding the various upgrades, MMSC vice-president Vicky Chandhok, who is also the chairman of racing events, said, “to start with, for the practice sessions, we will be restricting the number of persons attached to each vehicle to two in the case of cars and one for bikes. “This will help us enforce social distancing with a gap of at least 10 feet between them.” “We are close to finalising a deal with Tag Heuer for digital flags that will considerably reduce the number of marshals. “We plan to install 12 digital flags at select spots to start off with and go on to 21 in due course.” MMSC is also addressing a long-felt need for a permanent grandstand along the start-finish straight, facing the eastern paddock and pits, with a 600-seater structure which should be ready by September when racing is expected to return.
12 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Hoping to blaze a trail for chess in Kerala||Grandmaster S.L. Narayanan hopes to blaze a trail that will play a small role in popularising chess in Kerala. The 22-year-old, who was nominated by the All India Chess Federation for the prestigious Arjuna award, is hoping to become the first chess player from Kerala to win it. Naryanan feels chess players in Kerala often struggle for recognition when compared to sportspersons from other games. “Kerala is always known for its athletes, footballers and others who excel in physical sports. But a cerebral game like chess is not very popular here. I am the first chess player from Kerala to be nominated for the award. The Arjuna award will mean a lot to me and the game. It will help break down the general perception the public has about chess. Maybe it is the catalyst we need, to popularise the game in Kerala,”' said Narayanan. “My performance over the last four years has been pretty good. I won a bronze medal in World Juniors in Bhubaneswar, a silver medal in the commonwealth championship in Sri Lanka, and couple of other good tournaments. I applied though the federation, which was kind enough to nominate me,”' he said. Narayanan despite his achievements with the chessboard is still unemployed and is searching for a job. He has no sponsor and there is no support from the State government. Nevertheless, Narayanan is soldiering on with help from his parents. He is hopeful that things will change for the better with the Arjuna award.
12 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Chhetri goes down memory lane||Indian football star Sunil Chhetri picked his AFC Asian Cup qualifier strike against Myanmar in 2017 as his favourite international goal. Chhetri reminisced about the last-minute match-winner at Yangon in a video chat on the Indian Football Team’s official Facebook page to celebrate his 15-year journey in international football. Crucial goal Chhetri latched on to a pass from substitute Udanta Singh, who cut the ball back after making a terrific run on the flank. The three points earned from the goal proved crucial, as it set India on the path to earning a spot in the main draw of the 2019 AFC Asian Cup. “Credit goes to Udanta for setting it up. That goal gave us the confidence to do well in the group matches that followed,” Chhetri said. The Bengaluru FC (BFC) skipper pointed to Krishanu Dey and I.M. Vijayan as his childhood footballing heroes. He added that in later years, he looked up to Bhaichung Bhutia and Brazilian ‘The Phenomenon’ Ronaldo.  Chhetri was all praise for the impact that seniors like Bhutia and Renedy Singh had on him during his early years. “I joined Mohun Bagan in 2002 (first professional club contract), and Bhutia had moved to Bagan that season. Proud moment “The first time I met Bhutia, he told me that he had heard about me and that I was doing well for myself. I was so proud that a legend like Bhutia had heard about me; I told everyone in my family,” Chhetri said. On the raging topic of racism, the 35-year-old said: “Discrimination and racism is the result of ignorance. How can anyone feel superior to another person based on skin colour, caste, religion or country of birth? “It doesn’t make any sense. It is high time that humans evolve and rise above discrimination.”
12 June 2020||KOLKATA,||Saliva ban impact will be on Test pacers: Karthik||Kolkata Knight Riders captain Dinesh Karthik said on Thursday the proposed ban on use of saliva to shine the cricket ball would impact pace bowlers in the longer version of the game. “In ODIs and T20s it will not make much of a difference, but in Tests it's going to be a massive challenge. It will be tough especially for the (faster) bowlers,” said Karthik at the online launch of KKR’s Sahayata Vahan (assistance vehicle) to distribute essential items to cyclone-affected people in West Bengal. Need for swing “When the ball is new for the first 20-30 overs, on most grounds in the world, conventional swing is what they look for. If you don't apply saliva, it's going to be tough for them to swing the ball,” he said. Players would need about a month to get back to full form after the restrictions were lifted, Karthik said. “Especially the fast bowlers, because they are coming off a very quiet time. To go and start bowling at 140-150 kmph through the day, it's going to be a massive challenge for them,” he said. Karthik said if the Indian Premier League (IPL) happened, it would be nice to win the trophy for the cyclone-affected people of West Bengal. “We are emotionally attached to Kolkata. I think winning the IPL is the least we can do for the State.” KKR CEO Venky Mysore, who flagged off the assistance vehicle with West Bengal Sports Minister Aroop Biswas, did not favour tinkering with the format of the IPL or combination of players. “The quality of the product has made it really special. It is safe to say the collective view is that we have to have the tournament in its full format, the same number of matches, with all the players. The backbone “It is primarily the Indian players who are the backbone of any team. But we should recognise, when you look at even our own team, a Sunil Narine, an Andre Russell, an Eoin Morgan and now a Pat Cummins come as a combination with the Indians to make it really special. "The IPL as a product has become the biggest spectacle, which has caught the imagination not only of India but also of the world," said Mysore.
12 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Prarthana tries her hand at farming||For Rio Olympian Prarthana Thombare, the lockdown has offered a different kind of experience. The 25-year-old tennis player, who won the 2014 Asian Games women’s doubles bronze partnering Sania Mirza after joining the latter’s tennis academy a few years ago, has taken up farming. Stuck in her hometown Barshi near Solapur (Maharashtra), Prarthana is busy on her family’s sprawling agricultural land. She is helping her mother and younger sister construct a water reservoir and plans to go in for crop rotation from the now regular jowar crop. “It is not that I stopped playing tennis. It is difficult to be away from the sport. Unfortunately, the only tennis court available in my city is on the premises of a hospital which is now a COVID-19 isolation centre,” said Prarthana. Drastic changes “In fact, I have made some drastic changes to my game after an in-depth study in the recent past. I realised that I was not really moving forward as much as I should. So you will see, hopefully, a different Prarthana,” she said. “So with no option to play the game at any level, I thought this was the best time to try my hand at agriculture and I am definitely enjoying it. “Obviously, tennis is my first love and I will be back in Hyderabad at the earliest once inter-State transport eases." Decent fitness level “I do have targets in tennis; the first one is to break into the top 200. Right now I am ranked 340. It is not going to be easy after such a long break but fortunately I have been able to maintain a decent level of fitness during the lockdown,” she added. “I don’t think life and sport will be the same as and when normalcy is restored after this pandemic. There are bound to be lots of changes especially in the way we train and play tournaments. For sure, travelling around will be the biggest challenge given the virus threat,” said Prarthana.
12 June 2020||Mumbai,||Sports will be a part of curriculum, says Rijiju||Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju on Thursday said sports will be a part of the curriculum in the country’s new education policy and won’t be considered an extra-curricular activity. “The new education policy of India is also going to have sports as a part of education (and) sports not as extra-curricular activities,” Rijiju said on Thursday during the inaugural session of the ‘International Webinar on Olympism and Olympic Education in the 21st century’. Rijiju said sports cannot be treated as an optional subject and it has to be accepted as a part of education. “Sports is also an education, so sports cannot be extra-curricular activities. Thereby sports cannot be treated as an optional subject ... sports as part of education has to be accepted by all,” he said. “The new education policy of India is not officially declared yet, but it is almost in the final shape. My ministry has already pushed very strongly during our interaction and my participation in the national committee to make sports an integral part of the education system.”
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Risk cannot be completely eliminated in any sport’||The fallout from Cyclone Amphan and the ongoing COVID-19 situation have helped squash player Saurav Ghosal get a new perspective to life and find positives in uncertain times. “I stepped out for groceries a couple of days and it was depressing. It was nothing like what this city has ever seen in ages. Basic necessities like electricity etc. took days to get back,” Ghosal told The Hindu from Kolkata. The last three months has been the longest he has ever been in one place “since school”. A seven-time Asian Games medallist, a record 13-times National champion, World No. 13 with an all-time high of 10th in the world in December, the 33-year-old has been India’s poster-boy on the world stage. “The last 15-16 years we have been living a different life and now suddenly we are forced to change to a different one. “I haven’t been away from squash for so long unless I have been severely injured — which has been twice in my life,” he admitted. He agreed he was “itching to get back” to play but was aware that it wouldn’t be normal. “Personally, I don’t think you can completely eliminate the risk in any sport. It’s a question of being able to minimise the risk and make it viable enough. To bide his time “I am going to bide my time for the first two weeks and see how it goes. I know at some point I will have to take them but as of today, when we don’t even know when tournaments are going to start, I don’t think being on court two weeks early is going to make much difference,” he explained. Asked if it was a privilege or pressure to be the flag-bearer of Indian squash for almost a decade, Ghosal insisted it was the former. “Definitely a privilege. I would be stupid if I say it’s too much pressure if I am going to make top-5. The ultimate goal is to be World No. 1. “There are small things we are working on and hopefully it will happen when we start playing again.”
12 June 2020||KOLKATA,||CAB monitoring group for COVID-19||The Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) has formed a six-member monitoring committee on preventive measures for COVID-19. The committee, headed by CAB vice-president Naresh Ojha, will ensure communication with stakeholders explaining measures to be taken, monitor compliance of other steps taken and submit action plans regularly, coordinate with medical panel doctors and help frame different guidelines and standard operating procedure (SOP). Other members of the monitoring committee are Pradip Dey (chairman, medical committee), Rupnath Roy Choudhury (chairman, membership committee), Dhanish Seth (chairman, Benevolent Fund), Sanjay Dutta (Apex Council member) and Santanu Mitra (medical committee member). The CAB is in the final stages of preparing the SOP for resumption of cricket practice. CAB president Avishek Dalmiya said the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) guidelines would be incorporated in the SOP. The CAB has also finalised a set of detailed guidelines to resume functioning of its office. Meanwhile, the CAB has started preparations for resumption of cricket next season by procuring pitch soil. “We do not know when we can resume cricket considering the prevailing circumstances. However, we are already procuring pitch soil to ensure that we can start the next season early, if the situation allows. We would not want to waste any time unnecessarily,” said Dalmiya.
12 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Ganguly briefs affiliates on IPL, domestic season||In his first official communication to affiliates of the BCCI since the COVID-19 outbreak, president Sourav Ganguly assured the State associations of staging the IPL and preparing for the next domestic season with a new set of standard operating procedures (SOPs). But the letter has evoked a mixed response from the State associations. Ganguly’s mail, accessed by The Hindu , stated: “The BCCI is working on all possible options to ensure that we are able to stage the IPL this year, even if it means playing the tournament in empty stadiums.” Ganguly also informed the affiliates that the BCCI has been “working on various formats and options” for domestic cricket. “The BCCI will come up with more details over the next couple of weeks,” he said Saurashtra Cricket Association secretary Himanshu Shah welcomed the communication. “It’s heartening to see the BCCI president reaching out to all the associations and briefing us about its plans. Hopefully, we shall have more clarity about the next season soon,” Shah told The Hindu . However, not all State associations are happy with the mail. “There’s absolutely nothing new or concrete in it. If at all such a mail had to be sent, it should have been four weeks earlier. It’s high time some concrete steps are announced about the domestic season,” said the secretary of an association from the south.
12 June 2020||New Delhi,||India’s tour of Sri Lanka called off||India’s limited-over tour of Sri Lanka in June-July was on Thursday called off due to COVID-19, with both Boards saying that the situation was not feasible for the games to go ahead. India was scheduled to play three ODIs and as many T20s. The dates had not been finalised. “It is not possible to go ahead with the tour in June-July and we have conveyed it to the Sri Lankan board. We remain committed to the series (at a later date),” BCCI treasurer Arun Dhumal said.
12 June 2020||London,||Alli banned from Tottenham’s 1st game back for virus post||Dele Alli will miss Tottenham’s first game, against Manchester United, after receiving a one-match ban from the Football Association for a racially insensitive post on Snapchat in which he joked about the virus and appeared to mock an Asian man. He also was fined £50,000 and must attend an education course.AP
12 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,||First estimation exercise of Indian gaur in Nilgiris in recent years||The first population estimation exercise of the Indian gaur carried out in the Nilgiris Forest Division in recent years, which was conducted in February of this year, has revealed that more than an estimated 2,000 Indian gaurs inhabit the entire division. Worryingly, the exercise has also revealed that the majority of the animals in “conflict-prone” areas in the division live perilously close to human habitations due to habitat loss and fragmentation, exacerbating the probability of having problematic interactions with humans. Direct sightings According to statistics revealed by the Forest Department, 794 gaurs were directly sighted over a one-week period during the exercise. The direct sightings were by the Department staff and volunteers who were involved in the exercise. K. Vijayakumar, Senior Project Officer, Worldwide Fund for Nature-India, who assisted the Department during the exercise, said that it was estimated that there were more than 2,000 Indian gaurs across the division, with an average of eight individuals per square kilometre. The Department officials said that the decision to also estimate the population of Indian gaur, alongside other major fauna in the division, especially around the major towns of Coonoor, Udhagamandalam, Kotagiri and Kundah was necessitated by an increase in the number of problematic human-gaur interactions in the Nilgiris over the last few years. In 2019, three people were killed and seven others injured by Indian gaur. Near human settlements It was noticed that a majority of the gaurs seen around Kundah, Kotagiri, Coonoor and Kattabettu, where a majority of these interactions occurred, preferred to inhabit tea estates and human settlements, while the animals largely avoided forested areas. Officials said that the reasons for this could be due to the easy availability of food in and around human settlements, the lack of threat from predators, and the spread of invasive flora into reserve forests. “Moreover, many of these ‘conflict-prone’ regions are witnessing changing land-use patterns, with what were tea estates being converted into resorts and buildings. This also translates to fences becoming more prominent around these properties and severely limiting traditional pathways used by the gaur to move between habitats,” said a Forest Department staff from the Nilgiris division. Although there were sizeable populations of gaurs in other areas, such as in Pykara and Naduvattam, interactions with humans were comparatively less due to native forests being largely free of invasive flora, and land-use patterns also remaining relatively stable, officials said, making it clear that increasing human pressures were leading to problems.  The notion that more Indian gaur are being spotted within the towns due to a steady increase in their population over the last decade could also be misguided. Gaur deaths Officials said that, on average, a total of 60 gaurs die each year in the Nilgiris Forest Division, many due to accidents related to living close to human habitations. District Forest Officer, Nilgiris division, D. Guruswamy, said that a further gaur census need to be conducted in the coming years to accurately gauge the dynamics of the Indian gaur population in the Nilgiris division. “This is the first population estimation exercise which has been conducted in the division in recent years. “We will need to continue to conduct such periodic estimations to ascertain whether the population of gaurs is increasing or if the population is stable,” said Mr. Guruswamy.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Krishna and Uddhava||Devotees always long to listen to the glories of the Lord and especially His avatara leelas that are always a source of delight and can confer peace of mind to all. When a bhakta gets a chance to retell the stories of the Lord whom he holds dear in his heart, there is extra bhakti rasa to cherish for the devout. It is no wonder that in the Bhagavata Purana, Vidura listens enthralled to Uddhava’s retelling of the stories of Krishna, even as Sita savours every moment of Rama’s life when she hears it from the great devotee Hanuman, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. Uddhava is realised and is aware of Krishna as none other than the Supreme Lord whose ways are mysterious and difficult to understand. The more he begins to think back on the way the all knowing Krishna has treated him as a friend and adviser, the more difficult it is for him to bear the inevitable separation from Him. Krishna then reveals to Uddhava his previous birth and samskaras that have enabled him to reach this realised state of true devotion. The Lord decides that Uddhava should remain in this world as His representative to instruct people about the Lord’s nature and esoteric truths. He then imparts the Supreme Knowledge called ‘Bhagavata’ which He had taught Brahma in Padmakalpa. This has come to be known as the ‘Uddhava Gita’ and like the ‘Bhagavad Gita’ is the essence of Atma Tatva. It continues to give mental strength to generations of posterity and leads them to the path of salvation. Since the very Lord expounds this, it can be seen as ‘Sruti’ literature though it is part of ‘Smriti.’ Krishna instructs Uddhava to go to Badrikashrama where the Lord in the forms of Narayana and Nara is engaged in austere penance for the good of the world.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 08:46 IST,||Sudoku - June 12, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Summer with the Goldies On the fast lane||The story so far: Rayu and Rani run chores for the Goldies at Happy Home to raise money for a school charity project.  Happy home is an inverted U-shaped two storey building. The right side of the ground floor houses the library, gym, the lobby and Sister Rosie’s office. The dining room is in the middle. The rooms for the bedridden Goldies are on the left. The ones who are mobile live on the first floor. Happy Home, our house and school are located in a line on the same side of the road. Our parents’ clinic and a grocery store are located on the opposite side of the road. The first thing you see when you enter Happy Home is Mrs. Charumathi and Floppy. She is the unofficial guard of Happy Home. She is seated on a cane chair outside Sister Rosie’s office, her eyes on the road. Rani came skipping to me, waving a ten-rupee note. “My first earnings,” she said proudly. “How?” I asked. “I helped Mrs. Charumathi type a message on her phone.” Money spinner I had to earn some money fast. My eyes riveted towards the two wheelchair-bound friends, Mr. Dhaliwal and Mr. Garg. Wearing an umpire’s hat, white T-shirt and shorts with knee-length socks and sports shoes was Mr. Garg, my favourite. He had a cool automated wheelchair. He would race with me every now and then on his wheelchair. “Do you need any help? Ten rupees a chore,” I announced. Mr. Garg turned to Mr. Dhaliwal. “What do you say Dhaliwal? Shall we?” “Yes,” said Mr. Dhaliwal. “Are you ready for a race?” “Yessss.” I grabbed the handles of Mr. Dhaliwal’s wheelchair. Mr. Garg manoeuvred his wheelchair towards the ramp, which led to the corridor. “You push Dhaliwal’s wheelchair. Ten rupees a race.” “Are you ready?” I asked, looking at Mr. Garg. “Yes, I am,” he replied, pumping his fist. “Ready, steady, go!” he screamed and he was off. I was leading by a whisker when Mr. Garg increased the speed of his wheelchair. We were neck to neck around the corner when I closed my eyes and raced ahead and the inevitable happened. I lost control of the wheelchair and bumped into Mad Malini. She lay on the floor, with one end of the stethoscope up her nostril. After casting a menacing look all around, she stood, clutching her right elbow, a frown on her face. Her eyes darted to me. She screamed, “I knew it had to be you. Is this a place to play?”  To be continued...   Mrs. Charumathi is the unofficial guard of Happy Home. She sits on a cane chair, her eyes on the road.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Robben Island diaries||“I went on a long holiday for 27 years.” Nelson Mandela  Where do you think he spent this holiday? In prison. On June 12, 1964, Mandela (then just a month short of his 46th birthday) was sentenced to life imprisonment for his role in organising acts of civil disobedience against the government of South Africa, which followed a policy of institutional apartheid and racism. When this sentence was handed down, Mandela was already in prison. He had been sentenced to five years at Robben Island in 1962. In 1963, along with seven other members of the African National Congress (ANC), he was tried for sabotage, treason and conspiracy in the Rivonia Trials. Mandela defended his actions, saying, “I have cherished the ideal of a democratic and free society in which all persons will live together in harmony and with equal opportunities. It is an ideal which I hope to live for and to see realised. But if it needs be, it is an ideal for which I am prepared to die.” Eight by seven Mandela spent the first 18 years at Robben Island, in isolation. He lived in an eight by seven feet concrete room and had only a straw mat for a bed. Initially, he was put to work in breaking rocks and later in a lime quarry. The glare from the lime hurt his eyes and affected his sight permanently. He was not allowed to wear sunglasses. He could write and receive letters only once in six months and even that was censored. But Mandela did not allow this to break his spirit. He worked on his LLB degree from the University of London at night. He also organised the prisoners into a civil disobedience group to force the governing body to improve conditions at the prison. In 1982, Mandela and other senior ANC leaders were transferred to Pollsmoor Prison in Cape Town. In December 1988, he was moved to a house in Victor Verster prison after he was treated for tuberculosis. He was allowed to meet visitors. Around this time, the South African government began considering dismantling the apartheid system and releasing ANC leaders.   “I have cherished the ideal of a democratic and free society in which all persons will live together in harmony and with equal opportunities.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||New Year bash up||Every year, a week before New Year, grandma would give Nisha a diary, which she would use as a rough notebook for school. Often pages would be torn to write down the grocery list. This time grandma wanted Nisha to write about interesting or unforgettable incidents in the diary. “But nothing interesting happens in my life. It is boring to write about my routine at school and home,” said Nisha. “You can write about your thoughts, goals and even poems. Just observe the sights and people around you and you will surely find something to write in your diary,” said grandma. Nisha yawned. “Okay, then just write about what you did on New Year’s Day. Then, if you are not interested, you can use the diary as you wish,” said grandma. Nisha agreed. At the stroke of twelve The clock chimed 12:00... midnight; this was the only time Nisha’s parents let her stay up past midnight. After exchanging New Year wishes, Nisha and her parents went up to the terrace to watch the fireworks. Later, Nisha wanted to use her mother’s mobile phone to wish her friends and the iPad to check the photos that her relatives had posted on social media. Just then, they looked down and saw a boy riding his bike fast and yelling, “Happy New Year.” Suddenly, the boy lost control and the bike crashed into a tree on the roadside. He seemed to have hurt his leg and he was in pain. Nisha and her parents rushed downstairs and helped the boy into their car and took him to the hospital. Nisha’s father found the boy’s mobile phone in his shirt pocket. In the contact list, he saw ‘Dad’ and called the boy’s father. “How heartbreaking it must be for the boy’s father to receive a call on New Year’s Day that his son has met with an accident,” thought Nisha to herself. A doctor quickly attended to the boy. Nisha saw the tired-looking doctors and nurses at work on New Year’s Day. The boy’s parents arrived and the doctor told them that the boy had broken his leg. They thanked Nisha’s parents. As Nisha and her parents were leaving the hospital, she saw two boys being wheeled out of an ambulance. She heard the ambulance driver tell the nurse that the boys had met with the accident as they were riding fast. The man looked exhausted and said that he hoped the night would end soon and that several youngsters driving their bikes rashly around the city would reach home safely. Back home Nisha was lost in thought wondering why some youngsters rode their bikes so recklessly and risked their lives. They also posed a danger to the pedestrians. She also thought of the ambulance driver who must have rushed to get the patients to the hospitals on time. But he would always be an unsung hero. She looked at her diary on the table and began to write about what happened as the New Year dawned. By the time she had finished writing, she was tired and she went to sleep. The iPad and mobile phone were left untouched on the table.  “But nothing interesting happens in my life. It is boring to write about my daily routine.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Birthday blast||Have you or one of your friends had a lockdown birthday? In the past three months, all of my cousins, my best friend V, the PB, and I have celebrated our birthdays. Well, not celebrated in the usual way with cake and presents and a party, but we managed to celebrate our birthdays in one way or another. Here are some ways to have a happy lockdown birthday.  Meet your friends in the virtual world: So, of course, during the lockdown, we couldn’t step out at all and, even though the lockdown is easing up now, we still have to practice social distancing. Plus, even though malls and restaurants will start opening up soon, it’s pretty unlikely you or your friends will be allowed near one any time soon. So, have a party online. My cousin S had a birthday party with her best friends over a video call. They sang happy birthday, had juice, biscuits and kind of just hung out. And if you ask me, that’s kind of the best thing about a birthday party: being with your friends. In the real world, or otherwise.  Recycled gifts: For our birthdays, the PB and I each gave one another a toy that belonged to us and that the other one had always wanted. We wrapped it up, made a card and handed it over. I gave the PB my waterboard. My dad gave me an ink pen of his which I’d been eyeing for a while, and my mom let me have her headphones. I tried to hint to her that I would be open to receiving an old phone with it too, but she ignored my puppy dog eyes. I know that as shops open up you might be able to go out and pick a birthday gift or even order something online, but if you can’t, hand-me-down gifts are pretty awesome.  Party food: So, here’s the thing, if your parents like to bake, then, maybe you’ll get a great cake or something. If they don’t, get creative. For the PB’s birthday, we ate cupcakes decorated with Nutella and gems. And for mine, there was no pizza, but we did make bread pizza sandwiches, which were pretty bomb. It’s kind of cool how when you have less on hand you get more creative.  Virtual gaming rules: You might not be able to play laser tag, go watch a movie, or go to the arcade as a birthday party. So, do it online! On my birthday, me and my friends played Minecraft together. The PB and his friends watched one of the Star Wars movies together at the same time, except, they were all in their own homes together.  Return gifts: The PB and I made our friends thank-you videos using Powtoons. We put silly pictures of us with our friends and added some music and e-mailed them out. In short, you can still have fun on your birthday, as long as you get a little creative.  Celebrate your birthday with a party, cake, good food and gifts...but just a bit differently.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Summer nights||June marks the 50th anniversary of the first American Spacewalk , completed by Ed White during the Gemini 4 mission. Last week was full moon and Mercury was seen at its greatest eastern elongation. Last week was also special as it saw a penumbral lunar eclipse. AThe eclipse was visible throughout most of Europe, Africa, Asia, Australia, the Indian Ocean, and Australia.  Planets by your side  Through the month, Jupiter will shine brightly. Also known as a gas giant, it is the largest planet in the Solar System. When you look at it through a telescope, you’re looking at the top of the planet’s extensive atmosphere. Venus is no longer visible in the evening sky. As Venus and Sun reached conjunction on June 3, it is now a “morning star”.  June 20 - June Solstice: The North Pole will be tilted toward the Sun, which will have reached its northernmost position in the sky and will be directly over the Tropic of Cancer at 23.44° north latitude. This is the first day of summer (summer solstice) in the Northern Hemisphere and the first day of winter (winter solstice) in the Southern Hemisphere.  June 21 - New Moon: The Moon will be located on the same side of the Earth as the Sun and will not be visible in the night sky. A good time to observe faint objects such as galaxies and star clusters as there is no moonlight to interfere.  June 21 - Annular Solar Eclipse: An annular solar eclipse occurs when the Moon is too far from the Earth to completely covers the Sun causing a ring of light around the darkened Moon. The Sun's corona is not visible during an annular eclipse. The path of the eclipse will begin in central Africa and travel through Saudi Arabia, northern India, and southern China before ending in the Pacific Ocean. A partial eclipse will be visible throughout most of eastern Africa, the Middle East, and southern Asia.  Stargazing  June is a great time to stargaze. It’s the best month to spot the Big Dipper. Look out for it in the north. for more information log on tohttps://www.almanac.com/news/astronomy/astronomy/big-dipper-spring-sky While you are stargazing try and spot the Summer Triangle and the other constellations and star groupings.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Living with Pharoahs||Egypt is a Mediterranean country bordered by the Gaza Strip, Palestine and Israel, the Gulf of Aqaba and the Red Sea to the east, Sudan to the south and Libya to the west. The country spans the north-east corner of Africa and the south west corner of Asia by a land bridge formed by the Sinai Peninsula. Egypt boasts of one of the oldest civilisations.It saw the earliest developments of writing, agriculture, urbanisation, organised religion and central government. Its iconic ruins, such as the Great Sphinx and Memphis reflect this legacy. The ancient rulers were known as Pharaohs. The name originated from the term “per-aa” which means “the Great House”. In the Western Desert is the Farafra depression. A main geographic attraction of Farafra is its White Desert, so named because of its massive chalk rock formations that are textbook examples of ventifact. East of the Nile, is the semi-arid Arabian Desert extending to the edges of the Red Sea.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Our oceans, our future||A blue marble with white swirls — that’s what the Earth looks like from space. What gives it its characteristic blue colour? Its vast and boundless oceans, of course! More than two-thirds of the planet is covered with water, and about 96.5% of all of Earth’s water is found in its oceans. June 8 is World Oceans Day, and it is a day to marvel at the wonders of the deep, to celebrate the role of oceans in our lives, and to focus on how we can protect this valuable resource. The theme for this year’s celebration is “Innovation for a Sustainable Ocean”. Critical to life There are five oceans on Earth — the Arctic, Atlantic, Indian, Pacific and Southern. We depend on the ocean water for survival. Water that evaporates from the oceans falls on land as rain, and we use this water to grow crops for food. What’s more, phytoplankton present in the oceans produce about half the world’s oxygen. The oceans also drive weather patterns around the world. Millions of plants and animals call the oceans their home. From tiny micro-organisms to the largest living animal in the world, the oceans are teeming with fascinating creatures. The world’s largest habitat is under threat. Global warming, overfishing, pollution, and other effects of human activity are wreaking havoc in our oceans. Oil spills wreck ecosystems, discarded fishing nets choke marine animals, and garbage and plastics form floating “patches”. Building the future The focus of this year’s World Oceans Day is on how we can manage our oceans bettert o build a sustainable ocean economy and stop destroying marine ecosystems. Our oceans are our future. They hold the key to solve many of our problems such as hunger, extreme poverty, disease, pandemics, and climate change. Healthier oceans mean a healthier planet and a healthier home for all of us.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Simple, yet complex||English is indeed a funny language. Most often, the spelling of a word does not match its pronunciation. One reason for this is that there are only 26 letters in the English alphabet. In order to be able to read English, a wide variety of sounds have to be produced with the help of these limited number of letters. However, there are some rules that may help us with our spelling. One such rule is that ‘q’ is always followed by ‘u’.  Words like Quality, Quantity, Quake, Quark, Question, Quarter, Quote, Equal, Equator and so on. So when you start a word with a ‘q’ you can be sure that the second letter is a ‘u’ . This rule applies even if the ‘q’ is inside the word, as in Equator . If you follow this rule, and if your teacher is one of those angelic ones, she might credit you for getting part of the word right, even if the rest of the word is not! Here’s another tip. There’s a rule in English that goes, “I before E, except after C.” That means we always write ‘i’ first, and then ‘e’ . Words like piece, chief and brief follow the first part of the rule. Words like deceive, receive and conceit follow the second part of the rule; that is, whenever there is a ‘c’ , it is followed by ‘ei’.  Unfortunately there are many exceptions to this rule. Here are some words where ie follows ‘c’: efficient, ancient and society . Here are some words where ‘ei’ is used even though there’s no ‘c’: vein, weight and height . So if you have studied this rule, it is best to forget it as soon as possible, or you have to keep in mind all the exceptions too, which are quite a few.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||Who are the Dongria Kondh?     The Niyamgiri hill range in Odisha is home to the Dongria Kondh tribe. Niyamgiri is an area of densely forested hills, deep gorges and cascading streams. The Dongria Kondh cultivate the fertile slopes of the hills. They worship the mountain god Niyam Raja and the hills he presides over.  What is the second highest mountain in the world?  K2, also called Mount Godwin Austen, is the world’s second highest peak standing at a height of 8,611 m located on the China–Pakistan border. The Chinese call it Qogir Feng. The local people call it Dapsang or Chogori. K2 is located in the Karakoram Range.   How to ask a curious question  1. Pick a question. 2. Visit www.ywc.thehindu.com/curiopedia and submit your question. 3. Watch this space or log on to www.ywc.thehindu.com to read your answer.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||This Pandemic||Locked behind the doors For more than two months, What I am witnessing is Something totally new. Never have I experienced Such a pandemic In my lifetime ... I miss my friends, Playing my favourite football match In the park, The funny school van trips. God, help us fight, This monster and emerge victorious. May peace and good health prevail.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Language man of Lucknow||The language begins with a straight line on a clean whiteboard. Nihal Usmani starts the first lesson of ‘learning Urdu through Hindi’ in a calm, modest voice: “This is Alif, the first letter.” Even though the classroom is empty, his voice extends beyond the camera lens into a corner of YouTube, to nearly a million viewers. His unique approach of using Hindi to discover Urdu separates him from a crowd of language teachers online and has ensured him a loyal audience. He assures that ‘Alif’ is present in Hindi as well. With another swift stroke of his pen, he draws a line over the ‘alif,’ turning it into the Hindi marker that makes the ‘a’ sound. “Now you recognise it, right? This is the Hindi sound for ‘a.’” Alphabet by alphabet, Usmani proceeds to uncover a language by means of another. This seamless shift between Hindi and Urdu is one of the foremost reasons for Usmani’s popularity on YouTube. His viewers comprise Indians, who want to master foreign languages, but may not have the hold over English that is required in urban India. Indeed, Usmani chose Hindi and other vernacular languages as the medium precisely because they have long been deprived of the ‘normative’ status in pedagogy. Be it Urdu through Bangla or French through Hindi, Nihal’s channel contains many such permutations and combinations in which he bridges the distance between two regional languages by switching tongues with enviable ease. Usmani got the idea for using one language to explain the other in the late 1950s, when he tuned into a radio service from Bangladesh (then East Pakistan) which taught Bangla through Urdu. “I really liked this style of teaching languages, so I listened to it regularly, and in one month I could speak Bengali,” he says. Beginning his career as a translator working in Urdu, he arranged a transfer to Delhi simply so he could cross paths with more languages. “In Delhi, a lot of embassies conducted their language classes, so I enrolled in those, sometimes in Japanese embassy, or the Iranian, or Bulgarian, and so on. In these places, I learned a lot of languages and teaching techniques I used later.” However, it was the bond between Hindi, Urdu and a few other regional languages that proved pivotal for Nihal Usmani’s breakthrough. “Using Hindi and Urdu not only cuts through the majority of the subcontinent’s population, but goes against assuming English as the native language, and language lessons don’t traditionally use our regional languages. Just as my videos reached India’s Hindi speaking people, I got requests from Pakistan, Bangladesh, and other countries to use Urdu to explore the Hindi language.” This osmosis of languages is well reflected by his subscriber base of almost three lakh people on YouTube, who are reaping the benefits of a long-delayed attention to the vernacular in language teaching. “For example, the Punjabi population in rural Pakistan wants to learn the Gurmukhi script, but has no resources except the Urdu language, which is the norm there.” These unusual combinations of linguistic and geopolitical nuances are not uncommon in Usmani’s students. In such circumstances, Usmani enables learners by using local languages at his disposal rather than conforming to the ‘universal’ anglophone approaches that were used for a European audience. His expertise is not limited to Indian languages either — he uses Hindi or Urdu to help many Indian immigrants in European countries learn German or French, a move that helps them significantly to settle down in foreign countries. “My videos that teach French using Hindi, for example, are viewed more in Europe by Indian or Pakistani immigrants than in India itself, which is one of the interesting results of online teaching.” Usmani is well aware of the advantages of YouTube, so much so that he opted for an early retirement just to follow his passion for teaching languages online. The platform is endearingly contrasted by his minimalist methods — the printed A4 sheets, ball-point pens, unedited voice-overs, but his channel has eventually blossomed into a popular outlet for learners. The platform has allowed him to cover sixty languages and interact almost daily with his many followers. “At first, I used to be happy with ten views, and I couldn’t have imagined a million,” says Usmani. Indeed, the wide demographic arc of his audience would certainly not have emerged if not for the transition to teaching online. “The leisure to practise, repeat lessons, anywhere from the world, anytime they wish, is something very liberating for the students.” Does he think of the languages south of the country? Adhering to the pan-Indian frame of learning, Nihal progressed beyond North Indian languages by refocusing on Kannada, Tamil and Telugu, as they are seeing growing demand. “I’ve made some videos on Kannada and Telugu, especially those where I explore Urdu through Kannada catering to the Kannada learners. These have gathered almost a million viewers.” Usmani intends to create an extensive series on Malayalam by accessing resources in Kerala. “I plan to travel there and gather whatever I can to help me start a series in Malayalam, as well as the four other major South Indian languages.” City’s influence As a native of Lucknow, Nihal credits the city famous for its tehzeeb (etiquette) and multicultural fabric in encouraging a love of languages in him, especially Urdu, which he claims everyone tries to speak. “Even though it is discouraged by the Government, people in Lucknow have always basked in each other’s languages. The Bengalis foster Bangla, the Sindhis have their own schools and so on, but they all aim to retain some Urdu of Lucknow,” he informs. When asked whether the recent bouts of communal tension across religious lines in Uttar Pradesh and North India threaten this classical Lucknow atmosphere, he reveals that his optimism has not waned. “There has always been a small minority of purists, who frown over mixing languages and they are more visible now, thanks to the approval given by those in power. But I’m not worried that it will affect our multilingualism.” He is especially hopeful of the youth among his viewers, who he thinks are motivated to uphold the multiculturalist ethos by accessing each other’s cultures. “The students are not narrow-minded and are eager to learn about other cultures. In the Urdu classes I have run, students were mostly non-Muslim, and the number of Urdu speakers among other communities has risen too.” Usmani himself tries enabling these cross-cultural curiosities through his “Learning Urdu through Poetry” series, in which he uses Ghalib, Faiz Ahmed Faiz, and other Urdu poets to guide his viewers towards cultivating the quintessential Urdu pronunciation. With each passing day, the language man of Lucknow continues to clear paths for strangers to walk into languages.  (The author is a writing tutor with Ashoka University)   Usmani got the idea when he tuned into a radio service from Bangladesh (then East Pakistan) which taught Bangla through Urdu. Listening regularly, he picked up Bangla in a month
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Annamayya connect in faraway Tirunelveli||“How did they sculpt this?” — this was the question uppermost in the mind of artist Silpi when he visited Krishnapuram, which is 10 km outside Tirunelveli town. This is home to a Venkatachalapathy temple, built in the fading years of the Vijayanagar empire. Unlike His more famous namesake in Tirumala, devotees come here less for darshan and more to focus on the awe-inspiring carvings fronting every pillar. The temple is attributed to Krishnappa Nayak (1563-1572). It was during this period that the capital of Vijayanagar was destroyed by the confederation of northern states and the viceroys of the erstwhile empire became independent, Madurai being one of these. Krishnappa appears to have embarked on constructing this temple at around this time. Given his short reign however, work continued during the time of his sons Muddu Krishnappa and Muddu Veerappa. Deivachillayar, son-in-law of Dalavai Ariyanatha Mudaliar, minister of Krishnappa and his father Viswanatha, also contributed to the shrine. Depict action  The sculptures here are classic examples of Nayak art. There are friezes that depict so much of action — a hunter kidnapping a princess and being pursued by her guards is the most famous. There are besides many others — dancers, Arjuna setting out to battle Karna, who is in the opposite pillar, Manmatha smiling at Rathi who faces him. A purushamrgam (upper half man and lower half lion) chases Bhima and the two are faced by Yudishtira, who will eventually sit in judgment over their conflict. Taken overall, the sculptures, which line the Ranga Mandapam at the entrance and the larger Veerappa Mandapam that leads to the sanctum, are most impressive. What is more, Krishnapuram having never been witness to any large-scale war, is complete in all respects — the sculptures are free from disfiguration. You can make out taut muscles, veins sticking out from chests, nails in fingers and toes, and practically every hair in the coifs and beards of the figures depicted. The principal shrine, fronted by a five-tier Rajagopuram is flanked by two simpler sub-shrines, to goddesses Alamelumanga and Padmavathi. They are both in seated posture. The main deity, Venkatachalapathy, is four-armed, standing and with the ubhaya nachiyars. Seeing Him, several songs of Annamacharya come to mind. The interesting feature of the Veerappa Mandapam is the way sculptures have been carved on three of the four faces of all pillars. Thus, while the main figure in all pillars is facing the corridor, there is plenty to see on each of the other sides. In one of these auxiliary faces, is a stunning figure of a man wielding what appears to be a tambura . Smiling and of a handsome visage, he is crowned and wears a couple of necklaces. One hand is uplifted as though he is singing something. When you pause by him you get the feeling that you have seen this figure somewhere else. And then it strikes you, the small bas-relief in Tirumala, said to be that of Annamayya, is identical in posture to this one. As you wander off to the Alamelumanga shrine, you see yet another depiction — a small bas-relief of the same person — one hand uplifted and the other bearing the tambura over the shoulder. The location of this carving brings to mind all the sringara compositions of Annamacharya, for the Goddess is very much a part of these. Could these two figures be depictions of Annamayya? The great composer lived during the Vijayanagar Empire — his life span is believed to be 1408-1503. His skill in composing songs on the Lord at Tirumala, as well as His consort Alamelumanga had come to the notice of Saluva Narasimharaya, who ruled between 1485 and 1491 though he was powerful enough to be given the title Maha Mandaleswara as early as in 1452. Thereafter, Annamayya’s son and grandson, Pedda Tirumalacharya and Tallapaka Chinnayya carried on the musical tradition, which brings us well into the time when Vijayanagar fell and the Nayaks became independent rulers. That long after Annamacharya was forgotten, the musical tradition he left behind continued (still continues) at Tirumala is evident from the 1803 English translation of a Maratha memoir of Narain Row, which states — “The Taalapwak-walleh then chant the hymns and while they perform the Mungal Aratee they play music of various kinds.” If that was the situation in the 19th century, the Annamacharya connect with Tirumala must have been so much stronger in the 16th century when the Krishnapuram temple was built. Perhaps he was so closely associated with Tirumala that a new temple built for the same deity so far away had to necessarily incorporate him also. Or it could just be that Krishnappa or one of his successors had a great liking for Annamayya compositions. Lastly, is it really Annamayya? Unless disproved, I am happy to assume it is.  The sculptures here are classic examples of Nayak art. There are friezes that depict so much of action — a hunter kidnapping a princess and being pursued by her guards is the most famous
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Dedicated to all that is human||It will be a historic moment when Chennai-based Ganesh B Kumar’s ‘Spirit of Humanity’ is released worldwide on June 26. Because he will be the first-ever Indian musician to compose a Symphonic Poem. A Licentiate of the Trinity College of Music London, Ganesh has evoked the theme of ‘Optimism and Humanitarianism’ in this album. I had the pleasure of sitting down with Ganesh and his team over a video call to discuss the meaning, nuances, production process and the inspiration behind this album. To start, I think the most important question would be ‘What inspired you to become a composer’?  I studied music from Mr. Abdul Sarkar back in the early 1980s when I learned the classical guitar. We used to also have concerts wherein they would ask the best students to perform. While I was performing I realised that it was not me that was communicating to the audience but the soul of the piece. I was merely the medium and this is what inspired me to become a composer. The making of this album started when Dhahara Vidhya Foundation, a non-charitable Trust from Chennai, commissioned me to write two orchestral works. It is the sweetest thing for any composer to have someone acknowledge their talent and believe in their abilities. There are many things I hope to achieve through this album, not least of which would be to bring peace and harmony while also evoking the passion of human nature and the spirit of humankind envisaged through the inspiring life stories of the legendary composer — Ludwig Van Beethoven and ‘Maharaj’ Jam Saheb Digvijay Singh, ruler of the erstwhile princely state of Nawanagar, Gujarat. You are the first Indian musician to compose a Symphonic Poem. How does that feel?  The world knows of Oscar Schindler's humanitarian act. But when I came to know the sublime act of the Maharaj Jam Saheb Digvijay Singhji, who was responsible in saving not just hundreds but thousands of lives during the Second World War, I felt it was my duty to bring out these lesser-known historical facts to the world and reinstate the truth that India was, is and will always be a nation with the highest humanitarian values. To represent this musically, I sought the help of the Symphonic Poem form and I am happy to be a tool in this great venture. What is the story behind your Symphonic Poem: THE JOURNEY and what is the message you wish to convey?  The stage for this symphonic poem is set against the background of World War II. The story was brought to my attention by my patron Anand Madhavan. Germany and the USSR wished to wipe Poland off the world map and divide the territory between them. All the hostages were taken to Siberia. Following which there was an altercation between Germany and USSR over the land that had been previously occupied by the Polish. This is where our story starts, with the Maharaj Jam Saheb Digvijay Singhji, who was the first ruler to open the doors to thousands of Polish refugees and saved their lives. The magnanimity of the Maharaj and the riveting tale of displacement, despair, migration, and resettlement of Polish refugees from the Soviet Union in India is what inspired me to write this Symphonic Poem. It makes a powerful case for pacifism on the 75 anniversary of the unconditional surrender of Nazi Germany to the Allied forces, in 1945, thereby ending World War II in Europe. Tell us about the different sections of ‘THE JOURNEY’  ‘THE JOURNEY’ begins with a melancholic aria, ‘Lost Souls,’ penned by my wife Georgina Margarite Ezra, depicting the desolate condition of Polish children. The pinnacle of this composition is the inclusion of a timeless Tamil poem from Purnanooru, ‘Undaal Amma Ivvulagam,’ written by the ancient king of the Sangam era, Kadalul Maaindha Ilamperuvazhudhi. The first section is called ‘The night of the Journey,’ which speaks of the state of mind of the refugees. The second section is called ‘Arrival of Trucks’ and this is followed by the third section called ‘The Journey Through Different Territories’ travelling through Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan to name a few. Here is where we deal with the darker, the sadder, and the most desolate parts of the story. The fourth section is called ‘Misfortune Strikes,’ where lives were lost due to trucks veering off the path and starvation, and the fifth section is called ‘Pathos and Grief’ which is the emotional result of all the trials and tribulations that they underwent. This section is only played with strings. The sixth section is called ‘Desolation,’ where the refugees reach the lowest of low with their emotional, mental, and physical health. Where they are questioning if they will ever see the light at the end of the tunnel. We now proceed to experience the feeling of hope in the seventh section ‘Ray of Hope’ where the refugees are finding themselves almost at their endpoint. This is followed by the eighth section which introduces the king, ‘The Maharaj Jam Saheb Digvijay Singhji.’ The ninth section is ‘The Warm Welcome,’ where both the Maharaj and the refugees greet each other joyfully as a father would his children. The final section is ‘Extolling the Virtues of the Maharaj’ where we depict the humanitarian values of the Maharaj and how because of good people like this, the world will never cease to exist. ‘RISE: Symphony in D Minor’ is your first time composing a symphony. What was your inspiration behind it?  When I was looking for motivational and socially impactful themes that would benefit mankind, I was reminded of the famous quote of Confucius, “The greatest glory in living, lies not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall.” This to me felt like it was especially apt to describe the life of Ludwig Van Beethoven, one of the greatest musical geniuses and someone who used his music to rise after every fall. This symphony is a tribute for Beethoven’s 250th birth anniversary and includes, among others, reminiscences of Beethoven's most popular themes, such as the opening motif of the composer’s Fifth Symphony, but consciously introducing a rising figuration (as against the falling 3rds of the original) signifying positivity and perseverance. It is written in the traditional form of the symphony with three movements — ‘Allegro con brio,’ ‘Andante’ and ‘Allegro con moto.’ I have tried bringing out this dichotomy in the symphony RISE, with the descending phrases depicting the various falls in Beethoven’s life, while the consequent victorious emergence is pronounced through the ascending phrases, invoking the spirit of positivity and perseverance. Your pieces will be performed by the Staatskapelle Orchestra, Halle, Germany, Conducted by Bernd Ruf, and Choir of the Opera Halle, conducted by Markus Fischer — your thoughts on this...  Both the works have been performed and recorded by the Staatskapelle Orchestra, Halle, Germany, under the baton of the renowned conductor Bernd Ruf, comprising 91 instrumentalists, along with 31 singers from the Choir of the Opera Halle, conducted by Markus Fischer. It was a delight and honour working with them and we are very happy with the outcome after collaborating for the past 18 months. We even had linguistic guiding tracks made courtesy of V. Muthukumaraguruswamy, our spiritual guide, scholar, and Chief Linguistic Consultant so that they were able to sing the entire song in Tamil.  What is the significance of the bonus track ‘Undaal Amma Ivvulagam’ — a capella in Tamil?  ‘Undaal Amma Ivvulagam,’ the timeless poem from Purananooru , has been sung by Shalini Singh Balaji and Keshav Vinod Kumar, thereby giving an Indian twist to conclude the album. Please do introduce the team behind the making of this album  First and foremost, I would like to mention my patron Anand Madhavan, the backbone of this project. The culmination of this project was supported by a dedicated core team, which includes Dr. Prem Venkatesh, the dynamic Project Lead from Scotland, Muthukumaraguruswamy, Mrs. Georgina Margarite Ezra, Songwriter, Translator, and Linguistic Trainer. Our record label Navona Records, the U.S. and its parent company PARMA Recordings who when we presented the idea of the album they were attracted to the concept and were delighted to release this album. For an Indian composer to get international recognition is something remarkable. My earnest thanks goes to Dynamedion and GENUIN for helping us in the production and recording of our album. (‘Spirit of Humanity’ will also be released in digital format on iTunes, Spotify, Amazon Music and ArkivMusic)  I felt it was my duty to reinstate the truth that India was, is and will always be a nation with the highest humanitarian values
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Emotionally on the same page||The word, ‘home’ evokes a flood of emotions, memories, spaces of comfort and loved ones. In the edition of ‘Home Sketches’ by Aalaap, Ramya Ramnarayan along with the Flamenco artiste Lisa Botalico explored home, in all its aspects. “Home is a place where I exist as an artiste,” declared Ramya, adding, “It’s a part of a community of artistes, where each has left their imprints.” The petrichor after summer showers, sabha hopping during the Marghazhi season and the heritage we carry forward in our lives would be home for her. Ramya presented two pieces based on Goddess Kamakshi as an ode to Kanchipuram, the temple town of history and heritage. Opening with verses from the ‘Soundarya Lahari’ (Adi Sankara), this piece humanised Parvathi as she made her journey through life and its kaleidoscope of emotions. “For me, home is a place filled with unforgettable memories, bursting with excitement. A place with emotional sharing and giving,” she explained. Ramya’s artistic journey has been peppered with unforgettable experiences alongside legendary Gurus. She began learning adavus from Adyar K Lakshman when she was four years old and later spent a year with Chitra Visweswaran, before embarking on her journey with Guru Swamimalai S.K. Rajarathnam Pillai for many years. At age 11, her training with the late Kalanidhi Narayanan started. “This has given so much depth, which I hadn’t realised as a young student. Both Kalanidhi maami’s classes and vadiyaar’s classes were private lessons all through the years of training, which is literally a luxury for students of Bharatanatyam to gain in today’s environment.” Muthuswami Dikshitar’s kriti, ‘Kanchadalayadakshi,’ was demonstrated with a romantic narrative. Kamakshi near the Ganges, creates a linga with mud to offer prayers. In a bid to test her, Lord Siva lets river Vegavati flow in full force. Upon seeing the region flooding, she embraces the linga only to realise that it is Siva himself, appearing in front of her and asking her hand in marriage. “I got to study with different gurus training in Carnatic music and spent a good number of years having advanced training with the veteran R. Vedavalli. Without prompting, she would go into the theoretical aspects, including what was appropriate for Bharatanatyam. She would talk about padams and javalis, while she would teach varnams and kritis in typical Carnatic style. These were unforeseen gifts, which I received through my life, she said as she recollected. Separated from one she loved, a Virahotkanthita nayika, took centre stage in the Kshetrayya padam that followed. Shaken by her emotional journey and pondering, the nayika asks with a deep sense of anguish, “There was a time when my lover was with me, all the time. He used to lie on my lap, lean on my garment — not a single moment he would blink his eyelid, but continually gaze at me. Even when the time came for the sunset, he’d call for a lamp to gaze at my illuminated self. How come I’ve lost this?” The poignant sorrow of the nayika segued into the second segment of the evening, where the Flamenco artist Lisa Bottalico presented an upbeat and lively piece — one of a lover who expresses his love and devotion for his partner. A presentation rooted in the rumba style of Flamenco, Lisa explained how multi-cultural influences had been incorporated into the art form, thereby giving it an Afro-Caribbean feel as well. A contrast to the Kshetrayya padam, the next number was a duet between Ramya and Lisa as they presented Zorongo by the Spanish poet Federico García Lorca. ‘La luna es un pozo chico, Las flores no valen nada,’ (the moon is a shallow well, the flowers aren’t worth anything), went the lines as Lisa vocalised the poem and drove the rhythm of the song, while through abhinaya Ramya captured the longing for an embrace the protagonist felt. “It’s gratifying that this kind of organic outcome came about, because we spent an enormous amount of time in collaboration, without having an agenda — understanding each other’s work as an artiste and how we could bring about the marriage of Flamenco and Bharatanatyam,” explained Ramya. A jugalbandi followed as Ramya and Lisa improvised rhythmic patterns in Bharatanatyam and Flamenco respectively. Across different spaces and time, the sounds of ‘takita tham tarikita tham tarikita’ echoed in their artistic interpretation. They also showcased a section of the famous Dhanasree Thillana, the music set in an instrumental version. Modern adaptations of Flamenco display faint roots of the Kathak tradition, but not necessarily Bharatanatyam. In fact, the Spanish dance form has multicultural connections to several art forms. “The Flamenco tradition we see today embraces cultural influences and incorporates it into its routine. A living art form, it still maintains its traditional vibrancy,” said Lisa. “The audience can see how there’s the same kind of musicality in these forms and how human emotions are beyond the boundaries we draw for ourselves. That is why the padams and javalis that I studied with Kalanidhi maami is the most valuable takeaway I have as a Bharatanatyam dancer,” supplied Ramya, who considers New Jersey her home as well. “The people may not express exactly the sentiments or have the same cultural behaviour that I do. Yet we share similar emotions and it doesn’t matter what ethnic or cultural background one comes from, humans are humans and emotions are deep and rooted in us,” summed up Ramya.  The poignant sorrow of the nayika segued into the segment of Lisa Botalico
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Of GNB’s genius and timeless values||A more than 30-minute lec-dem by the legendary M.L.Vasanthakumari, posted by a well-known vocalist on Facebook, is is being widely shared over the past few weeks. Though the talk holds a mirror to the Carnatic music scene then, pointing out what ails it, it sounds relevant even today. MLV is brilliant with her command over the Tamil language and clarity of thought. She speaks about GNB’s music, Ariyakudi’s genius, the golden era (1940s to 1960s), child prodigies, Purandaradasa, the Trinity, critics and up-and-coming musicians. As a young vocalist comments on FB, “MLV Amma is brilliant. It’s a must-watch.” (available on YouTube). The amazing part is, it appeals to both the old and the young. The musical principles she mentions being timeless. Talking about the period between 1940s and 1960s, MLV says, “I am proud to belong to an era of vidwans such as Maha Vaidyanatha Iyer, Poochi Srinivasa Iyengar and Naina Pillai.” She talks about how artistes, who underwent rigid gurukulavasam training, became stalwarts: Ariyakudi Ramanuja Iyengar, Maharajapuram Viswanatha Iyer, Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagavatar, Alathur brothers, Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer, GNB and Madurai Mani Iyer. Emphasising on respecting elders and senior artistes, MLV points out how GNB had high regard for Ariyakudi. While referring to M.S. Subbulakshmi, D.K. Pattammal and herself as prodigies, MLV makes special mention about Mandolin Shrinivas, (Chitravina) Ravikiran from the South and Rashid Khan from the North. “Both Shrinivas and Ravikiran have done amazing work.”  Different styles “During my recent visit to North India, I happened to listen to a young boy called Rashid Khan (hardly 18). I was stunned by his music, but his father does not allow him to perform on stage. He says he has to hone his skill.” She expresses her anguish over how some parents, who get carried away by the fame and success of these prodigies, want their children also to perform on stage. She requests critics not to compare young talents with senior artistes and similarly, Carnatic musicians with Hindustani vocalists. “How can the critics compare Carnatic music to Hindustani? Our style is different,” she says. Talking about ragam Sivashakthi, a Kharaharapriya Janyam, created by GNB, MLV says a few critics called it a modern raga when her student rendered it in a concert. She recalls how once Rajarathnam Pillai told GNB, ‘Why don’t you introduce me to some of these small light compositions (sillarai). GNB replied, ‘Continue with your (wonderful) raga elaborations, leave the sillarai out to people like us’. Varied influences She follows it up with a special mention about GNB’s briga sangeetham, grahabedam and how his fascination for Viswanatha Iyer (Maharajapuram), Ariyakudi's kutcheri paddathi, the Bal Gandharva effect and Rajarathnam Pillai’s raga elaborations had great influence on him. MLV points out how criticisms about his unique style had upset GNB so much that he wanted to leave the city in his last years. Elaborating on briga sangeetham, she says, “There is a new negativity about it. In the North, they have many gharanas — Kirana, Gwalior and so on. “Art should be like that. If everyone imitates the other, where is the speciality? GNB’s briga sangeetham was unique while grahabedam was his speciality. Some universities in the U.S. have courses on Modal Shift of Tonic. His creativity was so vast.” As a concluding remark, MLV says, “I entreat the rasikas, encourage the younger generation, otherwise, this art will vanish. I also appeal to young learners — be perfectionists. Strive, keep an open mind and appreciate good music.”
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Little Krishna has the temple to Himself||When the nation went into a complete lockdown, places of worship were also kept out of bounds for devotees. Carnatic musician Deepa Namboodiri gave free rein to her creativity to come up with picturesque verses that depicted the child Krishna having a whale of a time in the quiet temple. She composed and rendered it and posted it as a video on YouTube along with some drawings. Little did she imagine that it would go viral across social media platforms. “A poem was posted in our family’s WhatsApp group in which the deity was portrayed as a sad child because nobody was coming in to see him. I felt disheartened with that thought, almost like how a mother would feel when she hears that her child, who is away from her, is unhappy there. So, I imagined a situation when Kannan, as the main deity is worshipped as child Krishna, tells her that He is absolutely fine and about the pranks and games He indulges in when the crowds are away,” says Deepa. The Lord tells her that it’s peaceful inside the temple with no noise or pushing and shoving. He is running around, laughing, even toppling the uruli with the manjadikkuru . The lines explain in detail what he was up to during the lockdown. Krishna admits that it felt nice to have come out of the cramped sanctum sanctorum , but He is not oblivious to the grief of the devotees. He reminds us that everything happens for a reason. It is with this thought that she concludes the poem. She adds that but for the sketches by Manish Madhavan, her friend, the poem wouldn’t have reached so many people. Deepa, currently based in Coimbatore, says the concept of Krishna has always been special to her. “He takes on myriad roles for me at different times. Now that the temple has opened with several restrictions in place, I imagine Him as a little boy dancing with joy to see the devotees again and as the wise one telling me to use my intelligence and do my duties,” she says. A regular at the annual Chembai Music Festival at the temple, Deepa is a disciple of Chandramana Narayanan Namboodiri and T.K. Govinda Rao. She is also the executive director at TechSARIGA Technologies and Services Pvt Limited, a virtual platform for musicians and music buffs that organises and streams live and recorded music events, besides connecting musicians and organisations.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Unsung vidwan of rare calibre||In a discussion on Carnatic music and vidwans, it is normal to focus on the many stalwarts who have taken the stage. But there have been others, who have stayed outside the limelight, but done just as much to enrich the art. They have ranged from teachers and lecturers to critiques and, even, rasikas. One such person was my first guru, P.N. Raghava Rao, who would have turned 100 on June 9. Raghava Rao was born at Vellore to Pennathur Venkat Rao and Balambal, as one of eight offspring. As a child, he trained under the legendary Kittamani Iyer, and went on to teach two of his siblings, Sharadha Shankar and Gowri Ratnam. Raghava Rao spent much of his life working at the Post and Telegraphs Department in Chennai. But almost all his time outside of the day-job was devoted to Carnatic music. He did this not as much by performing on stage (he did that too as an artiste accredited by All India Radio) but by teaching and laying the foundation of the art form in many young students. In his lessons, Raghava Rao emphasised on patantara suddham , which means adherence to tradition. Innovations and improvisations could come later, with time and experience. Bhava-rich rendition His music was simple, his rendition full of bhava, soulful to the core. He emphasised on sruti suddham and sowkhyam in his rendering of compositions. To his students, many of whom took to music professionally, he emphasised why it was important to sing for oneself and not to please anybody . Indeed, this lesson was evident in Raghava Rao’s own renditions. Very early on, even as he stressed on tradition, he also made sure that his students felt at ease, that they enjoyed the music, rather than treat it as a chore. During his time, Raghava Rao moved closely with vidwan Ramnad Krishnan. It was when listening together to a concert of the legendary G.N. Balasubramaniam (GNB) that Krishnan and Rao became friends. Their rapport was such that they were practically inseparable, with Rao accompanying Krishnan in many of his concerts. Rao also often sang with K. Nagamani, son of the great composer Koteeswara Iyer. Rao’s home in Sullivan Garden Road, Mylapore, Chennai, would brim with visitors of tremendous repute. Stalwarts such as S. Ramanathan, N. Ramani, K. V. Narayanaswamy, T.M. Thyagarajan, P.S. Narayanaswamy, Thanjavur V. Sankara Iyer, Voleti Venkateswarulu, violinist Kesavulu and mridangam exponent Vellore G. Ramabadran were some of the frequent visitors to his house. Rao grew very fond of the Veenai Dhanammal school and used to visit T. Brinda’s home just to listen to her music. It was Rao’s commitment to teaching that stood out. He taught hundreds of students at a school in Egmore, apart from classes at his home and elsewhere. He would ride from place to place, through Madras, on a rickety motorcycle, which often gave him starting trouble, but which was never an excuse to miss a class. It might sound like a cliché, but to Rao Carnatic music really did represent a way of life. Whether it was at a concert or teaching his students, he was at peace when he was steeped in the art. It is important that we honour those who stride the stage. But to ensure that the art survives, we must also honour those who are behind the success of these performers, those teachers who dedicate their lives to music, expecting little or nothing in return. Raghava Rao was one such man, and I owe him an immeasurable debt of gratitude.  (The author is a renowned   Carnatic vocalist)
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Money, after all, is not a bad word||“If you were to fold a piece of paper in half 42 times, it would reach the moon. This is the power of compounding; it is the small numbers that add up,” declared Arts Development Consultant Shreya Nagarajan Singh. She was introducing her registrants to a workshop last week, ‘For the Future — The Basics of Personal Finance for Artists with Lavanya Mohan.’ “Revenue streams such as teaching, performances, part-time or full-time jobs, social media, etc., are mostly linear but the concept of money isn’t linear, it is exponential,” she added. The discussion on finance was indeed timely what with the extended Lockdown, keeping both artistes and the audience behind closed doors. Shreya tackled a sensitive issue for artistes next — performing for free. here, she shared a strategy for the evaluation of a proposal. “It is a simple exercise — give 10 points each for payment, career building, enjoyment. I call it Perfect 30. Rate every opportunity — if the score is 15 or greater, say yes; if it is between 10-15, consider strongly, and if the score is below 10, say no, it is not worth your time. You can perform gratis only if it is a good cause, to return a favour, for a non-cash exchange, to break into a market, a select venue, a special opportunity or to test a new production. Don’t be afraid to say no. Be comfortable to talk about money,” she explained. Taking over the session, chartered accountant, Personal Finance Blogger, Lifestyle Writer and Marketing Professional Lavanya Mohan said, “Money and ambition are often considered bad words in the artistic community. While there is absolutely no doubt that the pursuit of art is important, the pursuit of money is just as important if one wants a sustainable future in the arts. You must understand the time value of money to plan ahead. I would advise you to be like a squirrel and save money, to lead a debt-free life and get working on steady income streams.” Giving another piece of advice, she said, “Don’t undervalue yourself.” ‘Learn to ask for money. It is not easy,” she continued. “I found that the more I asked, the more comfortable I got. It is not about being ambitious or making money, it is about giving yourself worth. The moment you undervalue yourself, the value of your art also comes down,” she explained. So how to be comfortable asking? Lavanya’s choice is E-mail. “On the phone too, one can be upfront without being offensive. Be prepared, remember you are the CEO of your own business. Be serious about what you do and attest a lot of value to yourself,” she said. Shreya chipped in to say, “I send my rates earlier by mail, and if the client negotiates, I do not come down less than 10 per cent. Ask yourself, ‘Are you ready to walk away?’” Lavanya spoke about savings, the most important tool of Financial Planning. Here again, she had strategies. “First, label your savings, say for travel, for a production, for professional development and so on. This will give clarity if the savings for different purposes is parked in a single investment. Use Excel sheets if possible. Next, separating savings into buckets, according to the time frame of requirements; creating an Emergency Bucket, with savings that are invested in liquid investments; an Aspiration Bucket for travel or a car, etc., with a short to medium term investment duration (3-5 years) and a Long Term one for retirement plans, especially important for independent artists who are not eligible for retirement benefits. Investments such as Equity Mutual Funds, LIC Jeevan Anand, NSC, PPF, etc., are your options, but seek the advice of a certified Financial Planner. For this exercise you will have to work backwards and you will understand how much you have and what you need in the future.” Lavanya spent time educating artistes on Insurance — Life, Term and Health. and insurance-linked investments. She urged artistes to take advantage of their youth, as premiums are cheaper for the young. The duo Lavanya and Shreya moved to Budgeting as an essential Financial Planning tool. “Money without a budget is like Champagne without a glass,” quoted Lavanya. “Budgeting is to document what comes in and what goes out. It need not be complex, but it needs to be done regularly, every few days, as you may have no idea what you are spending on. There are many smart phone apps that are useful,” she expanded. While Shreya shared a thumb rule for Budgets — Obligations (bills) 50 per cent, discretionary spends (food, transport, cosmetics) 30 per cent, Savings 20 per cent, Lavanya suggested putting aside savings as soon as the money comes in to maximise it. “Instead of treating savings as the balance after expenditure, move it up, so deduct savings from Income right away. For freelancers, excess income must lead to excess savings. Plan for the future, why don’t you make a June-December budget estimate now? Take some time to analyse and take stock of your financial health on a regular basis,” she urged. On a concluding note, Lavanya said: “Money can work for you. Do not be condescending about saving, and try to lessen discretionary expenditure. Always have a cushion of savings that you can dip into during times of uncertainty. Find ways to replenish it; we have to be creative as regular income streams dry up during such times.” On the whole, a useful session, in which at least the younger ones would have found some direction in these uncertain times.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Australian honour for Indian musician||Shobha Sekhar, founder of Kalakruthi, music organisation in Australia is a happy person. The Montreal-based artiste and lecturer, University of Melbourne, figures in the Queen’s Birthday 2020 Honours List and will be conferred the Medal of the Order of Australia later this year. The message from David Hurley, Governor general and Chancellor of the Order of Australia says: “Through the Order of Australia, Bravery Decorations and other awards we recognise and celebrate outstanding Australians — ordinary people, who do extraordinary things for their local community and for Australia... It is for these men and women that the Australian honours system exists, providing much-deserved recognition, acknowledgement and gratitude on behalf of all Australians.” Tony Abbott, former Prime Minister of Australia and Michael Clark, cricketer, are among those nominated. Since 1994, Shobha Sekhar a management graduate, let music enrich her own life and provide the community with the much needed aesthetic touch. Trained by several stalwarts, including DKP, D.K. Jayaraman and K.V. Narayanaswamy, Shobha started Kalakruthi in that year and has been training countless aspirants in Carnatic music. She has presented several concerts in Australia and other parts of the world. Kalakruthi is affiliated to The Music Academy, Chennai, and the students receiving lessons in advanced levels from the faculty of the Academy’s music school. Last year, Kalakruthi celebrated its silver jubilee. Shobha considers the observation of N. Murali, president, The Music Academy, poignant. Chief guest at the jubilee event, Mr. Murali said, “Montreal’s gain is Chennai’s loss.” These words came as a morale booster to Shobha, who often regretted not being based in Chennai, where she could have attained better grown as an artiste. Kalakruthi has been part of several charity initiatives. Recently, in association with 25 schools, a programme of music and dance was conducted to raise funds for the victims of Victoria Bushfire. In her acceptance speech, Shobha speaks of the potential of music to give the healing touch. Thanking everyone who had a role to play in her long journey of hard work and success, she says music can unite people and give them strength and hope in these stress-filled times. “I am being rewarded for service to Indian music and dance — encompassing humanitarian, cultural and educative services through Music,” supplements Shobha through email. Inspiring response She cites the response of Richard Kurth, Dean of Faculty of Music, University of Melbourne, where Shobha teaches music, as the quintessential response from the Western music world and each of the 1000-odd University students she has mentored in the past 12 years. Says Kurth: “I am so happy to receive this fantastic news from you, and I have just deeply enjoyed watching your wonderful veena performance, your gorgeous singing, and your eloquent speech. Your music brought tears of joy to my eyes, and your words inspired me with your wisdom about cultural diversity and the importance of teachers and music.” The award and the response have come as a shot in the arm for Shobha, who says: “I vow to be a catalyst and add SteAm, A for Arts (music) into the stem- (Science, Technology, English and Maths) based Education in Australia.”
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Crazy’ memories||It is a year, June 10 to be precise, since the king of humour, Crazy Mohan passed away. Memories came flooding — about him, his plays and this writer’s interaction with him. I had called him to try and set up a meeting with him for the young drawing artiste S Prahladh (https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/passion-beyond-his-years/article31587244.ece). After having seen a few of the boy’s drawings, he wanted to mentor the boy. But the meeting never happened as Mohan passed away suddenly.  Birth of Crazy Thieves  It was his evening trip to Marundeeswarar temple in Tiruvanmiyur to meet his close friend and mentor S Ravi that turned out to be a defining moment in Rangachari Mohan’s life. It was then that he started writing the script for his first play. Played out to a packed audience at Mylapore Fine Arts in 1974, ‘Crazy Thieves in Palavakkam’ turned out to be a sensational hit and shot Mohan into limelight. ‘Crazy’ too stuck to him all his life.  Janaki Teacher   (Karpagavalli School, Mylapore)  She was the one, who spotted the six-year old’s talent for drama and chose him for the role of Veera Pandiya Kattabomman in the school annual function. She taught him the dialogue and his performance was outstanding. In return, Mohan named every heroine of his play as Janaki.  Dog phobia  It was a pack of dogs, which literally drove Mohan out of his corporate job. After his late night duty at Sundaram Clayton, Mohan would ride back on his Lambretta all the way from the factory in Padi to his house in Mylapore. From Gemini Flyover and right through to TTK Road, a few dogs would chase him every night. They could literally pick up the splutter of lamby as it crossed the MG Road. Mohan had a phobia for dogs and having to ride the two-wheeler with feet up proved too much of a torture.  ‘She’ is the groom  Mohan had penned the story for Kathadi Ramamurthy’s popular hit ‘Ayya Amma Ammamma.’ Buoyed by its success, the owners of Kumudam wanted them to present it in their auditorium. Since women were not allowed inside Kumudam premises in those days, Crazy Mohan donned the role of ‘Janaki’ in that play that day. It was also the time Mohan’s engagement was being planned with Kumudam Parthasarathy’s niece. Instead of Mohan and his family formally ‘seeing the girl,’ Parthasarathy and his family saw the prospective groom as a woman. Parthasarathy would later introduce Mohan to the audience thus: . “This ‘Janaki’ is our ‘Mapillai.’”  Cemetery meeting  It was a chance meeting with Kamal Hassan at the St Mary’s Road cemetery that sowed the seeds for the script of Apoorva Sagodarargal . Two days later, the agreement had been signed for the film with Mohan as the script writer. “When I present dramas, Kamal is my Visiting Card. For my overseas programmes, he is my Visa. And the common chord between us is ‘Humour,’’’ Mohan once told this writer on his three-decade association with Kamal.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Quick reach drew him||Relaxation in restrictions finds serials on Vijay TV up and about. ‘Senthoorappoove,’ for instance. A family drama with a liberal dose of romance, it has film actor Ranjith playing hero. Ranjith has featured in more than 100 films, including Pandavar Boomi , Bhishma and Nesam Puthusu . What made him consider TV soaps? “Well, I was thinking about it for some time and took the plunge because I liked the story and my character,” says Ranjith. Ranjith was producer for the film, Pasupathi Rasakkapalayam . He directed the movie, Bhishma besides producing the serial ‘Durga’ for Vijay TV. In the last mentioned, Priya Raman, his wife, played the main role. Small screen has its own advantages, according to him. “From landing an opportunity to finding the producer and theatres to exhibit not to mention piracy, feature films are full of challenges. Small screen and serials are more friendly and I’d reach the audience much faster by occupying their TV screens,” he expands. The story of ‘Senthoorapoove’ revolves around Duraisingam, a widower with two little daughters, Kayal and Kani. Not planning to marry again, he ends up tying the knot with his daughter’s school teacher, despite a big age difference between them. “When the director came to me with the story, I immediately agreed to do the role,” says Ranjith. Vijay TV is also airing their old serials, including ‘Pandian Stores,’ ‘Bharathi Kannamma, ‘Ayutha Ezhuthu,’ ‘Thenmozhi B.A, ‘Kaatrin Mozhi,’ and ‘Naam Iruvar Namakku Iruvar’ with new content.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Theatre training||Koothuppattarai is conducting an acting workshop June 15-July 5, 9-10 a.m. To be held in three parts over 21 days, the workshop will have Jayakumar Janakiraman, Kalairani and Muthukumar as the mentors. For details and registration contact 8072333827.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Homage to Purandaradasa||As part of Nada Sudha concert series, organised by Charlotte Devaranama Group/Charlotte Purandara Aradhana - 2020, the concert this Sunday titled ‘Vasudeva Vaibhava,’ is based on the compositions of the legendary composer Mysore Vasudevachar. The recital will be streamed online on the Facebook page of the group, June 14, 7.30 p.m. (IST) and 10 a.m. (USA time). The artistes are Manasa Nayana (vocal), C.N. Thyagaraju (violin) and Sai Shiv (mridangam). Tune in to https://www.facebook. com/106929994182932/live/) for the live concert. Connect on instagram: @cltdevaranamgroup.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||12fr_tubewatch add||@Flix Life This horror-thriller movie follows six astronauts aboard the International Space Station who come across a multi-celled organism that they name Calvin. In their pursuit to study and understand this life form, they inadvertently underestimate the capabilities of this superior intelligent organism that escapes its confinement and is now on a feeding frenzy against its captivators. Sunday, 1 p.m. and 9 p.m.  Overcomer A young girl called Hannah shows how she triumphs all odds against her.   Directed by Alex Kendrick  the film     is about a basketball coach John Harrison (Alex Kendrick) who is asked to coach a cross-country team due to unforeseen circumstances. With no prior experience, support or even a formidable team, he comes to terms with his new reality. An unfortunate turn of events occur when no one turns up for the team trials except a lone asthmatic girl, Hannah Scott (Aryn Wright-Thompson) with a passion for running. A coincidental life changing meet with Thomas Hill (Cameron Arnett), a former cross-country runner gives him the much-needed perspective to reaffirm his faith in his only student, Hannah. A journey of self-discovery in the end sees her shoulder the hopes of her coach and peers as she finally competes for the much-coveted state champion race with a changed mindset.    Saturday, 1 p.m. and 9 p.m.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Title for violinist||Rajalakshmi Fine Arts, (RFA), Coimbatore, will honour violinist H.N. Bhaskar with the ‘Isai Mani Makutam’ award for the year 2020. The award function will be held during the Sabha’s September Season Music Festival, at Coimbatore.
12 June 2020||New Delhi,||1,877 COVID-19 cases reported in city; deaths cross 1,000 mark||The Capital witnessed the biggest single-day spike in the number of COVID-19 cases with 1,877 new cases being reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 34,687, stated a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. Also, 101 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number to 1,085. But all the deaths did not happen in the past 24 hours. Of the total cases, 12,731 people have recovered and there are 20,871 active cases. A total of 2,71,516 tests have been done so far in the city and 16,241 COVID-19 positive people are under home quarantine. Over 2,000 beds ordered Health Minister Satyendar Jain said 2,015 more beds have been ordered to be made available for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals on Tuesday and they will be ready in the “next two to three days”. On Wednesday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said by July 31, 1.5 lakh beds will be needed if the patients from outside come to Delhi. Mr. Jain said the government was working to convert banquet halls, community halls and stadiums for COVID-19 treatment and stressed on the fact that about 50% of the beds are vacant here as on Thursday. Currently, out of the total 9,444 beds available in COVID-19 treatment facilities, 4,348 are vacant, according to the bulletin. The government also ordered all COVID-19 healthcare facilities to follow “Revised Discharge Policy for COVID-19” as issued by the Centre. Under the policy, only severe cases, including HIV patients, transplant recipients, and malignancy, need to be tested negative for COVID-19 before discharging. The Delhi Medical Association on Thursday wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah about resident doctors of Kasturba Hospital, Hindu Rao Hospital, and other hospitals and dispensaries under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation not receiving salaries for the past three months and sought immediate intervention. There are 244 containment zones here, a list released by government stated.
12 June 2020||New Delhi,||Municipal count puts COVID-linked funerals at double the death toll||The municipal corporations of Delhi have facilitated funerals of 2,098 confirmed COVID-19 cases, about double the official death toll reported so far, heads of the three civic bodies said at a press conference on Thursday. While the Delhi government has said that only 1,085 deaths have occurred as of Thursday, civic body heads contested these figures. “Neither are they [the government] able to treat patients nor are they able to give proper numbers,” said Jai Prakash, Chairman of the standing committee of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. “In total, there are 1,080 COVID-19 deaths under the SDMC limits, 976 in the NDMC and 42 in the EDMC,” said Bhupendra Gupta, Chairman of the South body standing committee. “These are confirmed cases,” he added, as opposed to the suspected COVID-19 cases. Funerals of these cases are also conducted according to the COVID-19 protocol. The bodies are identified as COVID-19 positive or suspected based on certificates issued by doctors when they are sent from the hospital, Mr. Gupta said. Government’s defence The Delhi government in a statement said that a “Death Audit Committee” comprising senior doctors has been “working impartially towards assessing deaths caused by the pandemic”. It added that the High Court had also “declared that the Death Audit Committee is working in an appropriate manner and the work of the committee cannot be questioned”. Heads of the three civic bodies also offered all the facilities, including stadiums, community centres and other suitable places to be used as isolation centres and makeshift hospitals. Leader of House of the SDMC, Kamaljeet Sherawat, said that the civic body’s 60-bedded Kalkaji Hospital could be used by the government for treating COVID-19 patients. Besides this, North body head said that COVID care wards were ready for use at the Hindu Rao Hospital. Fund release They also raised concerns about the release of funds to the municipal bodies. Mr. Jai Prakash rued that only Rs. 240 crore out of Rs. 556 crore due to the North body had been released in the first instalment and they needed to be given their dues in order to pay salaries. It should be noted that doctors at the Kasturba Hospital, run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, had on Wednesday threatened to resign en masse over non-payment of salary for three months.
12 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC stays FIR against Vinod Dua||The Delhi High Court has stayed an FIR registered against journalist and anchor Vinod Dua over a complaint lodged by a Delhi BJP leader noting that the steps taken so far by the police in the case do not appear to be in consonance with the law and “do not inspire much confidence”. Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani said further investigation in the matter arising from the FIR is stayed till the next date of hearing on July 23. The High Court noted that although, Mr. Dua has already been granted anticipatory bail by a local court here, it was “of the prima facie view that further investigation or proceedings pursuant to the FIR are likely to cause unwarranted and unjustified harassment to the petitioner [Mr. Dua]”. Justice Bhambhani also questioned the “substantial unexplained delay [of almost three months] in filing of the complaint and registration of the FIR”. The FIR was lodged on June 4 on a complaint by BJP spokesperson Naveen Kumar alleging Mr. Dua of spreading rumours and misinformation about the sensitive issue of the Delhi riots. The complaint stated that Mr. Dua’s comments in the webcast “The Vinod Dua Show” contain communal overtones, which during the current COVID crisis was causing public disaffection, which shall cause hatred and ill will between different communities. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for Mr. Dua, argued that the webcast took place on March 11, 2020 while the complaint was filed almost after three months. While the complaint alleged that Mr. Dua has said that high governmental functionaries were responsible for and instigated the riots that occurred in north-east Delhi, the senior advocate refuted it saying that a bare perusal of the transcript of the recording shows that no such comment or allegation was at all made. “All that was said in the webcast is that the functionaries did not visit the riot-affected areas and were preoccupied with the ongoing State visit of a foreign dignitary,” Mr. Singh argued. Taking note of Mr. Singh’s submission, the court said, “There is no allegation that any adverse consequences, in terms of enmity, hatred or ill-will, much less any violence or breach of peace, occurred as a consequence of the webcast.” “...It prima facie appears that the registration of the FIR requires to be examined on the touchstone of the law as laid down in the above referred judicial precedents, since the steps taken so far by the State do not appear to be in consonance with such law and do not inspire much confidence,” the court noted.
12 June 2020||Noida,||Pregnant woman’s death: Noida hospital director transferred||The director of a government-run hospital, one of the seven facilities that had denied admission to a pregnant woman leading to her death last week, has been shunted out, an official order said on Thursday. Anish Singhal, Director of the ESIC Hospital in Noida Sector 24, has been transferred with immediate effect to the ESIC’s Directorate (Medical) in Delhi, the order stated. The order was issued by Deepak Malik, Deputy Director (Medical Administration), ESIC, under the aegis of the Union Ministry of Labour and Employment. Balraj Bhandar has been appointed as the new director of the hospital. Dr. Singhal was ordered to relieve the post by Thursday afternoon and assume the next responsibility by Friday afternoon, the order stated. The Chief Medical Superintendent of the district hospital was suspended and action recommended against a nurse and a ward staffer in connection with the case. Eight-month pregnant Neelam (30) had died last Friday in an ambulance in Greater Noida after a frantic 13-hour hospital hunt failed to find her a bed as over half-a-dozen facilities, including three run by government, denied her treatment. She was accompanied by her husband Vijender. The incident brought to the fore the issue of medical negligence and unavailability of care during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, even as politicians latched on to it to slam the BJP government in the State. The National Human Rights Commission on Monday had issued a notice to the Uttar Pradesh government over media reports on alleged medical apathy towards the pregnant woman. The district administration had ordered a probe into the case which found lapses on the part of three State-run hospitals — the district hospital, ESIC in Noida and Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida — besides private hospitals Shivalik, Sharda, Fortis and Max in Ghaziabad. Action has been recommended against the erring officers and staff of the government hospitals, while an FIR is to be lodged against the private hospitals which made “excuses” of non-availability of beds to deny treatment to the woman, an official statement said.
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police officers injured after miscreants attack post||A Sub-Inspector and other policemen were injured after accomplices of a man and his two brothers, who were arrested on charges of looting and assault, hurled stones and fired at a police post in north Delhi, officers said on Thursday. Sadkeen, Ashkeen and Shahrukh were taken into custody at the Inderlok police post for allegedly looting and assaulting a bakery owner on Wednesday after he denied them free food, they said. A case has been registered in connection with the attack on the police post, Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Monika Bharadwaj said, adding that Sadkeen and his brothers have been arrested. The police are trying to nab those who attacked the police post, she said. Denial, scuffle The bakery owner, Akhlaq, had rented a commercial space in Inderlok from Sadkeen’s mother for his shop, the officers said. The incident happened at 10 p.m. on Wednesday, following which Akhlaq filed a police complaint at the Inderlok police post, saying that a scuffle broke out after he denied them bakery products free of cost, the police said. The complainant also alleged that Sadkeen and his brothers looted his bakery and also beat him up. Hurled stones When they were brought to the police post for questioning, they became aggressive and fought with the personnel. Minutes after they were detained, their accomplices came to the police post with batons and hurled stones at the personnel. One among them, identified as Naved, fired at the police. In self-defence, Sub-Inspector Pankaj fired two rounds in the air, the officer said. “Pankaj suffered head injuries. He is undergoing treatment at a hospital,” the officer said. CCTV footage showed Sadkeen and others entering the police post.  A case has been registered in connection with the attack on the police post Monika Bharadwaj Deputy Commissioner of Police (North)
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police Commissioner directs DCPs to beef up surveillance||In a meeting with senior police officers, Commissioner of Police, S.N. Shrivastava, directed them to hold meetings with banks having ATMs, fuel stations, jewellery shops and businessmen, who transfer huge cash, and bolster security measures like employing security guards to avoid crime. The police chief instructed officers to strictly control street crime and do mapping to identify crime-prone areas. Besides, DCPs should deploy extra executive staff posted in the offices for field duties. “Deployment at the containment zones, quarantine centres and hospitals should be rationalised. Illicit liquor, drugs, gambling and other vices are prevailing, especially in under-privileged areas. These are primary reasons for juveniles to take up crime. Such vices should be wiped out at the earliest,” he instructed. He directed that after a case is worked out, attention on arresting absconding criminals is often diluted. Moreover, DCPs were directed to make the best efforts to trace absconding criminals. Monetary benefits He also directed DCPs to ensure monetary benefits for the family of deceased police personnel at the earliest. However, a police officer said that policing during COVID-19 outbreak is not the same as it used to be in normal times. More than 800 policemen have been infected and others, who are on field duty, are prone to get infected.
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||NHRC team inspects Lok Nayak||A team of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) officials visited Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital on Thursday to look into allegations of COVID-19 patients being denied medical treatment at the Delhi government facility. The team that included NHRC member Jyotika Kalra visited the hospital, which has been declared a COVID-19-dedicated facility, to conduct an inspection of the facilities “amidst allegations of denial of admission to COVID patients”, the NHRC said in a tweet. “Some corrective measures [were] suggested for better communication for patients and attendants. The Commission will continue to keep a check,” it said in another tweet. Speaking to the media outside the hospital, Ms. Kalra said the intention of the team’s visit was not to find deficiencies in the work being done at the hospital but to help in making conditions better. In a statement, the NHRC said the team was told by hospital staff that no patient in serious condition had been denied admission and those with minor symptoms were being advised home quarantine. “The hospital administration claimed that they are being referred patients by various doctors without any proper protocol. On the delay in shifting of bodies, the hospital administration informed that only due to problems in lifts on some occasions, there might have been some delay but mostly the bodies are shifted immediately,” the statement said. The NHRC team also found that several beds were lying vacant, but the hospital administration said those were part of the requirement for the coming days. “The NHRC member observed that at hospital entry gate proper and visible notice boards giving directions to the patients and their attendants were required. These should properly display the telephone number of an official who can directly guide them instead of a number which only gives another number to contact,” the NHRC statement added.
12 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Rumours fly thick and fast among migrants||Nandrani, 48, a domestic help, in Gurugram’s Patel Nagar mulls to return home in Assam. Her husband has “learnt” it from his friends in the neighbourhood that migrants, being “outsiders”, would not be treated in the city hospitals for COVID-19. He also heard that lockdown could soon be reimposed in view of the rising virus cases. In fact, the rumours are not confined to a single part of the city, but are widespread. ‘Forced to leave’ Arti Jaiman, station director of “Gurgaon Ki Awaaz”, a community radio station, said their reporter received a couple of calls and messages from Sarhaul village, claiming that the police had been asking them to go back to their hometowns. One of the callers claimed that the police even forced them to shut stops and asked them to leave, she said. Ms. Jaiman said those who called them were in panic and sought details of the buses and trains leaving for their hometowns. After the matter was brought to the notice of the administration, Gurugram MLA Sudhir Singla reassured people via the community radio that these were all rumours. Ms. Jaiman said her contacts in Malibu Towne had also heard similar stories from their domestic workers living in the slums nearby. Hospitals open to all Nagarro associate director Sarika Panda Bhatt, a resident of Malibu Towne, said her domestic help also narrated a similar story a few days ago. She said that the rumours were rampant. Deputy Director, Department of Information and Public Relations, R.S. Sangwan said announcements were made in Sarhaul and slums adjoining Malibu Towne to reassure people that the city hospitals were open to all. Ms. Bhatt expressed apprehension that local cab and bus operators seemed to be behind the rumour mongering since they benefit from the people returning to their hometowns. “The bus operators have been charging Rs. 5,000-Rs. 7,000 per person to transport them back to their homes. They were trying to persuade people to return to their hometowns by saying that lockdown could be reimposed soon,” she said.  The travel operators were trying to persuade people to return to their hometowns by saying that lockdown could be reimposed soon Sarika Panda Bhatt Nagarro associate director
12 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||191 new COVID-19 cases reported in Gurugram||Six persons, including a Haryana police inspector, died due to COVID-19 in Gurugram on Thursday, taking the death toll to 19. Besides, 191 new cases have been reported in the district taking the total number of infected patients to 2,737. Haryana has recorded 64 deaths so far. Chief Medical Officer, Gurugram, Virender Yadav, said Inspector Pradeep Dagar was under treatment at Artemis Hospital and was a heart patient. The 58-year-old man died on Thursday, said Mr. Yadav, adding that the death would be audited to know the exact cause. Gurugram has seen a sudden spurt in cases since May 26 and the total number of active cases in the district is 1,858, which is more than half the total number of 3,644 active cases in Haryana. Faridabad too recorded four deaths on Thursday taking the toll to 22. However, the district has only 601 active cases. It recorded 74 new COVID-19 cases taking the cumulative number to 929. Yamunanagar with 36 patients has the lowest number of cases in Haryana. Jhajjar has the lowest number of 17 active cases. As per the State health bulletin, 47 patients are critical, including 13 on ventilator support.
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Over 40 convicts rearrested||The police have rearrested over 40 persons, who were recently released from jail in an attempt to decongest prisons to maintain social distancing, said prison officials. A senior officer said the convicts were rearrested from different parts of Delhi for allegedly committing new crimes. “Around 40 inmates who were released on interim-bail or emergency-parole have been rearrested in fresh cases,” Director General (Prison) Sandeep Goel said. According to police, eight persons were held from Shahdara, seven from Dwarka, six from north-east, five each from Outer and Rohini districts and four each from South and Outer-North district. Three were re-arrested from North district and two each from east and south-east. One of the three men were involved in robbing and assaulting the 30-year-old pilot at gunpoint near Indian Institute of Technology. One of the accused Rahul (24), resident of Madangir, was recently released on bail for 45 days. Prison officials said around 3,500 prisoners were released from three prison complexes — Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini — in order to reduce overcrowding due to COVID-19.
12 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC allows all equipped private hospitals to conduct tests||The Delhi High Court on Thursday directed all private hospitals in Delhi, which are equipped with labs to conduct COVID-19 tests and have the sanction of the ICMR to do so, to proceed to conduct tests on both symptomatic and asymptomatic persons. A Bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad issued the direction after it was informed that the non-COVID-19 patients, who are approaching private hospitals for admission to undergo emergent surgeries and other such procedures, are not attended to till they undergo a COVID-19 test, for which they have to go elsewhere. “It is most unfortunate that non-COVID-19 patients are being made to wait to undergo test for COVID-19 at labs other than those which are situated within the premises of the hospitals that are equipped and authorised to conduct the said tests,” the court said. The court also remarked, “It appears that Delhi is fast heading towards becoming the Corona Capital of the country, an epithet the city can well do without.” It is the need of the hour that all the private hospitals in Delhi that are equipped with a lab to undertake COVID-19 test, be permitted to do the testing, without any further loss of time, the Bench said. “This is all the more imperative as the Delhi government has directed all the private hospitals in Delhi to reserve 20% beds for admitting COVID-19 patients,” the Bench said.
12 June 2020||New Delhi,||DUTA appeals to varsity to reach out to late prof.’s kin||The DU Teachers Association (DUTA) on Thursday appealed to university administration to reach out to family of Professor Wali Akhtar who died of COVID-19. Professor Akhtar of the Arabic Department had reportedly been turned away by several hospitals and did not receive timely attention. This was “testimony to the shocking state of the healthcare system of the country. This utter unpreparedness of the system to deal with not only COVID-19 cases but also to provide treatment for any other ailment to people in urgent need reveals the complete collapse of the system and the inability of the government to ensure timely care to all,” DUTA said. The group stated that ordinary citizens were left alone to “face immeasurable suffering and lives are being lost at a very rapid rate”.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||A fruitful day||
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man killed in feud over spitting||A 29-year-old man was killed following a quarrel over spitting in Mandir Marg on Wednesday night, the police said on Thursday. Additional DCP (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said the victim has been identified as Ankit resident of Bhai Veer Singh Marg. The accused, Praveen from Raja Bazar has been arrested. Both of them sustained injuries in the incident, the police said. Ankit and Praveen - who were known to each other – were sitting at a public place on June 8 when Praveen spat. Ankit argued believing that Praveen intentionally spat at him. The argument turned violent and led to a quarrel. On Wednesday, the two saw each other again at Shaheed Bhagat Singh complex and quarrelled over the same issue. “Locals said Ankit hit Praveen after which the latter retaliated. The matter is under probe,” said an officer. “Praveen is a network engineer while Ankit is a driver,” the officer said adding that both were rushed to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital for treatment but Ankit succumbed to injuries. A murder case has been registered.
12 June 2020||June 12 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Arrange private buses for commuters in city’||Leader of the Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Thursday demanded that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal arrange private buses in view of the problem of transportation faced by lakhs of people in the Capital . In a letter to Mr. Kejriwal, Mr. Bidhuri said millions of city commuters use the Metro every day but were facing difficulties since its operations had been suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic since March 22. “On the other hand, the number of buses in the fleet of DTC is very less. The Delhi government has given permission to operate DTC buses, but the condition has also been added that not more than 20 passengers will be allowed to board these buses. Due to this, a very small number of people are able to use these buses,” he alleged. “This is a difficult situation for the common people of Delhi regarding transportation,” he said.
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. blames AAP and BJP for crisis||Accusing the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the BJP in Delhi of engaging in ‘political blame game and bickering’, the Congress on Thursday said it has led to worsening of the COVID-19 situation and the residents are paying a price for ‘misgovernance’ . Addressing a joint online press conference with Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary and Delhi Congress spokesperson Aman Panwar, Rajya Sabha member Abhishek Singhvi said that his party has requested the National Human Rights Commission to direct the Delhi government to ensure COVID-19-hit areas be kept in containment with ‘realistic, scientific and efficacious definitions and demarcation’. “We hope and trust, but sadly do not expect, that AAP and the BJP, rather than indulging in optics, advertisements and diversionary tactics, will take our constructive ideas into account for the betterment of the lives of the people of Delhi,” Mr. Singhvi said.
12 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man dies hours after locals thrash him on theft suspicion||A 23-year-old man died after he was allegedly thrashed by locals in Pandav Nagar here on suspicion of theft on Tuesday, the police said on Thursday. A man identified as Rajesh Kumar has been arrested for allegedly assaulting the victim, Salman, from U.P., they said. A video of the incident shows a few locals can be seen thrashing Salman with sticks. In another video taken two hours later, policemen can be seen poking a stick in the man’s direction after which he gets up and limps his way with his hands tied. In one of the videos, he can be seen telling the locals that he and his associate climbed onto the building to commit theft. The police said probe has revealed that Salman and his associate were caught by locals trying to enter a building suspiciously. His associate managed to flee. His post-mortem is awaited and a case under relevant section has been registered, the police added.
12 June 2020||New Delhi,||PIL seeks strict lockdown||A PIL has been moved in the Delhi High Court seeking a direction to the city government to impose a strict lockdown in the Capital in view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases here. The petition by a lawyer noted that the Delhi government had admitted there would be around one lakh cases in the city by the end of June and the number would escalate to around 2.25 lakh by mid-July and over 5.5 lakh by July-end.
12 June 2020||New Delhi,||Finish pending work on drains by Aug. 31, NGT tells civic body||Following a plea seeking remedial action against pollution caused due to discharge of untreated waste in storm water drains in Ghaziabad, the National Green Tribunal has directed the civic body to prepare an action plan and complete pending work by August 31.
