13 June 2020||New Delhi,||SC allows firms to negotiate with staff on lockdown wages||The Supreme Court on Friday asked factory owners and other private industrial establishments to negotiate terms and enter into settlements with their workers on the payment of wages during the lockdown period. A Bench, led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, observed that industry cannot survive without its labourers and workers. The court urged employers and employees to sort out their differences and resume work in a congenial atmosphere. The court’s order came on a batch of petitions filed by industry owners against a March 29 government notification compelling them to pay full wages to workers. The notification was rescinded on May 17, after 54 days. Resumption of work In its order on Friday, the court asked employers to allow their workers to resume their jobs. This is without prejudice to the rights of the employees regarding unpaid wages for these 54 days. It said that employers whose factories had continued to work during the lockdown, though not to full capacity, may also enter into talks. Employers and workers could seek the help of Labour Department authorities and trade unions to reach a settlement. The court highlighted that the government, too, had an obligation to ensure conciliation between private employers and their workers for the smooth running of industrial establishments. “Lockdown had an equally adverse effect on the employers as well as on employees,” the court observed.
13 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||78 new cases in State, death toll 19||Kerala reported 78 new cases of COVID-19 and 32 recoveries on Friday, taking the number of active cases in the State to 1,303 (one absconding). One more COVID-19 death was reported in Kannur, taking the total toll of the disease in the State to 19. Of the new cases, all except 10 cases were imported cases of infection, with 36 cases detected in persons who had come from abroad and 32 people who had returned from other States. COVID-19 cases caused by local transmission seems to be a steady constant in the State now. 51 cases this week With 10 more cases of local transmission reported on Friday, the total number of such cases reported this week (June 7 to 12) stands at 51, a good number of them being health workers. A 71-year-old man, who had returned from Mumbai by train on Tuesday and died in Kannur on Thursday was confirmed to have COVID-19. An official release said he had heart ailments as well as serious respiratory illness. The number of people under COVID-19 surveillance and quarantine went up to 2,27,402. Except for 1,985 persons who have been isolated in various hospitals in districts following mild symptoms, the rest are all on home or institutional quarantine. The number of hospital admissions on Friday was 242. While the number of samples being tested by the State went up to 5,001 on Friday, the number of results which are pending has also gone up. Of the cumulative 1,06,850 samples tested by the State — this includes samples tested by private labs also — the results of 3,392 samples are yet to be declared. This is apart from the sentinel surveillance samples tested, which number 26,143. Nine new regions in Thrissur, Kannur, Malappuram and Kottayam entered the hotspot list, while 14 regions were dropped from the list. The number of hotspots now is 128.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi govt. asked to explain decline in COVID-19 testing||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Delhi government to explain why its COVID-19 testing drive has dipped from 7,000 to 5,000 a day when other equally affected cities like Chennai and Mumbai have increased their testing from 16,000 to 17,000. “The number of patients increasing day by day is 10,000 or more per day. We do not understand why the tests have gone down in State of NCT Delhi. Non-testing of the patients is not a solution to the problem, rather increase in the testing facility is the duty of the State,” a Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, S.K. Kaul and M.R. Shah addressed the Delhi government. It said the State should ensure that nobody is denied testing on technical reasons. The court also said there is no adherence to the guidelines on disposal of bodies. The court referred to several media reports, especially on the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, on the lack of infrastructure, patients and their families running from pillar to post to get themselves admitted and, ultimately, videos of COVID-19 dead being thrown into pits. ‘Duty of the State’ “The duty of the State of NCT Delhi does not end in informing the people that it has arranged 5,814 beds in government hospitals and 9,535 beds in private hospitals,” the court observed in its order. The court issued notice to Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat to file status reports as well as to the Lok Nayak hospital to explain the “deplorable state of affairs” in the institution. It posted the case for June 17.
13 June 2020||MANGALURU,||Bridge on the Phalguni thrown open as work is completed in record time||A 175-m-long two-lane bridge across the Phalguni (Gurupura) on National Highway 169, work on which was completed in record time of 15 months, was inaugurated near here on Friday. Dakshina Kannada MP and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel, who was instrumental in getting work on the bridge completed ahead of schedule, and district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari inaugurated the bridge. Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharath Shetty and others were present. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Kateel congratulated all those involved in getting the work completed in record time. He said that the government would expedite the four-laning work on NH 169 between Mangaluru (Bikarnakatte Kaikamba) and Karkala and ensure that it was completed at the earliest. Dr. Shetty in his address said that while the MP was at the receiving end for no fault of his for the enormous delay in the completion of the Pumpwell Flyover in Mangaluru on NH 66, Mr. Kateel now showed that he could get work completed ahead of schedule. However, very few acknowledged the MP’s contribution, he regretted. The project shows the commitment of the BJP government in getting projects completed in time, the MLA added. The bridge has come as a breather to thousands of travellers on the Mangaluru-Moodbidri-Karkala National Highway. The century-old bridge made of steel had become dilapidated and was causing concern among road users. As the highway connected Mangaluru with Moodbidri, a hub of education, and Karkala, it carried enormous traffic. Heavy vehicles, buses and trucks used to cause traffic gridlocks on either side of the bridge as only one heavy vehicle could pass through at a time. The bridge was constructed at an estimated cost of Rs. 40 crore by contractor Sudhakar Shetty of Mugrodi Construction. Work started in February last and the contractor had time till February next year. While the two lane carriageway is 16 m wide, the bridge has 2.5 m wide pedestrian paths on both sides.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. puts off decision on States’ GST dues till July||GST collections in the last two months have only reached 45% of the target amount, according to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who said State Finance Ministers were given a presentation on this issue during Friday's GST Council meeting. Given the shortfall in revenue, the Council will meet again in July to discuss the issue of compensation cess and dues to States, and the possibility of borrowing money from the market to meet these dues. The Council also approved a slew of measures to ease tax compliance, including reduction in late fees for past returns, and COVID-19 related relief for small tax payers for the period between February and July 2020 provided returns are filed by September. Asked about States' concern regarding a decline in revenues compared to targeted amounts in the last two months, Ms. Sitharaman told journalists after the meeting: “The States watched the presentation. They understood what all the collections were. It was in the range of about 45% only.” Revenue Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey added that as States are involved in the collections process, they are aware of the situation. Although GST collection data is usually released on a monthly basis, no data has yet been released for April or May 2020. Under GST law, the Centre must pay States full compensation for any shortfall in revenue collections until 2022.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi govt. asked to explain drop in testing||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Delhi government to explain why its COVID-19 testing drive has dipped from 7,000 to 5,000 a day when other equally affected cities like Chennai and Mumbai have increased their testing from 16,000 to 17,000. “The number of patients increasing day by day is 10,000 or more per day. We do not understand why the tests have gone down in State of NCT Delhi. Non-testing of the patients is not a solution to the problem, rather increase in the testing facility is the duty of the State,” a Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, S.K. Kaul and M.R. Shah addressed the Delhi government. It said the State should ensure that nobody is denied testing on technical reasons. The court also said there is no adherence to the guidelines on disposal of bodies. Media reports The hearing is based on the suo motu cognisance of the treatment meted out to patients and the bodies of those who died. The court referred to several media reports, especially on the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, on the lack of infrastructure, patients and their families running from pillar to post to get themselves admitted and, ultimately, videos of COVID-19 dead being thrown into pits. “The duty of the State of NCT Delhi does not end in informing the people that it has arranged 5,814 beds in government hospitals and 9,535 beds in private hospitals,” the court observed in its order. The court said media reports indicate increasing number of people are being infected across India, especially in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Ahmedabad. The court issued notice to Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat to file status reports as well as to the Lok Nayak hospital to explain the “deplorable state of affairs” in the institution. “The reports show horrific scenes from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh in COVID-19 dedicated hospitals. The deplorable conditions of wards, the pathetic condition of patients... They are seen in wards with bodies in the lobby and greeting areas. There is no oxygen or saline drip support. There is no one to attend to the patients... The condition of a government hospital in Delhi with 200 beds is that only 17 beds are occupied... Patients are unable to get themselves admitted. What pains the court is no proper care or treatment is given,” said Justice Bhushan. The court posted the case for June 17.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||ACB arrests Atchannaidu in ESI medicine scam||Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on Friday arrested former Minister and TDP MLA K. Atchannaidu from his residence in Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh for his alleged involvement in irregularities in the purchase of equipment and medicines in the Directorate of Insurance and Medical Services (DIMS) from 2014 to 2019. The ACB also arrested former directors of the Directorate of Insurance and Medical Services, C.K. Ramesh Kumar and Vijay Kumar at Tirupati and Rajahmundry respectively. According to the ACB, the DIMS had purchased medicines, equipment and other things to the tune of Rs. 988.77 crore, and there was a scam of over Rs. 150 crore. At a press conference here, Regional Joint Director, ACB, Visakhapatnam, P.V. Ravi Kumar said based on a report by the Vigilance and Enforcement department, the State government asked the ACB to probe the scam, which occurred when Mr. Atchannaidu was Minister from 2014 to 2019.
13 June 2020||Chennai,||No plan for complete lockdown in parts of Chennai, govt. tells HC||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday told the Madras High Court that there was no plan, at present, to enforce a complete lockdown in parts of Chennai. It also termed as “rumours” messages being circulated on social media about the government having stopped issuance of e-passes to residents of Chennai who wanted to travel to other districts. Appearing before a Division Bench of Justices Vineet Kothari and R. Suresh Kumar, Additional Advocate General S.R. Rajagopal said that decisions on lockdown were being taken by the State government on the basis of recommendations of a technical committee appointed to look into ways and means to contain COVID-19. “As of now, Lockdown 5.0 is on with some relaxations,” he pointed out, stating that although the number of people testing positive for COVID-19 was on the rise in Chennai, the government had been taking steps to quarantine the infected and their family members. Restrictions were imposed on the movement of people from particular buildings and streets. At this point, Justice Kumar asked if there was any plan to implement a complete lockdown in parts of Chennai and the AAG replied in the negative. “I don’t think there is going to be a 100% lockdown in Chennai… As of now, the government does not have any such plan,” he said. “There is also some news about the government having stopped issuing e-passes to residents of Chennai city. Is that correct,” the judge asked. Mr. Rajagopal said that these were “rumours”. He said that e-passes were issued only by Collectors of destinations to which residents of Chennai wished to travel. Those Collectors had to issue e-passes after taking into consideration various circumstances, including the need to quarantine visitors after letting them into their districts, he told the bench. The AAG said that the intensity of the virus had changed and many asymptomatic people were testing positive for the disease. The government was working hard to contain its spread and the success of those efforts would depend on the cooperation of the people, he said. Appreciating the efforts taken by the government, Justice Kumar said: “We see that the government is taking good steps. Even Ministers are on the streets, but you will have to be very careful because Chennai is continuing to be a hotspot.” Meanwhile, advocate V. Vasanthakumar urged the court to take up a case filed by him seeking complete lockdown in the city. However, since the case papers were not before them, the judges posted the matter to Monday, subject to the roster to be decided by Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi for next week. The judges also clarified that they only wanted to know, in public interest, whether the government had any plans to impose a complete lockdown in Chennai.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||RBI asked to clarify on moratorium interest||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Ministry of Finance and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to hold a detailed joint meeting in the next three days to clear the air on whether the deferment of loan interest in place to help borrowers through their financial crisis during the lockdown will lead to accrual of further interest once the freeze is lifted after August 31. A Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, S.K. Kaul and M.R. Shah said the court was trying to strike a balance between the interests of the banks and the borrowers.
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||Streamline ration supply, Delhi HC tells AAP govt.||The Delhi High Court has questioned the city government over supply of ration to non-PDS (public distribution system) beneficiaries since there was a pending list of 38 lakh applicants in the Capital alone. A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad also directed Sub-Divisional Magistrates in each district to conduct surprise visits at fair price shops under their jurisdiction to ensure proper functioning. Scheme not closed yet The court was hearing a petition filed by the Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan, which has sought to ensure effective and time-bound redress of complaints of non-supply of rations and transparency in the distribution of foodgrains through PDS during the COVID-19 pandemic. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, appearing for the Delhi government, stated that the Mukhya Mantri Corona Sahayta Yojana was floated for two months – April and May 2020 – but due to the number of requests still being received, the scheme has not been closed yet. Mr. Jain explained that there was a glitch in the supply chain as the Delhi government has deposited money with Food Corporation of India for release of grains, rice, etc., but due to the recent cyclone in West Bengal and Odisha, ration is being diverted by the agency to meet the needs of those States. He assured the HC that steps are being taken to exhaust the list of 38 lakh non-PDS applicants and efforts shall be made in June to meet the new requests.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Prayers amid pandemic||
13 June 2020||UDUPI,||Helpline||The Udupi district administration has started a helpline for migrant workers to help them return to their native States. The stranded migrant workers desirous of returning to their home States could call Ph: 9880831516 or send their request with supporting documents to the same number.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||T.N. records all-time high||Tamil Nadu recorded an all-time high of 1,982 COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking its tally past the 40,000-mark. For the third consecutive day, 1,000-plus persons were discharged from hospitals, while 18 more persons succumbed to the infection. Of the State’s tally of 40,698 cases, Chennai accounted for 28,924, adding 1,479 fresh cases on Friday.
13 June 2020||Srinagar,||Woman killed in Pak. firing along LoC||A woman was killed and two were injured in heavy exchange of fire and artillery between the Armies of India and Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) in Baramulla and Poonch on Friday. Akther Begum, 40, of Bhatgran in Uri died of splinter injuries, an official said. A 35-year-old woman was among the two injured in Uri.  ‘Ceasefire violated’ A Srinagar-based Army spokesman said Pakistan violated the ceasefire without any provocation in the Rampur sector of Baramulla in Kashmir on Friday morning. “The Pakistan Army fired mortars and used other weapons. A befitting response was given,” he said. Silikote, Haji Pir Sector, Churanda, Nambla, Saidpora and Thajal bore the brunt of intermittent firing and shelling. Families evacuated Nearly 20 families were evacuated. People said they hid in shelters and houses. “Satisfactory arrangements, including supply of essential commodities, have been made for the displaced families. The administration is geared up for any emergency,” Sub-Divisional Magistrate Reyaz Ahmad said. The Army said Pakistan violated the ceasefire in two sectors in Poonch. “Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along the LoC in the Kirni and Qasba sectors around 4.15 p.m. Indian Army is retaliating befittingly,” the spokesman said. An Army jawan was killed in a ceasefire violation in the Pir Panjal’s Rajouri district on Thursday.
13 June 2020||PATNA,||Man killed in Nepal police firing||A 25-year-old man was killed and two others were injured in Sitamarhi district of Bihar on Friday when the Nepal police allegedly opened fire on the border. Vikesh Kumar Rai was killed on the spot. The injured, Umesh Ram and Uday Thakur, are out of danger and have been admitted to hospital, the police said. Another Indian national, Lagan Rai, is said to have been detained by the Nepal police. Local people said the firing took place after a clash between some people working on their fields on the Lalbandi-Janki Nagar border in Pipra Parsain panchayat. Speaking to The Hindu , Superintendent of Police, Sitamarhi, Anil Kumar denied that the incident was related to the border tensions between India and Nepal. Inspector-General of the Sashastra Seema Bal, Bihar sector, Sanjay Kumar said the incident took place between locals and the armed police of Nepal. The SSB was not involved in the issue.
13 June 2020||Jaipur,||Police to probe ‘poaching’ bid in Rajasthan||The Special Operations Group of the Rajasthan police will investigate the allegations of poaching of Congress MLAs in the State following alleged online transfer of huge amounts of money. The Anti-Corruption Bureau is already seized of the matter after a complaint was filed seeking action against those trying to topple the State government. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said here on Friday that the truth about the “organised crime” of money transfer for horse-trading would be revealed in the SOG’s probe. While accusing the BJP of plotting to destabilise the Congress government, he stated that what happened in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh in the past was known to all.
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||SC seeks details on quarantine norms in U.P.||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Uttar Pradesh government to file a response on the quarantine norms being followed in the State. The court sought details after it was informed that quarantine guidelines issued in Noida were “contrary” to the national guidelines notified by the Centre.
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||Vinod Dua to move SC over H.P. police’s notice||Journalist and anchor Vinod Dua on Friday said he was moving the Supreme Court in connection with a notice issued to him by the Himachal Pradesh police in connection with an FIR lodged against him on charges of sedition.
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi breaches 2,000 mark for the first time||The Capital witnessed the biggest spike in the number of COVID-19 cases in a single day with 2,137 new cases being reported in the past 24 hours, according to a Delhi government health bulletin on Friday. The total number of cases now stand at 36,824. The city also reported 129 more deaths.
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,||State records seven new COVID-19 deaths||Karnataka recorded seven fatalities on Friday, including four from Bengaluru Urban. Although these four deaths occurred between 5 p.m. on Wednesday and 5 p.m. on Thursday, they were not recorded on Thursday’s health bulletin.
13 June 2020||Raichur/Bengaluru,||Migrants from NK return to Bengaluru||The exodus of migrant workers from Bengaluru to other parts of Karnataka made headlines in the first week of May. A month later, migrant workers from north Karnataka are slowly returning to Bengaluru in search of jobs.
13 June 2020||Mandya,||‘BJP has promised MLC ticket only to Shankar’||Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan has said that the BJP would consider fielding former Minister R. Shankar in the forthcoming Karnataka Legislative Council polls. He added the party had not assured others, barring Mr. Shankar, of a ticket in the Council polls.
13 June 2020||Chennai,||Has State issued rules on use of masks, asks HC||The Madras High Court on Friday directed the State government to spell out if it had issued any guidelines on the use and disposal of masks since there were complaints of some people using the non-reusable masks repeatedly.
13 June 2020||Salem,||Water released from Mettur dam for irrigation||Chief Minister Edappadi. K. Palaniswami on Friday opened the shutters of Mettur dam for kuruvai cultivation in the Cauvery delta. Mr. Palaniswami said 3,000 cusecs [cubic feet per second] of water were being released and it would be increased to 10,000 cusecs.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Use cashless tech for transport’||Non-motorised transport should be encouraged and touchless and cashless technologies should be adopted to curb COVID-19 transmission on public transit networks, according to a Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) advisory on public transport for States, cities and Metro rail companies. With Metro rail services suspended across the country since March due to the pandemic, the Ministry issued an advisory suggesting a “three-pronged strategy” for public transport — with short (six months), medium (one year) and long-term (one to three years) measures. The advisory issued by HUA secretary Durga Shanker Mishra said, according to a Ministry statement on Friday, that non-motorised transport (NMT) should be encouraged and revived. “As most of the urban trips are clocked in under five km, NMT offers perfect opportunity to implement in this COVID-19 crisis as it requires low cost, less human resource, is easy and quick to implement, scalable and environment-friendly,” the Ministry said. Public transport should be restarted with “greater confidence of commuters”. It said, “... it is imperative at this stage that transmission of infection through usage of public transport should be curbed by adopting the right sanitisation, containment and social distancing measures.” To reduce human interface, cashless systems like BHIM, PhonePe, Google Pay and PayTM should be used as well as the National Common Mobility Card, the advisory stated. Due to social distancing norms, about 25-50% of the Metro rail and Bus rapid transit (BRT) capacity of 10 million passengers daily would be used once it re-started. “Such dramatic and dynamic changes in demand and supply will require complementing these public transport systems with alternative modes of transit,” it said.
13 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Karnataka in the spotlight as fatalities rise||Kerala reported 78 new cases of COVID-19 and 32 recoveries on Friday, raising active case numbers to 1,303 (one person not traceable). One more COVID-19 death was reported in Kannur. The COVID-19 death in Kannur raised the toll to 19. Of the new cases, all except 10 came from outside, with 36 detected in persons from abroad and 32 among people who returned from other States. The death was that of a 71-year-old man, who had returned from Mumbai by train on Tuesday and died on Thursday. An official release said he had heart ailments and serious respiratory illness. With 10 more cases of local transmission on Friday, the total of such cases this week (June 7 to 12) stood at 51, many of them health workers. The number of people under COVID-19 surveillance and quarantine went up to 2,27,402. There were 242 hospital admissions on Friday. The number of samples tested went up to 5,001, and results pending also went up. Of the cumulative 1,06,850 samples tested — including samples tested by private labs — the results of 3,392 samples were yet to be declared. This was apart from 26,143 sentinel surveillance samples tested. There were 207 fresh cases of COVID-19 in Andhra Pradesh. An official bulletin said a total of 3,091 (123 new cases) had been discharged after recovery while 2,465 cases were active. The virus has so far claimed 80 lives but no fresh death was reported. Of new cases, 141 were among residents, two were foreign returnees and 64 were from other States or migrant workers.  New high Tamil Nadu recorded a new high of 1,982 fresh cases of COVID-19, with the tally shooting past the 40,000 mark on Friday. For the third consecutive day, 1,000-plus persons were discharged from hospitals, while 18 patients succumbed to the infection. Even as the State’s total case count rose to 40,698, recoveries continued to exceed active cases. While a total of 22,047 persons were discharged so far including 1,342 persons on Friday, 18,281 persons were under treatment. With a total of 367 deaths, the State’s mortality rate stood at 0.9%. Chennai accounted for more than 70% of the fresh cases. On Friday it added 1,479 cases, and the city’s tally rose to 28,924. Friday also marked the highest number of samples to be tested on a single day. With 18,231 samples, the total increased to 6,73,906. Among the 18 persons who died, 17 had co-morbid conditions. While 10 persons died in government hospitals, eight were in private hospitals. At least 30 districts reported fresh cases. Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur continued to lead the table after Chennai. With 128 more cases, Chengalpattu’s overall case count crossed the 2,500-mark. Tiruvallur reported 92 cases, taking its tally to 1,752.  (With inputs from Chennai and Vijayawada Bureaus)
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Major General-level talks on LAC continue||India and China held another round of Major General-level talks on Friday to resolve the standoff on the border in Ladakh. Meanwhile, in New Delhi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held another review meeting on the progress of these ground level talks with the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) and the three Service Chiefs, sources said. Separately, sources said, the limited “disengagement” of troops agreed upon last week was currently “underway” at some of the standoff points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh. Focus on de-escalation A High-Level Military Conference between Major Generals was held in the Patrolling Point area with focus on de-escalation in Patrolling Points 14, 15 and 17A and Gogra areas, defence sources confirmed. However, details of the meeting were not immediately known. This is the second round of talks at the Major General level this week and is intended to take forward the understanding reached last week at the Corps Commander level. This is also the fifth round of Major General-level talks since the beginning of the standoff in early May. At the Corps Commanders meeting last week, both sides mutually agreed and identified five locations of conflict currently — PP 14, 15 and 17, North bank of Pangong Tso and Chushul. Talking of this, defence sources said at the Galwan area, the disengagement has happened earlier and in Gogra and at Patrolling Points 15 and 17A, the limited “deinduction” is underway. Sources said Finger 4, the mountain spur at Pangong Tso , where Chinese troops moved inside Indian territory and dug in, will take time to be resolved. “They (Chinese) will hold on to it for sometime before a resolution,” sources said, adding that this would be taken up at the Corps Commander level at a later date. Another issue needing resolution is overall de-induction of troops amassed along the LAC by China. India’s forward deployment will continue till then, sources added. Official sources had recently acknowledged that China had undertaken troop mobilisation along the LAC on its side in various sectors in Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Arunachal Pradesh and in response India, too, had moved troops forward. More ground level talks are scheduled at the ranks of Colonel, Brigadier and Major General.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC raps govt. on pay cuts for medical staff||The Supreme Court on Friday took strong exception to salary cuts for government and private medical staff and lack of infrastructure, warning the government that “you do not want dissatisfied soldiers in the war” against the COVID-19 pandemic. “You need to do more for them... Concerns of citizens will be addressed if their [doctors and medical workers] grievances are addressed,” Justice S.K. Kaul, on a three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. Senior advocate K.V. Vishwanathan, appearing for Dr. Arushi Jain, said doctors in both government and private hospitals were on the front line and should be spared salary cuts. They put their lives on the line, often facing threats not only from the rampaging virus but also mobs. “What is this? Doctors not being paid. You [government] need to do more. This should not require the court’s intervention”, Justice Kaul said. SOP questioned Dr. Jain has questioned the Centre’s Standard Operating Procedure of May 15 for front line COVID-19 Health Care Workers (HCWs) by which it ended the 14-day mandatory quarantine for them. Mr. Vishwanathan, speaking for his client, said separate accommodation facilities should be made available for doctors. By going home, they exposed their families to greater risk. “Here the panacea is worse than the disease”, he submitted. The Bench, also comprising Justice M.R. Shah, reacted that doctors should be given an opportunity to address their grievances and suggestions before a relevant body. Their opinions should be taken into consideration before protocols were announced. Their plea for accommodation should be looked into. The court listed the case for next week. In the previous hearing, the government told the court that hospitals were responsible for implementing the Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) activities. The final responsibility lay with the health care workers to protect themselves. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare told the top court that it was the responsibility of health care workers to adequately train themselves and take possible measures to prevent infection. Onus of safety on HCWs The government had said while the Hospital Infection Control Committee (HICC) in the health facility was responsible for implementing the Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) activities and for organising regular training on IPC for HCWs, the final responsibility lay with the HCWs to protect themselves. It said the current pandemic was unprecedented. There was no time-tested and universally acceptable protocol pertaining to COVID-19 preparedness.
13 June 2020||Chennai,||Beijing think-tank raises Article 370||A report authored by a senior figure at an influential Chinese think-tank has linked the current tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) to India’s move last year to dilute Article 370 and change the status of Jammu and Kashmir, a decision that China had voiced opposition to. The article, for the first time, described the move as a joint challenge to China and Pakistan, saying the move had “posed a challenge to the sovereignty of Pakistan and China”. The report was shared on Friday on social media by a press officer at the Chinese Embassy in Islamabad, although it was first published on June 4 and has since been shared on several Chinese websites. Status of Ladakh “On the Chinese side, India opened up new territory on the map, incorporated part of the areas under the local jurisdiction of Xinjiang and Tibet into its Ladakh union territory,” it said. “This forced China into the Kashmir dispute, stimulated China and Pakistan to take counter-actions on the Kashmir issue, and dramatically increased the difficulty in resolving the border issue between China and India.” The article was authored by Wang Shida, who is Deputy Director of the Institute of South Asian Studies at the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations (CICIR). CICIR is a Beijing-based think-tank that is affiliated to the Ministry of State Security, China’s top intelligence body. Mr. Wang noted that the Chinese Foreign Minister had conveyed China’s strong opposition to the move to External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar during his visit to Beijing last year, following the abrogation of Article 370 and the establishment of Ladakh as a union territory. The week before the August visit, Home Minister Amit Shah had spoken in Parliament about taking back Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and Aksai Chin. Mr. Jaishankar conveyed to Beijing that the move was an entirely internal matter that did not impact India’s external boundaries or the LAC with China. China had opposed the Ladakh map for including Aksai Chin. The article said the move had “posed a challenge to the sovereignty of Pakistan and China” and “made India-Pakistan relations and China-India relations more complex.” It noted that China had raised the issue at the United Nations Security Council. U.S. role The author hit out at what he called India’s “double confidence” behind the move. The first, he said, was the 2019 election win that gave the Bharatiya Janata Party “unprecedented political confidence”. The second reason, he said, was that the “United States and some other Western countries puffed India up from an ideological point of view” to “hedge” against China. “To this end,” he said, “India was seen as a favourite by the U.S., which not only drew India over to its side and praised India but also turned a blind eye to the excessive use of force and other misdeeds of the Indian authorities” in Kashmir. “Regardless of how confident India is and no matter how good it feels about itself,” he concluded, “its attempts to forcibly seize territory are doomed to fail.”
13 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||State Water and Sanitation Mission formed||The State government has issued orders forming a State Water and Sanitation Mission (SWSM) and district water and sanitation missions (DWSMs) for effectively implementing the Centrally assisted Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) rural water supply programme in the State. As per the June-8 order, the 15-member apex committee of the SWSM, which will oversee the implementation, will be chaired by the Chief Secretary. This panel shall also include three members with expertise in sectors such as rural water supply and public service. The executive committee of the SWSM will be headed by the Additional Chief Secretary (Water Resources). The operational guidelines for JJM issued by the Ministry of Jal Shakti require the States/UTs to form an SWSM, and, in each district, a DWSM. The State Cabinet had given its approval for taking up JJM-related works to the tune of Rs. 880 crore in the current fiscal. The responsibility for project implementation and upkeep, as per the JJM guidelines, chiefly rests with the grama panchayats. Through JJM, the State government hopes to provide water connections to Rs. 52.85 lakh rural households by 2024. This year, priority would be given to those panchayats that are willing to dole out 10% as beneficiary contribution and 15% panchayat share, according to the Water Resources Department. Overall, rural water supply works to the tune of Rs. 22,720 crore would be undertaken under JJM in the State. The State government is expected to formally launch JJM activities in the State this month. In May, the government had appointed a panel headed by B. Ashok, Secretary (Water Resources), to prepare a roadmap for the implementation of JJM, and the World Bank’s report on improving the performance of KWA.
13 June 2020||KOCHI,||Illegal guns, explosives catch foresters off guard||Gun-toting wildlife offenders and miscreants armed with explosives are giving sleepless nights to the Forest Department, which has come under fire following the death of a pregnant wild elephant in Palakkad. The statewide perambulation along the forest fringes held a few days after the incident yielded 13 country-made guns and two vehicles. Five cases were registered and 20 persons were arrested. The department had booked cases against a few persons in Punalur the other day after it was confirmed that a wild elephant had died in the area after chowing on fruits laden with explosives. The death of the pregnant wild elephant had invited countrywide attention and several celebrities took to social media condemning the incident. The unprecedented scale of media coverage and public response to the incident had caught the department off guard. However, the arrest of persons a few days after the incident came as a relief for the department. “The wide use of guns, mostly country-made ones, as confirmed during the perambulation, and the misuse of explosives are a matter of concern,” conceded Surendrakumar, Chief Wildlife Warden, Kerala. “We suspect that miscreants involved in wildlife crimes are sourcing explosives from traders and other sources,” he said. Scrutiny of licences The Forest Department plans to write to the Director General of Police and other departments to scrutinise the licences issued for the sale and handling of explosives and illegal making of guns. Steps need to be taken to streamline the licensing, sales and handling of explosives and guns failing which more wildlife would be killed, Mr. Surendrakumar said. Perambulation along the forest fringes will be made a regular affair and part of the wildlife protection measures. Each forest area will be covered at least once in a fortnight. The Chief Wildlife Warden will personally choose the areas for perambulation.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Focus on emerging epicentres, Centre tells States||The Centre on Friday directed the States to focus on containment, testing and contact-tracing, upgrade of health infrastructure, clinical management and community engagement for effective management of COVID-19. “States were asked to also pay special attention to the emerging epicentres and undertake stringent containment measures to check the spread of the virus,” according to a release from the Health Ministry. The States were told that house-to-house surveillance through special teams in containment zones was critical for early detection of cases. “They were requested to expedite upgrade of hospital infrastructure so as to manage the cases as per projections, besides ensuring sufficient logistics (for example, pulse oximeters) and trained human resources (doctors, staff nurses and non-clinical staff),” the release said. The Ministry underscored that preventive measures were extremely important especially for vulnerable sections of the population such as the elderly and patients with co-morbidities. Limiting social gatherings, avoiding crowded places, wearing a mask, washing hands and maintaining safe distance are among the measures reiterated by the government. The Indian Council of Medical Research said it had further increased the testing capacity. “A total of 877 laboratories are operational (637 government laboratories and 240 private laboratories) in the country. 1,50,305 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. A total of 53,63,445 samples has been tested thus far,” it said.
13 June 2020||DEH KALAN,||Yoked together, migrant workers and farmers are back in Punjab’s fields||Clad in a typical kurta-pyjama, with a green turban adorning his head, 55-year-old Devinder Singh is a relieved man after a group of 30-odd labourers, expert in paddy sowing, arrived at Deh Kalan village in Punjab’s Shaibzada Ajit Singh Nagar from Bihar, in a “specially arranged bus” right on time as paddy transplantation officially kicked off in the State. To ensure that farm hands are available for timely sowing, the farmers in Punjab are offering a hike in wages over last year’s remuneration, besides facilitating travel from their native places, along with free accommodation and food. Some are even offering liquor as an added incentive. Shortage of hands “What option do I have? If I don’t offer them more wages or arrange for their travel, who will sow paddy in my field? Time is running out; there is an acute shortage of expert paddy sowing labourers — they mostly hail from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Most of them had gone to their villages before or during the lockdown and got stuck there... Local labourers are not skilled enough to sow paddy, and hence migrant labourers are always in demand,” says Mr. Devinder Singh, who is all set to plant paddy in his 20-acre land. “Most of these labourers, who have come had been working on my farm for the last 20 years. We were in touch over phone. Arrangements for their bus travel were made after necessary formalities through local authorities here. Bus operators charged Rs. 2,500 per person for the trip, which is being borne by the labourers,” says Mr. Singh. But all farmers are not so lucky, especially those who don’t have regular labourers working at their fields. They point out that labourers are demanding between Rs. 4,000-Rs. 4,200 per acre for paddy sowing against last year’s rates of Rs. 2,500–2,700 per acre. “I am negotiating with labourers who have came from Bihar. They are demanding Rs. 4,000 per acre while I am offering Rs. 3,400 per acre... Let’s see where it gets settled. Also, I’ll be taking care of their food, accommodation and other basic needs,” says Harish Kumar, who has taken 20 acres on contract to cultivate paddy. Sukhdeep Singh, another farmer, feels if train services had resumed, the problem of labour shortage would have been resolved. “Governments should resume train services so that migrant labourers can return. Many labourers are asking to share travel expenses through buses. It’s not only the increased labour cost this season, but the rise in seed and input costs as well that will put additional financial burden on me and other farmers. The Minimum Support Price of paddy recently raised by the Centre government is too meagre,” says Mr. Sukhdeep Singh. Race against time The Punjab government had this year announced an advancement in the paddy nursery sowing and transplantation dates. June 10 was fixed as commencement date for transplantation of paddy instead of last year’s June 20. Paddy sowing has started but farmers are facing labour crunch without labourers. With the summer sowing set to gain momentum in days to come, migrant labourers, who are finding it difficult to secure any regular job at their native places, are also eager to return. Bijali Kapar, a 43-year-old native of Kachaur village in Bihar’s Sitamarhi is visibly elated after arriving at Deh Kalan on the special bus. “I had been coming to Punjab for over 20 years now to work in fields. My monthly savings had been around Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 11,000. Back at home it’s difficult to make ends meet. People like me want to come back for work here as there’s hardly any regular work at my village. But unless regular train services resume, it’s difficult for most of us to travel,” says Mr. Kapar, who left for Kachaur in February this year and was stranded there following the nationwide lockdown. “I intended to come back by the end of March for wheat harvesting, but due to the lockdown, I couldn’t return. As soon as the travel arrangements were made, I boarded the bus. There’s hardly any option of regular work at my village and so people like me venture out,” he added. Travel trouble “Travel through train would had cost me only a few hundred rupees but for the bus travel I had to shell Rs. 2,500... all this will eventually add to the cost of cultivation for farmers,” says Mahesh Paswan, another of the labourers who has returned by bus. Vinod Mandal, a labourer who has been coming to Punjab for around 12 years now, says, “At my village I may get work for 10 days in a month, for which I’ll get between Rs. 200-250 daily. But here, I am able to earn Rs. 500-600 per day, and most importantly the work and income is regular.” Ram Naresh Chaudhary, who has come along with his 20-year-old son for the paddy sowing, said he would have earned around Rs. 45,000 over the past three months had he been in Punjab. “I am happy to be back,” he added. Harinder Kapar, the leader of the labourer group, who is the key person negotiating terms of work between labourers and farmers, said: “This year labour wages have gone up around 15%-20% in comparison to last year as fewer people are available. Also, farmers are offering to take care of labourer’s accommodation, food and other basic needs. A few have even offered to provide booze,” he said.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Where is the proof, BJP asks Congress||As political activity heats up around the Rajya Sabha polls in Rajasthan, with Congress MLAs sequestered in resorts in Jaipur amid allegations of horse-trading against the BJP, its State chief Satish Poonia has accused Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot of making baseless allegations aimed at “strengthening his own position vis a vis Congress’ inner politics.” He also demanded proof from the Congress of any offer of money made to its MLAs by the BJP. Speaking to The Hindu over telephone, Mr. Poonia said his party was not making any offers of money to Congress MLAs to vote for his party’s second candidate (Onkar Singh Lakahawat) for the three seats going to the polls next week. The Assembly has 200 seats, with the Congress having 107 MLAs, in addition to the counted support of 13 MLAs (independents, plus Rashtriya Lok Dal). As per calculations, a candidate would need 51 first preference votes to win. Going by that, the Congress should not have a problem getting its candidates — AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi — elected. “We have 24 surplus votes and if we have put up a second candidate what is the problem?” said Mr. Poonia. “Just as Ashok Gehlot insists that many rebels who won on other party ticket may vote for the Congress, rebels from our party who still have ideological commitments to the BJP may vote for us.” “Where is the proof of this allegation, hawa main aarop lagana [making allegations out of thin air] is easy,” he said. “The fact is that the State Assembly elections were fought on the ambitions of both Mr. Gehlot and Deputy Chief Minister Sachin pilot. Mr. Gehlot won over the high command and Mr. Pilot got left out despite campaigns that said he would be the Chief Minister if the party won. Since then, several senior MLAs and Ministers of the Congress have been marginalised and sidelined,” he said. “By targeting the BJP, the game is to improve one person’s image and dent another’s,” he stated.
13 June 2020||JAIPUR,||Police to probe horse-trading charges||The Special Operations Group (SOG) of the Rajasthan police will investigate the allegations of poaching of Congress MLAs in the State following alleged online transfer of huge amounts of money. The Anti-Corruption Bureau is already seized of the matter after a complaint was filed seeking action against those trying to topple the State government. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said at a press conference here on Friday that the truth about the “organised crime” of money transfer for horse-trading would be revealed in the SOG’s probe. While accusing the BJP of plotting to destabilise the Congress government, he stated that what happened in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh in the past was known to all. However, Mr. Gehlot refused to disclose the names of those involved in alleged attempts to pull down his government. He accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah of destroying democracy while the country was fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. The press conference was organised at a private hotel after the ruling Congress MLAs as well as independent legislators supporting the government were shifted to a luxury resort on the outskirts of Jaipur ahead of the June 19 Rajya Sabha elections. Those present included Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot and senior party leaders Randeep Surjewala, Avinash Pande and K.C. Venugopal, who is also one of the candidates for the polls. Mr. Gehlot said that though the Rajya Sabha polls could have been conducted two months ago as per the schedule, they were postponed because the BJP’s horse-trading was not complete. “At this time, we have to decide who is distributing dard [pain] and who is distributing davaa [medicine],” he stated. When the world was battling the virus crisis, the BJP was busy bringing down the Congress government in Madhya Pradesh, he alleged. Mr. Gehlot ridiculed Mr. Modi's claim of making a “Congress-free India”, and said the party that led the Independence movement lived in the country’s DNA.
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||DNA of tolerance disappearing: Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, in conversation with former United States diplomat Nicholas Burns on Friday, said the ‘DNA of tolerance’ that India and the U.S. had was disappearing and those responsible for divisions in society were now claiming to be nationalists. Mr. Burns, a Professor of Practice of Diplomacy at Harvard’s John F. Kennedy School of Government, said the COVID-19 pandemic was an opportunity for the G-20 countries to work together on development of vaccines but world leaders proved to be disappointing, Common thread Mr. Burns also talked about the current unrest in his country. He termed the killing of African-American George Floyd “horrible.” “Our greatest, I think, American of the last 100 years is Martin Luther King Jr. He fought battles... peaceful, non-violent battles. Of course, you know his spiritual idol was Mahatma Gandhi... King led us to become a better country. We elected an African-American President Barack Obama, a man I deeply respect. And yet you see race come back now,” he said. “You see African-Americans being mistreated. This horrible murder of George Floyd, this young African-American man by police in Minneapolis, Minnesota. We have millions of Americans trying to protest peacefully, as is our right... as is your right in India, and yet the President [Donald Trump] treats them all like terrorists,” he observed. In the backdrop of the anti-racist protests in the U.S., Mr. Gandhi noted that the DNA of ‘open tolerance’ in both the countries was disappearing. “Our DNA is supposed to be tolerant. We’re supposed to accept new ideas. We’re supposed to be open, but the surprising thing is that DNA, that open DNA, is sort of disappeared. I mean, I say this with sadness that I don’t see that level of tolerance that I used to see. I don’t see it in the United States and I don't see it in India”. He said, “When you divide African Americans, Mexicans and other people in the United States, so you divide Hindus and Muslims and Sikhs in India, you’re weakening the structure of the country. But then the same people who weaken the structure of the country say they are the nationalists”. While India and the U.S. shared a broad partnership earlier, now it was “transactional and episodic”, he added. Mr. Burns, a key negotiator in the India-U.S. nuclear deal, said though the world was going through a tough time, countries with democratic traditions would bounce back. Expressing his disappointment over lack of cooperation between world powers on COVID-19, he said, “You know, this crisis was made for the G20. It was made for PM Modi and President Xi Jinping and Donald Trump to be working together”. Mr. Burns said that though the Republicans and the Democrats could not agree on a single thing, there was agreement on having better ties with India.
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||Process begins to send back Tablighi workers||The Centre is in touch with foreign embassies to initiate the process of deporting foreign Tablighi Jamaat workers who attended a religious congregation at Nizamuddin markaz (centre) in March and were booked for violating tourist visa norms. On April 3, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), Punya Salila Srivastava had asserted that States had been asked to register cases against 960 blacklisted foreign Tablighi workers. At “this stage, the question of deportation does not arise,” and if it happened it would be done as per health protocols, she had said. Blacklisted On March 28, the MHA wrote to States that around 2,000 Tablighis from Bangladesh, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand and other countries who entered India on tourist visas appeared to be “potential carriers” of COVID-19. “We have been receiving requests from foreign governments to repatriate their citizens, as it has been more than three months and they have already completed the quarantine cycle,” a senior government official told The Hindu . Till June 2, a total of 2594 Tablighi foreigners who had come for the event from January onwards were blacklisted from entering India for 10 years under “Category A,” of the Visa Manual 2018. Most of the foreigners returned, but 960 remained in India. All international flights were suspended on March 23 and the country was placed under a 21-day lockdown on March 24 to prevent the spread of COVID pandemic. “The foreigner Tablighi workers will be deported, but the cases filed against them will go on. The Indian Tablighi members who violated norms by not calling off the congregation at the markaz will continue to face charges,” said the official. The official added that the foreign embassies will arrange the flights and make arrangement for the return of their citizens. A few days ago, the MHA had included “indulging in Tablighi activities” as a specific visa violation that will attract a fine of $500. The MHA has added a new category, “restriction on engaging in Tabligh activities,” in the “general policy guidelines relating to Indian visa.” “Some of them do not have any money on them. In such cases, the government will consider waiving the fine,” said the official. On June 2, the Uttar Pradesh government informed the Allahabad High Court that 279 foreign Tablighi workers were lodged in jails while 46 had left the country after being released from institutional quarantine. The Delhi Police has filed chargesheets against 541 such foreigners for violating visa norms, but none of them has been arrested though.In an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court on June 4, the MHA said that the foreign Tablighi participants obtained tourist visa on “false pretexts.” The Bangladesh and Indonesian governments have both been pressing for an early release of their citizens, while the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has said that any decision can be made after the cases are completed.  (With inputs from      Suhasini Haidar)
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC asks Delhi govt. to explain decline in COVID-19 testing||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Delhi government to explain why its COVID-19 testing drive had dipped from 7,000 to 5,000 a day when the other equally affected cities such as Chennai and Mumbai had increased their testing from 16,000 to 17,000. “The number of patients increasing day by day is 10,000 or more... We do not understand why the tests have gone down in the State of NCT Delhi. Non-testing of the patients is not a solution to the problem, rather an increase in the testing facility is the duty of the State so that people may come to know about their health status regarding COVID-19 and they may take appropriate care and treatment...,” it said. A Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, S.K. Kaul and M.R. Shah said the State should ensure that nobody was denied testing on technical reasons. It said there was no adherence to the guidelines for the disposal of bodies, no care was shown to the dead, their relatives were not even informed for several days after the death of the patients.   The hearing is based on the suo motu cognisance of the treatment meted out to patients and the bodies of those who died. “The State on whom the duty lies to take care of the health of its citizens cannot abdicate its responsibility of ensuring that all hospitals, including government hospitals, take care of the COVID-19 patients. The duty of the State of NCT Delhi does not end in informing the people that it has arranged 5,814 beds in government hospitals and 9,535 beds, including private hospitals. The State and its officers are also duty-bound to ensure that patients are taken care of, attended to, provided all medical facilities and that the hospitals have necessary infrastructure and staff,” the court said in its order. The court said media reports indicated more number of people were being infected across India.
13 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Fulfil poll promises for Kodangal, KTR tells officials||Minister for Municipal Administration, IT and Industries K. T. Rama Rao has instructed the officials to complete the works pertaining to his promises made to his adopted Assembly constituency, Kodangal, within three months. At a review meeting held here on Friday on the development of Kodangal constituency with Ministers, local legislator and officials, he stated that he would visit the constituency in September to find the status of his promises made to Kodangal. The Municipal Administration, IT and Industries Minister reviewed the progress of works pertaining to the poll promises made there. Ministers P. Sabitha Indra Reddy, V. Srinivas Goud, Kodangal MLA P. Narender Reddy, Managing Director of TSRTC Sunil Sharma, Engineer-in-Chief of Mission Bhagiratha B. Krupakar Reddy, District Collectors of Vikarabad and Narayanpet Pausumi Basu and D. Hari Chandana and others attended the meeting. On the plea of establishing Kosigi bus depot, Mr. Sunil Sharma said although the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) had no plans of opening new depots, it would be opened at Kosigi. Mr. Rama Rao told the officials to speed up development works taken up with Rs. 50 crore in Kosigi and Kodangal municipalities. The Minister asked Ms. Sabitha Indra Reddy to ensure speedy completion of construction of degree college with Rs. 4 crore and residential school with Rs. 5 crore. 50-bed hospitals He discussed with the two District Collectors establishment of two 50-bed hospitals at Kosigi and Kodangal. On Mission Bhagiratha works, it was explained that works were nearing completion in all mandals of the constituency and the intra-village works were also in progress. The Minister told the officials to speed up mini tank bund works taken up with Rs. 8 crore at Doulatabad.
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka withdraws order on work time||The State government has withdrawn a controversial notification that extended the maximum working hours, from 8 to 10 per day and from 48 to 60 per week, for all factories registered under the Factories Act, 1948. The government in the notification, issued on May 22, had extended the working hours for three months [till August 21, 2020]. Deputy Secretary, Labour, Sandhya L. Nayak said the government’s notification stood withdrawn. The increase in working hours was sought by the Commerce and Industries Department, following a demand from industry bodies, including the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry, and the Karnataka Small Scale Industries’ Association. Industrialists claimed that recovery would be aided by increasing the hours of work. They had petitioned Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, seeking that the work timings be raised. However, labour unions had opposed the order. Trade unions had met Labour Minister A. Shivaram Hebbar and Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar and registered their protest against the move.   The Union government too had raised objections to the notification and directed the government to withdraw it. The International Labour Organisation had petitioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi and opposed the dilution of labour laws during the lockdown. The High Court of Karnataka on May 29 asked the government to justify the existence of “public emergency” in the State to grant exemption from Factories Act, as “public emergency” had been defined as “a grave emergency whereby the security of India or of any part of the territory thereof is threatened, whether by war or external aggression of internal disturbance”. Also, the court had asked the government to explain whether exemption could be granted to all factories, as Section 5 of the Act stated that the government, during “public emergency”, could exempt any factory or class or description of factories, and not a blanket exemption to all factories. The court had posed these queries while hearing a PIL petition. Speaking in Bengaluru on Friday, Mr. Hebbar hoped that the withdrawal of the order would remove any apprehensions and concerns among workers. This would come into effect from Friday itself, he added. The BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh too had withdrawn an order on increasing working hours in factories after the decision was challenged in the Allahabad High Court.
13 June 2020||KOLLAM,||Just one devotee for ‘Corona Devi’ in Kerala ‘temple’||While the controversy over the reopening of temples continues to rage, Anilan, a Kadakkal resident, has installed the idol of ‘goddess COVID-19’ at a shrine attached to his home. Christened Corona Devi, the deity is a replica of SARS-CoV-2 with its red spiky tentacles and he calls her ‘a new addition to the pantheon of 33 crore Hindu gods.’ “I will conduct pujas in front of the goddess for the safety and well-being of all engaged in the battle against the pandemic. There will be no darshan as it is also a protest against the political propaganda behind the reopening of temples. People are now using gods for political gains, but now is no time for temple visits. Survival is all that matters now,” he says. Made of thermocol and sitting on a ‘pallival,’ Corona Devi is a goddess without any ‘moolamantra.’ “In Kerala you have a deity of smallpox, another contagious disease, who finds a place in some famous temples. It is no attempt to mock anyone and all pujas will be be done with utmost dedication. According to Hindu mythology God is omnipresent, and even exists in the virus. Worshipping a virus as devi is not an alien custom for us,” he says. Prasadam by post Though there is no darshan, Corona Devi’s prasadam will be available to all devotees via mail. Anilan says the shrine is dedicated to all corona warriors, including health workers, scientists, and Fire and Rescue Services personnel. “Pujas will be held in the name of all those people who are helping others. Those who want the prasadam can get in touch with me. I will not charge any money for the pujas and offerings,” he says.
13 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||No weddings, darshan at Guruvayur from today||The Guruvayur Devaswom Board has decided to stop darshan as well as weddings at Sree Krishna Temple from Saturday, Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran has said. Mr. Surendran told reporters here on Friday that the board’s decision to stop darshan had been made considering the spike in COVID-19 cases in Thrissur district and the neighbouring Chavakkad turning into a containment zone. The board would intimate those who had booked for marriages on Sunday and Monday. The board had informed the government of the decision and it had given the go ahead. The government was against crowding of people in all public places, including temples. Respective Devaswoms could take a call on permitting darshan, he said. Mr. Surendran said the two weddings, which were already booked for Saturday, would be conducted. The temple had opened on June 5 after a break of 80 days when the lockdown restrictions were relaxed.  Govt. gives approval to decision by devaswom board
13 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||No entry for public during Friday prayers at Mecca Masjid||Friday prayers at the Mecca Masjid were off limits for the public and the congregation at Shahi Masjid was restricted. This is the first Friday since the State government permitted re-opening of all places of worship as part of ‘Unlock - 1’. “The Jumma namaz had only five people at Mecca Masjid this Friday. Apart from Maulana Rizwan Qureshi, who led the prayers, there were staff members. Entry was barred for outsiders for the prayers. Following the directions of Muslim scholars and the State government, physical distancing was maintained. On regular Fridays, over 5,000 people would have gathered,” said an official who works at the Mecca Masjid. Security personnel were posted at the gate to stop the entry of outsiders. A person, who was part of the congregation at Shahi Masjid, said that the number of people there was minuscule compared to other days. Social distancing norm was maintained here also, the person said. Meanwhile, several other mosques in the city saw a dip in the number of devotees, while others like the Mecca Masjid, remained closed for public. The management of those that had thrown their gates open to the public said that all efforts were made to abide by the rules prescribed by GO 76. However, continuous disinfection and procurement of sanitisers continues to remain an expensive proposition.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. committed to quota, says Nadda||A day after the Supreme Court said reservation is not a fundamental right, BJP president J.P. Nadda clarified on Friday that his party and the Narendra Modi government were committed to it. Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader and Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan demanded that all political parties come together and put all laws related to reservation in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution so as to prevent any legal challenge to them. In a statement, Mr. Nadda said some people were trying to create confusion. “The government under Narendra Modi and the BJP are committed to reservation. Our commitment to social justice is unbreakable. We stand committed to reservation. The Prime Minister has repeated it again and again. Our endeavour is always towards social harmony and equal opportunity for everyone,” he said. ‘Constitutional right’ Mr. Paswan said reservation in government jobs and education for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes and the economically backward members of the general castes might not be a fundamental right, but it is very much a constitutional right. He expressed disappointment that some controversy was often raised over the issue, though the reservation for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes owed its genesis to the Poona Pact between Mahatma Gandhi and B. R. Ambedkar. “The LJP appeals to all political parties, who have joined hands over the issue earlier as well, that they come together to put all laws regarding reservation in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution to lay all controversies to rest,” he said in a statement. The Supreme Court refused to entertain petitions of various political parties challenging the Centre’s decision not to grant 50% reservation to OBCs as per the Tamil Nadu law in the medical seats surrendered by the State in the all India quota for undergraduate, postgraduate and dental courses in 2020-21. It asked the DMK, the AIADMK, the CPI(M), the MDMK, the PMK, the Congress and the CPI to approach the Madras High Court with their pleas.
13 June 2020||BHOPAL,||Parents allege discrimination against wards||Parents of 47 girl students of a minority school in Indore have alleged that they were made to sit separately outside classrooms during a board examination because of their religion. But the district administration has denied the charge and said the measure was taken because they resided in COVID-19 containment areas. The girls of the school run by Islamia Karimia Society, who mainly come from poor families, sat for the Class 12 book-keeping examination at the Bengali High School on June 9. In a video taken by a parent that went viral on social media, parents in front of the school protested against the officials of the centre. “Why are you making them sit outside? Make them sit inside according to their roll numbers,” a parent shouted. If the school didn’t have enough seats in classrooms, why was it made a centre, asked Aminul Khan Suri, a Congress spokesman. District Education Officer Rajendra Makwani said, “Whereas 500 students could sit for the exam earlier, not more than 100-150 can sit now due to physical distancing norms. So, we had to use verandas and cultural stages to make students sit. We provided them with seats and tables.” He said schools were asked to send a list of students from containment zones. He said the centres knew only the roll numbers of students.
13 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Well fire: protests on as OIL awaits equipment from Andhra||The crude oil and natural gas operations of Oil India Limited (OIL) in eastern Assam were affected by protests for the third successive day as the exploration major awaited equipment from Andhra Pradesh. OIL has been under pressure from various social and students' organisations besides villagers after its natural gas-producing well at Baghjan had a blowout — uncontrolled escape of gas at force — on May 27. The pressure increased since June 9, when the well caught fire. “A detailed control plan for the well has been submitted to the Petroleum Ministry by three experts from a Singapore-based firm along with our specialists and those from Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd (ONGC),” an OIL spokesperson said on Friday evening. OIL has mobilised some equipment from ONGC's Assam Assets headquarters in eastern Assam's Sivasagar district. The push for containing the well is, however, expected after a vehicle carrying some crucial equipment from ONGC’s Rajamundry establishment arrive by Saturday morning, officials said. OIL has meanwhile sought the help of local authorities for uninterrupted operations at 66 crude well and 13 gas wells where production has been stopped by local organisations. The protests since June 9 are a reaction to the alleged carelessness of OIL and the Gujarat-based firm it had outsourced the Baghjan well operation to.
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Student charged with sedition granted bail||Amulya Leona Noronha, 19-year-old student-activist jailed for sedition for allegedly raising “Pakistan Zindabad” slogan at an anti-CAA rally in the city on February 20, was released on bail on Friday. “While her bail petition was recently rejected by the sessions court in the city, a magistrate court granted her bail on the technical grounds that the police failed to file a chargesheet within the stipulated 90 days, on Wednesday,” said senior advocate B.T. Venkatesh. The police had to file the chargesheet by May 20,but it was filed only on June 3. Amulya’s advocates had moved a bail petition on May 30 in the magistrate court before the chargesheet was filed, based on which she was granted bail. At a rally attended by Asaduddin Owaisi, MP, she had walked to the podium and raised slogans of “Pakistan Zindabad” and “Hindustan Zindabad” before the leader snatched away her mike. She was booked and was later chargesheeted for sedition.
13 June 2020||Mandya,||‘BJP has assured Council ticket only to Shankar’||Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan has said that the BJP will consider fielding the former Minister R. Shankar in the forthcoming Karnataka Legislative Council elections. However, causing a flutter among other aspirants who have migrated to the BJP from other parties, the Deputy Chief Minister said the party had not assured others, barring Mr. Shankar, of a ticket to contest the Council polls. Dr. Narayan, who was in Mandya on Friday, told mediapersons that former Ministers A.H. Vishwanath and N. Nagaraju (MTB) also wanted to contest the elections. The trio had migrated to the BJP from other parties, by quitting their Assembly membership, thus bringing down the previous JD(S)-Congress government. The former Minister C.P. Yogeshwar, who lost the previous Assembly election against Mr. Kumaraswamy, is also one of the aspirants for the MLC seat, he said. Except Mr. Shankar, the party had not assured these leaders of ticket, Dr. Narayan said.
13 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Former HC judge Hosbet Suresh dead||Former judge of the Bombay High Court Hosbet Suresh passed away in his sleep on Thursday night. He was 90. He was born at Hosabet in Surathkal, Karnataka. He was appointed as the permanent judge of the High Court on June 12, 1987, and retired on July 19, 1991. After retirement, he was instrumental in investigating human rights violations during the 1991 Cauvery riots in Bangalore, the 1993 riots in Mumbai after the demolition of the Babri Masjid and the Gujarat riots in 2002. P.B. Sawant, a retired judge of the Supreme Court, said, “Justice Suresh was a competent, progressive, humane and a popular judge. As a student, during the period of his advocacy and after retirement from the judiciary, he had always associated himself with all public, pro-people, secular and humanist causes. In fact, he was in demand wherever there were outcries for justice. I remember his work in association with me in the people’s inquiry into government-sponsored atrocities and violence against the Muslim community in what is known as the Godhra violence of 2002. He has left a void in active public life.” Activist Teesta Setalvad said Justice Suresh was “a mentor to us”. He was committed to the rule of law and the fundamentals of equality, dignity and non-discrimination contained in the Constitution. People’s tribunals “My voice is my conscience,” he would say, to explain how judges must clearly dictate verdicts in open court. Committed to the secular and socialist values of the Constitution, on the Bench and after retirement, he pioneered the people’s tribunals and public hearings as much needed jurisprudence when the formal justice started creaking and crumbling. Advocate Susan Abraham said, “He would often speak about how too few judges were ready to speak up about the violation of rights of the masses. He was fearless as a serving judge and even more so after retirement.”
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Man killed in firing along India-Nepal border||A 25-year-old man was killed and two others were injured in Sitamarhi district of Bihar on Friday when the Nepal police allegedly opened fire on the border. Vikesh Kumar Rai was killed on the spot. The injured, Umesh Ram and Uday Thakur, are out of danger and have been admitted to hospital, the police said. Another Indian national, Lagan Rai, is said to have been detained by the Nepal police. Local people said the firing took place after a clash between some people working on their fields on the Lalbandi-Janki Nagar border in Pipra Parsain panchayat. Speaking to The Hindu , Superintendent of Police, Sitamarhi, Anil Kumar denied that the incident was related to the border tensions between India and Nepal. Inspector-General of the Sashastra Seema Bal, Bihar sector, Sanjay Kumar said the incident took place between locals and the armed police of Nepal. The SSB was not involved in the issue. Jitendra Kumar, Additional Director General of Police (headquarters) has confirmed the incident. The victim’s father, Nageshwar Rai, told journalists that his land was included in Narayanpur in Nepal where his son was working. Nepal shares a 1,850-km open border with India and people travel across for work and make family visits. Many Indians in the border districts of Bihar have kinship ties across the border in Nepal. Nepal closed its international borders on March 22 amid the COVID-19 pandemic.Nepalese sources said there have been several skirmishes in the area in the past few months and cautioned about simmering tension on southern border of Nepal with Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The incident came a day after Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli described the “southern border” of Nepal as the “real reason” for the country’s vulnerabilities. In his speech in Parliament on Wednesday, he described the border as responsible for many problems, including COVID-19, facing Nepal. His government has pledged to build around 500 new security outposts across the border region.  ( With inputs from Kallol Bhattacherjee  in New Delhi)
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cancelled flight tickets: SC moots 2-year credit shell||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Ministry of Civil Aviation to meet with airlines and work out a credit pattern on air tickets cancelled during the lockdown period. A Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, S.K. Kaul and M.R. Shah suggested to the government that the credit shell should be operational for up to a year-and-a-half to two. “We want to know exactly what is done,” the court observed. Senior advocate Harish Salve, representing airline interests, said a full refund of air tickets cancelled during the lockdown is not being given anywhere in the world. “Airlines are not refunding tickets. Credit is being given. Airlines have already created a credit shell,” Mr. Salve submitted. “We have zero revenue... Absolute zero revenue,” the senior lawyer added. Mr. Salve suggested that “we can sit with the Ministry of Civil Aviation and come back with a credit pattern”. “The Ministry should call airlines and have a conversation with them,” he said. Mr. Salve pointed out that the petition filed by NGO Pravasi Legal Cell, seeking a full refund for cancelled tickets, has not impleaded other airlines. “They are affected parties,” Mr. Salve noted. The court asked the Centre to submit its response in three weeks, taking a stand on the issue. The petition has primarily challenged an April 16 Office Memorandum (OM) of the Civil Aviation Ministry which covers only the refund of tickets booked during the lockdown period. The OM leaves out the vast majority of passengers who had booked tickets before the flights were banned due to the lockdown.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Man killed in firing along India-Nepal border||Jitendra Kumar, Additional Director General of Police (headquarters) has confirmed the incident. The victim’s father, Nageshwar Rai, told journalists that his land was included in Narayanpur in Nepal where his son was working. Nepal shares a 1,850-km open border with India and people travel across for work and make family visits. Many Indians in the border districts of Bihar have kinship ties across the border in Nepal. Nepal closed its international borders on March 22 amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Several skirmishes Nepalese sources said there have been several skirmishes in the area in the past few months and cautioned about simmering tension on southern border of Nepal with Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The incident came a day after Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli described the “southern border” of Nepal as the “real reason” for the country’s vulnerabilities. In his speech in Parliament on Wednesday, he described the border as responsible for many problems, including COVID-19, facing Nepal. His government has pledged to build around 500 new security outposts across the border region. In May, Nepal erected a new border security post in its westernmost district near Kalapani of Uttarakhand after the controversy broke out on May 8 when Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated the Darchula-Lipulekh link road that runs in the disputed region. ( With inputs from Kallol Bhattacherjee  in New Delhi)
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||RBI asked to clarify on interest during moratorium||“We are trying to balance. Whether there can be a system worked out... Our concern in these proceedings is only whether the interest that has been deferred will be added to charges payable later and whether there will be interest on the interest,” Justice Kaul addressed lawyers representing the parties. The court said, unlike what the RBI apprehends in its response, it is not considering a complete waiver of interest but is only concerned that postponement of interest shouldn't accrue further interest on it. The court listed the case for June 17 to hear the outcome of the meeting between the RBI and the Finance Ministry. Earlier, the RBI had filed an affidavit in court saying it does not consider it prudent or appropriate to go for a forced waiver of interest, risking the financial viability of the banks it is mandated to regulate and putting the interests of the depositors in jeopardy. “If the RBI reply goes much beyond the query posed by us, there will be a lot of opinions on it. Efforts will be made to sway it one way or another,” the Bench remarked. The court is hearing a petition filed by Gajendra Sharma challenging the charging of interest rate on loans even during the three-month moratorium period declared amid the COVID-19 pandemic and national lockdown. The RBI had recently extended the moratorium till August 31.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Govt. puts oﬀ decision on States’ GST dues till July||Last week, the Centre paid pending compensation dues for the December 2019 to February 2020 period. However, with revenues crashing since the lockdown, alternative options may be explored. “In July, on the request of all ministers, there shall be a meeting to discuss exclusively one agenda point, and that is compensation cess which has to be given to the States, and if at all it results in some kind of borrowing, how and who is going to pay for it,” Ms Sitharaman said. Businesses who have not filed their GSTR-3B returns from July 2017 to January 2020 can avail of a reduced late fee of Rs. 500 if they have tax liabilities and a late fee waiver for those with nil liabilities, so long as returns are filed between July 1 and September 30, the Council decided. Small taxpayers with an aggregate turnover of Rs. 5 crore or less will not be charged any interest for late filing of returns for the tax period of February, March and April 2020 until July 6. For returns filed after that but before the end of September, the rate of interest has been reduced from 18% to 9%. For late filing of returns for May, June and July, interest charges will be waived for small tax payers if filing is completed by September. A one-time extension is also being granted to those seeking to revoke cancelled GST registrations. Inversion of duties The GST Council also agreed that there is a need to correct the inversion of duties, but postponed a decision on when to do so. “While there was not much for larger businesses, the late fee waivers and additional moratorium for smaller businesses is quite a welcome move,” said Ernst and Young tax partner Abhishek Jain. “With the current financial situation, smaller businesses were aggressively seeking stimulus and some of their requests have been well considered by the Council.”
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||SC allows firms to negotiate lockdown wages||“Various Industries, establishments were not allowed to function during the said period and those allowed to function also could not function to their capacity,” the court said. The court said a balance has to be found. Some industries would be able to bear the financial burden of payment of full or substantial wages for lockdown period, others may not be able to. The workers and employees, although ready to work, could not due to closure of industries. They have suffered. With this, the court continued its existing order that no coercive action should be taken against private factory/industry owners who were unable to pay wages to workers during the lockdown. The court has further asked the Centre to file a detailed counter affidavit in two weeks. The case would be taken up again in the last week of July.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Jnana Shakti avatar||The Devi Bhagavata Purana describes Vyasa’s birth and antecedents in detail when he is born as the son of Sage Parasara and Satyavati under mystifying circumstances through Divine Will at the end of Dwapara Yuga. While narrating this incident, the Suta Pauranika makes it clear that since the Lord takes the ‘aavesa avatar’ to manifest His Jnana Shakti according to His mysterious Sankalpa, the incarnation gains more importance than any other causal conditions, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. The Lord engaged in the tasks of Srishti, Stiti and Laya often comes to this earth in person when His presence is called for. Siva, for instance, comes directly to grace His devotees and grants them the highest knowledge and bhakti as in the case of the Nayanmars. Among Vishnu’s incarnations, Matsya, Kurma, and Varaha avatars are known as ‘amsa avatars.’ when to achieve some specific purpose, a prominent aspect of His becomes manifest. Narasimha avatar is an example of ‘aavesa avatar’ taken to protect Prahlada and kill Hiranyakasipu while Rama and Krishna avatars are Poorna avatars. It is held that He is born as Vyasa in every Dwapara Yuga for the sake of people in Kali Yuga whose understanding power keeps declining. His name in this instance is Krishna Dvaipayana while the term Vyasa refers to his role in classifying the unwieldy Vedas into six parts for easy understanding. The Vedas are said to be limitless as the saying ‘Anatho vai Vedaha’ signifies. He has presented the essence of the Upanishads in the Brahma Sutras. His voluminous and impressive contributions to sacred literature could be possible only by God’s grace. None but the Lord could have composed the Mahabharata and the puranas of such weight and substance.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Welfare of children is key, says Gangwar||Union Labour and Employment Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar said on Friday that there was a need to be vigilant, as the COVID-19 pandemic may force children into work. At the same time, States and civil society needed to work with the government on a plan to end child labour. Mr. Gangwar, addressing a webinar organised by the Ministry on the occasion of the World Day Against Child Labour, said it was more important than ever before to remain vigilant towards the safety of children. “We have to unite and prepare a dedicated action plan that can be implemented in the Indian perspective,” Mr. Gangwar said. The role of States and civil society would be vital, he added. In his speech, Nobel laureate Kailash Sathyarthi said there was a need for “bolder” and “urgent” actions towards ending child labour. In order to revive the economy, it would be important to attract foreign investment. In order to do that, he said, child labour needed to be eradicated from the supply chain as there was greater sensitivity towards the issue globally.
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Aarogya Setu not a must for air, train travel’||The Union government on Friday told the High Court of Karnataka that using the Aarogya Setu app was only an option and not mandatory for travelling by air and train, as travellers could submit a self-declaration form instead of using the app. The statement was made on behalf of the Centre before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice E.S. Indiresh during the hearing of a PIL petition, filed by Anivar A. Aravind, a city-based software engineer working for a non-profit organisation to protect people’s rights in the digital space. The latest guidelines issued by the Centre have made the downloading and use of Aarogya Setu app one of the options to travel by air or train as there is the other option of filling up of a self -declaration form to undertake travel, Additional Solicitor General of India (Karnataka HC) M.B. Naragund told the Bench. The ASG also pointed out from the documents submitted to the court that the option to use Aarogya Setuis, as per recent guidelines, only an advisory in nature and not mandatory, and a passenger not having this app can travel by filling up the necessary details in the self-declaration form. Following these submissions, the Bench said that it is not necessary to consider the contention of the petitioner that the app has been made as mandatory for air and train travel. However, the Bench asked the Union government to file its statement of objections on the other contentions – the mandatory use of app for accessing any government service, and that the app’s use has been enforced without the backing of any law and that the app interferes with the right to privacy of the users, etc. It was also contended in the petition that in many other democratic countries, which have developed similar apps for contact tracing of persons testing positive for COVID-19, the action was voluntary, and most of the apps only used Bluetooth and not user location. Further hearing has been adjourned till July 10.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nepal’s Lower House to vote on new map||The Lower House of Nepal’s Parliament will vote on Saturday on the Second Constitution Amendment, which gives legal status to the updated map of the country. Sources in Kathmandu said the Parliament Secretariat had included the last round of discussion and voting by members on the map, which claims Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh of Pithoragarh district, for the day’s schedule. The Bill generated lively discussion over the last few days with Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli offering his comments on the territorial disputes with India, on Wednesday.  Apart from the ruling Nepal Communist Party’s 175 members, the main opposition Nepali Congress has extended support of its 63-member block for the amendment. With the turnaround of the Madhesi parties, the amendment is expected to get almost full support when it comes up for voting in the house, which has 275 members.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHi,||Congress to meet EC over threat to MLAs||Accusing the BJP of indulging in corrupt electoral practices and intimidating their MLAs before the June 19 Rajya Sabha election, the Congress on Friday said it would raise the issue with the Election Commission (EC). Addressing an online press conference, Rajya Sabha member and Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said a delegation of party leaders would meet the EC to highlight instances of its legislators in Gujarat being lured and intimidated by the ruling BJP He alleged that one Gujarat MLA Panjbhai Kunjbhai Vansh was being harassed by the State government in an old case even though he did not have any criminal record. “Our victory is sufficient, our numbers are sufficient. Our means are clean and pure, our strategy is strong, but that should not prevent me from exposing before you those who doing just the opposite,” he also said. On the basis of its strength in the State legislature, the Congress is hoping to win two of the four seats . Fearing poaching of its MLAs, the Congress has moved its MLAs to resorts in the state as well as in neighbouring Rajasthan. Mr Singhvi alleged that the BJP was intimidating its MLAs through ‘misuse of power, and making a mockery of the 10th Schedule”.
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||RS members to pay for unused rail tickets||A random analysis for January 2019 done by the Rajya Sabha Secretariat revealed that a former member had made 63 rail bookings, but travelled only on seven occasions. The Secretariat has noticed several other such unutilised bookings. The House Secretary-General Desh Deepak Verma has issued directions to cancel all the rail bookings unlikely to be used, and said the fare shall be recovered from the member if they fail to do so.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||NHRC takes note of health workers’ woes||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Friday issued notices to the Union Finance Ministry and the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) over reported refusals or demands for high premiums for mediclaim policies for healthcare workers during the COVID-19 pandemic. The NHRC took suo motu cognisance of a media report that said private healthcare workers were facing trouble in getting medical insurance policies. “While most doctors have a medical cover, the struggle has mainly been about ensuring protection for their staffers. Moreover, as mentioned in the news report there is also confusion whether the Rs. 50 lakh health cover provided by the Centre for healthcare workers included private doctors, staffers and also those doing non-COVID-19 work,” the NHRC said.
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||Visa curbs eased in more categories||The Ministry of Home Affairs on Friday exempted additional categories of foreigners from the existing visa restrictions, allowing them to travel to India. The fresh categories include “foreign national who are minor children where at least one of their parents is an Indian citizen or OCI card holder; foreign national married to Indian citizens; foreign nationals who are single parents of minor children holding Indian passports or OCI cards; students who are foreign nationals where at least one of their parents is an Indian citizen or OCI card holder; and dependent family member of foreign diplomats/ official service passport holding service staff accredited to foreign diplomatic missions, counselor offices of accredited international organizations in India.” The foreigners will have to seek fresh visas. On May 22, MHA had allowed a limited category of Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) cardholders, stranded abroad, to come to India. The life-long visa to OCIs was temporarily suspended in March in the wake of COVID-19. The country was first placed under a lockdown on March 24. The current phase, Unlock 1.0, has allowed a range of activities. However, entry of foreigners is still banned.
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. holds back full IIP data for April||The government on Friday held back the release of the complete data of index of industrial production for April, saying it is not appropriate to compare the IIP data with earlier months due to the lockdown. A statement showed that the IIP — which measures factory output in the country — stood at 56.3 points in April 2020 compared to 126 in April 2019. The Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation said, “This [lockdown] has had an impact on the items being produced by the establishments during the month of April 2020, where a number of responding units have reported NIL production.”
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||No night curbs for loading, unloading||Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Friday clarified to States that the restriction on movement of people between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m. does not apply to loading and unloading of vehicles, including movement of buses and trucks. “It has come to notice that some States and UTs are also restricting movement of persons and vehicles plying on highways between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m. which is hindering their smooth passage,” the letter by Mr. Bhalla said. “Movement of individuals will remain prohibited between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m... except for essential activities. I would like to clarify that the purpose of restricting movement of individuals, except for essential activities, is primarily intended to prevent congregation,” the letter stated.
13 June 2020||Srinagar,||Woman killed in Pak. firing along LoC||A woman was killed and two were injured in heavy exchange of fire and artillery between the Armies of India and Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) in Baramulla and Poonch on Friday. Akther Begum, 40, of Bhatgran in Uri died of splinter injuries, an official said. A 35-year-old woman was among the two injured in Uri. A Srinagar-based Army spokesman said Pakistan violated the ceasefire without any provocation in the Rampur sector of Baramulla in Kashmir on Friday morning. “The Pakistan Army fired mortars and used other weapons. A befitting response was given,” he said. Silikote, Haji Pir Sector, Churanda, Nambla, Saidpora and Thajal bore the brunt of intermittent firing and shelling. Families evacuated Nearly 20 families were evacuated. People said they hid in shelters and houses.  “Satisfactory arrangements, including supply of essential commodities, have been made for the displaced families. The administration is geared up for any emergency,” Sub-Divisional Magistrate Reyaz Ahmad said.
13 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Man from Uppal held for defaming KCR||A 24-year-old private employee from Uppal was arrested by the Cyber crime police of Rachakonda on Friday for posting objectionable comments on Facebook to “defame” the image Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and other leaders. “The comments had impact on the image and personal feelings of people of Telangana,” the police said. The accused, Chinnam Balachander, a supervisor in Bajaj showroom, Uppal branch, hails from Cholleru village in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district. Balachander is the member of Facebook page ‘Spirit of Telangana’ and he uploaded defamatory images and comments against the Chief Minister and other leaders, Cyber Crime ACP S. Harinath said. “In the process he downloaded some images of the Chief Minster and some of the TRS leaders and edited them with abusive and most derogatory comments and posted them on an Facebook page ‘Spirit of Telangana’,” he said.
13 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Joseph threatens to stay away from UDF||Irked by the inability of the United Democratic Front (UDF) to facilitate a change of guard in the Kottayam district panchayat, the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by P.J. Joseph here on Friday threatened to stay away from the coalition till the implementation of the existing seat-sharing deal. “We will not attend the UDF meeting till the incumbent president of the local body steps down from the post. The coalition has a responsibility to ensure that the deal brokered by it is executed. We will immediately move a no-confidence motion in the council,” Mr. Joseph said while addressing the media here on Friday. ‘Unconditional’ Asserting that the resignation should be unconditional, Mr. Joseph noted that the deadline for the Mani faction for handing over the seat had ended at least two months ago. “It is now up to the UDF to decide on a convenient date for bringing the no-confidence motion,” he said. The statement by Mr. Joseph assumes significance as the Congress is still undecided on turning against the Jose K. Mani faction. With just two members in the local body council, support of the Congress members is essential for the Joseph group to enforce the resignation of Sebastian Kulathungal, the incumbent president. Earlier, there were reports that the warring factions had agreed for a temporary truce following the marathon deliberations initiated by the UDF over the past two days. During the meeting, the Mani group put forth a demand to continue with the existing seat-sharing agreement between the KC(M) groups in the upcoming local body and Assembly elections. Mr. Jose K. Mani, in his response, accused Mr. Joseph of attempting to pressure the UDF. “The actual agreement drafted during the tenure of K.M. Mani as chairman of the party does not speak of any such seat-sharing plans. We have conveyed our position to the UDF and the matter is under its consideration. At the same time, certain proposals forwarded by us and suggestions by the UDF too are being deliberated,” he told media persons. Meanwhile, a high-power committee of the Mani faction was progressing in Kottayam late on Friday.  We will immediately move a no-trust motion in the Kottayam district panchayat council. P.J. Joseph
13 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With 1,982 cases, tally crosses 40,000||Tamil Nadu recorded an all-time high of 1,982 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking its tally past the 40,000-mark. For the third consecutive day, 1,000-plus persons were discharged from hospitals, while 18 more persons succumbed to the infection. Even as the State’s total count increased to 40,698*, the number of recoveries continued to exceed the the number of active cases in Tamil Nadu. While 22,047 persons have been discharged so far, including 1,342 persons on Friday, 18,281 persons are under treatment. With a total of 367 deaths, the State’s mortality rate stands at 0.9%. Chennai accounted for more than 70% of the fresh cases. Adding 1,479 cases, the city’s tally rose to 28,924. In fact, Friday marked the highest number of samples to be tested on a single day. With 18,231 samples, the total number of samples tested so far increased to 6,73,906. Deaths in State Of the 18 persons who died, 17 had co-morbid conditions. While 10 persons died in government hospitals, eight died in private hospitals. A 38-year-old man from Chennai was admitted to a private hospital on May 30 with complaints of fever and cough for three days and difficulty in breathing for two days. He died on June 11 due to respiratory failure and septic shock with multi-organ dysfunction syndrome. A 40-year-old woman with diabetes was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on June 9. Her samples returned positive for COVID-19 on June 11 and she died on the same day due to cardiopulmonary arrest, bilateral pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome and respiratory failure. Another 40-year-old man from Chengalpattu was admitted to the Chengalpattu Medical College Hospital on June 9. A diabetic, he died the next day due to respiratory failure, acute pneumonia, uncontrolled diabetes and systemic hypertension. At least 30 districts in the State reported fresh cases. Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur continued to lead the table after Chennai. With 128 more cases, Chengalpattu’s tally crossed the 2,500-mark. Tiruvallur reported 92 cases, taking its tally to 1,752. Other districts There were 31 cases in Madurai, 26 in Kancheepuram, 22 in Tiruvannamalai, 18 in Thoothukudi, 16 in Villupuram and 15 in Tirunelveli. Among the fresh cases, 49 persons had returned from abroad and other States. This included seven persons from Qatar, 15 from Maharashtra and 19 from Delhi. Till date, a total of 2,097 children aged between 0 and 12 years and 4,559 persons aged above 60 have tested positive for the infection in the State. One more government laboratory was approved for COVID-19 testing — the Government Hospital of Thoracic Medicine, Chennai — was approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, there are a total of 78 testing facilities — 45 in the government and 33 in the private sector — in the State.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)   Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur continued to see a surge in cases. With 128 more cases, Chengalpattu’s tally crossed the 2,500-mark
13 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre stops finalisation of Rs. 1,950-crore BharatNet tender||The Union Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) has written to State Additional Chief Secretary, Information Technology Department, to advise Tamil Nadu Fibrenet Corporation Limited (TANFINET) “not to hasten” the opening of tenders for the Rs. 1,950-crore BharatNet project without its clearance. The communication came hours before the tenders were to be opened and finalised for the fibre optic work project on Friday. The Centre is inquiring into the alleged non-compliance of Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Order, 2017, in the floating of the tenders and its specifications. The issue was flagged by Arappor Iyakkam, a Chennai-based anti-corruption movement.  Conditions tweaked Last month, the DPIIT had called for an urgent report on the serious allegations levelled by Arappor Iyakkam on the tender process. The issue pertained to violation of the tender conditions by increasing the turnover, experience and tweaking configuration of routers to suit two specific companies and thereby eliminating competition through the issue of a corrigendum to the tender floated by TANFINET and the IT Department on April 15. Replies to be examined On Friday, the DPIIT wrote to the IT Secretary stating that the replies of TANFINET was yet to be examined and commented upon by the Department of Communications. “TANFINET tried closing and finalising the Rs. 1,950-crore tender today itself. This was clearly in violation of the Union Government’s orders. We had sent a complaint in April and two reminders. Minutes before the tenders were due to be closed, the DPIIT intervened and stopped the process,” Arappor Iyakkam convenor Jayaram Venkatesan said. He said that except for the router condition, most other restrictive conditions were not withdrawn by the State Government and Arappor Iyakkam would continue to fight to cancel the changes in the tender made to shut out Indian suppliers and thereby favour foreign companies, he added.  TANFINET tried closing and finalising the Rs. 1,950-crore tender today itself. This was clearly in violation of the Union Government’s orders. We had sent a complaint in April and two reminders Jayaram Venkatesan, Arappor Iyakkam convenor
13 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||J. Radhakrishnan replaces Beela Rajesh as Health Secy.||Amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the State, the Tamil Nadu government on Friday replaced Health Secretary Beela Rajesh, bringing in senior IAS officer J. Radhakrishnan in her place. Ms. Rajesh was posted as Secretary, Commercial Taxes and Registration Department. Mr. Radhakrishnan is no stranger to the Health Department. Incidentally, he was Ms. Rajesh’s predecessor in the department, serving as Secretary between 2012 and February 2019. He will continue to hold additional charge as Secretary-cum-Commissioner, Revenue Administration. Managing disaster He shot into prominence for effectively handling tsunami relief and rebuilding works in coastal Nagapattinam during 2004-05. Early last month, as Chennai turned a hotspot for COVID-19, the government appointed him as a Special Nodal Officer to co-ordinate COVID-19-related issues with the Commissioner of GCC and other teams formed to tackle the spread of the disease. The bureaucratic reshuffle came on a day Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 tally breached the 40,000-mark and against the backdrop of consistently rising cases in Chennai. The capital city has been registering new cases of COVID-19 in four-figure numbers, on a daily basis, for the past many days. Sources contended that the government put Mr. Radhakrishnan at the helm so that his experience in disaster management could come in handy to device micro strategies to arrest the spread of COVID-19.
13 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||E-pass issuance restricted in city’s neighbouring districts||The Tiruvallur district administration has restricted issuance of e-pass to enter the district, even for work. Many people from Chennai travel to Tiruvallur on a daily basis to work in industries. Till date, police and district administration were allowing those working in different industries if they their work identity cards were presented. Strict enforcement “Now we have stopped that and only those with e-passes will be allowed to enter. We are providing passes only to those living near the industries. Those living far away can get a pass and stay near their workplace. Travelling daily will not be encouraged,” Tiruvallur Collector Mageswari Ravikumar said. Meanwhile, the police have intensified checking of e-passes in the districts bordering Chennai. Vehicles from Chennai, without valid pass, are not being allowed to enter Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram or Tiruvallur district. “The e-pass is mandatory to enter other districts. However, as many people from Chennai travel to Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur on a daily basis, it was relaxed a bit. However, we found that many are misusing it and roaming around unnecessarily,” a senior police officer said. There were 15 check points in the border of these districts including one at Thirumazhisai. “Those without e-pass are being sent back. We will be intensifying the checking in the coming days,” said a senior police officer. Total lockdown rumours Tiruvallur SP P. Aravindan said there had been rumours about total lockdown to be announced by the Tamil Nadu government. Since this could lead to panic buying, the police warned people not to spread rumours. “We will arrest those who spread rumours. The police is closely monitoring social media to identify those who spread fake messages,” he said.
13 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||42 postgraduates test positive in MMC||Forty-two doctors, who are residents of the Madras Medical College’s Postgraduate (PG) Men’s Hostel, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. Nearly 60 samples were lifted from the doctors. Of these, 42 returned positive for novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19). The hostel houses 250 PG doctors. These doctors were posted on COVID-19 as well as other duties, including trauma and outpatient departments, at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH). Reliable sources at the hospital said that a number of women PGs and house surgeons had tested positive. “Those who were posted on non-COVID-19 duties have also tested positive. PGs are posted in the trauma wards, including on 24-hour duty. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) are provided but how can they wear it for 24 hours? We have been requesting duty on a shift basis for every six hours. After the government lifted the restrictions, there is an increase in accidents and assault cases. As a result, we have to attend to emergency patients at the earliest,” a doctor at the hospital said. A majority of the medicos who tested positive were admitted to the ESI Hospital, Ayanavaram. “Many of those who tested positive are asymptomatic. The PG hostel should be closed for disinfection. It is important to actively screen all staff at RGGGH, not just those who are symptomatic. It is important for the safety of healthcare providers and workers, and for patients,” another doctor said on condition of anonymity.
13 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC enquires about rules for use, disposal of masks||The Madras High Court on Friday directed the State government to spell out whether it had issued any guidelines on the use and disposal of face masks, since there were complaints of people using non-reusable masks repeatedly. Justices Vineet Kothari and R. Suresh Kumar directed State government pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayan to ensure that the response of the State government was filed within two weeks. The direction was issued on a public interest litigation (PIL) petition. Mandatory usage M.V. Ramani, 64, of West Mambalam, had filed the case, pointing out that face masks had become mandatory for everyone since the spread of COVID-19 began. Both the Centre as well as the State government had advised people to wear masks when they step out of their houses. Such directions had resulted in the sale of different types of face masks. Listing some of them, he said that three-ply masks, N-95 masks, surgical masks, FFP1 masks, cloth masks and sponge masks were available in the market. Recently, a herbal mask made of vettiver was also introduced in Cuddalore. Some were also commercialising the situation by selling customised masks after printing people’s faces on them. “What is most aghast is that neither the Centre nor the State government, till date, have come up with any specific guidelines regarding the quality of the mask to be worn,” he said.  No regulations The petitioner stated that three-ply masks should not be used for more than four hours a day. Some people, however, were using and reusing it for much longer because of the absence of guidelines on the use and disposal of masks, the petitioner added.
13 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Temperature checks at doorstep soon||The Greater Chennai Corporation will start distribution of thermal scanners to civic workers in order to check temperature of residents in the city. The number of city residents has been estimated to be 87 lakh. At least 150 households would be thermally scanned for fever every day by each civic worker, officials said. For the past few months, over 12,000 civic workers have been collecting information from residents on fever cases to contain the spread of COVID-19. Collating information A senior official of the Corporation said workers would visit homes, check body temperature and share information with the civic body. Doctors in mobile units would reach neighbourhoods where a large number of fever cases were reported on a particular day. The information compiled by workers would be used to prioritise stationing of mobile hospital units in various localities. At a meeting in Ripon Buildings with doctors from other districts on Friday, senior officials of the Corporation directed doctors with PPE kits to visit households for treating home isolated patients who tested positive for COVID-19. “More than 60% of positive cases are under home isolation. Every day around 2,000 positive cases are being reported in the city. Some of these people need medical intervention. Some of the additional doctors who have reached Chennai will monitor residents on home isolation,” a Corporation official said.
13 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin urges govt. to do more to tackle the virus||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday urged the State government to plan and increase medical facilities and take steps to arrest the spread of COVID-19. He also accused the AIADMK government of being keen on “finalising tenders” and moving only files that it was interested in. In a statement, he said, “Instead of trying to please the BJP government at the Centre, please spend some time on tackling the pandemic and saving the people of the State.” The DMK president said that the State had seen more cases during the fifth lockdown than in the fourth, and in the past one month alone, more than 27,000 people had been infected. “This shows that the lockdown was not properly implemented,” he said. Mr. Stalin said that if the government had to tackle the pandemic, it should give people all essentials to ensure that they stayed home. “The government should provide Rs. 5,000 to families that have lost their livelihoods during the lockdown. Create a situation where people know that the government is going to take care of their necessities,” he said. Pointing to the increasing number of cases in Chennai, he said that the city alone had accounted for 279 deaths out of the total 349 deaths. “There have been reports of many deaths not being counted as well. Why is there a discrepancy between the Corporation death figures and the Health Department’s death figures. Don’t both these departments come under this government,” he asked
13 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Universities sign pact to work on vaccine||The Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University (TNMGRMU) and the Tamil Nadu University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (TANUVAS) are working together to identify a vaccine candidate against COVID-19, and are studying the anti-viral activity of select Siddha medicines such as kabasura kudineer . According to a press release, both institutions have entered into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to share expertise and facilities to jointly work in various areas of healthcare research. They are also jointly conducting animal studies and cell line studies to assess the anti-viral activity of Siddha medicines such as kabasura kudineer and nochi kudineer . The two universities will work towards promoting excellence in basic and advanced research in healthcare, particularly in epidemics and zoonotic diseases. They will also explore other areas to work together, such as in collaborative research projects funded by national and international agencies. Registrars of the two universities — M.B. Aswath Narayanan of TNMGRMU and P. Tensingh Gnanaraj of TANUVAS — signed the MoU. Vice-chancellor of TNMGRMU Sudha Seshayyan and vice-chancellor of TANUVAS C. Balachandran were present.
13 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘State reluctant to allow flights from abroad’||The Madras High Court on Friday asked the Centre why very few chartered flights were being operated to Chennai under the Vande Bharat Mission to repatriate Indians stranded abroad due to COVID-19. Justices Vineet Kothari and R. Suresh Kumar wondered whether it was for want of sufficient number of passengers or for some other reason. The bench was hearing a petition filed by the DMK to bring back Tamils stranded abroad. Senior counsel P. Wilson, representing the DMK, told the court that the party had been receiving distress calls and e-mails from thousands of Tamils stranded in the U.S., the U.K., the U.A.E. and many other places. The State government was reluctant to allow flights to land in Chennai, he said. The judges directed the Centre to file a detailed status report in a week. The court wanted to know whether the Centre had provided any other relief to Indians stranded abroad due to COVID-19.  The Division Bench directed the State government to submit a list, if any, of international flights already allowed to be landed in Chennai and other airports in the State and the number of requisitions received so far for such flights. The government was ordered to spell out its stand, by June 19, on allowing international flights to land in Chennai and other airports in the State and whether it had apprehensions on letting passengers land here.
13 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK alleges corruption in award of telecom tenders||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) organisation secretary R.S. Bharathi has moved Madras High Court alleging huge corruption in award of government tenders to private companies for laying fiber optic cables in 12,524 villages in the State. The petitioner has sought for registration of a First Information Report (FIR) on his complaint against Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Minister for Revenue, Disaster Management and Information Technology R.B. Udhayakumar. According to an affidavit filed by the petitioner before the court, the Centre had conceived a project titled BharatNet to bridge the digital divide between urban and rural localities and provide broadband connectivity to all village panchayats in the country. In December 2019, tenders were floated. The total worth of the project was Rs. 1,950 crore. However, subsequently, two private firms began taking utmost efforts to get the project in Tamil Nadu through undue influence and by tweaking the tender conditions, he alleged. Stating that outright anti-competitive clauses were introduced to keep a majority of the bidders away from the tender process, he sought for a direction to the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption to register a FIR on the basis of a complaint by him on May 11.
13 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Private schools warned against collecting fees||The Directorate of Matriculation Schools (DMS) in Tamil Nadu has warned private schools against collecting fees during the ongoing lockdown. The warning comes in the backdrop of sporadic complaints regarding a section of schools pressurising parents to pay fees by pointing out that online classes were being conducted. In a letter sent to all the Chief Educational Officers, the DMS has cited the earlier order issued by the office clearly stating that none of the schools should demand the students to pay either the fees pending for the previous academic year or for the present academic year. Highlighting that the office has received complaints that a few schools were violating this order, the letter said that appropriate action will be taken against any school pressurising students or parents for the payment of fees. Meanwhile, an order issued by the Principal Secretary of the School Education Department said that C. Usharani, Director of Government Education, was unwell and has gone on medical leave till July 7, 2020. M. Palanichamy, Director of Elementary Education, will be holding the post as additional charge.
13 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||97-year-old beats COVID-19, discharged from hospital||A 97-year-old man, admitted to Kauvery Hospital, recovered from the novel coronavirus infection and returned home. A. Krishna Murti was admitted on May 30 with complaints of cough, fever and mild breathlessness. He had other health issues such as hypertension and coronary heart disease complicating his condition. On admission, he was provided oxygen to assist his breathing. He was put on a high protein, vegetarian diet and soon his condition began to improve. He was able to breathe on his own and was also able to move around without assistance. He was discharged after the results for COVID-19 returned negative. Vijayalakshmi Balakrishnan, senior consultant — Infectious Diseases said the hospital had so far successfully treated and discharged over 200 patients. “Mr. Krishna Murti is our oldest patient so far and it was truly a team effort that ensured his recovery. The fatality rate of COVID-19 is very low and we urge people to be positive and safe during these challenging times,” she said. Aravindan Selvaraj, the hospital’s executive director, said, “The grit and strong willpower showcased by the patient as he fought through the infection is really commendable. We hope that this success brings courage and faith to many people around the world. I would like to thank the patient for imbibing faith in us as we continue our fight against the pandemic.”
13 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||FIRs registered against those violating home quarantine||The Corporation on Friday announced that FIRs have been filed against 40 households for violation of home quarantine. All the 15 zones reported cases of people violating home quarantine. Tondiarpet and Royapuram have reported the largest number of FIR for home quarantine violations. At least 10 of the 15 zones reported the largest increase in COVID-19 cases. Royapuram remains the zone with the largest number of cases.
13 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Incinerators donated to govt. hospitals||To safely dispose of masks, head and foot covers and gloves, Hyundai Motor India provided five incinerators to government hospitals that have been treating COVID-19 cases. The five incinerators will be installed at the Government Medical College Hospital in Omandurar Estate, ESI Hospital in Ayanavaram, Kasturba Gandhi Hospital in Triplicane, Government Hospital in Tambaram and Government District Headquarters Hospital in Kancheepuram. The equipment will enable safe disposal of masks, head and foot covers and gloves.
13 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fruit traders protest at Madhavaram||The wholesale fruit merchants staged a protest at Madhavaram market on Friday against re-allotment of some of the shops on the first floor of the building. Merchants complained that the produce would soon perish when exposed to direct sunlight or rains. On Friday, the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority officials conducted a drawal of lots to reorganise shop allotment to ensure better physical distancing norms at the market. Traders claimed that they were not informed about the decision. They suggested that shops could instead be divided into batches and made to function on alternate days.
13 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown hit T.N.’s revenue collection||Tamil Nadu lost more than 75% of State Own Tax Revenue (SOTR) in April and May due to the lockdown imposed since March 25. SOTR is the primary source of revenue for the State, as it accounts for about 60% of the Tamil Nadu’s revenue receipts. The State government realised Rs. 5,218 crore in the last two months against the originally-anticipated amount of Rs. 22,255 crore. As per the budget estimates, the revenue through State Own Taxes is around Rs. 1,33,530 crore for 2020-21. In other words, the monthly average comes to Rs. 11,127.5 crore. Of the total tax revenue realised, the State got around Rs. 2,035 crore in April and Rs. 3,183 crore next month.
13 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Number of domestic flights increased by 8||For the first time since the resumption of domestic flights, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has increased the number of departure and arrival movements within the State. On Friday, 58 flights were handled at the Chennai airport and for Saturday, the schedule shows there will be 58 flights — 29 arrivals and departures each. When the Centre announced that domestic flights would resume on May 25, the State said only 25 flights would be allowed into the city, considering the huge spike in COVID-19 cases. Hence, for three weeks now, the number of departure and the arrival flights had not crossed 25 each. Officials of AAI said they received approval from the State to increase the number of flights. “The addition of eight aircraft movements is an increase of flights to cities within the State, like Madurai and Thoothukudi,” an official said. For instance, there were only one flight each to Madurai and Thoothukudi for the last few days but on Friday, there were three flights from Madurai and two to Thoothukudi.
13 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Model road project set in motion at Race Course||The model road project to develop the 3-km-long Race Course circular road under the Central Government’s Smart Cities Mission began here on Friday with Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani participating in the ground-breaking ceremony. At Rs. 40.70 crore, the Coimbatore Corporation would improve the walking track, install play equipment for children, build an open air auditorium, two open gyms for men and women, a synthetic play turf, modern toilets and locker rooms, facilitate the setting up of eateries under hygienic condition, introduce a smart parking system, provide wi-fi facility and improve junctions in the area, said Mr. Velumani. The Coimbatore Corporation had taken up two model road projects on D.B. Road and T.V. Samy Road in R.S. Puram. The Race Course model road project would not only benefit the city’s residents, but also those who visit the city and use the walking track for their morning walks. The model road project was the latest in the Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s efforts to develop Coimbatore, something which the previous State governments had ignored, Mr. Velumani said. The other State Government-funded projects that were under various stages of implementation in Coimbatore were the construction of flyovers on Trichy Road, Mettupalayam Road, Athupalam. The Government had floated tender for the Rs. 1,000-crore Avinashi Road elevated corridor, he said. . The Minister also highlighted the River Noyyal rejuvenation scheme, Pilloor III drinking water supply scheme, the feasibility study for metro rail for Coimbatore. As for battling the spread of COVID-19, he said because of the Chief Minister’s hands-on approach the Government had contained the spread in almost all districts except Chennai, where he had deputed ministers to monitor the situation street-wise. The Government had also given more than the required quantity of essential commodities to public distribution system (ration) card holders through fair price shops, he added. District Collector K. Rajamani, Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath and senior Corporation officials were present at the ground-breaking ceremony.
13 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Shiva Texyarn to make masks, PPE with anti-viral fabric||Technical textile manufacturer Shiva Texyarn, which has joined hands with HeiQ Materials AG and Jintex Corporation, will soon launch masks and Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) made of anti-viral fabric. K.S. Sundararaman, Managing Director of Shiva Texyarn, told The Hindu that the company planned to initially launch masks made of anti-viral fabric in the market in two weeks. Many were finding it difficult to use masks with filters. Masks used with anti-viral fabric would be convenient to use and protective too, he said. Enquiries “We will launch it for domestic and export markets. There are enquiries for exports as these are basically fabric masks which Indian government permits to be exported,” he said. Cotton, polyester, or viscose fabrics treated with HeiQ Viroblock NPJ03 can be used for different applications. “There will be a demand for anti-viral fabric for wider applications in the coming months,” Mr. Sundararaman said. Certifications A press release said that the company was currently in the process of getting various international certifications to target the global marketplace for anti-viral fabrics.
13 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Nine including two children test positive in Coimbatore||Nine persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Friday. The infected include four men, three women and two children. They had come from other States by flight and train services. A 35-year-old woman and her 11-year-old son and a 31-year-old woman and her four-year-old son were among those who tested positive, Health Department sources said. A 23-year-old man, a 24-year-old man and a 31-year-old woman also tested positive. These seven were from Coimbatore city. Two men, aged 29 and 52, belong to Keeranatham and Mettupalayam respectively, sources said. All nine patients were admitted to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital for treatment. As per the COVID-19 media bulletin issued on Friday, there are 23 active cases (domestic and imported) in Coimbatore district, sources said. The total number of COVID-19 positive persons in the district so far is 173. One case in Tiruppur After 40 days, Tiruppur district saw one COVID-19 positive case on Friday. A 19-year-old nursing student who tested positive in Coimbatore on June 8 was cross-notified to Tiruppur district, Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said in a tweet. While there were only 114 cases in the district from May 3 to June 11, the number increased to 115 in Friday’s bulletin. Health Department sources said that the student was from Erode district and stayed at her grandmother’s residence in Mulanur from May 25 to June 5. She went to Coimbatore the next day, where her swab sample was collected. The district now has only one active case and the patient has been admitted to ESI Hospital.
13 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for bid to cheat migrant worker||The Saibaba Colony police on Thursday arrested a man on charges of attempting to cheat a migrant worker wanting to return to his home town in Odisha. Police said that Badal Kumar Das (23), employed in a departmental store in the city, contacted Odia film actor Sabyasachi Mishra via Twitter to help him return to his home town. The accused, Gopal Chandra Sahoo (32), contacted Mr. Das claiming to be the actor’s agent and demanded Rs. 6,000 for the travel charges. After the actor clarified that the travel charges were free of cost, Mr. Das nabbed the accused and handed him over to the police on Thursday. The accused was booked and remanded in judicial custody. Police thanked Mr. Mishra thanked the Odisha Police and Coimbatore City Police via Twitter on Friday.
13 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Water position in Siruvani dips to dead storage level||With the mid of June only a couple of days away, the South-West Monsoon has not yet brought good news to the people of Coimbatore as the water level in Siruvani Reservoir has not improved. As of June 12, the water level in the reservoir is just 3.70 ft above the dead storage level. With the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board drawing over 70 million litres a day, the water above the dead storage level is likely to last for a week. And, if the Kerala Government allowed the Board to tap the water below the dead storage level, the city may see Siruvani water supply for a fortnight thereafter or so. Sources in the Coimbatore Corporation and Board said that with good rain predicted in the next few days, they were hopeful that the water level would increase. The Corporation had already begun diverting 10 million litres a day of Pilloor water to Siruvani-fed wards to tide over the shortfall in water supply.
13 June 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmer injured in elephant attack||A farmer was injured in an elephant attack in Shoolagiri here on Friday. Venkatasamy (40) of Kanagothapalli village had stepped out to irrigate his fields in the morning when a lone tusker attacked him. The locals blasted crackers to chase away the elephant and rescued him. Venkatasamy was grievously injured and taken to a private hospital in Bengaluru. Owing to increasing incidents of elephant attacks, the Forest Department has warned the public in villages fringing the migratory movement of elephants not to venture out early mornings or after dusk.
13 June 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||14-year-old girl tests positive for COVID-19 in Karaikal||A 14-year-old girl residing at Tirupattinam along Thittacheri Road tested positive for the virus in Karaikal district on Friday. The girl was under home quarantine for the last 10 days after return from Chennai. Swab samples of four other members of the girl's family and another five-member family in the immediate neighbourhood had turned out negative results. Officials believe that the chances were minimal for spread of the virus through the afflicted girl as her entire family was under quarantine. The locality of the affected girl was immediately declared as containment zone. The district administration has reached out to the residents with support system for supply of essentials and milk at their doorstep, and medical guidance over phone. The administration has also stepped up measures for enforcement of personal distancing and tighter screening of people entering the check posts from the Tamil Nadu side. Karaikal District Citizens and Rail Users' Welfare Association, Karaikal unit of India Against Corruption, and other public welfare organisations have been voicing their concern over the looming threat of spread of the virus in the district due to what they described as the laxity on the part of the police personnel manning the checkposts in monitoring movement of people at the checkposts. Closed-Circuit Television Cameras must be installed at the checkposts and senior officials must carry out inspection at the checkposts on an hourly basis, V.R. Dhanaseelane, president, Karaikal District Citizens and Rail Users' Association. Public transport services being operated from Karaikal to Puducherry by PRTC must be put on hold, he emphasised, pointing out that substantial risk factor has been created by returnees from Chennai who travel to Puducherry by two-wheelers and subsequently board the buses bound for Karaikal. On Thursday, the district administration sealed a browsing centre on Maideen Palli Street after detection of forged versions of the e-passes issued by the district administration for inter-state and inter-district movement of people. The centre was found to have sold the forged e-passes in the black market for gain by photoshopping original ones. One person was arrested under Disaster Management Act 2005, IT Act, and various sections of IPC. Cautioning the public not to fall prey to such illegal services, Collector Arjun Sharma said carrying such forged e-passes was also a punishable offence.
13 June 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Milk producers stage protest in Krishnagiri||The members of Milk Producers’ Association, led by the Communist Party of India, staged a protest seeking payment of arrears, among other demands here. Dairy farmers supplying milk to Aavin have payment pending from the government for the past several months. Milk producers said that though they faced severe hardships during the lockdown period, the government did not provide any relief to them. They wanted the government to increase the milk procurement price by Rs. 5 per litre. They alleged that the lockdown enabled profiteering by the fodder industry forcing farmers to incur exorbitant costs on milk production. In its wake, the Association has called for setting up of a fodder industry here in Krishnagiri. Earlier, ex-MLA of Harur Dilli Babu led the protesters. The milk producers petitioned the District Revenue Officer.
13 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Returnees joining the jobless in orphaned Usilampatti||About 15 years ago, R. Jegatheesan of Chokkanathapuram near Usilampatti left for Dharavi in Mumbai to sell idlis with his brother and sisters. He had just passed Class 10 and there were no livelihood options in his village. COVID-19 has forced him to return home. “Though other parts of Madurai district seem to have developed, Usilampatti remains the same. It is a month now and I am yet to find a job here,” he says. Insufficient water for undertaking agriculture, abandoned irrigation projects and absence of industrial development in the Usilampatti region has forced many families to migrate to northern States in search of a livelihood over the last few decades. Revenue Divisional Officer K.V. Rajkumar says around 950 people have returned from other States during the lockdown. Most of them have come from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. Most of them were involved in making and selling murukkus, thattais, idlis and dosas. An official says these people go to other States through a network of agents. “In many cases, couples migrate and leave their children in the custody of their parents,” he says. Inadequate water for irrigation in the past two decades is the main reason why these families migrate to other States, says P. Manikandan, president of Madurai District Wet and Dry Land Farmers’ Association. “The groundwater level has gone below 1,000 feet. The tanks remain dry for so many years and they have not been desilted,” he says. Though the 58-canal scheme was completed last year, the water it carried was sufficient to fill only five tanks. “Many farmers cultivate ‘Madurai malli’ (jasmine) using water from tanker lorries. Though jasmine commands a good price in the market, these farmers sell it to agents for a pittance to be sent to perfume factories in Dindigul. We have been demanding for a perfume factory in our region for so many years,” he says. O. Soundarapandian, a social worker, says lack of industries in the region is forcing many educated youth to take up low-paying menial jobs. Since the large number of returnees will not be able to go back to the northern States, they also look for livelihood opportunities. Collector T.G. Vinay says officials are collecting details of all these families to assess their skill-sets. “We will match them with the requirements of industries and arrange for giving them training,” he says.
13 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||31 test positive for COVID-19 in Madurai district||Thirty-one people tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai on Friday, taking the total to 394. Ten of them were permanent residents of Chennai and had come to Madurai and residing in Solai Alagupuram, Anna Nagar, Tirumangalam, Vadipatti, Puliampatti, Mela Anuppanadi, Alanganallur and K. K. Nagar. These cases would be cross notified to Chennai. Other indigenous patients were from Narimedu, Gandhi Nagar, Tirumangalam, Ahimsapuram, Thathaneri, Munichalai, Palanganatham, Sellur, Viswanathapuram, Tallakulam, Race Course Road, South Perumal Maistry Street, Vilangudi and Simmakkal. While the oldest was a 72-year-old man, the youngest was a nine-year-old girl. Virudhunagar district recorded seven new cases - four patients had come from Chennai and three from Maharashtra. The total number of cases has risen to 161. As 127 patients have been discharged, the number of active cases has increased to 34. Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram and Dindigul (Palani and Vedasandur) districts recorded two cases each, while one person tested positive in Theni district - he had travel history from Chengalpattu district. A patient who was tested positive in Periyakulam three days ago had been admitted in a private hospital in Madurai. The number of indigenous COVID-19 positive cases in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts continue to grow as they recorded 15 and 18 cases respectively. While Tirunelveli has so far recorded 425 infections, Thoothukudi has 397. Kanniyakumari district added six more patients - five indigenous cases and an imported - to take its tally to 109.The tally of Tenkasi increased to 115 after four more indigenous cases were reported. Case registered Vickramasingapuram police have registered a case against a COVID-19 positive patient and his relative for delaying admission into the hospital. Four persons had come to Pulavanpatti and they were screened. Since three of them, including a student, tested positive, steps were taken to admit them in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. However, the student refused to cooperate with the officials and caused delay with the help of a relative.
13 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Construction workers want adequate financial aid||A construction workers welfare association moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday, seeking a direction to the State government to grant COVID-19 financial aid to all registered construction workers irrespective of renewal of their membership. The petitioner, P. Ponkumar of Thamizhaga Kattida Thozhilalar Maththiya Sangam, said 33 lakh construction workers were enrolled in Construction Workers Welfare Association. Due to various reasons many had not renewed their membership. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the State announced a financial assistance of Rs. 1,000 to unorganised sector workers. Subsequently, another instalment of assistance to the tune of Rs. 1,000 was announced. But, only 12.13 lakh (36%) construction workers were members of the Association, who were entitled to the financial assistance. Even 30% to 40% of the registered members were yet to receive the benefit, the petitioner said. He pointed out that Tamil Nadu Construction Workers Welfare Board was collecting 1% cess of the total estimated cost of construction towards the welfare fund. This fund must be utilised for their welfare, he said. Further, he said the State’s financial assistance must be enhanced to Rs. 5,000. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi issued notice to the State government and adjourned the hearing till June 17.
13 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Four Madurai colleges in NIRF’s top 100||Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) slipped in its National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF) ranking from 45 in 2019 to 60 in 2020, according to the list released by the Ministry of Human Resource Development on June 11. This year, Tamil Nadu managed to get 18 universities in the top 100 university list. MKU managed to come in the 14th position among universities in Tamil Nadu that had applied for the ranking. The Kalasalingam Academy of Research and Higher Education, Krishnankoil, - a new entrant into the top 100 list, was ranked 15th in the State and 72nd in the country. Gandhigram Rural University in Dindigul came in at the 17th place in TN and 91st nation-wide. Vice-Chancellor of MKU M. Krishnan said that although the ranking has dropped by 15 places since 2019, the scores that they have procured remain the same. “There has been a huge increase in competition over the last year and several other universities have taken part in the ranking this year,” he said. He added that the university had not been able to make progress in ensuring more diversity among the students and increasing the number of collaborations with industries nearby for furthering research and hands-on training. Other colleges in Madurai which found a place in the top 100 rankings included Thiagarajar College of Engineering was at 64 among engineering colleges; Thiagarajar College, Teppakulam (22), Lady Doak College (52) and Fatima College (74) found a place among arts and science colleges; and Thiagarajar College of Engineering was ranked 17 for architecture.
13 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Usilampatti-Theni gauge conversion in full swing||With the rock cutting work on Andipatti pass on Madurai-Theni district border reaching the final stages, gauge conversion work on Usilampatti-Theni section is progressing on a fast pace. The gauge conversion project of Madurai-Bodi section was halted for nearly 45 days during the COVID-19 lockdown and resumed in the first week of May. “Rock cutting at the pass was challenging as blasting had to be done closer to the Theni highway where vehicle movement is high,” said a railway engineer. The space along the track that is being converted from metre gauge to broad gauge required to be widened. While the space at the bottom has been increased from seven metres to 12 metres, at the top, the open space has been increased to 24 metres from the existing 16 metres. “The final touch to the slope and construction of drainage system near the pass needs to be completed,” he added. The work at the pass is part of the Usilampatti-Andipatti stretch of 21 km. Track on this stretch has been linked.  Andipatti-Theni stretch Similarly, on the Andipatti-Theni section of 17 km, earth work has been completed and track linking done for around 10 km. Load-deflection test on the newly-constructed major bridge across Vaigai river near Cunnoor has been carried out. Track-laying on the bridge would be done soon. The railway officials are waiting for eviction of encroachments along the track in Theni by revenue officials for carrying out blasting of rock. “The gradient for broad gauge section needs to be reduced and hence some rocks requires to be blasted,” the official added. While the work between Usilampatti and Andipatti should be over by September, the Andipatti-Theni stretch is expected to be completed by December. Already work on Madurai-Usilampatti section for 37 km has been completed and cleared for train operation. Train services on the Madurai-Bodi section were stopped in January 2011.
13 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Victims get compensation||Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday disposed of a petition filed by a victim of acid attack who sought a direction to the district administration to disburse compensation under Victim Compensation Scheme. The petition was filed by U. Meena of Madurai district. In 2014, she and S. Angalaeshwari, both students of a college in Tirumangalam, were attacked by one S. Sankaranarayanan who was said to be mentally unstable. Justice B. Pugalendhi disposed of the petition after the court was informed by Madurai District Legal Services Authority that Rs. 5 lakh under the scheme was handed over to her, and Rs. 4 lakh to Angalaeshwari. The trial is pending before the Madurai District Court.
13 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 112.45 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 32 cusecs and a discharge of 125 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 37.04 ft. (71 ft.), with nil inflow and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 1,525 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Friday was (in mm): Periyar dam 9.8, Thekkadi 2.2, Shanmuganathi dam 2 and Gudalur 1.7.  Tirunelveli The water level in Papanasam dam on Friday stood at 46.60 feet (permissible level is 143 feet). The dam had in inflow of 914.93 cusecs and 354.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam (permissible level is 118 feet) stood at 69.20 feet. The dam had an inflow of 54 cusecs and no water was discharged.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||SC leaves it to State to decide norms for online liquor sale||The Supreme Court has left it to the Tamil Nadu government to decide the legal modalities and guidelines for the online sale of liquor. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan and advocate Yogesh Kanna, for the State, on Friday submitted that 90% of shops were open with anti-COVID safeguards in place. A bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan gave the State three weeks’ time to file an affidavit setting out steps taken following the court’s interim order permitting sales. The court made oral remarks disagreeing with submissions that the Madras High Court should hear the issue. On May 15, the apex court ordered an interim stay of a Madras High Court order of May 8 to close liquor shops in the State with immediate effect to maintain physical distancing till the COVID-19 lockdown is lifted or modified. The State at the time vociferously argued that the High Court order was arbitrary and unreasonable. “It is the decision of the State how and what to sell... Why should the High Court get into it? Why should a person need an Aadhaar card to buy liquor? Plus, we cannot trust anybody to carry liquor. There will be riots. Tamil Nadu is not like Delhi,” Mr. Rohatgi had submitted on May 15. Mr. Srinivasan submitted that the State was enforcing and monitoring physical distancing norms. The May 8 High Court order for an open-ended ban was on the basis of petitions by parties interested in keeping the State-run liquor shops closed. On the issue of online liquor sales and home delivery, Tamil Nadu has specifically maintained that “e-payment and home delivery call for immense logistical coordination, supply-chain management, which needs time, manpower, especially in the present COVID-19 situation”. Besides, it pointed out that the Tamil Nadu Liquor (License and Permit) Rules, 1981, did not provide for online sales. The State would also have to amend the Tamil Nadu Liquor Retail Vending (In Shops and Bars) Rules of 2003. The High Court cannot dictate liquor sale policy to the government. The State issued a government order on May 5 to resume the operation of Tasmac shops from May 7.
13 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||10,000 more RT-PCR kits for U.T.||With the number of COVID-19 cases rising in the Union Territory, the Health Department has proposed to procure 10,000 more RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) testing kits to ramp up testing in all four regions, particularly in Puducherry. Minister for Health Malladi Krishna Rao told The Hindu that the government had already bought 7,000 testing kits. Along with RT-PCR supplies, the department also proposed to procure VTM (viral transport medium) kits, RBN extraction kits and RT-PCR accessories. “We will be soon placing the orders as we have to ramp up testing to arrest the spread of virus. Otherwise, we have sufficient stock of medical equipment and beds to deal with any contingency,” he added. Of the 104 ventilators ordered, the government had already received 73 of them and distributed them among COVID designated hospitals in all the four regions. The department has stocked up 7,000 PPE kits, 7,07,600 triple layer masks, 1,26,090 coverall, 2, 78,090 N-95 masks and 2, 52,180 gloves. “Of the N-95 masks ordered, we have received 53,300 so far. We will be getting the remaining masks at the earliest,” the Minister said. As far bed capacity was concerned, the Minister said the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital, which is the designated COVID-19 treatment centre for Puducherry region, alone had 750 beds.
13 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Third fatality in Puducherry||Puducherry recorded its third COVID-19 fatality with the death of an 82-year-old patient at the IGMCRI. The patient, from Mudaliarpet, had an acute cardiac condition apart from other health issues. Six new COVID-19 cases, including a 14-year-old girl in Karaikal, were reported on Friday. “The three others in the family which had returned from Chennai, have tested negative,” Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said. He attributed the increase to a combination of more relaxations, failure to comply with self protection norms, gaps in reporting details to authorities and poor patronage to Aarogya Setu app.
13 June 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Siblings end life||Two brothers allegedly ended their lives at their house at Namanasamudram in the district on Friday. The victims were aged 20 and 18 year and had been staying in their uncle’s house. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
13 June 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Man held for posting derogatory comments||A 33-year-old man, who was aspiring to become a film director, was arrested here on Friday on charges of posting derogatory posts on social media. Speaking to reporters, Superintendent of Police V. Varun Kumar said the man with fake profiles was identified as Shanmugasundaram, 33, son of Venkatachalam of West Car Street at Vickramasingapuram in Tirunelveli district. After receiving many complaints, the SP formed a team comprising Sub-Inspectors Dhebakar and Richardson and others to trace a suspect who posted derogatory comments against Periyar and other leaders, Islam and Christianity. Some of the posts also contained morphed pictures of women. It took almost a week for the technical team in the cyber wing police to zero in on the suspect. The team then tracked him closely on the social media. Analysis of his posts in Twitter, Youtube and HeloApp, which were on multiple accounts, led to clinching digital evidence, following which he was arrested, Dr Varun Kumar said. A police officer, who was monitoring the investigations said that the accused was in the habit of downloading the photographs of popular women personalities from their Twitter handle, Facebook and Instagram accounts. Later, by morphing the photos, he would post them following which he would get a number of likes and comments. Though, his ambition was to become big in the film industry, he had decided to use the social media as a platform to make illegal money, the officer said. Based on his confessions, the Ramanathapuram Bazaar police have registered cases under various sections.
13 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CM opens shutters of Mettur dam||Chief Minister Edappadi. K. Palaniswami on Friday opened the shutters of Mettur dam for kuruvai cultivation in the Cauvery delta. Talking to journalists at the dam site, Mr. Palaniswami said “3,000 cusecs [cubic feet per second] of water is being released and it would be gradually increased to 10,000 cusecs. About 125 tmc [thousand million cubic feet] of water is required for kuruvai cultivation and water would be released for 90 days. About 100 tmc of water would be released from the dam with the remaining requirement to be met through rain and groundwater in the region.” This year, the kuruvai cultivation would be taken up over 3.25 lakh acres. Mr. Palaniswami said that Rs. 67.02 crore had been allotted for the removal of silt in the delta region and 3,480 kilometres of canal would be desilted. He added that 80% of works had been completed and the remaining works would be completed by the time water reached the tail-end region of the Cauvery river network. As for kudimaramathu works, the Chief Minister said that over four years, Rs. 1,433 crore was allotted and 6,278 waterbodies were covered. According to officials, the outflow from the dam would go up to 16,000 cusecs in July and 18,000 cusecs in August, subject to the requirements of farmers. After the dam was commissioned 86 years ago, the release of water for irrigation on the customary date of June 12, took place on 16 instances in the past. Among those who were present on the occasion were Ministers P.Thangamani, V.Saroja, K.A.Sengottaiyan and K.C.Karuppanan.
13 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CM releases water from Mettur dam||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday raised the shutters of Mettur Dam to release water for Kuruvai cultivation on 3.25 lakh acres in the delta region. Mr. Palaniswami told presspersons that 3,000 cusecs of water was being released and it would be gradually increased to 10,000 cusecs by night. Water would be released for 90 days. Though 128 tmc was required for Kuruvai cultivation, about 100 tmc would be released from the dam and the remaining requirement would be met through rain and groundwater in the region, he said. Mr. Palaniswami said Rs. 67.02 crore had been allocated for desilting works in delta region and 3,480 km of canals would be desilted. He said that 80% of works had been completed and the remaining would be completed by the time water reached the tail end. Seven IAS officers and 48 engineers had been tasked with overseeing this. The works for the Rs. 565-crore Mettur Surplus Water Scheme would be completed by the end of January next year, he said. On the National Highways Authority of India moving the Supreme Court for early hearing in the green corridor case, Mr. Palaniswami said roads could be constructed only by acquiring lands. It was purely a Central government project and the State government was only assisting it. . On reopening schools, Mr. Palaniswami said that a decision would be taken once the spread of COVID-19 was brought under control. Ministers P. Thangamani, V. Saroja, K.A. Sengottaiyan and K.C. Karuppanan were present.
13 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CM orders job for jawan’s kin||Chief Minister Edappadi.K. Palaniswami on Friday met the family of martyred jawan P. Mathialagan and asked the District Collector to provide his wife a job on compassionate grounds. Mathialagan, a Havildar, was killed in a ceasefire violation along the India-Pakistan border at Aknoor sector in Jammu and Kashmir on June 4. Mathialagan’s wife Tamilarasi, their children and his parents met Mr. Palaniswami at Edappadi here. Considering a petition from Ms. Tamilarasi for a government job, Mr. Palaniswami ordered efforts in this regard.
13 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Ramalingam meets CM||Former Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MP K.P. Ramalingam called on Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami at his residence at Edappadi here on Friday night. On behalf of his Iyarkai Neervala Pathukapu Iyakam, Mr. Ramalingam submitted a petition to the Chief Minister, seeking the continuance of free electricity for farmers. Later, Mr. Ramalingam told presspersons that the meeting was not political and only agricultural issues and COVID-19 relief measures were discussed. He accused the DMK of not using party funds, but collecting money from business establishments for distribution of relief materials under the “Ondrinaivom Va” programme.
13 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CM: people who spread rumours will face action||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday said that false news was being spread about the government planning to intensify lockdown measures to contain the spread of COVID-19, and warned that stern action would be taken against persons spreading such rumours. Talking to mediapersons after raising the shutters of the Mettur dam, Mr. Palaniswami said, “False news is being spread under my name on social media about the government planning stricter lockdown measures. The government has no such plans. Stern legal action wil be taken against those spreading such rumours. The government has not issued any such order.” On charges of several private schools collecting fees despite government orders, he said stern action would be taken against such institutions if complaints are made.
13 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CM orders job for wife of martyred jawan||Chief Minister Edappadi.K. Palaniswami on Friday met the kin of martyred jawan P. Mathialagan and ordered the district Collector to offer her job on compassionate grounds. Mathialagan, an Havildhar with the Indian Army, was killed in action at Aknoor sector in Jammu and Kashmir along the Pakistan border on June 4 and his funeral was held in his native village on June 6. Mathialagan’s wife Tamilarasi, their children and Mathialagan’s parents met the CM at the Traveller’s bungalow in Edappadi and Chief Minister condoled the jawan’s his death. Considering a petition for government job by Tamilarasi, Mr. Palaniswami advised the Collector to take necessary action.
13 June 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Waterbody retrieved after 3 decades||A casual enquiry during a routine inspection at a village by Sivakasi Sub-Collector C. Dinesh Kumar, a few months back and subsequent follow up action has now helped retrieve 82 cents of Government land near Srivilliputtur. When Mr. Dinesh Kumar inspected Athikulam Sengulam village in Srivilliputtur Taluk, he saw a layout of residential plots. Though a village register showed that it was an oorani, he was told that the layout was on a patta land. However, when he checked the village map and updated register A, it revealed that the 82 cents of land was very much a waterbody. The Sub-Collector summoned the present land owner and verified his documents that revealed that the land had been illegally given patta in 1990. Subsequently, it was bought by the present owner, who had filled up the waterbody and made a layout. “Legal proceedings were initiated and the patta has been cancelled. The Government has taken over the land,” Mr. Dinesh Kumar said. Stating that the local people have come forward to restore the waterbody on the site, he said the work on digging the oorani started on Friday. “We have planned to strengthen the bunds and provide a walkers path around the oorani. Neem, palm and marudu trees would be planted to make the area more useful for the local people,” the Sub-Collector said. The inspection helped in retrieval of a land that has a market value of around Rs. 3 crore.
13 June 2020||SIVAKASI,TAMIL NADU||Small units churn out crackers but no takers||With no takers for crackers, small fireworks units that functioned for over 35 days after a 43-day COVID-19 lockdown is staring at closure. The owners say they are struggling to pay their workers as there are no buyers for the huge stocks of finished goods. “Traders across the country are not sure whether there will be any business for crackers this year. So they are not placing orders. There are not even enquiries,” said V. Arun, of Virudhunagar District Small Fireworks Manufacturers’ Association. Fireworks not being an essential commodity, traders are wary of investing in it, he said. G. Vinayakamoorthy of Meenampatti Fireworks Manufacturers’ Association says that with the lockdown continuing and no public transport available, traders from North India have stayed away. With only four more months remaining for Deepavali, by now advance booking for fireworks should have been going on in full swing. “Neither traders have come nor their orders,” he added. Both the manufacturers run small units, licensed by District Revenue Officer, that employ a maximum of 20 workers each. “Only 20% to 25% stocks have been cleared, that too because the traders had made advance payments before the lockdown,” said Mr. Arun. The traders have moved their stocks from fireworks units to licensed godowns only to safeguard their investment, he added. Mr. Vinayagamoorthy complained that the few enquiries he received were turning out to be economically unviable. “The traders are insisting on rates which are lesser than the production cost of the crackers,” he said. The small manufacturers complain that their capital, including the borrowings, were fast eroding and they cannot sustain production for more than two to three weeks.
13 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Delta farmers elated over water release||Releasing of water from the Stanley Reservoir, Mettur for irrigation in the Cauvery delta region on Friday, the scheduled date of June 12, has elated farmers who have prepared their fields for taking up `kuruvai’ cultivation this season with confidence. Welcoming the release of water from Mettur on the scheduled date of opening of the dam after nearly eight years, 60-year-old R.Sukumaran, State vice-president, Thamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangangalin Kootiyakkam said that this was the fifth time in his life he had witnessed lifting of shutters of the Stanley Reservoir on the scheduled date of June 12. Since a majority of irrigation channels and canals have been desilted last year and in the current year and in view of the sufficient storage at the Mettur Dam the Public Works Department should not adopt turn-system in releasing of water into the irrigation channel network in Delta region this time, he said. Pleased with reopening of the Stanley Reservoir on the scheduled date, the president, Nasuvini Riverbed Farmers Welfare Association, V.Veerasenan has called upon the State government not to release water into the East and West Mettur Canal in Salem district simultaneously. Pointing out that when the Mettur Canal project was completed in 1956 it was decided that water from Mettur Dam would be released into these two canals (East and West Mettur Canals) on August 1 to ensure that water for irrigation to the Delta region was made available at the Grand Anaicut, Mr.Veerasenan regretted that this practice was not adhered to by the PWD in the recent past. Water was released into these two canals in 2017 when the shutters of Stanley Reservoir was not lifted to release water for irrigation to the Delta districts. Further, inflow into these canals was ensured even beyond December, the month in which water release into these two canals should be stopped, during the last few years, he said. Hence he called upon the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, Edappadi K.Palaniswami to ensure that the rights of Delta farmers over the Cauvery river was not disturbed at a time when they were gearing up to take up ‘kuruvai’ cultivation with confidence after nearly 8 years. Meanwhile, the Thanjavur Collector who decides the date on which water from the Grand Anaicut to be released into Cauvery and Vennar rivers and the Grand Anaicut canal for irrigating the Delta districts has indicated that the shutters of Grand Anaicut were likely to be lifted on June 16 depending on the arrival of the Mettur water here.
13 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Plea to Govt.||The Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam (affiliated to CPI-M) State Secretary, Sami.Natarajan, has urged the governments not to insist on production of Kisan Credit Cards (KCC) for crop loans. In a statement issued here on Friday, Mr.Natajan has said that opening of Mettur dam for irrigation on the scheduled date of June 12 has infused confidence among the Delta farmers.
13 June 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Aged patient recovers||When relatives of 64-year-old Aayiraththammal of Mela Thaattappaarai near here was brought her to Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital on May 18 after she swooned in her house, her pulse rate was erratic. The woman, who already had suffered a paralytic stroke, could not breathe properly. Based on the symptoms, the doctors, even while stabilising her, screened her for COVID-19 and their worst fears got confirmed as she tested positive. “Mrs. Aayiraththammal was discharged on Friday after completely recovering from the viral infection,” said Dean Revathi Balan. Twenty-one others were also discharged on Friday after they tested negative. “Recuperation of aged COVID – 19 patients having heart ailments or neural complications is really a challenge for us. However, our team of doctors have successfully treated a 64-year-old woman having all these health issues and saved her,” said Silas Jayamani, Resident Medical Officer. Like Mrs. Aayiraththammal, one Mariammal from Vilaaththikulam was also admitted to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital a fortnight ago with severe breathing problems owing to the viral infection. She was also discharged on Friday.
13 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||40 more test positive in central region||Forty more persons tested positive for COVID 19 in the central region on Friday. The maximum of eight cases was recorded in Nagapattinam district, followed by seven each in Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts, six each in Pudukottai and Tiruvarur districts, four in Ariyalur district and one each in Karur and Perambalur districts. A three-year-old child and its 29-year-old mother from Sembanarkovil were among the eight new cases reported in Nagapattinam district on Friday. A chunk of the new cases from Nagapattinam, Ariyalur and Pudukottai districts constitute returnees from Chennai and northern districts, who are returning to their native villages after restoration of transport services, official sources said. In Nagapattinam district, committees have been formed at the village level for updating the district administration about the people coming in from Chennai and other places. Officials have stepped up testing of people at the check posts. In Pudukkottai district, there are now 29 active COVID 19 patients with the addition of six new cases. Two among the new cases are Chennai returnees. Likewise, of the four new cases in Ariyalur district, three had returned from Tiruvallur and one from Chennai. The seven new cases in Tiruchi district has taken the total number of active COVID 19 positive patients to 37. Nine persons were discharged on Friday after successful treatment at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. In Tiruvarur district, the total number of COVID-19 positive cases recorded so far crossed 100 on Friday with the inclusion of the six new cases, taking the tally to 105. In Thanjavur district, the seven new COVID 19 positive cases took the total number of affected persons so far past the 140 mark.  Singaporeans go back  A group of 60 Singapore nationals who were stranded in the State due to lockdown left by an Air India Express flight from here on Friday. The flight took off in the afternoon, said airport sources.
13 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Allotment of shops to traders at Kallikudi market cancelled||Allotment of 288 shops to traders at the Central Market for Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers at Kallikudi on the outskirts of the city has been revoked by the District Market Committee functioning under the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business. The shops were allotted to the traders in 2018 for 11 months and the agreements have to be renewed after that. “The allotment orders have been cancelled as the allotees had failed to function from the market and renew the agreements. Some had also defaulted on payment of rent and notices were already issued to them,” sources in the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business told The Hindu . The market, situated about 12 km away from the city off the Tiruchi-Madurai National Highway, has been at a centre of a row ever since it was opened in September 2017. For, wholesale traders of the Gandhi Market in Tiruchi, for whom it was meant for, refused to shift to the market on the grounds that it was too far away from the city and did not suit their requirements. The market, established on 9.79 acres with 830 shops, was conceived and executed when the late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa represented the Srirangam Assembly constituency, in the wake of persistent demand for shifting the wholesale section of Gandhi Market to a more spacious location. It was built at a cost of Rs. 77 crore with financial assistance from National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development. As the small size of the shops was cited as one of the shortcomings by the traders, the district administration modified the shops on the ground floor to make them bigger by removing walls in between so that the wholesale traders could be given shops of the size of 10x20 feet each. Subsequently, applications were called for allotment of shops and a committee was constituted to scrutinise over 1,600 applications received from Gandhi Market traders. After the process, 288 shops were allotted and the market was declared functional on July 1 2018. However, hardly a handful of traders moved in and they too wound up operations after a few days. Ever since, the market has been lying in disuse. Earlier this year, the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business announced that 207 shops in the complex would be allotted to farmers’ producers organisations. Recently, Tiruchi District Manidha Valar Sangam filed a petition before the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court seeking an injunction against the opening of the Gandhi Market (which has been closed in view of the COVID 19 pandemic) and a direction to wholesale traders to function at the Kallikudi Market.
13 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Two more trains start operation from Tiruchi||The Tiruchi Railway Division began operating two special trains from Tiruchi to Chengalpattu and back on Friday with one being run on the chord line and another on the mainline section. The Tiruchi - Chengalpattu super fast intercity special (Train No. 02606) was operated on the chord line via Ariyalur, while the other special (Train No. 06796) to Chengalpattu went on the mainline section via Thanjavur, Kumbakonam and Mayiladuthurai. Both were operated in the morning.  The first special train to originate from Tiruchi Junction during the current lockdown period was the one that is being run up to Nagercoil from June 1. The sources said the Railway Protection Force deployed its escort team in both trains operated to Chengalpattu and back. A team of four RPF personnel each were sent as escort in both trains from here to Chengalpattu. Both trains were operated with only reserved coaches.
13 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Employee unions conducting strike ballot||Employee unions in Ordnance Factory Tiruchi and Heavy Alloy Penetrator Project have initiated the process of conducting a strike ballot later this week to decide on whether to go on an indefinite strike to oppose “the move by the Central Government to corporatise” Ordnance Factory Board that administers the various defence units across the country. Calling for withdrawal of the decision for “corporatisation,” the All India Defence Employees Federation, Indian National Defence Workers' Federation, Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh, and Confederation of Defence Recognised Associations (CDRA) had conveyed to the High Level Official Committee earlier this month that the 82,000 defence civilian employees employed in ordnance factories across the country will be able to achieve the production target of Rs. 30,000 crore in the next five years in the present set up as a government department. "Employee unions have started the process of strike ballot for indefinite strike against corporatisation of ordnance factories,” General Secretary of AIDEF C. Srikumar said. The federations had, while opposing corporatisation, suggested that the structure of the OFB could rather be made similar to that of Railway Board, ISRO or Department or Atomic Energy. The federations had decided to go ahead with the indefinite strike as the Central Government had, while giving an assurance to safeguard benefits and interests of employees in terms of wages, salary, retirement benefits, health facilities and other service matters, will go ahead with converting OFB into one or more corporations. The stand of the CDRA is that the self-reliance/indigenisation of OFB at about 90 percent was exemplary when compared to other DPSUs. “Unlike other entities in defence sector, the ordnance factories have exported worth Rs. 264 crore during 2018-19. As per the CAG report, OFB had already achieved cost production of Rs. 20,037crore in 2016-17, but due to the order to foreign and private sectors, it reduced to Rs. 14,000 crore in 2018-19. Through modernisation and Research and Development, ordnance factories can achieve Rs. 30,000 crore by 2024-25 as expected by the government,” B. B. Mohanty, General Secretary, CDRA, and B.K. Singh, its president, said.
13 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Rail coaches being disinfected||Amid rise in the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, rail coaches sent for periodic overhaul to the Golden Rock Railway Workshop here which is working with full strength were being fully disinfected before being taken up for overhauling. The move has been put in place as a precautionary measure keeping in mind the safety of the large workforce at the workshop which commenced to function with 100% of its total strength from June 2 onwards. Barring coaches from Chennai division, the over 80-year-old workshop has been receiving broad gauge coaches for periodic overhaul from Tiruchi, Madurai, Salem and Thiruvananthapuram railway divisions. The authorities say three coaches were being dispatched daily after periodic overhauling barring Saturdays when two coaches were being dispatched. Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram said periodic review of precautionary measures put in place at the workshop in the wake of spread of COVID-19 pandemic was being carried out.
13 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rumours of air crash keep officials on toes||Rumours of a flight crash in Pudukottai district and purported video clips of burning debris, shared widely on mobile messaging platforms, kept the district authorities, including Revenue, police, intelligence agencies and fire fighters, on their toes on Friday. The rumours had it that a helicopter had crashed near Peyadikottai village in Avudaiyarkoil taluk in the morning. Scores of villagers in the vicinity thronged the “crash site” - a ‘kanmoi’ (a waterbody) at Mela Vasanthanur where some babul trees had caught fire. The villagers, it was said, had heard a loud sound. Photographs of a “damaged chopper” with the debris scattered all over the site were widely circulated in the social media. Fire tenders from coastal Jagadapattinam village and Avudaiyarkoil were rushed to the spot. A Fire and Rescue Services Department official said an intense search was carried out not only at the spot but also in a radius of five to six km to check for any aircraft debris. However, nothing was found. Collector P. Uma Maheswari put an end to the rumours stating that the information about a flight crash was false and warned of stern action against those spreading such false messages.
13 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Lorry driver's murder triggers tension at Perugamani||A lorry driver was murdered at Perugamani near Tiruchi on Thursday which triggered tension. A hotel run by one of the suspects behind the killing at Perugamani was ransacked following the killing of Dharmaraj (28) of Mela Nangavaram in Karur district. Police said Dharmaraj was attacked by a gang killing him on the spot. The Perugamani Police are conducting inquiries with a few suspects. The sources said Dharmaraj had a wordy quarrel with one Saravanan on Wednesday night over lending of spares for the latter’s car.
13 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Probe ordered into bribe demand by ‘prison official’||A telephonic conversation, in which a person introducing himself as the senior officer of Sankarankovil sub-jail demanding bribe from another person for ensuring undue facilities for an inmate, has shocked the prison authorities here. The manager of a firecracker unit near Rajapalayam was arrested and remanded in judicial custody following a blast in the factory. When he was lodged in the sub-jail, a prison official had spoken to the manager of the unit’s Kovilpatti branch demanding bribe for ensuring some facilities in the jail for his colleague. The telephonic conversation is doing the rounds on social media. “Since I’m the superior officer in the sub-jail, you should have met me personally. You need not give money to him (his subordinate) hereafter. Though you have given Rs. 14,000 to him, he has not even served him a cup of tea. When you meet him next time, enquire him about the facilities he extended to your colleague. So meet me personally and take care of my needs,” the prison ‘official’ says. Palayamkottai Central Prison Superintendent Krishnakumar said an inquiry had been ordered into this.
13 June 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||200 bottles of soft drinks, biscuit packets destroyed||Officials seized and destroyed 200 bottles of soft drinks and biscuit packets which had crossed the expiry date on Friday. A team of officials led by Food Safety Officer A. R. Sankaralingam conducted a check at more than 10 shops in Palayamkottai and seized 200 soft drink bottles and biscuit packets that had crossed the expiry date. Mr. Sankaralingam said the raids were being conducted as business establishments had reopened after 70 days. “The shopkeepers should destroy the products if the date of expiry had lapsed. If not, these should have been kept separately with the label ‘Not For Sale’,” said Designated Officer M. Jagadish Chandrabose.
13 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two held for boy’s murder||The Tiruppur District Police arrested two persons, including a minor girl, on charges of murdering an eight-year-old boy near Uthukuli here on Friday. According to the police, Thangaraj of Sottagoundanpalayam near Uthukuli filed a complaint at Uthukuli police station on Thursday that his son T. Bhavanesh was missing. The boy was playing near his residence and was missing since Thursday afternoon. On Friday, a villager found the boy’s body with multiple injuries near a burial ground at Puthur Pallapalayam, nearly a km away from his residence. Police personnel led by Uthukuli Police Inspector A. Thavamani visited the spot and recovered the body. Tiruppur District Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal visited the spot where the body was found. Ms. Mittal said that according to preliminary investigations, the boy saw Ajithkumar (21) and a 17-year-old girl together on Thursday and allegedly threatened them that he would inform the elders about it. Enraged, the duo allegedly abducted the child and murdered him using a broken glass bottle. Ms. Mittal said that the boy’s grandparents, who came back from work, found the boy missing and informed his parents. After post-mortem at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, the boy’s body was handed over to the family on Friday.
13 June 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||One-fourth of tank desilting works completed: Minister||One-fourth of the 482 tanks in rural areas in Tiruvarur district taken up for desilting under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme have been desilted, according to Food Minister R. Kamaraj. Disclosing this to reporters at Uthukadu in Vallangaiman taluk on Thursday, the Minister said that the District Rural Development Agency has identified 482 tanks in the villages for desilting under the MGNREGS along with desilting of small irrigation channels and canals. A total of 2,359 kilometres of irrigation channels and canals identified for manual desilting and out of this 1,559 kilometres and 115 tanks in rural pockets have been completed as on Wednesday. As far as the works taken up under the Chief Ministers’ Special Desilting Scheme, it was decided to desilt 1,244 kilometres of waterways in the district this year and out of this 910 kilometres have been cleared of wild growth and bunds strengthened. Remaining kilometres would be covered within five or six days so that the waterways would be ready to receive the water to be released for irrigation from the Stanley Reservoir, Mettur, on Friday, the Minister added.
13 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Two Chennai returnees test positive in the Nilgiris||A woman and a man, who returned to the Nilgiris from Chennai recently, have tested positive for COVID-19, Nilgiris District Collector, J. Innocent Divya has confirmed. The 28-year-old woman from Sholur Mattam in Kil Kotagiri and the 52-year-old man from Bikkatty near Manjoor have been taken to the ESI hospital in Coimbatore for treatment. “Contact tracing is on, and samples of 20 primary contacts of the two persons have been lifted,” said the Collector. The man had visited a TASMAC shop and a barber shop after he returned to the Nilgiris. According to officials, the two will be added to the list of people who tested positive for COVID-19 in Chennai, as they had contracted the SARS-CoV-2 virus while they were in Chennai, and returned to the district only recently. While the woman is said to have travelled to the Nilgiris after obtaining the mandatory permission, the man is said to have hitch-hiked on vegetable trucks and used public transport to get home. Therefore, efforts are on to trace the people whom he had come into contact with during his journey. The number of persons from the Nilgiris who had tested positive so far is 14. These cases apart, five persons who returned to the district from Chennai over the last few weeks also tested positive. Four of them have recovered. The latest two take the Chennai-return positive cases tally to seven in the district. Two cases in Namakkal Two men, who returned to Namakkal from Chennai, have tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. The 36-year-old man from Mallasamudram and 45-year-old man from Namakkal were admitted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital in Salem, Health officials said.
13 June 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||No treasury for Vembakottai taluk even after four years||More than four years have passed ever since Vembakottai taluk was carved out in Virudhunagar district. Though the district administration was quick enough to provide a new building for the taluk office, the benefit of a newer taluk closer home has not been fully realised by the people and officials. For, no treasury office and bank for payment of fees through challan have not been set up. “People who want to pay fees for getting birth and death certificates have to go all the way to the treasury office and bank in 15-km away Sivakasi,” said K.V.K. Raj, president, Guganparai panchayat. Same is the case for payment of fees to the State government account for land survey. Even revenue and rural development officials have to go there to prepare and pay bills. “Land revenue collected from people is paid only through the Sivakasi treasury at the State Bank of India branch there,” an official said. This is despite the new taluk office having space for housing the sub-treasury. An official said treasury offices had not been allotted for new taluks as the State government is moving towards e-payment. However, a new branch of State Bank of India, which handles government bank accounts, will help the people a lot. They can also make use of e-service centres, the official said.
13 June 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Eight children rescued from industrial unit||In a surprise inspection by officials on the occasion of World Day Against Child Labour, four minor children and four adolescent children employed in an industrial unit at Avudaiyapuram were rescued. Legal proceedings have been initiated against the owner of the unit. Meanwhile, Collector R. Kannan flagged off a propaganda van to create awareness of the need to abolish child labour. He said parents, teachers and everybody in the society had the duty to fulfil the needs of children and help them utilise best opportunities for their growth. Children should be enrolled in school so that along with education they could cultivate good habits which would shape their character. District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian was present.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||No plan for complete lockdown in parts of Chennai, govt. tells HC||He said that e-passes were issued only by Collectors of destinations to which residents of Chennai wished to travel. Those Collectors had to issue e-passes after taking into consideration various circumstances, including the need to quarantine visitors after letting them into their districts, he told the bench. The AAG said that the intensity of the virus had changed and many asymptomatic people were testing positive for the disease. The government was working hard to contain its spread and the success of those efforts would depend on the cooperation of the people, he said. Appreciating the efforts taken by the government, Justice Kumar said: “We see that the government is taking good steps. Even Ministers are on the streets, but you will have to be very careful because Chennai is continuing to be a hotspot.” Meanwhile, advocate V. Vasanthakumar urged the court to take up a case filed by him seeking complete lockdown in the city. Since the case papers were not before them, the judges posted the matter to Monday, subject to the roster to be decided by Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi. The judges clarified that they only wanted to know, in public interest, whether the government had plans to impose a complete lockdown in Chennai.  Even Ministers are on the streets, but you have to be careful because Chennai continues to be a hotspot Justice R. Suresh Kumar
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||New special trains see meagre occupancy||The new passenger special trains between Coimbatore and Arakkonam saw meagre occupancy on its inaugural run on Friday. Train No. 02676 Coimbatore – Arakkonam Intercity Superfast Special train had occupancy of only around 6%, while Train No. 02675 Arakkonam – Coimbatore train saw around 20% occupancy, according to sources in the Salem Division of Southern Railway. Only around 58 passengers boarded Train No. 02676 at Coimbatore Junction, which left at 3.15 p.m. Train No. 02675, which arrived at Coimbatore Junction from Arakkonam Junction at 2.05 p.m., ferried only around 140 passengers, the sources said. As the train services were announced only three days ago on June 9, the short period might have caused the low occupancy, sources said, adding that the number of passengers might increase for the daily train service in the coming days. This is the third passenger special train service from Coimbatore Junction. Operation of Train No. 02083 Coimbatore –Mayiladuturai Jan Shatabdi special train and Train No. 02680 Coimbatore- Katpadi Intercity Superfast Special train began on June 1. The swab samples of all passengers coming to Coimbatore from Arakkonam and Katpadi are being lifted by Health Department staff at Coimbatore Railway Station.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Constable injured in accident||A police constable attached to Chettipalayam police station was injured after a speeding two-wheeler ran over him on Pollachi – Coimbatore Main Road on Thursday. Police said that constable Vijay Amirtharaj, 25, who was at Othakalmandapam requested B. Anandhalingam, a bike rider to drop him at the main road. On reaching the location, the constable got off from the motorcycle when a speeding two-wheeler hit him from behind. Mr. Amirtharaj suffered injuries on his head and jaw while the accused, Mohammed Ibrahim (43) from Udumalpet, Tiruppur district, also suffered head injuries. The constable and the accused were admitted to private hospitals at Singanallur and Sundarapuram respectively, according to the police. Based on Mr. Anandhalingam’s complaint, Chettipalayam police registered a case. The accused will be arrested after discharge. Man takes snake to hospital A 28-year-old man took a snake to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Thursday. Hospital sources said Mukesh was bit by an Indian cobra at Sulthanpet on Thursday. He took the reptile to CMCH in a bag to show it to the doctors. The snake escaped from the bag as he opened it, following which the hospital staff killed the snake. He is undergoing treatment at CMCH.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||19 migrant workers sent to Jharkhand from Tiruppur||The Tiruppur City Police and the district administration on Wednesday rescued and sent home 19 women migrant workers, who were allegedly not allowed to leave for their hometowns by the garment company in Thirumuruganpoondi. Police sources said that the workers from Jharkhand had expressed their wish to return to their hometowns at the earliest. However, the garment company in which they were employed allegedly did not allow them and asked them to wait for Shramik special train from Tiruppur Junction to Jharkhand. Following this, one of the workers contacted an official in Jharkhand, who in turn inquired about the situation with the district administration. On Wednesday, Pudupalayam Village Administrative Officer Senthilkumar filed a complaint with the Thirumuruganpoondi police, following which the police visited the company and rescued the women. All of them were above 18 years of age, according to the police sources. The district administration arranged a private bus for them to and the migrant workers left from Tiruppur on Wednesday night. HR manager booked Thirumuruganpoondi police booked the garment company’s Human Resources Manager under Section 342 (Punishment for wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code and further investigations are on.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Repatriation flight lands with 181 Indians from Singapore||As many as 181 Indians landed at the Coimbatore International Airport here on a repatriation flight from Singapore on Friday. The passengers arrived on an Air India Express flight (IX 1681) around 10.10 p.m., airport sources said. The passengers include 103 men, 72 women, two boys and four infants. The swab samples of all the 181 passengers were collected on arrival for COVID-19 test. Three more flights Three more repatriation flights are scheduled to land in Coimbatore on June 13, 14 and 23 with Indians from Muscat, Singapore and Doha respectively, according to the airport sources.
13 June 2020||BALLARI,KARNATAKA||There are no symptoms in 87% of active cases, says Minister Sudhakar||A majority of patients with Influenza Like Illness (ILI) tested positive for coronavirus in the State, according to Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar. Speaking to presspersons in Ballari on Friday, Dr. Sudhakar said that 87 % of patients who tested for COVID-19 did not have any symptoms for the virus. He said that health officials along with district authorities have formed a committee to track persons with ILI and also appealed to those aged above 60 to visit fever clinics established in their respective districts and get tested voluntarily. There are more than 3,000 active cases in the State, of which 87 % do not have any symptoms for the virus, he added. As per research experts, the State may witness a spurt in positive cases by August, Dr. Sudhakar said and added that the State government is prepared for all eventualities. Environment and Forest Minister Anand Singh, Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul and Director of Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Science Devanand were present.  Poor planning in VIMS Meanwhile, Dr. Sudhakar expressed unhappiness over the poor planning in Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) in implementing the Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka Scheme. Chairing a meeting to review the progress of various schemes at VIMS here on Friday, Dr. Sudhakar said that doctors at VIMS had neglected in implementing the Centre’s ambitious scheme. The VIMS, with a capacity to handle 2,500 out-patients and 1,000 in-patients every day, had claimed only Rs. 49 crore a year under Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka Scheme. Citing an example of a private hospital in Mangaluru, Dr. Sudhakar explained that the hospital with a capacity to handle 1,200 out-patients and 600 in-patients has given benefits worth Rs. 46 crore to patients in a year. The government scheme should benefit poor patients and the VIMS should at least claim Rs. 100 crore under the Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka Scheme next year to be spent on poor patients, he added. Replying to a question, Dr. Sudhakar stated that once the court quashes a stay order, all vacant posts at VIMS would be filled.  Trauma care centre The Minister said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will inaugurate the newly established Trauma Care Centre on July 15. The trauma care centre has been established at a cost of Rs. 150 crore, Dr. Sudhakar added. Director for Medical Education Girish has been asked to complete all works related to procurement of drugs and medical equipment at the earliest.
13 June 2020||BALLARI,KARNATAKA||Jindal puts 10,751 people in quarantine||As many as 10,751 people, including employees of Jindal Steel Works (JSW) and their families, have been quarantined after the Torangallu-based Jindal plant and its township reported cases of COVID-19. As per directions from Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul, the Jindal plant has decided to quarantine around 10,751 people for the next four days. As many as 4,262 employees of the Jindal plant residing in Torangallu and surrounding villages, and 3,207 workers from Jindal township locality will be in home quarantine. As many as 1,793 employees from Ballari taluk, 989 employees from Hosapete taluk, and 503 workers from Sandur taluk will also be in home quarantine till June 16. The management has decided to allow only one-third of the workforce at the plant for the next week. Following the COVID-19 cases, the management has turned a 100-bed hospital into a COVID-19 hospital.
13 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||62 discharged in Belagavi district||As many as 62 patients walked out of the district designated COVID-19 hospital in Belagavi on Friday. This is the highest number of patients discharged in one day in the district. This takes the total number of discharged patients to 219, leaving behind only 85 active cases in the district. One person who returned from Maharashtra tested positive on Friday, taking the total number of positive persons to 304. Only one person with co-morbidities has died. Officials said that the results of 316 samples were awaited. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli has ordered an inquiry into the veracity of some video clips that are being shared widely on social media handles, where inmates of the DDCH complain about lack of facilities. In one clip, some are heard complaining that only internees and junior doctors were attending on them and not senior doctors or specialists. They are also complaining that they had been kept for more than a fortnight while others were being released in a week. They are saying that they had not been informed of their test results even after a week of their throat swabs were collected . In another clip, others are complaining about the quality of food and the presence of worms and cockroach in rice served. In the third one, one person is seen getting into an argument with a doctor and using abusive language against her. Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences Director Vinay Dastikoppa, said that as per the standard operating protocol, only those patients were being released whose results had returned negative.
13 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Health Dept. team attacked||A local politician and his henchmen are said to have attacked a team of health personnel who came to collect throat swabs in Maranol village in Belagavi district on Friday. One of the attackers tore an officer’s shirt collar and another one snatched another officer’s mobile phone. To avoid escalation, the team returned to the primary health centre and called the police. The police inspector and the tahsildar rushed to the spot and spoke to the villagers. The village residents agreed to provide throat swabs to the para medical staff, later.
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bed occupancy jumps from 2% to 13.1%||With the number of COVID-19 cases in Karnataka going up, the State’s bed occupancy, which was at less than 2% till May 8, had shot up to 13.1% as on Friday. From 565 cases on April 30, the number of positive cases in Karnataka rose to 3,221 by May 31 — an almost six-fold increase. And this number doubled in the first 10 days of June. The number of cases rose from 589 on May 1 to 1,056 on May 15, before shooting up to 3,221 by May 31 and 6,516 as on June 12. This was mainly because of the influx of returnees from other States. The number of cases started mounting oncethe State eased lockdown restrictions on May 18. At least 12 districts, including Bengaluru Urban, have reported more than 200 cases during this period. Moreover, cases in nearly 14 districts have had a doubling rate faster than the State average of 10 days. Given the surge in cases, bed occupancy in the State has increased significantly in the past four weeks. It was just 2% of the nearly 14,000 beds reserved for COVID-19 patients on May 8, with only 280 patients requiring hospitalisation then. Now, with 2,995 active cases, the bed occupancy has shot up to 13.1% of 21,728 COVID-19 beds. According to data from the State COVID-19 war room, Karnataka has 84,776 beds in its districts, of which 21,728 have been reserved for COVID-19. A total of 19,639 beds are available in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts. And of these, 3,470 are reserved for COVID-19 in the two districts. More than 86% of the 21,728 beds are isolation beds — 6,695 with oxygen facilities, 2,105 ICU beds, and 1,000 with ventilators. The highest bed occupancy — 46.3% — is in Yadgir, while Chamarajanagar and Ramanagaram account for the lowest, with 0.5% and 2%, respectively. Availability spread Of the 21,728 beds, 10,259 are in public facilities while 4,795 are in dedicated COVID-19 treatment centres. Only 3,820 beds are in private hospitals. There is no break-up provided for the remaining 2,854 beds. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said that with experts warning that the State would witness its peak in terms of COVID-19 cases in July, Karnataka has been ramping up facilities. “We already have nearly 90,000 beds in all hospitals put together. Although there was an estimation that Karnataka would record nearly 80,000 [cases] by April-end, nothing like that happened. We are gearing up to handle a rush of patients if the projection made by experts comes true,” he said. However, sources said that now, with district hospitals being opened up for non-COVID-19 treatment, the number of COVID-19 beds in district hospitals would reduce. “There should be active participation of private hospitals, especially in rural areas, to ensure that we do not face a situation similar to Delhi and Mumbai,” a source said.
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man who issued fake possession certificates for BDA sites held||Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) officials have unearthed a fraud where people in northern parts of Karnataka were allegedly duped by a man, who, posing to be a farmers’ leader, issued fake possession certificates of BDA sites to them for crores of rupees. The accused, identified as Vijayanandaswamy, claimed he was the State president of the Uttara Karnataka Pradesh Raitha Sangha, a registered association with office in Chamarajpet. Along with his associate, Ramesh, he collected membership fees of Rs. 15,000 each from around 1,000 people, promising that they will be given BDA sites in Nadaprabhu Kempegowda Layout at concessional rates. According to BDA officials, after collecting membership fees, he issued fake possession certificates with BDA seals and forged the signature of the Commissioner. A press release from the BDA stated that Vijayanandaswamy had issued fake certificates to 50 people and charged them anywhere between Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 3 lakh. How it came to light The fraud came to light after one of the ‘beneficiaries’ approached a deputy secretary to check the authenticity of the certificates he received from Vijayanandaswamy. The man had paid Rs. 3 lakh to the accused and received ‘certificates’ for six sites. The official, on realising that something was amiss, alerted BDA Commissioner H.R. Mahadev, who in turn directed the Superintendent of Police (BDA) to carry out an inquiry. After probing the scam, BDA officials raided Vijayanandaswamy’s office at Chamarajpet and seized fake allotment certificates, rubber stamps and other documents. A case has been registered against the accused at Seshadripuram police station. While Vijayanandaswamy has been arrested, Ramesh is on the run. During the investigation, the accused allegedly confessed that he had plans to dupe 3,000 people. Superintendent of Police of the BDA Shivakumar Gunare told The Hindu , “The accused is originally from Koppal. People had paid him assuming that they would get a BDA site. During the interrogation, we learnt that he had set a deadline for many people to pay Rs. 1 lakh by May 14 to get the certificates. He was planning to issue more fake certificates but the fraud came to light and he was arrested.” The BDA Commissioner has asked people who have been duped in this scam to approach the Seshadripuram police to register complaints.
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Parotas placed in 18% GST bracket||As per a recent Authority for Advance Rulings (Karnataka Bench) notification, parotas will attract 18 per cent GST, even as its siblings rotis, naans, kulchas and khakhras are under 5 per cent bracket. Bengaluru-based iD Fresh Food, which sells on an average 8.5 parotas a day or parotas worth over Rs. 100 crore across the country in a year, is readying to go for an appeal questioning the rationale behind bringing parotas under a higher GST category. P.C. Musthafa, founder and CEO of iD Fresh Food, said, “We are of the understanding that all our products come under 5 per cent GST. As per Karnataka VAT authority notification, our products also come under 5 per cent VAT. Our partner in Mumbai got a favourable ruling from GST Council that parotas are classified under 5 per cent GST.” “On these grounds, we are going for an appeal to the appellate body at the GST Council with a hope that this order will be reversed. I feel the AAR ruling was a result of a confusion around the category for parotas. We have to ask the authority how parotas, layered flatbread, are different from rotis,” he said. As per iD Fresh Food CFO Jaipal Singal, the word ‘parota’ is missing in the GST law and that’s why his company had sought a tax category clarification from the AAR. “We know we are paying the right GST at 5 per cent. But since parota was not mentioned in the rule book, we had applied for an AAR notification to make things clear. How can the authority put basic, simple, staple food under a high tax category; also how can GST go higher than VAT itself, we wonder,” said Jaipal. Recently, one of the suppliers of ready-to-cook foods, Signature International Foods India, received a favourable, 5 per cent GST, ruling from Mumbai GST Council. According to industry sources, the country’s ready to cook parota segment is close to Rs. 500 crore industry annually. In the organised sector, iD is the single largest national player, while there are dozens of small and local players across the country.
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nearly 4,000 labourers get alerts for a single train to Assam||Nearly 4,000 people, including children, from Assam and neighbouring States in northeast India congregated at Palace Grounds, which is a transit centre for migrant labourers before they board trains to their hometowns, on Friday morning. Though only one train with seating capacity of 1,600 passengers was scheduled to leave the city for Assam on Friday, more than double the number of people turned up, leading to chaos and confusion. A senior official blamed the Seva Sindhu portal, which he alleged had malfunctioned again. “Bulk messages seem to have gone to more people than the available seating capacity,” the senior official said. This is not the first time that officials on the ground have faced such an issue. On May 23, nearly 9,000 labourers wanting to go to Odisha and Manipur turned up at Palace Grounds only to realise that the messages they had received from the portal about their train berths were incorrect. Eventually, officials co-ordinated with Indian Railways and the government of Assam, and organised another train for the stranded migrants. “A majority of them will be put on trains by Friday night. The remainder will be asked to return home and wait for the next train to Assam,” a senior official said. “With Cyclone Amphan in West Bengal and floods in Assam, not many trains have left for these States, creating a long waiting list. Migrants from these States are frustrated by the delays,” said Chetan Singh Rathore, DCP (Central). Rosemary Vishwanath, a citizen activist who was at Palace Grounds trying to help migrant labourers navigate the process of registering and medical check-ups, criticised the absence of administration on Friday morning. “No arrangements were made for food, drinking water or toilets. Even the venue where the migrant labourers were temporarily housed was under renovation, with a part of the roof and most of the lights removed. This is not the way to treat other human beings,” she said. Kaleemullah, another volunteer who is part of an NGO that provided temporary shelter to over 200 migrant labourers from Assam, had accompanied them to Palace Grounds. “Even the officials seemed taken aback. The facility lacked any arrangements,” he said. It was only by late afternoon that food was organised.
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Inspect 27 apartments to verify STPs’||The Karnataka High Court on Friday directed the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) to depute an authorised officer to visit around 27 apartments in Bellandur and Varthur lake catchment areas to inspect whether have installed Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) as assured to the Board two years ago. If STPs were not installed, then the Board will have to initiate necessary penal action as per the law as it is the duty of the Board to keep constant vigil and to ensure that apartments and industries do not discharge waste water into lakes illegally, the court said. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice E.S. Indiresh passed the order after noticing from the Board’s statement that it had issued notices to 27 apartments for installing STPs in May 2018 but no information was forthcoming on further action based on notices issued except stating that installation of STPs were under way at seven apartments. ‘Produce documents’ Also, the Bench also directed the Bangalore Development Authority to produce documents in support of its claim that bunds in both lakes were constructed by taking permission from the authorities concerned and this aspect is being monitored by the committee, appointed by the National Green Tribunal. The Bench was hearing a PIL petition, filed by Geetha Mishra seeking directions to the authorities to take steps to ensure that the two lakes and Vrushabhavathi river bodies, which witnessed lesser pollution during the lockdown, were being maintained so that they are not further polluted by effluents.
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Engineering student beaten by two of her friends dies||A 20-year-old engineering student who had been attacked by her former boyfriend and another classmate on June 7 passed away at a private hospital on Friday morning. “She had suffered severe head injuries and was admitted in an unconscious state,” a senior police official said. The Soladevanahalli Police had arrested two youths, Rahul and Babith, both her batchmates in college, for the assault on Wednesday. They have now been booked for murder. The victim, Monica, and the accused, Rahul and Babith, were batchmates at an engineering college in Soladevanahalli. Monica, who had been dating Babith, reportedly ended her relationship with him. “However, he did not take it well and started stalking her. There was an incident when he went to her house and created a ruckus,” said a police officer. On June 7, Babith followed Monica to Rahul’s house. When he saw her enter the house, he barged in claiming she was his girlfriend. The three started arguing, and Rahul allegedly assaulted Monica before throwing her out of the house. “Monica went to Babith’s house to confront him and demanded that he leave her alone,” said sources. However, Babith allegedly assaulted her with his helmet in his house. She sustained head injuries and fell unconscious. Babith called Monica’s parents and asked them to pick her up as she was unwell. Her father, an auto driver in the city, later in his statement to the police, said his daughter was lying unconscious with a head injury, bleeding heavily at Babith’s house. He also alleged that Babith followed them to the hospital on his scooter and threatened them not to go to the police.  However, he did not take it (breakup) well and started stalking her. There was an incident when he went to her house and created a ruckus A police officer
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SOPs will not be effective without penal action: HC||Observing that the absence of penal provision for violating Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) may create problems with people showing disregard to these norms, the High Court of Karnataka on Friday asked both the State and Union governments whether the SOPs issued for various sectors were legally applicable to ensure proper enforcement. If the SOPs stipulated for restaurants and hotels, shopping malls, and places of worship/religious places in particular are not enforced properly as per the law to prevent congregations, it may lead to further spread of COVID-19, the court cautioned. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice E.S. Indiresh made these observations in its order on a PIL petition filed by the Letzkit Foundation. “Stringent measures have been stipulated for allowing the public into places of worship/religious places, restaurants and hotels, and shopping malls. However, the question is whether their violators can be penalised. What legal force do the SOPs have? It appears that violation of SOPs has not been made an offence under the Disaster Management Act as SOPs are not part of the guidelines issued under the Act,” the Bench observed. Asking the State government to come out with measures on how SOPs can be made legally enforceable, the Bench said this was an urgent matter as places of worship, restaurants, and malls have been thrown open to the public since June 8. The Bench also pointed out that while restrictions have been imposed on the number of attendees at weddings and funerals, none have been prescribed for entry into religious places. Referring to clauses in the SOPs on how to deal with suspected or confirmed cases of COVID-19 in restaurants, places of worship, and malls, the Bench said this appears to suggest that even suspected/confirmed patients may be given entry to the premises. The court asked the Centre to re-examine this provision.
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State records seven new COVID-19 deaths||In the biggest spike in COVID-19 deaths on a single day, Karnataka recorded seven fatalities on Friday, including four from Bengaluru Urban. Although these four deaths occurred between 5 p.m. on Wednesday and 5 p.m. on Thursday, they were not recorded on Thursday’s health bulletin. Two deaths were from Kalaburagi while one was from Hassan. With this, the toll in the State rose to 79, apart from two non-COVID deaths. The total number of positive cases touched 6,516, with 271 new cases recorded on Friday. Friday also saw the highest number of discharges, with 464 recoveries. With this, the total discharges hit 3,440, outnumbering the total active cases (2,995). While all the patients who succumbed to the infection had comorbidities, the case of a 52-year-old man with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) from Bengaluru who did not have any other medical condition has raised concerns. The patient was admitted with complaints of breathlessness on June 10 and died on June 11. The other three people who died in Bengaluru were two women aged between 49 and 61 years (both patients with Influenza-like Illness) and a 65-year-old SARI patient. All of them had comorbidities with diabetes and hypertension as a common factor. While a 60-year-old man with SARI died in Hassan, two men with SARI, aged 48 and 53 years and who also had comorbidities, including chronic kidney disease, died in Kalaburagi on Wednesday. Among the 271 new cases reported on Friday, 92 were inter-State passengers. With 97 cases, Ballari recorded the highest number of cases. Sero-surveillance The sero-surveillance study jointly conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research, National Tuberculosis Institute, and Government of Karnataka in May in three districts revealed that 0.25% of the surveyed population in Bengaluru and Kalaburagi showed an evidence of past exposure to SARS COV-2 at the time of survey. According to a statement fromthe Health Department, 400 samples each were tested in Chitradurga and Bengaluru, and 399 in Kalaburagi. Of these, one sample each tested positive in Bengaluru and Kalaburagi. “The survey points out that measures taken during the lockdown were successful in keeping the transmission low and in preventing rapid spread of COVID-19. This implies that a large portion of the population must continue following precautionary measures as suggested by the government from time to time,”the statement added.
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Councillors against levying charge for waste now||The BBMP council meeting on Friday got off to a stormy start with councillors, mainly from the Opposition, demanding that service charge for door-to-door collection of waste not be levied on citizens any time soon. Abdul Wajid, Leader of Opposition, BBMP, argued that it would be wrong on the part of the civic body to impose service charge on garbage collection, amounting to around Rs. 200 a month for each household, at this time. “We should not act like a private service provider by imposing such service charges during the COVID-19 pandemic. It has become difficult for citizens to even pay electricity and water bills,” he said, adding that it was BBMP’s obligation to provide incentives to citizens. In response, the Mayor said that a discussion on the issue will be held in the council meeting and that charges will not be imposed immediately. Councillors also claimed that the COVID-19 funds at the ward level had not been released. Another topic that came up for discussion was the action of a joint commissioner who granted property tax rebate to many commercial establishments in the jurisdiction last year. “Such officials are just sent back to their home department with no action,” BJP councillor Padmanabha Reddy said, adding that the report submitted on the matter is incomplete. The council urged that a fresh and a detailed report on the issue be submitted to which the commissioner replied that it would be done in 15 days and the amount, along with the fine, would be recovered. ‘Teachers won’t lose jobs’ Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar assured the council that teachers working on contract basis in BBMP schools will not lose their jobs. Meanwhile, former mayor N. Shanthakumari alleged that the contractors of Indira Canteen had failed to serve good quality food of late, and urged that the new tender be in place soon.
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools suspend online classes, start surveys||Private schools on Friday suspended online classes for pre-primary and lower primary classes after the State government prohibited not just live online classes, but also pre-recorded videos. Many schools, which had been conducting online classes for over two weeks, have now asked parents to take partin a survey on the issue. One such survey by a CBSE-affiliated school in Rajajinagar asks parents if they prefer online classes for their children and if the duration of lectures should be shortened or extended. It also seeks to know if the pace of classes and instructions was suitable for the child and whether the homework assigned was excessive. Dakshayini Kanna, principal of Harvest International School, said they have already started receiving emails from parents demanding that online classes be brought back. Opinion on online learning remains divided, with parents both for and against it. The clamour among a section of parents to restart online classes grew louder on Friday with many petitions doing the rounds. Some parents and school managements are considering seeking legal recourse. Anusha Madhavan, who is part of a group called Pro Online Schools, said that an outright ban on online education was not the correct approach. The group said that one pill does not suit all. “When we propagate Digital India, why not online education through a digital medium where our kids are learning constructively?” asked Ms. Madhavan. Another parent, Shweta Sharan, said, “Many schools take feedback and keep improving constantly... Instead of a blanket ban, the government needs to issue guidelines.” The group has also demanded that all teachers andstaff be compensated. Fr. Antony Sebastian of Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights welcomed the government’s stance. “Primary school students should be engaged in activities that will help them pick up life skills. Schools, at this juncture, should not obsess over academics,” he said, adding that while conducting online classes for high school students, the schools and the government need to ensure accessibility of classes in rural areas so that no student is excluded.
13 June 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Removing curbs will help educated youth take to farming, says B.C. Patil||Defending the decision of the State Cabinet to amend the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, to allow non-agricultural families to buy farm land, Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil on Friday maintained that it would help educated youth, especially agricultural graduates, taking to farming. Speaking to reporters after inaugurating a workshop in Bengaluru for officials on preparations for kharif crops, the Minister said about four lakh agricultural graduates were coming out of agri and allied universities every year. It was not possible for all them to find jobs. In such a context, removing curbs on purchase of farm land would go a long way in attracting them to farming, he said. In turn, it would pave the way for setting up of agro industries by educated youth in villages, he added. However, farm land should not be misused for real-estate purposes, he stressed. Mr. Patil maintained that only Karnataka had curbs related to purchase of farm land by non-agricultural families. Within a few days, the Revenue Department would frame rules for purchase of farm land by non-agricultural families, he added.  Sowing area The minister said kharif sowing had picked up pace in the State. As against the normal kharif sowing extent of five lakh hectares for this month, the actual sowing area had touched seven lakh hectares, he pointed out. He asked farmers to be cautious about sowing soyabean this time in the wake of indication that the crop may not give a good yield as a consequence of last year’s floods.
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Circular on wage payment||The State Finance Department has issued a circular directing all government and semi-government agencies, boards, and corporations to pay salary/wages to contract employees, workers, and daily wagers for their services hired before and after the lockdown period in the State. Heads of departments and boards and corporations have also been instructed to pay salaries/wages of employees whose services have been outsourced.
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two students test positive||Bengaluru Urban on Friday recorded 36 new cases, including two SSLC students. The SSLC exam is set to start on June 25. Of the remaining patients, 11 were Influenza-like Illness and four were Severe Acute Respiratory Infection cases.
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four elected unopposed to RS||Ashok Gasti and Iranna Kadadi, both of the ruling BJP, former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda of the JD(S) and former Union Minister and AICC General Secretary Mallikarjun Kharge of the Congress have been declared elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha in the biennial elections from Karnataka. Returning Officer and Legislative Assembly Secretary M.K. Vishalakshi on Friday announced the election of four candidates to the Rajya Sabha without contest. Voting was necessary in the election as no party fielded any additional candidate against each other and limited their contest to the number of seats they could easily win, based on their strength in the Assembly. While Mr. Gasti, Mr. Kadadi and Mr. Kharge are entering the Upper House of the Parliament for the first time, Mr. Gowda doing so for the second time. This will also be the first stint in the Rajya Sabha for Mr. Kharge, who has always got elected directly in his long political career. Polling was earlier scheduled on June 19 to fill four seats, represented by Rajeev Gowda and B.K. Hariprasad of Congress, Prabhakar Kore of BJP and D. Kupendra Reddy of JD(S) that are set to fall vacant on June 25. The BJP, with 117 members in the Assembly, including the Speaker, was in a position to ensure victory in two seats. Congress with 68 MLAs could get one. The JD(S), which has 34 seats in the Assembly, was not in a position to win a seat on its own, but had Congress’s support with its surplus votes.
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Wife behind kidnap of businessman||The Bengaluru City police rescued a man who had been kidnapped, only to learn that his wife was behind it. Shahid Sheikh, a businessman, was abducted by a group of men in a white car on June 7 afternoon when he had stepped out of his house to buy some fruits and vegetables in Bagalagunte. The police formed special teams and tracked down the kidnappers to Nagamanagala, Mandya district. They conducted a raid and rescued the victim. The four men, who kidnapped Sheikh, were arrested and identified as Bharat, 25, a resident of Bagalagunte, and three of his friends, Abhishek, 26, Prakash K.P. and Cheluvamurthy, both 22.
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ACB search on properties of 2 officials||Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths simultaneously searched six premises linked to two government officials on Friday morning in connection with a disproportionate assets case. Searches on premises linked to Hanumappa Prabhannanavara, assistant executive engineer, KUWSDB, Bagalkot, yielded documents pertaining to a house and 12 sites in Gadag and 25 acres of agricultural land, among others. Searches on premises linked to M. Dase Gowda, special land acquisition officer, KIADB, Mangaluru, who is presently under suspension pending inquiry in another case, yielded documents pertaining to a house and eight sites in Mandya, a car, three two-wheelers, and Rs. 10 lakh in bank deposits, among other assets.
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Actor’s death||Puttige R. Ramesh, counsel for the petitioner, said social distancing and other COVID-19 norms were thrown to the wind recently with the death of actor Chiranjeevi Sarja. The Division Bench asked him to submit a memo with particulars so that the court could consider the issue.
13 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||GO on Monday||Schools are yet to receive an official order on the ban on online learning by the government. The order is likely on Monday. An expert committee formed to discuss the issue and frame guidelines is likely to meet in the coming week.
13 June 2020||BIDAR,KARNATAKA||Ten new cases in Bidar||Bidar district reported 10 new COVID-19 positive cases on Friday. The total number of such cases stands at 308, of which 203 persons have recovered. There are 99 active cases in the district.
13 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||19 more test positive for COVID-19 in Dharwad||The district has recorded the highest number of 19 COVID-19 positive cases in a single day on Friday. With these cases, the total number of COVID-19 positive cases rose to 91 of which 46 patients have been cured and discharged from hospital while the number of active cases remains at 44. According to a bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the fresh cases include 12 men and seven women. Six-month-old baby The list includes a six month-old male baby and a 12 year-old girl. All of them have been admitted to KIMS in Hubballi. Those who tested positive have been identified as P-6,251 (34, female), P-6,252 (72, female), P-6,253 (37, male), P-6,254 (40, male), P-6,255 (49, male), P-6,256 (63, male), P-6,257 (71, female), P-6,258 (70, male), P-6,259 (62, male), P-6,260 (34, male), P-6,261 (six months old, male), P-6,262 (50, male), P-6,263 (46, male), P-6,264 (33, female), P-6,265 (12, female), P-6,266 (33, male), P-6,267 (75, female), P-6,268 (35, male) and P-6,269 (28, male). The patients have a history of returning from Maharastra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Goa and also from Tumakuru, Chitradurga, Kolar and Bengaluru in the State. A 34-year-old male (P-6,260) is the husband of P-5,970, a 31-year-old female who is a teacher and resident of Yalakkishettar Colony in Dharwad. The six-month-old male baby (P-6,261) is the son of P-5,969 (a woman from Bhairidevarkoppa). Quarantine While those who had returned from Maharastra and Tamil Nadu were sent to institutional quarantine, those from Goa and Gujarat were asked to undergo home quarantine. Those who came from other districts in the State were not quarantined. Details about the travel history of these persons are awaited.
13 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||57 illegal layouts identified in twin cities||The Hubballi Dharwad Urban Development Authority (HDUDA) has identified 57 illegal layouts coming up in the twin cities and already served notices on those developing them illegally without getting requisite permissions from the authorities concerned, Chairman of HDUDA Nagesh Kalburgi has said. Addressing presspersons here on Friday along with HDUDA Commissioner N.H. Kummannavar, Mr. Kalburgi said that in the first phase of the drive against illegal layouts, 57 had been identified and they had been served notices. “If they fail to act as per law, we will take up demolition drive to remove temporary structures erected to mark boundaries and sites and remove infrastructure work taken up in such layouts,” he said. To a query, Mr. Kalburgi said that HDUDA had also given an option to developers of these illegal layouts to partner with the authority and develop layouts legally based on 50:50 partnership ratio. “If they fail to follow the law, then, action will be taken against them,” he said. Auction He said that HDUDA would be auctioning corner sites in various residential layouts developed by it and to begin with, notice had been given for e-auctioning 126 corner sites in Hubballi and Dharwad. He said that there were, in all, 1,062 corner sites and 762 unallotted plots in the twin cities and steps were being taken to auction them and allot plots. “Already, applications have been subjected to scrutiny and a list of eligible applicants has been published on the HDUDA website. The sites will be allotted as per rule after the constitution of the site allotment committee,” he said.  100 acres Mr. Kalburgi said that farmers of Tadasinakoppa, Unkal and Gandhinagar had come forward to partner with HDUDA in developing residential layouts under 50:50 ratio. “In these three areas, farmers have come forward to give 100 acres for development. We are trying to negotiate with other farmers,” he said. To another query, he said that the Amaragol residential layout spread over 43 acres was under litigation. The matter is now before the Supreme Court. “We are hopeful of the court ruling in HDUDA’s favour,” he said.  Group housing Mr. Kalburgi and Mr. Kummannavar said that HDUDA had come with a group housing project and the proposal had been sent for government approval. “As it was a first such project to be taken up by a development authority in the State, guidelines are to be framed. And, we are awaiting government nod,” Mr. Kummannavar said.
13 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||69 booked as villagers hold fair||Amid the restrictions imposed on fairs on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, the residents of a village in Haveri district organised a fair violating prohibitory orders. The police booked cases against 69 persons on Friday. The police filed cases against the organising committee members of Karjagi Brahmalingeshwar Temple and their family members after a video of the gathering and a bullock cart procession, held on account of ‘Kaara Hunnime’ (festival), surfaced on social media. Official sources said that the committee members had organised the celebrations on Thursday on the temple premises despite the Deputy Commissioner, Krishna Bajpai, issuing prohibitory orders in the district. Hundreds of people gathered in the village to witness the event, with no regard for social distancing norms. Additional Superintendent of Police Mallikarjun Baladandi said that as the committee members had organised the event in violation of the prohibitory orders, the Haveri Rural police had booked 69 people under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Mr. Bajpai said he had denied permission to the villagers of Karjagi when they came to his office last week seeking permission for the event. He said that subsequently, the Assistant Commissioner and tahsildar of Haveri conducted several meetings with the villagers to dissuade them from holding the event. However, the residents went ahead with it.
13 June 2020||HUBBALLI/ BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Inspector suspended for dereliction of duty||The police inspector of Hubballi Rural Police Station JacksonD’souza has been suspended for dereliction of duty pending inquiry. This comes on the heels of three Kashmiri students from Hubballi, booked for sedition for allegedly raising pro-Pakistan slogans, being granted conditional bail on technical grounds. Various organisations had accused the inspector for the delay in filing the chargesheet in the case. The students — Basit Ashiq Sofi, Talib Majeed and Aamir Mohiuddin Wani — of an engineering college in Hubballi were detained on February 15 after a video in which they allegedly raised pro-Pakistan slogans became viral. They were booked for sedition and subsequently remanded in judicial custody. They were then shifted to Hingalga Jail in Belagavi.Later, the case was shifted to Hubballi Rural Police Station as the video clip was reportedly shot in the students’ hostel located on the outskirts of the city. Their bail petition was rejected and they were lodged in the Belagavi prison for over three months. However, after Second JMFC court, Hubballi, granted them conditional bail citing the delay in filing of the chargesheet within the stipulated period, they were released from the jail on Wednesday. IGP Northern Range Raghavendra Suhas said the Hubballi Rural circle inspector of police had been suspended, pending inquiry, on the charge of dereliction of duty. The officer has been found to have delayed filing of the chargesheet beyond the legally stipulated time of 90 days, he said.
13 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Two die of COVID-19 in Kalaburagi district||Kalaburagi district on Friday reported two more COVID-19 deaths taking fatalities on account of the deadly virus in the district to 10 as on June 12, as per the data released by the Health and Family Welfare Department.
13 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Usage of public transport takes a hit||Despite the gradual exit from the lockdown and graded unlocking of the economy, people seem to be reluctant to patronise public transportation because of COVID-19. Preference for personal vehicles is high, as evident in their numbers on the roads and the near empty public transport vehicles that continue to be operated by the government. A case in point is the Bengaluru-Mysuru-Bengaluru train service that was introduced with effect from May 22. The Bengaluru-Mysuru section was one of the highest revenue-generating sectors for South Western Railway. In the pre-COVID-19 days, 34 pairs of trains used to operate between the two cities and the originating passenger traffic from Mysuru station alone was 25,000 to 30,000 passengers a day. The passengers from other stations along the route, including Mandya, Maddur, Channapatna, and Ramanagaram, would augment the footfalls. As part of the graded relaxation of the lockdown norms and the gradual resumption of public transportation, the authorities introduced a daily service connecting Bengaluru and Mysuru. But the public response seems to be tepid. On the first day after resumption of services, 59 passengers travelled from Mysuru to Bengaluru and 67 passengers in the return direction. On May 29, a week after the resumption of services, the scenario did not change significantly. There were 117 passengers on board the train from Mysuru to Bengaluru, which had a carrying capacity of 1,400 passengers. In the return direction on the same day, there were 126 passengers — 9% of the total carrying capacity of the train. On June 8, when there was further relaxation in the lockdown norms, only 169 passengers used the service from Mysuru and 150 travelled from Bengaluru. The figures for June 10 were similar, with 133 passengers travelling from Mysuru and 136 taking the train from Bengaluru to Mysuru. Rajashekar, a frequent traveller from the city to Davangere, said he used to patronise only buses and trains. “But ever since the curbs on inter-district travel were lifted, I have been using only my personal vehicle as I don’t want to take any risk,” he said. In the case of the Bengaluru-Belagavi service, 231 passengers boarded the train from Bengaluru on June 10 while the train that arrived at Bengaluru from Belagavi on June 9 carried 380 passengers. Bus services The situation is no different for bus services operated by the Karnataka State RoadTransport Corporation (KSRTC). Against the normal of nearly 400 trips between Bengaluru and Mysuru running with full occupancy in the pre-COVID-19 days, the authorities are operating only 150 trips now. A senior KSRTC official said they have been mandated to operate on 50% occupancy rate, against the full capacity of 60 passengers in a bus, and even this does not get filled on most trips. In all, there are 2,400 departures from Mysuru city to different destinations in the State, including Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga, Madikeri, Chamarajanagar, and Mangaluru. “Traffic is yet to pick up as people are avoiding mass transport systems as of now. We are operating only 33% of the services at 50% capacity, and even this is not fully patronised,” the official said.
13 June 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Three fresh cases in Raichur district||As many as three fresh COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Raichur district on Friday. Contact tracing is on in all the three cases, a release said. All of them have been shifted to the OPEC hospital. There are 294 active cases in the district and 82 patients have been discharged. Meanwhile, there were no fresh cases reported in Yadgir district.
13 June 2020||Raichur/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lack of jobs drives migrant workers in North Karnataka again to Bengaluru||The exodus of migrant workers from Bengaluru to other parts of the State made headlines in the first week of May as thousands of people started camping in the Majestic area desperate to board a KSRTC bus that would take them back to their families. A month later, migrant workers from North Karnataka are slowly returning to Bengaluru in search of jobs. On Friday evening, Ningappa, who hails from Maskanahalli, boarded a bus from Yadgir to Bengaluru. “I was working as a construction labour in Bengaluru. When bus services were introduced for workers, I had to go back to my native place with family members. However, after reaching my native place, I have spent close to a month without any work. Finding a job is easier in Bengaluru. So, I have to decide to go back.” Driven by joblessness and the need to earn a living, many said that they had no choice but to return even though the number of COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru is on the rise. At the bus stand in Yadgir, families, many with children, were seen boarding buses to Bengaluru. Gangappa and Anjeneya, both from Gabbur in Deodurg taluk of Raichur district, said that the higher wages prompted them to return to Bengaluru. “After reaching our native place, we spent days without a job. We were not given work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme during the lockdown, as we did not have job cards,” said Anjeneya. Gangappa said, “At construction sites in Bengaluru, women can earn up to Rs. 600 per day and men, up to Rs. 800. We cannot get that wage for a day’s work in our hometown.” A senior official of the North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC) said that 120 to 140 buses are being operated every day from Raichur, Yadgir, Kalaburagi and other places to Bengaluru. “Earlier, we were operating about 60 buses from our depots to Bengaluru. The number of services increased due to various factors. Before the pandemic, buses were operated with full seating capacity, but now only 30 people are allowed to travel as social distancing is to be ensured,” the official and added that passengers comprise not just blue-collar workers but also those in the corporate sector. Yadgir and Raichur have the most number of buses to Bengaluru with around 30 services. “The absence of train services could be a factor in people opting for bus services,” the official added. As per the data of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), more than 1.19 lakh migrant workers travelled from Bengaluru to their native places in the northern parts of the State in May. The road transport corporation had operated 4,037 buses from the Majestic bus stand in the first two weeks of May.
13 June 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Price of maize yet to recover||The price of chicken that had slumped owing to rumours linking its consumption with COVID-19, has bounced back, though the price of maize, a key ingredient in production of poultry feed that had moved southwards during this period, has failed to show a similar recovery. Maize is cultivated on over 14 lakh hectares across Karnataka. The price of maize that was at Rs. 1,800 per quintal in February had slumped to Rs. 1,100 per quintal in March. As a major chunk of the maize cultivated here goes into production of poultry feed, the decline in the price of chicken caused a corresponding decline in its price. The farm gate price of chicken that was around Rs. 75 per kg in January and February had dropped to around Rs. 25 per kg in March due to the rumours. Many poultry owners had reduced their livestock then to mitigate the loss. With misconceptions cleared now and lockdown restrictions withdrawn, the demand for chicken has escalated and the farm gate price has reached around Rs. 140/kg now. However, the price of maize that had dropped from Rs. 1,800 per quintal in February to Rs. 1,100 owing to a decline in the demand for chicken and eggs in March, has reached Rs. 1,400 now. H.R. Basavarajappa, honorary president, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, told The Hindu that the present retail chicken price is higher than what prevailed in last week of February. Though normalcy has been restored in the poultry market, the delay in recovery of maize price sheds light on the vulnerability of agriculture produce to market forces. Though maize growers are main stakeholders in the poultry industry, the benefit of recovery of chicken price is yet to reach them. Maize is being purchased for a 23% lesser price now compared to price in February. On the announcement by the State of providing Rs. 5,000 to each maize grower, Mr. Basavarajappa said the government is offering a paltry sum. He said that the farmers were also not much benefited from the announcement to procure maize for poultry production units of The Karnataka Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation (KMF) Ltd., as the quantum of produce procured in this case was not substantial. Demanding that the State government commence procurement of maize at minimum support price of Rs. 1,850 announced by the Centre, he said this would pave way for a recovery of the price of the produce in the open market.
13 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Boy falls into stream, dies||A 10-year-old boy accidentally slipped from a wooden bridge and was drowned in Kuchur village coming under Hebri Police limits in Udupi district on Friday. According to the police, Shrishanth was crossing the wooden bridge over a stream at Kanbettu in Kuchur when he accidentally fell into the waters and was drowned. A case of unnatural death has been registered at the Hebri Police Station. Investigation is on, the police said.
13 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||22 test positive for COVID-19 in Udupi||As many as 22 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi district on Friday. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesh said here that of the 22 cases, 21 had a history of travelling from Maharashtra, while one case, a 71-year-old man, was local. Of the 22 cases, 13 were men, six women and three children, he said. According to the health bulletin, the total number of COVID-19 cases recorded in the district from March till date stood at 991. As many as 125 persons who had received treatment and recovered from COVID-19 had been discharged from the designated hospitals. The total number of persons who had received treatment and had been discharged since March in the district stood at 474. There are 516 active COVID-19 cases in the district.
13 June 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Minister inaugurates COVID-19 lab||Minister for Animal Husbandry and also district in-charge Prabhu Chavan inaugurated a COVID-19 laboratory at the new district hospital (COVID-19 hospital) on the outskirts of Yadgir on Friday. The laboratory (for RT-PCR test) has come up at a cost of Rs. 2 crore. The State government has established the laboratory after considering the rising number of positive cases in the district. Later, the Minister inaugurated a mobile fever clinic at the Zilla Panchayat office. MLA Venkatareddy Mudnal and others were present.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Vegetable trucks||
13 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||13 more test positive in Alappuzha district||The district witnessed yet another surge in COVID-19 cases with 13 more people testing positive on Friday. Of the new cases, nine returned from foreign countries and four from other States. This is the biggest single-day spike since the first case reported on February 2. Among the patients, a young woman from Amabalapuzha had come from Kuwait on May 27. The second patient, a young man hailing from Cherthala, came from Dubai on June 1. A young man from Chengannur reached the district from Abu Dhabi on May 27. The fourth patient, a youth, had come from Abu Dhabi on June 1. He is a native of Chettikulangara. A 57-year-old man hailing from Nooranad, had come from Muscat on June 30. A youth from Pallipad reached the district from Dubai on June 1. The seventh person, a 52-year-old man from Karuvatta, came from Abu Dhabi on May 28. Another patient, a young woman hailing from Cherthala had come from Kuwait on May 27. The ninth person reached the district from Abu Dhabi on May 27. He is native of Palamel. Of the cases from other States, one of the patients, a young man hailing from Cherthala, came in a private vehicle from Chhattisgarh on May 25. A 52-year-old woman from Mavelikara reached the district by a train from Mumbai on May 27. Two persons, a young man and a girl, both hailing from Champakulam, had come on a plane from Delhi on May 30. Of the patients, 10 have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha and three to Taluk Hospital, Haripad, for treatment. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 95. One more case in Idukki A Correspondent writes from Idukki:  One more COVID-19 case was reported in the district on Friday. The 35-year-old resident of Kokkayar who came from Abu Dhabi on a flight on June 1 was admitted to the COVID care centre at Vandiperiyar.
13 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Five revenue officials suspended in Idukki||The Idukki Collector has suspended five revenue officials for allegedly forging land documents to support encroachments on government land in Kanan Devan Hills (KDH) village under the cover of land given under the government housing scheme. ‘Dereliction of duty’ An inquiry by the Devikulam tahsildar had found that village land documents had been tampered with and documents forged to help encroachments on the government land. The order, a copy of which is available with The Hindu , stated that there were grave irregularities and dereliction of duty on the part of the officials in helping encroachments on government land, worth crores of rupees. Suspended Those suspended included Sanilkumar T.S. (Udumbanchola) who was already under suspension. The other officials suspended are Preetha P., section officer, KDH village, E.P. George, village officer, Kumaramangalam, Gopakumar R, office assistant, collectorate, Idukki, and R. Stephen, village field assistant, KDH village.
13 June 2020||Kannur,KERALA||71-year-old who died in Kannur tests positive||A 71-year-old man, who was in home quarantine after returning from Mumbai, died of COVID-19 at Kannur District Hospital on Friday morning. The deceased has been identified as N. Hussain, a resident of Irrikur. He had returned from Mumbai on May 9 with his family members, including his wife, daughter, son-in-law and their three children. He suffered from high fever and diarrhoea following which he was immediately taken to the COVID treatment centre at Anjarakandy where his swab was collected, and he was later shifted to the Kannur District Hospital, said District Medical Officer K. Narayana Nayak. It was a sudden death. He was a heart patient and suffered from diabetes. He was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 later, said Dr. Nayak. The Health Department is in the process of collecting samples of his immediate relatives and others who came in contact with him. Meanwhile, people could be seen gathering without maintaining physical distancing in the city and rural areas in complete violation of rules to prevent the spread of the disease. Physical-distancing is not being maintained at shops and hotels. Even buses were seen carrying more people than allowed. United Democratic Front activists celebrated the front’s deputy mayor candidate’s victory by throwing all norms to the wind at the District Collectorate where the election was held.
13 June 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Kannur Mayor quits post under UDF deal||Mayor Suma Balakrishnan of the Kannur Corporation has stepped down from her post and submitted her letter of resignation to the Corporation Secretary. She vacated the post as per a deal between the Congress and the IUML which allowed Ms. Balakrishnan to continue as Mayor for the six months of the remaining one year of the council. A woman member of the IUML will be Mayor in the final leg of the term. The Mayor’s post in the Kannur Corporation is reserved for women. Meanwhile, the UDF candidate, P.K. Ragesh, was re-elected Deputy Mayor of the Kannur Corporation in the election held at the district collectorate here on Friday. In the 55-member council, Mr. Ragesh defeated the LDF candidate, Vellora Rajan, by a majority of one vote. The election was held after the LDF moved a no-confidence motion against Mr. Ragesh. He had to step down from the post of the Deputy Mayor after IUML councillor K.P.A. Salim voted in favour of the LDF over his difference with the UDF leadership.
13 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||TCS backs out from e-governance system||With Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) making it clear that it will provide no further support to the botched e-governance system in the Kochi Corporation, a new software will now have to be implemented to replace the existing one entirely, sending the nearly Rs. 5 crore that the civic body paid to TCS down the drain. Corporation Secretary R. Rahul has in a letter to the Principal Secretary, Local Self-Government Department (LSGD), asked for urgent support from the IT Mission or Information Kerala Mission (IKM) to secure the data considering the imminent danger of data loss from the existing system. “The corporation has no technical expertise to manage the system nor any capability for taking data backup. Data backup has not been done recently,” the letter notes. Data loss can happen at any time due to malware, power failure, or mechanical damage, and it can be detrimental to the public. “As for a fresh software, the council will have to take an urgent decision on whether to bring IKM in or another party. TCS has categorically said it will not be part of any further agreement with the corporation. There is no annual maintenance contract with them [corporation] now,” Mr. Rahul said. Of the 22 modules, most have not been implemented. Even the birth, death and marriage modules, which are working, are incomplete and prone to errors, his letter notes. “But, the corporation had certified earlier that the modules were working fine,” he said. While TCS has delivered hardware and some modules worth Rs. 5.1 crore, the corporation has paid up Rs. 4.94 crore. In its response to Mr. Rahul on June 10, TCS had written that it had repeatedly communicated to the corporation that its activities with the civic body had been wound up, but no response was received even on the clearance of outstanding dues. The letter notes that all exit formalities were complete, and server and database credentials were handed over to the authorities in February 2019. Further, TCS will not be responsible for outage of the e-governance system, and no work order was issued to the company for extending its services, the letter said. “The credentials of those who had earlier certified the modules is questionable,” said Poornima Narayan, chairperson, education standing committee. After a stakeholder meeting chaired by the Minister for Local Self-Government last year, the corporation had, till now, been waiting for the matter of the salaries of two TCS employees to be reflected in the minutes of the meeting.
13 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Hand sanitisers come under scanner||Hand sanitisers from dubious manufacturers are flooding the market and pharmacists are having a tough time choosing from them, since many products not conform to the stipulated standards. Sanitisers must have a composition prescribed by the World Health Organisation, which involves ethyl alcohol or isopropanol, hydrogen peroxide, and glycerin. Alcohol content The alcohol content has to be 70% or above, which is required to kill germs. However, many sanitisers have other ingredients too, says A.N. Mohan, president All Kerala Chemists and Druggists Association (AKCDA). Some sanitisers have propanol and mecetronium ethyl sulphate as raw material. A few have be kept out of children’s reach. Some have permitted additives such as carbomer – an emulsifying agent which would give a fragrant, colourful, gel-type sanitiser, says Mr. Mohan. Some of the most common additives are aloe vera and tulsi. However, problems crop up when these are sold not as drugs but as cosmetics with reduced alcohol content, he said. The Drugs Control Department has been conducting inspections to check spurious sanitisers, says K.J. John, State Drug Controller in-charge. The department has collected 225 samples from the market. So far, results of 125 have been received, of which one did not conform to required standards, says Mr. John.  The Drugs Control Department had given about licences to 45 pharmaceuticals and new industries in the State to manufacture sanitisers. This was to stop the supply of spurious sanitisers from other States, he added. Because of the problems involved in identifying proper sanitisers, the AKCDA is planning talks with the Kerala State Drug Pharmaceuticals for marketing their sanitisers, says Mr. Mohan. Mr. John points out that a grey area in drug sale during COVID-19 times is that sanitisers are not to be sold in supermarkets. However, this challenge was overcome by using the Drugs Control Department’s authority to permit sale of sanitisers by shops having restricted licence to sell pain balms and paracetamol tablets. This was done to make sanitisers available to people, he says. However, cosmetics with reduced alcohol content cannot be sold as sanitisers, he says. As part of the drive to check illegal sale, the department had seized a load of sanitisers from a paint shop in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday.  Sanitisers must have a composition prescribed by the WHO, with ethyl alcohol or isopropanol, hydrogen peroxide, and glycerin
13 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Man charged with quarantine violation||The Angamaly police have registered a case against an Uttar Pradesh native on the charge of not undergoing the mandatory quarantine on his arrival from outside the State. He had arrived at the Kochi airport on June 7 and had straightaway gone to work at a mall here. The violation of protocol was detected when he was on his way to Nilambur by a KSRTC bus. The conductor, on noticing the airline tag on his baggage, asked him about his whereabouts, and it emerged that he had not gone into quarantine. By this time, the bus had reached in front of the Angamaly police station. When the police asked why he did not go into quarantine, he said he was not aware of it. The police registered a case invoking the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance and shifted him to institutional quarantine at Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam.
13 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||MVD launches e-challan in Ernakulam district||The Motor Vehicles Department in the district has made a decisive migration to the digital platform in enforcement with the introduction of the e-challan system. The Ernakulam Regional Transport Office is the first to introduce the system in the State. The system helps to give the offender a challan complete with the charges against him and the fine thereof right away during the enforcement drive. The system runs on the Android platform and collects photographic evidence of the enforcement drive. The system has been integrated into the Vahan Software, the centralised country-wide database of the Motor Vehicle Department. This enables blacklisting of vehicles involved in the offence. The system also facilitates the production of offenders who ignore the payment of fine before the virtual court. The project is being implemented in association with Federal Bank.
13 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Missing ammunition: petition dismissed||A writ petition seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or an National Investigation Agency (NIA) probe into the case of missing ammunition from Kerala police was dismissed by the Kerala High Court on Friday.  The State submitted that only cartridges and not guns were found missing from the police department and an inquiry by Crime Branch was ordered into the incident.
13 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||NIRF ranks Amrita varsity fourth best||Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham has emerged as the fourth best university in the country in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) Ranking 2020. Vellore Institute of Technology and Amrita are the only two private engineering institutes to be ranked in top 20 in the engineering category. The university was also ranked seventh among medical colleges in India after All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, Christian Medical College, Vellore, NIMHANS, Bangalore, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow, and BHU, Varanasi. “Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham and its medical college again finding a place in the top 10 in the NIRF Ranking 2020 is testimony to the vision of the institution—goals of education for life and compassion-driven research. The recognition would not have been possible but for the efforts put in by the students and staff,” said Dr P. Venkat Rangan, Vice Chancellor, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham. Attended by over 20,000 students, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham has collaborations with 500 world-ranked universities. It also has secured research grants of over $100m from governmental and private funding agencies including World Bank, UNESCO, UNDP, Gates Foundation, etc.
13 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Sajan Francis is Changanassery municipality chairman||Marking an end to the administrative impasse in the Changanassery Municipality, Sajan Francis of Kerala Congress (M) and Shiny Shaji of Congress were on Friday elected as chairman and deputy chairperson of the civic body. In an election held in two different rounds, Mr. Francis, a nominee of the P.J. Joseph group, defeated Saji Thomas, a rebel candidate from the United Democratic Front, by just one vote to become chairman of the municipality. Though he had won the first round with 16 votes as against the 15 votes polled by the UDF rebel, the returning officer called for another round of voting citing that no candidate could secure the absolute majority. Accordingly, the BJP candidate who had polled four votes in the first round withdrew from the contest and in the subsequent election, Sajan again emerged winner by the same margin.  Deputy chairperson Later, Shyni Shaji secured 18 votes to be elected as the deputy chairperson. The candidates fielded by the CPM and the BJP polled 13 and four votes. In the 37-member council, UDF has 18 members (Congress-10, KC(M)-7 and IUML-1), while CPM and BJP have 12 and four members. The remaining three are independent members, which also include a UDF rebel. All but an independent member turned up for voting on Friday. As per an agreement brokered by the United Democratic Front, Sajan Francis was to take over the post from the previous chairman Lalichan Kunniparambil, a Mani loyalist, in August 2019 for the remaining term of 15 months. But with the factional fight in KC(M), the proposal was put on a back burner. On an intervention by the UDF leadership, Mr. Kunniparambil stepped down from the post in March this year.
13 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Govt. order on killing wild boars puts farmers in a fix||The stringent provisions included in the State government’s latest order on killing wild boars attacking crops have put many farmers who face the wild animal attack in a fix. As per the order issued on March 3, farmers should have a licensed gun and they should adhere to a number of other legal conditions. The main concern raised by the farmers living on the fringes of the forest is that only very few have licensed guns. Licence renewal Those who earlier owned guns have surrendered them before the authorities because of hurdles in renewing the licence every year. The demand to make the process easy is yet to be considered by the authorities. A farmer from Koodaranhi said even the licensed gun holders too would not be able to meet the new conditions. Only those who have made their entry into the Divisional Forest Officers’ approval panel would be able to use the weapon in a particular area, he added. Farmers’ association leaders said the formation of such a panel too was not likely to take place because of the limited number of licensed gun holders. They also pointed out that licensed gun holders might not be even available in a particular area where farmers face the crisis. According to official figures, the total number of licensed gun holders in Kozhikode district is 176. The highest number of them,125, is from Kozhikode taluk, where there is no wild animal menace. Only 56 licensed gun holders were in the other three taluks in the district. A plantain cultivator from Chakkittappara panchayat said the government should have allowed farmers to make use of other possible traps and native methods to kill wild boars straying into the fields.  Government’s aim Meanwhile, forest officials said the new law was passed by the government preventing all possibilities of misuse. “Taking into account the farmers’ response, some favourable amendments can be done to the law. But there will not be any amendment that will hamper the existing laws meant to conserve wildlife,” they added.
13 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||NIT-C proves its excellence again||Last year when the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) released the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), the department of architecture and planning at the National Institute of Technology-Calicut (NIT-C) found itself in the third position after IIT-Kharagpur and IIT-Roorkee. When the NIRF was released on Thursday, the institute retained its position after the two IITs, which have been maintaining their winning streak three times consecutively. According to NIT-C architecture faculty, the department’s commitment to teaching and research has once again helped it maintain excellence, beating exclusive schools of planning and architecture in Delhi, Bhopal, and Vijayawada and IITs in Chennai and Mumbai. “Our impeccable team which works in great synergy has contributed to the growth and reputation of the institution. The rankings help us assess and improve our performance, besides identifying gaps. Our strength lies in our professional interactions, hands-on attempts on live design and planning problems, and engaging with the alumni,” Dr. P.P. Anil Kumar, professor and head of the department, architecture and planning, NIT-C, said. He added that the department had over the decade actively helped society by extending its knowledge and skills for the restoration and beautification of schools and orphanages through social engagement during the 2018 and 2019 floods. “The talent pool of the department has been actively inducing knowledge into the Rebuild Kerala initiative of the State government,” he said. Dr. Anil Kumar said that the department had successfully organised the third edition of the International Conference on Design Pedagogy and Contextual Aesthetics (Thanima 3) in March this year.
13 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Four new positive cases in Kozhikode||Four persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode and as many got cured of the infection in the district on Friday. The number of active cases here is 79 now, among whom 60 persons are at the first-line treatment centre at Lakshadweep Guest House and 15 are at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. One each is at a private hospital in Kozhikode, and hospitals in Kannur, Ernakulam, and Malappuram. According to a release by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, two of the new patients had come from Abu Dhabi, one from Saudi Arabia and another from Kuwait. Among those recovered, one person had been under treatment in Kannur and the rest were here in Kozhikode. The number of people under observation rose to 11,279, among whom 3,341 are expatriates.
13 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Forest squad zeroes in on local links of poachers||Following Thursday’s arrest of a six-member poachers’ gang, the Forest Department squad has intensified probe to nab those who hunted wild animals in the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary. A few locals who allegedly colluded with the miscreants too are under scanner. According to officials, poachers will not be able to cross forest borders without the knowledge of local residents. “We have enough reasons to believe that the poachers are from our own villages,” they said.
13 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Village mosques open||Mosques in villages across the district held Juma prayers on Friday by restricting the number of people and maintaining physical distancing. Although the government had permitted opening up of mosques, all Juma masjids in towns and cities remained closed. Mosque officials claimed they had observed COVID-19 guidelines. The number of people was restricted to 100 for the mass Friday prayers.
13 June 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Greens protest against Athirappilly project||Environmental activists took out a march to the KSEB office at Olavakkode near here on Friday in protest against the government giving sanction for the controversial Athirappilly hydroelectric project. The protesters of different organisations united under the banner of the Parishthithi Aikya Vedi and demanded that the government withdraw from the move. They said the government should learn lessons from the recent natural disasters. “Laying hands on sensitive environment and ecosystem in the name of development will bring disasters for us,” they said. Aikya Vedi chairman Boban Mattumantha presided. Kalloor Balan inaugurated the protest. Shyamkumar Thenkurissi, S. Guruvayurappan, S.P. Achuthanandan, Lijo Panangadan, Haridas Machingal, Deepam Suresh, Sunny Edoor, Aziz Master, Umer Farook and Ashik Olavakode spoke.
13 June 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Girl found dead in quarry||A Class 10 student was found dead in an unused quarry at Aloor near Anakkkara on Friday. The police said she was suspected to have jumped to her death. An investigation is in progress into the incident. Suicide prevention helpline: 1056 (Disha).
13 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||K-Rail flags off fund drive for Silver Line||Kerala Rail Development Corporation Ltd. (K-Rail), the joint venture of Railways and the State, has initiated steps to mobilise Rs. 33,700 crore from international financial institutions as loan for the Kochuveli-Kasaragod semi-high speed rail corridor, Silver Line, estimated to cost Rs. 63,941 crore. The State has approached the Asian Development Bank (ADB), Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), German Development Bank KfW, and Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) for mobilising the loan.  The detailed project report (DPR) prepared by the Paris-based consulting firm Systra, the general consultant of K-Rail, has been forwarded to these institutions. K-Rail has also given the proposals and feasibility report to these institutions through the Department of Economic Affairs. The Cabinet had given its the nod for K-Rail to hold consultations with the ADB, JICA, KfW, and AIIB for securing the loan. Already, Railways had given “in-principle approval” for pre-investment activities for the 529.45-km corridor. “As the government order had been received, the DPR and alignment of Silver Line will be forwarded to the Ministry of Railways on Monday for further clearances,” Managing Director, K-Rail, V. Ajith Kumar said. The cash-strapped Railways will have to provide Rs. 3,125 crore (4.89%) of the estimated cost and the State Rs. 3,253 crore (5.09%). Private equity of 6.65% is expected to mobilise Rs. 4,252 crore. The State will also have to bear the cost of acquiring 1,226.45 ha of land for laying the line in 11 districts, estimated at Rs. 11,837 crore (18.51%). The subordinated debt (GST) of the Centre will come to Rs. 3,189 crore (4.99%) and that of the State Rs. 2,896 crore, which will be 4.53% of the estimated project cost. Green bonds an option Floating green bonds is also under consideration. Green cess and value capture financing, a mode of public financing that acts as a tax collection mechanism and aims to recover part or full of the value that public infrastructure generates for private landowners, are the other options. Private equity, especially from Non-Resident Keralties, is being looked into based on the inflow of investments that has poured in for the Cochin and Kannur airports.
13 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Centre told to release GST dues to States: Isaac||Kerala has asked the Centre to release soon the Goods and Services Tax compensation arrears due to States, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. Briefing reporters about the deliberations at the GST Council here on Friday, Dr. Isaac said the arrears for March, April and May had not yet been released. This should be devolved immediately, he said. Since the GST compensation cess collected by the Centre was inadequate to share the compensation due to States, the GST Council should avail itself of loans and extend the five-year time frame fixed for collecting the cess so that it could repay the loans. This was the demand Kerala made at the meeting, Dr. Isaac said. The meeting decided to hold a session by mid-July. All States were told to submit their proposals to the council before the meeting, he said. Shortfall in revenue The State’s revenue collection had increased from Rs. 390 crore in April to Rs. 690 crore in May, but the revenue shortfall was huge when compared to the previous years. The council discussed a proposal for hiking the tax on textiles, footwear, and fertilizers which had an inverted duty structure. But many States, including Kerala, opposed the proposal and it was put off. The concessions granted in late fee and interest for delayed filing of tax returns by traders with a sales turnover of less than Rs. 5 crore, in view of the COVID-19 crisis, has been extended up to September. The concessions granted for filing the returns of February, March and April had been extended to May, June, and July too, he said. Concessions in late fee had also been granted for those had not filed returns between July 2017 and January 2020.An amnesty scheme had been announced for defaulters. No late fee No late fee would be collected from nil return filers. The maximum late fee for others had been reduced from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 500. This benefit would be available from July 1. Those filing returns before September 30 could avail themselves of the benefit.
13 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Traffic offenders can pay fines via POS machines||In a bid to make enforcement faster, increase transparency and reduce workload of field officers, the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) has rolled out e-challans through point-of-sale (POS) machines for traffic offenders to pay fines. Henceforth, the offenders being booked by the enforcement personnel on the roads will be asked to make cash payment or swipe their debit/credit cards on the spot for payment of fines. Those failing to use the options will be given a window to pay the penalty online after surrendering a document. Field officers only have to fill the vehicle registration number or the licence details of the driver to get all the details of the vehicle and the driver in the POS machine within seconds. Facilities Besides generating challan and payment station facility, the hand-held machines, with GPRS technology, have camera to take photographs of vehicles and violators, and facility to scan QR Code and prepare check reports online. Vehicle owners will also get SMS alert on registering cases involving their motor vehicles and for this mobile numbers will have to be linked. The device, integrated with the national network, can retrieve data relating to previous offences of the driver and those involving the vehicle. The Transport Mission Mode project’s flagship pan-India applications ‘Sarathi’, for driving licence, and ‘Vahan’, for vehicle registration, are being used. The software has been developed by the National Informatics Centre in collaboration with the Union Ministry of Road, Transport, and Highways. The software has been billed as a solution to the problems faced in traffic enforcement. State Transport Commissioner M.R. Ajith Kumar foresees sweeping changes in the transport sector with the roll-out of the POS-based facility. 100 machines Around 100 POS machines have been made available to the MVD enforcement squads free of cost by Federal Bank. The MVD needs 200 machines for Regional Transport Offices (RTOs), Sub-RTOs, and check-posts. Ultimately, all enforcement officials will be carrying a POS with them while on duty. The POS-based e-challan rolled out for the first time in the Ernakulam Regional Transport Office on Friday. It would be launched in Thiruvananthapuram and later in the entire State, Joint Transport Commissioner Rajeev Puthalath said.
13 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Monsoon may gain strength this week||After a post-onset lull, the southwest monsoon is likely to gain strength this week in Kerala. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast widespread rainfall for Kerala, Mahe, and Lakshadweep in the week ahead. Heavy rainfall Parts of Kerala can also expect isolated heavy rainfall in the week ahead, according to the IMD’s weather outlook for the next two weeks. The weather agency has issued yellow alerts indicating the possibility of isolated heavy rainfall for Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur, and Kasaragod for Saturday. For Sunday Yellow alerts have also been issued for Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur, and Kasaragod for Sunday. Most districts can expect isolated heavy rainfall on Monday and Tuesday also, according to an IMD weather update on Friday. The southwest monsoon had set in over Kerala on June 1.
13 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Swiggy agents on the warpath||Every single day during the COVID-19 induced lockdown, Reji, a delivery agent with the online food delivery aggregator Swiggy, used to leave his home at 8 a.m, riding through the day and delivering food in different parts of the city, be it rain or shine. On Thursday noon, he along with hundreds of other delivery agents logged off from from the Swiggy mobile app, in protest against the drastic cut in incentives, which makes it impossible for them to make any reasonable savings. According to delivery agents, all of them had received a message from Swiggy on Tuesday indicating that their weekly incentive has been reduced from Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 1,000. The incentive per delivery, which was around Rs. 50 earlier for deliveries to places located more than 5 kms away, was cut down to Rs. 25. They used to get a commission of Rs. 200 for achieving total incentives of Rs. 600. This has now been changed to commission of Rs. 150 for total incentives of Rs. 750. They would also not get the weekly incentives, if they take more than two days break per week. “Petrol prices have been increasing daily for the past 6 days. Now, suddenly Swiggy has decided to cut our meagre incentives, which makes it hard for us to survive. I took up this delivery job after losing my job as a manager at a marketing survey agency, at a salary of Rs. 35,000 per month. In the early days of food delivery, I used to make around Rs. 30,000 per month. Now, we are making only around half of that. With the incentive cut, there would be further reduction. How will we make profit, after spending on fuel and bike maintenance,” says Reji. Restaurants across the city have been flashing an ‘unable to deliver’ message since Thursday on Swiggy. Yet, no one from the company had reached out to the protesting delivery agents till even late on Friday night. They are mostly dealing with a faceless system, where complaint resolution has to be done through the mobile application. The few fleet managers for each city are not often powerless to address their queries. “We are not demanding even a raise. All we are asking for is the existing incentives, which would allow us to just stay afloat. We have all taken so much risk to deliver during the pandemic, yet this is how the company treats us,” says Mahir, a delivery agent. Flash strike Zomato delivery agents had also gone on flash strike last week after a similar cut in incentives. However, the company reinstated the previous incentives soon, claiming it to be a ‘technical error’. Delivery agents say that the companies like Zomato have in the past tried to prevent unionisation of the agents, by dividing them on different incentive slabs.
13 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fire at HLL factory yard triggers panic||Fire broke out on the factory premises of HLL Lifecare Ltd. in Peroorkada on Friday, sparking panic among the employees and residents nearby. There were no casualties in the incident. The incident occurred around 7 p.m. at the scrap yard behind the factory in which several employees were present. A few people who spotted smoke billowing from the area alerted the workers, following which four fire tenders were pressed into service by the Fire and Rescue Services from their Chengalchoola and Chakka fire stations. The blaze was brought under control within an hour. While factory discards, including rubber, are usually auctioned off every month, the lockdown had led to an accumulation of the waste materials for around three months. The swift action of the Fire and Rescue Services prevented the flames from spreading to the furnace tank and other parts of the factory nearby. A comprehensive probe has been ordered into the incident.
13 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||22 get NOC from AAI to build houses||As many as 22 beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Awaz Yojana (PMAY) housing scheme in the city’s coastal areas, who were unable to either begin the construction or to get TC numbers for constructed houses, due to the need for a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the Airport Authority of India(AAI), have now got clearance from the authorities, according to sources in the city Corporation. Fifteen more who got NOC will have to wait for some more time as the allowed building height above mean sea level has been marked as zero. Coastal regions The clearances have been given in Sree Chitra Nagar and Sulaiman Street in Valiyathura, one of the coastal regions located near the airport. The Hindu had in June 2018 reported that PMAY beneficiaries with plots in these areas have been finding it hard to construct houses or to get TC numbers. The authorities here had written to the AAI headquarters regarding the issue. “As of now, 22 of them have got NOC with which construction is possible. But 15 more, located closer to the airport have been given NOC with zero building height allowed above mean sea level, which makes it practically impossible to carry out construction. The AAI headquarters had asked to conduct a simulation study in their cases, to see if exemption can be given,” said the Corporation source. The PMAY cell of the city Corporation is also ready with the seventh DPR for the project, which has 1,454 houses. It remains to be seen whether any beneficiary from this list has a plot in the red zone of the map, which indicates the permissible height of buildings in the areas around the airport through different colour-coded grids. Reduced The AAI had in 2018 reduced the span of the red zone, after which it was only effective only in eleven wards, most of it in the coastal regions of the city. The number of affected homes across all zones under the PMAY had come down to 1,700. Out of this, a few hundred beneficiaries spent amounts up to Rs. 15,000 from their own pockets to get the co-ordinates of their land from the AAI-approved surveyors and procure the no-objection certificate. With many others finding the process unaffordable, the Corporation and the AAI had decided to jointly foot the survey bill for the beneficiaries.
13 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man bludgeons wife to death, commits suicide||A former police officer allegedly murdered his wife, who had also retired from the police force, before purportedly committing suicide by hanging himself near Vattiyurkavu on Friday. The deceased were identified as Ponnan, 68, and Leela, 73, both of who hailed from Thozhuvancode. The incident occurred around 8 a.m. when Ponnan, a retired ASI, allegedly bludgeoned Leela, a retired SI, using a wooden log outside his house following a property dispute. The estranged couple used to reside separately along with their two daughters in houses located opposite to each other. On hearing Leela’s cries, local people rushed her to the Government Medical College Hospital. Around the same time, Ponnan ran to his field behind his house and hung himself from a tree. Both were confirmed dead in the hospital. (Suicide prevention helpline - DISHA: 1056, 0471-2552056)
13 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One COVID-19 case in capital||A 63-year-old Uchakkada native tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, while one person recovered from the illness in the district. The newly diagnosed patient had come from Mumbai on a special train on May 29. He was shifted to an institutional quarantine facility at Barton Hill upon his arrival. While his first test sample had returned negative, the second swab test conducted two days ago has tested positive.
13 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Big Demo Day’ for start-ups||The Kerala Startup Mission, in association with industry bodies, is organising ‘Big Demo Day’ for start-ups from June 25 to 30, offering a platform for industry to leverage innovative ideas and technology from the start-up ecosystem to strengthen business. Interested start-ups can apply through www.startupmission.kerala.gov.in before June 15. For details, dial 7736495689 or email tosawad@startupmission.in
13 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Arrest||A 22-year old Odisha native was arrested by the Karamana police on Friday for allegedly burgling a supermarket a day ago. The police identified the accused as Sushanth Behra. He was arrested in connection with the alleged break-in and burglary that had taken place in a supermarket in Kaimanam during the wee hours of Thursday.
13 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Lekha Gopal is Assistant Station Director, AIR||Lekha Gopal has assumed charge as Assistant Station Director (Programme) at the Thiruvananthapuram station of All India Radio. Ms.Gopal had earlier served in the commercial broadcasting service of AIR at Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram, the Regional Training Centre of AIR and Doordarsan and Kochi FM station.
13 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||More curbs in Thrissur as COVID-19 cases spiral||Ruling out the need for a total lockdown in Thrissur district, A.C. Moideen, Minister for Local Self Government, said here on Friday that the increase in COVID-19 cases was expected since the inflow of NRIs started on May 7. Speaking after a review meeting, the Minister said strict restrictions would continue in containment zones. There were rumours that a total lockdown would be imposed as there was a spurt in COVID-19 cases. “There is no community spread in the district. The source of the disease has been traced except in the case of an 87-year-old man who died at Engandiyur. There is a chance for further increase in cases,” he said. “The rise in the number of cases was not unexpected. Actually, the present number of cases is less than what was predicted by the Health Department. It was expected that there would be a steady increase in cases after the inflow of Pravasis started on May 7. “The department predicted that the cases would reach 300 when we cross five weeks. It is a huge relief that the number of cases is less than that. It shows our preventive measures are effective,” the Minister said. “However, we will strengthen preventive measures, including disinfection of markets. Markets in the district will be disinfected on Tuesday and Wednesday. Shops will not be opened on those days. Only essential services will be allowed in containment zones. “Lorries coming from other States should not park on the roadside. There will be restrictions on entry to government offices. Use of sanitizer and masks will be made strict. Use of sanitizers will be made mandatory in banks and ATMs too.” He said sufficient number of beds had been arranged in hospitals in the district. There were 200 beds in the Thrissur Medical College Hospital. The number of beds in other hospitals are: ESI Hospital (80); Chest Hospital (180); Taluk Hospital, Chalakudy (54); Koratty Leprosy Hospital (100); Kodungallur Taluk Hospital (70).
13 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||With 161 active cases, caution is the byword in Thrissur||With a spurt in COVID-19 cases, Thrissur district is on high alert. Fourteen new cases were reported on Friday, bringing the number of cases in the district to 218. In all, 161 people are currently undergoing treatment for COVID-19 in the district. The District Collector has declared 21 wards of Chavakkad municipality as containment zones. Areas of the municipality under Manathala village had already been declared a containment zone. Eight panchayats, 12 divisions of Thrissur Corporation and 20 wards of Irinjalakuda municipality are also containment zones. Sree Krishna Temple, Guruvayur, has banned entry for devotees from Saturday. The interview for Melsanthi appointment too has been cancelled. The number of people infected through contact is causing concern for the district authorities. Seven of the 14 cases reported on Friday were infected through contact. Of them, six are health workers. On Thursday too, 14 persons were infected through contact. The cases reported on Thursday included four headload workers at the Central Warehousing Corporation, Kuriachira, four sanitation workers with the Thrissur Corporation, and four health workers. The persons infected on Friday through contact are: 53-year-old woman of Chalakudy; 48-year-old man from Karivannur; 47-year-old man from Madayikonam; 31-year-old woman from Chavakkad; 36-year-old woman of Arimbur; 48-year-old woman from Guruvayur (all health workers); and a 65-year-old woman from Chavakkad. Other cases are two of a family, 24-year-old woman and 67-year-old man, from S.N. Puram who arrived from Chennai on June 8; a 27-year-old man of Mailipadam who arrived from Hyderabad on June 2; 38-year-old man of Kandanassery who came from Qatar on June 5; a 42-year-old man who arrived from Dubai on May 26; two from a family of Kodungallur – 28-year-old man and 24-year-old woman - who came from Delhi. In all, 12,646 people are under observation in the district.  21 wards of Chavakkad municipality, as containment zones
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||The heat is on||
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Plugging the leak||
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Window of opportunity||
13 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Children’s clubs vow to end child labour in Chittoor||Children’s clubs in as many as 42 remote and forest villages of Bangarupalem mandal in Chittoor district observed World Day Against Child Labour on Friday. Members of the clubs in the age group of 13-17 visited the families at their respective villages and took a pledge from the parents that they would abide by the law to discourage child labour and send their children to schools. The campaign launched by the Rural Organisation for Poverty Eradication Services (ROPES) in coordination with Childline 1098 and Canadian NGO Children Believe saw the participation of about 1,200 children. ROPES chairman K. Dhanasekharan said that members of the clubs and child rights activists strictly followed the COVID-19 guidelines during their campaign. “The State government’s ‘Amma Vodi’ scheme already contributed its mite and drastically reduced the incidence of child labour in Bangarupalem mandal, particularly in the remote and forested villages. In spite of this, the sporadic cases of child labour continue to surface due to rural poverty. In view of the lockdown, no rallies were taken out anywhere,” he said.  “Our club members play an active role in identifying school dropouts,” he said.
13 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Positive cases cross 500 in Chittoor dist.||Chittoor police have intensified their surveillance at border checkposts and along rural roads connected to Tamil Nadu from Satyavedu to Kuppam as COVID-19 cases crossed the 500 mark, with 32 new cases being reported on Friday alone. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar and COVID-19 Special Officer (Nagari) P. Ravi Raju, along with task force personnel, inspected red zones in Puttur town, from where nine cases were reported on Friday. Officials took stock of the rise in COVID-19 cases in Puttur, Nagari, Nindra, Pichatur, Vadamalapeta, Karveti Nagaram, Nagalapuram and Satyavedu mandals. They inspected border checkposts at Nagari and Satyavedu, and instructed the duty personnel to mount vigil on the movement of vehicles and strictly discourage public movement without valid passes. While a majority of the cases during the last one week have had links with Chennai, sporadic cases were identified with a travel history to Mumbai. The district headquarters of Chittoor also witnessed four cases on Friday, prompting the task force to carve out red zones. Tamballapalle mandal, in the western-most part of the district, which has remained largely free of COVID-19 cases, saw one case being reported, of a trader who had travelled to Chennai and Karnataka. The field staff of the Revenue, Medical and Police Departments brought to the notice of the SP that in recent weeks, the incidence of public movement from Chittoor district towards Tamil Nadu saw a spurt. In villages with a small border with Tamil Nadu, some men had crossed over to the neighbouring State to purchase liquor, as it is available at cheaper rates. A couple of days ago, police at the Pallipattu-Kollagunta border checkpost seized liquor bottles from a local youth. ‘Masks compulsory’ COVID-19 Special Officer Dr. Ravi Raju said that in view of the proximity to Chennai and high vulnerability of the spread of the virus, the public were instructed to wear masks compulsorily. He said that shopkeepers should also wear masks and strictly discourage customers visiting them without masks. Following a request from officials, SP Senthil Kumar instructed Deputy SP (Puttur) D. Muralidhar to reduce the relaxation hours for public movement in Puttur municipal limits upto 3 p.m.
13 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||State stands to gain due to Greenko project: Kallam||Andhra Pradesh stands to get an incremental benefit of nearly Rs. 3,495 crore due to the Greenko reverse pumping project, Principal Adviser to the Chief Minister Ajeya Kallam has said. GED charge Mr. Kallam said the government decided to levy a Green Energy Development (GED) charge of Rs. 1 lakh per year per MW on the wind and solar component, Rs. 1 lakh per year per MW on the pumped storage component for the first 25 years and Rs. 2 lakh per year per MW from then onwards for the remaining operating life of the project. This itself would provide a benefit of Rs. 32.30 crore per annum. The absolute gain from the levy of the Green Energy Development charge is Rs. 3,375 crore. Stating that the government had to bear more compensation to land owners, Mr. Kallam said the government had estimated that 4,766.28 acres of land would need to be acquired for the project. “Considering the operating lives of the solar, wind and pumped storage projects, the absolute gain to the State exchequer will be close to Rs. 3,375 crore. The TDP government had proposed to recover a one-time amount of Rs. 119.16 crore,’’ he said.
13 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ministers defend arrest, slam Naidu for playing BC card||Several Ministers and YSRCP leaders defended the arrest of former Minister and senior TDP MLA K. Atchannaidu by the ACB on Friday. Home Minister M. Sucharitha said Mr. Atchannaidu was taken into custody as per the procedure after due inquiry into the ESI scandal. “Everyone is equal before law, and the law has taken its course. Fake bills of Rs. 100 crore were produced for medicines not purchased. The price of medical equipment was inflated. All contracts were given to the close associates of the TDP on nomination basis without following guidelines,” the Minister said. ‘Tip of the iceberg’ BC Welfare Minister Sankara Narayana said TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu was playing the BC card. “It is dreadful to see Mr. Naidu instigating the BCs with his caste politics. Everyone is equal before law. The TDP leader has been arrested on charges of irregularities in the ESI, which directly affects thousands of BCs,” he added. “Soon, the role of Mr. Naidu and his son Lokesh will come into the open. The ESI scam is just a tip of the iceberg,” he said. Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar said, “Mr. Naidu’s cheap politics is appalling. Mr. Naidu had sent letters to the Centre opposing the appointment of BCs as High Court judges and used BCs for his political mileage. It is unbecoming on his part to ask people to come on to the roads to protest against the arrest,” he said. Addressing the media in Nellore, he said, “The TDP is projecting the former Minister as another Jyothi Rao Phule to instigate the BCs at a time when the government is taking care of their welfare,” he said. “The TDP is in for big trouble as the government is close to unearthing more scams, including the one relating to Chandranna Kanuka,” he said. MLC and YSRCP BC Cell president Janga Krishna Murthy said Mr. Naidu was in the habit of using the BCs for his political mileage and ignoring their welfare. Ministers K. Kannababu and D. Krishna Das, and MLA R.K. Roja slammed the TDP for arguing that the arrest was an attack on BCs.
13 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ANM among 15 new cases in Guntur district||Guntur district recorded 15 new cases on Friday, with six of them being traced to Duggirala, two from Tadepalli, one each from Vipparla and Phirangipuram, four from Guntur. Among the infected was an ANM who treated a patient. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar visited the containment zones at Tadepalli and asked people not to take any risk by venturing out. Mr. Samuel Ananda Kumar along with DIG, Guntur Urban, PHD Ramakrishna and Joint Collector P. Prasanthi visited the containment zones and inspected the areas. They inspected a quarantine centre at Mahanadu and enquired about the facilities. Since the area is close to the residence of Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy, the revenue and police personnel are taking extra precautions. District Medical and Health Officer J. Yasmin said a public awareness campaign would be launched from June 16 to sensitise people on the need to use sanitisers, face masks and follow social distancing protocols.
13 June 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rushikonda beach to have boating control room||To monitor boating activities and also to mitigate drowning incidents, Rushikonda beach will have an exclusive tourism boating control room here in the city. The control room, which is being constructed at a cost of Rs. 20 lakh by the Tourism Department, is scheduled to be inaugurated on June 18 by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy through a live video conference. After the boat accident at Kutchuluru area in East Godavari district last year, the Tourism Department following instructions of the State government is setting up control rooms at nine different locations across the State for the safety of tourists and also to make sure such drowning incidents do not occur again. In the first phase, Rushikonda beach in Visakhapatnam district has been allotted a control room. According to Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC)Divisional Manager T.G. Prasada Reddy, an MRO rank officer, Irrigation Officer (to asses climatic conditions), four persons from the Tourism Department, including two swimmers/community guards and two police constables will be working in the control room at Rushikonda. “CCTVs will be arranged at several parts of the beach and crowd will be monitored by the staff inside the control room. Public address system will be installed to make announcements. The boating operations will be also monitored. The staff will be given handheld VHF sets for communication purpose. In case of any untoward incidents, the staff can instantly respond and take action,” Mr. Reddy said. Rushikonda beach has been witnessing more boating activities than the fishing harbour and a few more activities like parasailing are under proposal stage, due to which Rushikonda has been selected for setting up of the exclusive control room, he added. After East Godavari district boat accident in September 2019, the boating activities were suspended in all parts of the State, including Rushikonda. They were resumed in January 19, 2020. However, the tourism activities were closed due to COVID-19 lockdown. At present, Rushikonda beach has a small room for the community guards as well as police to monitor boating and to control the crowd. The number of tourists visiting the beach, especially for boating activities, has increased over the years.
13 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘8 harbours will come up in State’||Fisheries Minister Mopidevi Venkataramana has announced that the State government prepared a plan to establish eight harbours and four fish landing points in the State by 2022 by spending Rs. 3,000 crore. Speaking to newsmen here on Friday, Mr. Venkataramana said once the plan materialises, marine fishing and marketing within the State would get a fillip. “A target has been set to develop an aquatic quarantine facility (AQF) in Payakaraopeta area of Visakhapatnam district in a year to ensure a State-of-the-art quarantine facility for the Vennamei broodstock being imported for cultivation in the State. A sum of Rs. 35 crore is being spent on it." The broodstock of vennamei being imported from the USA would be quarantined in the the facility for five days to detect any disease before permitting it for cultivation. In Andhra Pradesh, the vennamei farmers had been struggling with the spread of the White Spot Disease reported in its cultivation in recent years and it also led to rejection of the consignments from the State by the European Union. Aqua labs Mr. Venkataramana, who is also the In-charge Minister for East Godavari district, said that the State government was taking steps to set up 35 aqua labs, providing technical investigations on the aqua seed, feed, and water parameters at the local level. Deputy Chief Minister Pilli Subhash Chandrabose, East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy and other officials accompanied Mr. Venkataramana during the foundation stone laying ceremony of the Fisheries Department office building in Kakinada.
13 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State will get marine and aquaculture varsity: Minister||The government has approved in principle a proposal to set up a State Marine and Aquaculture University (SMAU), Fisheries Minister Mopidevi Venkata Ramana announced here on Friday. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy gave his consent to a proposal submitted by the Fisheries Department a month ago. Now, the department is identifying a suitable site for the project. The location will be decided by June-end,” Mr. Venkata Ramana told the media here. The university would fill the gap of technical expertise needed in the field of aquaculture and the cultivation of marine species in the State. ‘ADA by next year’ The Minister said an Aquaculture Development Authority (ADA) is being designed to strengthen the aquaculture industry . “The authority will explore the possibilities of providing government assistance to aquaculture farmers . The ADA is expected to come into force by the next year,” said Mr. Venkata Ramana. The Minister further said the regional branch of the Coastal Aquaculture Authority (CAA) that was supposed to be set up in Vijayawada was delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “All clearances have been obtained from the Centre for the CAA branch, which will be run from the office of the Commissioner, Department of Fisheries, in Vijayawada,” he said. The CAA will help issue the clearances to the hatcheries and monitor the aquaculture practices on the ground level. Referring to the regional office of the National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB) in A.P., the Minister said, “The Centre has given its nod. The government is considering Kakinada, Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam for setting up the regional office. The location will be finalised soon.”
13 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One dies of COVID in East Godavari||A 53-year-old man from Karapa mandal in the East Godavari district on Friday died of COVID-19 while undergoing treatment at a designated COVID-19 hospital in Visakhapatnam, District Revenue Officer Ch. Sattibabu said in a statement. The death toll in the district rose to four on Friday. 26 cases According to the bulletin released by the district authorities, 26 persons have been tested positive for the COVID-19 on Friday. “A total of 10 among the 26, who have been tested positive for the COVID-19, are constables of the 3rd Battalion of the AP Special Police in Kakinada city”, according to the bulletin.
13 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja gang busted, 2 held||The Kakinada city police on Friday arrested two persons and seized five kg of ganja from them during a raid at Recherlapeta in East Godavari district. Police swing into action on Friday after a video went viral on social media, highlighting a rampant ganja trade near educational institutions in the city. “Two persons belonging to a gang engaged in the ganja trade have been arrested. Five kg of ganja, cigarettes packed with ganja and 2.5 kg of ganja stuffed in packets have been seized from them during the raid,” Kakinada City DSP V. Bhimarao told reporters. Mr. Bhimarao said that the accused have been identified as Bezawada Ravi (43) and Pithani Vasu (36), both residents of Kakinada city. Police registered cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, and produced them before a local court.
13 June 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore, Prakasam see steady rise in cases||The south-coastal region of Andhra Pradesh is witnessing a steady increase in coronavirus cases as 19 more persons — 15 in Nellore and four in Prakasam district — tested positive for the pandemic on Friday. With this, the total number of confirmed cases rose to 385 in in Nellore district and 150 in Prakasam district. In a welcome development, 14 patients — 10 in Ongole and four in Nellore — were discharged from designated COVID-19 hospitals on Friday. A doctor was among those who tested positive in Nellore district. Those who worked along with the doctor were put in isolation. Nellore city accounted for a maximum of eight new cases followed by Rapur with three cases and Venkatachalam and Dattalur with one case each. A person who had come from Bihar and another person from Tirupati also tested positive, according to a bulletin released by the Medical and Health Department. In Ongole, a 24-year-old woman from Santharavuru village who had returned from Hyderabad was infected as also a 29-year-old man, a Haryana returnee to Pakala village, COVID-19 Nodal Officer John Richards said. A 20-year-old youth from Chevuru village with a travel history to Chennai also contracted the virus. A 28-year-old man from Kondi village, near Kandukur, also tested positive. Nellore Collector M.V. Seshagiri Babu attributed the rise in coronavirus cases to persons with travel history to other States arriving back. Chennai and Delhi returnees accounted for a maximum number of 385 cases reported in the district, he said. Aall those coming from high-risk states of Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and the national capital would be subjected to screening and sent for quarantine, he added.. Urging the people to voluntarily take all precautionary measures including wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing, the Collector said that those without masks would be fined Rs. 200 in urban areas and Rs. 100 in rural areas.
13 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State focussing more on vendetta politics’||Bharatiya Janata Party women's wing national in-charge D. Purandeswari on Friday accused the YSR Congress Party of neglecting the fledgling State’s development and welfare of people as it was fully preoccupied with practising politics of ‘political vengeance’. Addressing the media here, she said the one-year-rule of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government began with singling out ‘Praja Vedika’ for pulling down, leaving several other illegal structures intact. Even ruling party MPs and MLAs were openly criticising the government for the acute sand shortage which hits hard the construction activity in the State, she said. Replying to a question, she said she was not holding brief for TDP leader K. Atchennaidu who was arrested earlier by the ACB. “Law should take its own course,” she maintained.
13 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||High drama at Nimmada||The arrest of Tekkali TDP legislator and former Labour Minister K. Yerrannaidu by the ACB for his alleged involvement in the ESI scandal sparked widespread protests at Srikakulam, Tekkali, Itchapuram, Palakonda and other parts of the district on Friday. The Vigilance and Enforcement Department had earlier stated that Rs. 150 crore of the Rs. 900 crore allocated for the purchase medicines and medical equipment had been misused when Mr. Atchannaidu was at the helm. Policemen, who included several officers, allegedly jumped the wall, entered Mr. Atchannaidu’s house at Nimmada village of Kotabommali mandal, 35-km from Srikakulam, and arrested him. His arrest ahead of the Legislative Assembly session raised many an eyebrow, as he had been a vocal critic of the government in the Assembly. Mr. Atchannaidu and his family members resisted the forcible entry of the policemen into their house, and tried in vain to call senior police officers, including Srikakulam SP R.N. Ammi Reddy, to register their protest. ‘BCs targeted’ The police did not allow anyone to take photographs and videos when the leader was forcibly shifted to a vehicle and taken to Vijayawada via Visakhapatnam. TDP MP K. Rammohan Naidu and party district president Gowthu Sirisha alleged that the government arrested Mr. Atchannaidu as it was unable to face him on the Floor of the House. Mr. Rammohan accused the government of targeting the BC leaders. In Vizianagaram, former MLA Meesala Geeta alleged that the government was trying to create panic among the Opposition leaders with arrests and misuse of power.
13 June 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police stations gear up to ward off coronavirus threat in city||The outbreak of COVID-19, has put everyone on their toes, especially those who are in the frontline such as the police force. To counter the rapid increase in cases and at the same time to keep the flow of work at normal pace, the police stations are gearing up to keep virus at a distance. Very soon the reception counters will function from a 3-foot glass screens that are being erected at all the 23 police stations in the city. Since, the reception counter is the first place where every complainant visits at a police station, the staff is vulnerable to the virus. “Keeping this in mind, we are erecting a glass screen at the reception counter at all the police stations,” said Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena. “We have already placed the order and they will be delivered and erected in the next 10 days,” he said. A similar screen will also be erected in front of the table of the Station House Officer (SHO). After visiting the reception counter, the next place that a complainant visits is the SHO.  Mobile disinfectant units This apart, all the 23 police stations and all other establishments such as ACP offices and the commissionerate have been provided with mobile disinfectant units. These units can be carried by a constable or home guard on duty on their back and every day the entire premises is disinfected a couple of times. Adequate quantity of sodium hypochlorite is provided to each unit, said Mr. Meena. He also said that over 25,000 hand sanitisers have supplied to the force, 70,000 masks, 6,700 gloves, 10,000 soaps, 70 PPE kits and 246 body suits have been allocated. Moreover, every person approaching the police station or other establishments will have to go through a thermal check, as 27 thermal scanners have been provided. So far except for one woman home guard, no one has tested positive for COVID-19, in the city police.
13 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yadavas hail ‘Golla Mirasi’ restoration||The Yadava community hailed the State Government’s decision regarding restoration of ‘Golla Mirasi’, the hereditary rights of the community pertaining to certain rituals at Tirumala temple. ‘Sannidhi Golla’ is a person/family hailing from the community that has the privilege to open and close the door at the main threshold of Sri Venkateswara temple at Tirumala every day at dawn. According to temple scriptures, Sannidhi Sarabhaiah was the person bestowed with the right to have first and final darshan of the Lord every day, and the practice was inherited by members of his lineage. Though the system is followed even today, the abolition of the hereditary right some years ago reduced what was once a privilege to a mere job. It was only when the last incumbent Sannidhi Venkataramana ‘retired’ from the position on superannuation that the community launched a legal battle for restoration of the right. Hailing the State Government’s recent decision to restore the hereditary right, members of the Akhila Bharata Yadava Mahasabha (ABYM) gathered at Alipiri and broke coconuts as a thanksgiving to Lord Venkateswara. Building Tirupati The community leaders also met the local legislator Bhumana Karunakar Reddy and thanked him for taking up their issue. Recalling the role of Yadavas in developing Tirupati and the Tirumala temple, Mr. Reddy cited historical accounts and said it was in the year 1130 that Ghati Deva Yadavaraya built Tirupati town under instructions from his spiritual guru Sri Ramanuja. It was taken forward by Veera Narasingadeva Yadavaraya, Veera Rakshasa Yadavaraya and Ranganatha Yadavaraya who developed Tirumala temple and built its outer precincts.
13 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govindaraja temple closed as staffer tests positive for COVID||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) closed down Sri Govindaraja Swamy shrine in Tirupati for two days after an employee of the temple was tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. The temple was reopened for darshan just four days ago after the lockdown norms were relaxed. Contact tracing A senior employee working in the temple’s health wing was tested positive during a regular checkup on Friday. The officials launched the contact tracing to identify the people the employee met in the last few days. “Sri Govindaraja Swamy temple will remain closed for devotees on June 12 and 13. The Old Huzur Office and the nearby PH store will also remain closed as the infected employee had reportedly moved around these places,” said a communiqué issued by the TTD. However, the TTD officials said that the daily rituals would be performed at the temple in private. They got the entire temple premises and the offices in its vicinity sanitised.
13 June 2020||TIRUPATI/KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Atchannaidu’s arrest is an assault on BC community’||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) on Friday took serious exception to the arrest of former Minister and legislator K. Atchannaidu in the ESIC funds misappropriation issue, and dubbed it an attack on the Backward Classes (BC) community. Party leaders gathered at Jyotirao Phule statue on Prakasam Road in the city and protested his arrest. Former MLA M. Sugunamma and district leaders R.C. Munikrishna and B.G. Krishna Yadav gathered at the junction carrying a banner and raised slogans against the government for the midnight attack. “A former Cabinet Minister who is the present deputy floor leader of the main Opposition party deserves to be treated with respect, but this cannot be expected of the YSRCP government.” Ms. Sugunamma said. At Srikalahasti, P.R. Mohan, former chairman of Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP), called it an attempt to muzzle the voice of the opposition. Mr. Mohan said that he hoped sanity would prevail over the State Government, which he said was bent on politically neutralising TDP leaders. In Kadapa, the party’s district president R. Sreenivasa Reddy condemned the attack and called it a ‘first anniversary gift’ of the YSRCP government to the community. “This government is all about personal attacks, intimidation, harassment and political vendetta against leaders of weaker sections by hitting at their economic roots,” he said. ‘Smear campaign’ Mr. Reddy termed as a ‘smear campaign’ the arrest of Mr. Atchannaidu, who proved himself to be a dynamic legislator from the Opposition, providing critical and constructive suggestions to the government.
13 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Search on for 13 more in ESI scam||The officials are searching for 13 more accused in the multi-crore Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) scam, which is being probed jointly by the Vigilance and Enforcement (V&E) Department and the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). The ACB officials arrested six persons in the case on Friday – Tekkali TDP MLA and former Labour Minister K. Atchannaidu, two retired directors, a retired joint director, and two staff members. The other accused The remaining persons allegedly involved in the case were joint directors G. Jagadeep Gandhi, V. Krishna Kumar, B. Chandrasekhar and T. Sarala; administrative officer V.V.S.N. Murthy; former pharmacist in the Central Drug Store, DIMS, K. Dhana Lakshmi; civil surgeon K. Ranga Swamy, and employees S. Narasimha Rao and A. Krupakanth. Director of Prodigy Computers and Laptops, Hyderabad, T. Dinesh; director of Jalam Environment Private Limited G. Murali Krishna; Jercon Enterprises proprietor Ravi Tejasri; and Tele Health Services Private Limited director T. Pramod Reddy were also wanted in the fraud, the ACB sleuths said. The ESI Scheme is being monitored and implemented by the Director of Insurance Medical Services (DIMS). Treatment is being provided to the insured employees and their dependants in four ESI Hospitals, three ESI Diagnostic Centres and 78 ESI Dispensaries in Andhra Pradesh. Three directors, five joint directors, a couple of doctors, directors of a few companies and some staff members are allegedly involved in the scam. They had allegedly procured drugs, surgical equipment and other material, all worth about Rs. 988.77 crore between 2014-15 and 2018-19. “The accused had violated the procedures and guidelines laid down by the Labour, Employment, Training and Factories (LET&F) Department and the ESI Corporation. The purchases were made without consulting the Drug Procurement Committee and without calling for open tenders, causing huge loss to the government,” the officers said.
13 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Now, COVID-19 test at your doorstep||Private testing for the coronavirus is now available at the doorstep of your home in Vijayawada city. Apollo Diagnostics in a press release on Friday said that it would deploy technicians to homes to collect the samples. By coincidence, the Andhra Pradesh Government on Friday issued an order fixing Rs. 2,900 as the upper limit for the fee any lab could charge for conducting a test for the virus in the State. Apollo is the first standalone private diagnostic laboratory in the State that has been granted permission to conduct tests for the virus in the State. Manipal Hospitals is the only hospital in Vijayawada area that has been granted permission for conducting tests for the virus till now. Apollo Diagnostics was granted permission by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) on May 29. The Apollo Diagnostics National Reference Lab has NABL and CAP Accreditation, the press release said. Those who want to get tested could go to the lab on D V Manor Road (opposite Manor Food Plaza) or request that the sample be collected from home by calling 040 44442424.  Additional charge While a fee of Rs. 4,500 was announced per test, this was reduced to Rs. 2,900 in accordance with the government order. A representative of the diagnostic lab said that an additional Rs. 1,000 would be charged if the same was collected from home. The government order released on Friday did not mention any fee for collection of samples from home. “The cost of samples collected at home was high because temperature needs to be maintained. The government order has not specified any fee for collecting samples at home, but once that was done the fee would be changed,” the representative said. While people could get themselves tested privately there was no clarity on whether they could go to a private hospital for treatment. While a couple of hospitals procured permission for treating COVID-19 patients and even announced a fee structure, sources said there were few takers. Even those who get themselves tested in the Apollo Lab would have to report to the health authorities if the tests were found to be positive for the virus. All persons found to be asymptomatic but have tested positive are currently being sent to Siddartha Pinnamaneni Medical College in Chinnaoutupalli and the NRI Medical College in Chinnakakani. The rest are being treated in the government hospitals.
13 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu calls for virtual stir||Holding Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy responsible for the “illegal arrest” of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) Deputy Leader in Assembly K. Atchannaidu, TDP national president and former Chief Minister N. Chadrababu Naidu has called upon the people to stage virtual agitations against the arrest. Addressing a press conference on Friday, Mr. Naidu slammed the State government for arresting his party leader over alleged irregularities in ESI procurement without giving any prior notice. The government had not followed due procedure while arresting the former Minister. It would face the backlash from the public if did not stop its persecution of Backward Classes and weaker sections of society, Mr. Naidu said. The TDP had started an online agitation under the hashtag #WestandwithAtchannaidu# which got 28.6 million likes that indicated the level of disappointment against Mr. Jagan’s undemocratic policies. The people were requested to launch virtual agitations from their residences. They have to hold placards with a caption that they stand with Mr. Atchannaidu, Mr. Naidu said. The TDP chief said Mr. Atchannaidu was targeted was only because of his effective fight against the ruling party's excesses and looting in illegal transportation of sand, mining activities and corruption in liquor sales. He stood up against the sale of cheap liquor that was hurting the health of poor people, Mr. Naidu said. Mr. Atchannaidu belonged to a backward classes political family with 38 years association with the people. His family members currently hold two MLA posts and one MP post, while his brother Mr. Yerrunnaidu served at the national level as a Union Minister. A leader with such a record was today targeted out of political vengeance. He underwent a surgery for piles recently but hundreds of policemen made a pre-dawn raid and arrested him as if he was a dacoit or a terrorist, the TDP chief added.
13 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Intermediate results: Krishna district corners the glory||Education Minister A. Suresh on Friday said despite several challenges on account of the lockdown, the Board of Intermediate Education was able to complete the examination and the evaluation process and announce the results. In view of the pandemic, the department released the results only in online mode this year. Speaking after releasing the Intermediate first and second year results here, the Minister said a total of 10.64 lakh students took the examinations in 1,411 centres across the State. Of them, 5,46,365 were from the first year and 5,18,261 from the second year. Students of the first year (general category) secured a pass percentage of 59 and those of vocational segment registered 41%. In the second year, students of general category registered a pass percentage of 63 and 52% of the ‘vocational’ category passed the examination. Krishna district secured top position by securing 75%, the highest pass percentage in the first year examinations, followed by West Godavari and Guntur districts (65 % ). Visakhapatnam is in third place with 63 % . Krishna reigned supreme even in the second year result by securing a pass percentage of 75, followed by West Godavari (71 %) and Nellore and Visakhapatnam sharing the third place with 68%. New admission rules Mr. Suresh said admissions in Intermediate courses were yet to start and warned managements against unauthorised admissions before the time stipulated. He said GO 23 was released stipulating new admission rules and anybody found violating them would attract stringent action.
13 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Atchan, ESI staff shifted to ACB court after general, COVID tests||Former Labour Minister and TDP MLA K. Atchannaidu and five others, who were arrested by the ACB in ESI scam, were brought to the ACB Court at 11 p.. on Ftiday, when reports last came in. Earlier, the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials shifted them to the ESI Hospital for conducting general and COVID-19 tests on them. The Vigilance and Enforcement (V&E) and the ACB sleuths, who are investigating the ESI scam, arrested the MLA, and five others and brought them to Vijayawada by road. They were shifted to ACB Vijayawada Unit office at Gollapudi, and later to the ESI Hospital. Police arranged tight security at the ACB headquarters and at the court. Meanwhile, former Ministers Kollu Ravindra, Nara Lokesh and other TDP leaders rushed to the ACB office and the court. Chintamaneni held Meanwhile, the West Godavari police took former MLA Chintamaneni Prabhakar into custody, when he staged a protest condemning the arrest of Atchannaidu in the ESI scam. Mr. Prabhakar was shifted to the police station.
13 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delay triggers panic||Inability to access the official websites that were to display the Intermediate first and second year results triggered panic among students on Friday. Education Minister A. Suresh released the results at a press conference and it was announced that the results would be available for viewing in certain websites after its official release. But with none of the websites providing access, students eager to know their results started calling media organisations. Responding to their anxiety, the Board of Intermediate Examination released a statement asking students and their parents not to panic due to non-responding of the servers. “They are opening slowly due to heavy rush on the servers. It may take some time. Please cooperate,” said the statement.
13 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poster against child labour released||The Government Railway Police (GRP), National Child Labour Project (NCLP) and representatives of various NGOs organised awareness programmes on Friday to mark World Day Against Child Labour. Child Rights Advocacy Foundation (CRAF), which has been fighting for child rights, released posters against child labour to mark the occasion. Foundation programme director P. Francis Thambi said that posters were released across the State. Nuzvid MLA Meka Venkata Pratap Apparao, RIDES director B. Nagesh Rao, Eluru MLC Ramu Surya Rao, Visakhapatnam Parliament Member M.V.V. Satyanarayana, Guntur Deputy Commissioner of Labour U. Malleswar Kumar participated. “We also arranged an anti-child labour campaign through public addressing system in child friendly villages in West Godavari and Guntur districts,” Mr. Francis Thambi said. AP State Comission for Protection of Child Rightsmember Kesali Appa Rao participated in an anti-child labour campaign, organised by CRAF at Vizianagaram. District Legal Services Authority, Guntur, secretary I. Tejovathi organised teleconference with officials of various departments and asked them to take measures to prevent child labour. Help promised Superintendent of Railway Police K. Narayan Naik and Vijayawada railway station director Ch. Suresh, who participated in a programme organised by Railway Childline, promised to help the organisation in curbing child labour. Railway Childline director A. Sridhar Reddy and coordinator K. Srikanth participated. At Amaravati, Good Shepherd Convent Sister Aruna George and other staff members participated in the programme. Krishna District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, NCLP Krishna district Project Director D. Anjaneya Reddy released posters at the Collectorate on the occasion. Bachpan Bachao Andolan State coordinator G. Tirupathi Rao said children were vulnerable for work post the lockdown and urged the Non-Governmental Organisations and officers to take measures to prevent child labour.
13 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||207 new COVID cases in State||In the last 24 hours, 207 fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in Andhra Pradesh. According to the bulletin released by the Command Control Room on Friday, a total of 3,091 (123 new cases) have been discharged after recovery while 2,465 cases are still active. The virus has so far claimed 80 lives in the State. No death was reported in the last 24 hours. Of the 207 new cases, 141 are among locals, two are foreign returnees and 64 are from other States or migrant workers. Of the local ones, two are foreign returnees and 64 are other State or migrant workers. Of the total number of people infected by the virus in the State so far, 4,402 of them are local residents.
13 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||An attempt to stifle voice of Oppn. in Assembly: Ayyanna||Former Ministers, MLAs and senior TDP leaders described the arrest of party Deputy Floor Leader in the Assembly K. Atchannaidu as “an attempt to stifle the voice of the Opposition in the House, which is scheduled to begin in four days.” Former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu told the media here on Friday that the timing of the arrest showed that the YSRCP government was scared of Mr. Atchannaidu cornering it in the Assembly. Referring to the allegations of corruption being made by the ruling party against the TDP leaders, Mr. Patrudu said not even a single charge had been proven so far. Alleging that the Chief Minister was against BCs, he called upon the BC leaders, irrespective of their political affiliations, to support Mr. Atchannaidu, condemn the “politics of vengeance,” and save democracy. He demanded the unconditional release of Mr. Atchannaidu. Former Minister Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy said Mr. Atchannaidu had only “endorsed” and did not make any recommendation in the ESI Hospital case. Earlier, TDP Urban District president and MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar convened a meeting of the party leaders to condemn the arrest of Mr. Atchannaidu. Mr. Ganesh Kumar and MLAs P.V.G.R. Naidu and Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu, MLC Duvvarapu Rama Rao, Telugu Mahila president V. Anita, and former MLA Peela Govinda Satyanarayana opined that the manner in which Mr. Atchannaidu was arrested “without following the due procedure” such as issuing a notice indicated the desperation of the government to divert the attention of the people. Preventive custody Earlier, Mr. Satyanarayana Murthy and former MLA Palla Srinivasa Rao were taken into preventive custody at Parawada and at Gajuwaka, respectively, as they were on their way to the TDP office in the city to attend the meeting.
13 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister distributes artificial limbs to beneficiaries||Blood donation camps, distribution of essentials to the needy and a few service- oriented programmes marked the birthday celebrations of Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao here on Friday. In association with Gurudev Charitable Trust, the Minister distributed tricycles, artificial limbs and essential commodities to the physically challenged at his residence at Seethammadhara. He distributed essentials to ward volunteers at Ward No. 7 and blankets to the poor. He recalled that YSRCP stood behind the public during the lockdown. He later distributed essentials as well as clothes to elderly persons in an old-age home at Arilova. MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana, Pendurthy MLA Adeep Raju and a number of YSRCP leaders greeted Mr. Srinivasa Rao on his birthday.
13 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steel plant employees hold blood donation camp||Steel Plant Employees Union organised a blood donation camp with the slogan ‘Blood for Mines’ in association with the Indian Red Cross Society Blood Bank and Lions Blood Bank, here on Friday. Members of the Steel Plant Employees Union said that right from the establishment of Vizag Steel Plant (RINL), the employees have been demanding allocation of iron ore mines to Vizag Steel Plant. Every year, the CITU is motivating employees to donate blood for the good cause. CMD, RINL, Vizag Steel Plant, P. K. Rath, congratulated all the donors. Secretary, Indian Red Cross Society, Visakhapatnam, K. Srinivasa Rao, and others were present.
13 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||14 new cases take tally to 252 in Vizag district||Fourteen new COVID-19 cases were reported in Visakhapatnam district on Friday, taking the tally to 252. With the new cases, the number of active cases increased to 127. Five more patients were discharged from hospital after testing negative on Friday, taking the total number of discharges to 124. One person died from Chengalraopeta from the district. According to Special Officer for COVID-19, P.V. Sudhakar, the number of clusters in the district as on Friday is 54. There are 43 very active clusters which reported cases in the last four days. The number of active clusters and dormant clusters are eight and three respectively. 4-month-old discharged A four-month-old baby, who was admitted to VIMS with COVID-19, was discharged from hospital after testing negative. The baby hails from Rampachodavaram area in East Godavari district and was admitted on May 25. The baby was in critical condition and was provided treatment in a ventilator. After 18 days of treatment, his health condition improved. The baby was discharged from the hospital on Friday. District Collector V. Vinay Chand appreciated the efforts of VIMS doctors.
13 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||B. Dasgupta is new ENC Chief of Staff||Vice Admiral Biswajit Dasgupta took charge as the Chief of Staff of Eastern Naval Command (ENC) on Friday. Vice Admiral S.N Ghormade, the outgoing Chief of Staff, has been transferred as the Controller Personnel Services at the Integrated Headquarters, Ministry of Defence (Navy), New Delhi. An alumnus of the National Defence Academy (NDA), Vice Admiral Dasgupta was commissioned into the Indian Navy in 1985 and is a specialist in navigation and direction. He has commanded frontline ships including INS Nishank, INS Karmuk, INS Tabar and INS Viraat.
13 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thunderstorms may continue till June 17||Thunderstorms with lightning is expected to continue at isolated places over north coastal A.P. till June 17 and in Rayalaseema on June 13, the IMD officials said on Friday. With the southwest monsoon remaining vigorous over Rayalaseema and active over coastal A.P., high rainfall occurred at Avanigadda and at isolated places in Kurnool and Kadapa districts. The Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC), Visakhapatnam, has warned of strong surface winds with speed reaching up to 50 km per hour. Fishermen have been warned against venturing into the sea till Saturday evening.
13 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protocol given the go-by in Vizianagaram district||Few people are adhering to COVID-19 protocols such as wearing masks in public and maintaining social distancing, in Vizianagaram district. The district, which was in the green till a month ago and is now an orange zone, has registered 26 positive cases till now. Most of those who registered positive are migrant labourers who have returned come from Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi and other places. Despite quarantine norms, some of them are learnt to be moving freely in public places. “Large crowds can be seen at PW Market, GT Road and other places. The situation is also alarming at liquor shops, where social distancing norms are being flouted. Special police teams are trying in vain to regulate the crowds at liquor shops but in vain. There is a semblance of order at the liquor shops till the time police personnel are present, but once they move on to another liquor shop, it is again a picture of chaos,” said a resident. Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari, who observed the violations of COVID-19 protocol in the city, directed all Circle Inspectors and station house officers to book cases and impose fines on those violating the guidelines. “The situation will go out of hand if people continue to ignore social distancing norms. Over 25,000 migrant labourers have reached the district from across the country. More people will come very soon with further relaxations from June 8. All individuals have to be extremely careful as their own family members will be the victims if they are affected by coronavirus,” Ms. Raja Kumari told The Hindu . “We will not hesitate to close liquor shops if norms like social distancing and wearing of mask are ignored. The same is applicable to hotels and commercial complexes which are expected to function from June 8,” she said. Some shops, however, are strictly adhering to the COVID-19 protocols. They are refusing to allow customers to enter their premises without wearing masks. Sri Balaji Textile Market president Praveen Kumar Anchalia said that thermal scanning was being done for all customers to ensure safety of others, including people working in the market. However, social distancing is not being followed at PW market due to narrow roads and movement of personal vehicles and auto-rickshaws.
13 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leader picks holes in sand policy||BJP senior leader Pakalapati Sanyasi Raju on Friday alleged that more than one lakh construction workers and labourers had lost their livelihood owing to the ‘faulty sand policy’ of the government. Mr. Sanyasi Raju, along with some party leaders, visited the sand reach at Pedatadivada in Denkada mandal of Vizianagaram district. “The construction activity has come to a standstill in the district due to the faulty sand policy of the government. More than one lakh labourers are struggling to make their ends meet in absence of daily income. The government must make sand available free of cost,” Mr. Sanyasi Raju told the media. Taking a dig at Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Mr. Sanyasi Raju said that the YSR Congress Party president had promised a sand policy during his padayatra in the run-up to 2019 elections, but reneged on his promise after assuming the office. BJP leaders said that they would organise a protest in all mandals if the government failed in adopting a people’s friendly sand policy.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB arrests Atchannaidu||According to ACB officials, investigation had revealed that DIMS had purchased medicines, equipment and other things to the tune of Rs. 988.77 crore during the period and there was a scam of over Rs. 150 crore. Vigilance report Addressing a press conference here, Regional Joint Director, ACB, Visakhaatnam P.V. Ravi Kumar said that based on the report filed by Vigilance & Enforcement, the State government had asked the ACB officials to further investigate into the scam which occurred when Mr. Atchannaidu was Minister from 2014 to 2019. He said the ACB in its investigation found that there were irregularities in procurement of medicines, lab kits, surgical items and furniture. He said that there were irregularities in call centre, toll-free and ECG services. The irregularities in the sewerage and biomedical waste was being investigated, he said. “As per the ACB investigation, medicines were procured at 50% to 129 % higher than the market prices. When all the purchases should have taken place through the e-tender system as per the norms, they have procured on nomination basis from a few companies,” he said. Fake receipts The ACB officials said that some DIMS staff had created fake invoices, quotations and also fabricated fake company letter heads and envelopes and had played a key role in the scam.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||No social distancing||
13 June 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Pregnant woman wades across a stream||A pregnant woman of Rollagadda, a tribal hamlet in Gundala mandal, had a harrowing experience in crossing a forest stream on foot along with the help of two of her family members on Friday afternoon after the approach road over the stream was washed away by swirling waters of the stream. The incident has yet again brought into spotlight the travails of people living in far flung areas of the Agency mandals due to lack of high level bridges over the forest streams at several tribal hamlets ahead of the onset of monsoon season. Sources said that Sandhya Rani, who was nine months pregnant, developed labour pains on Friday morning. Her husband Yugender called for an ambulance to help shift her to the government hospital in Yellendu. An ambulance headed to Rollagadda but could not reach the habitation as the approach road to the village was washed away. This compelled Sandhya to wade through the stream in almost knee-deep water with the help of Yugender and a close relative. She reached the roadpoint with great difficulty and boarded the ambulance. Later, she gave birth to a baby boy at the Primary Health Centre in the mandal headquarters. Meanwhile, Collector M. V. Reddy ordered an inquiry into the incident to ascertain the reasons for the delay in construction of an already sanctioned bridge at Rollagadda.
13 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS seeks immediate release of GST compensation dues||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has represented to the Union Finance Minister and Chairperson of the GST Council to release the Goods and Service Tax (GST) compensation dues of Rs. 3,975 crore pertaining to the months of April and May and devolution of funds for the State for the month of June. Mr. Harish Rao who attended the 40th meeting of GST Council through a video conference here on Friday took to the notice of the Council several issues of concern to the State. He said that the State’s revenue fell steeply due to COVID-19 crisis and any shortfall or delay in the release of GST compensation would adversely affect many welfare programmes and development activities implemented by the State of Telangana. The assured GST revenue with a growth of 14% promised by the Centre was considered while drafting of the budget and any failure in fulfilment of this assurance would put the State in a difficult situation for implementing many of its programmes. Revenue fall There was huge fall in revenue from other sectors too during the lockdown period and not releasing the compensation would aggravate the economic crisis being faced by the State. At present, the State government was paying only part of the salaries to the employees due to lack of funds, Mr. Harish Rao said. The State Finance Minister suggested that the GST Council borrow to meet the commitment given by the Centre for payment of GST compensation to the States, if necessary by amending the provisions of the Act. He sought to bring to the notice of the Council that Telangana performed well on the revenue front and was one of the few States which had taken little GST compensation from the Centre since the introduction of GST in July 2017. When the need for compensation arose and if the Centre would not come forward to fulfil its obligation, it would severely disappoint the State. The State was also not getting any revenue on account of revenue deficit. Further, the 15th Finance Commission also did not favour the State and it reduced the State share in the devolution, the Finance Minister explained. IGST amount The Finance Minister however, expressed his gratitude to the GST Council Chairperson for reversal of IGST amount of Rs. 1.76 lakh crore from the Consolidated Fund of India, a long standing demand of Telangana. Telangana was expected to get Rs. 2,800 crore on this account and urged the Chair to release the amount to the State. Mr. Harish Rao said that under the leadership of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, the State stood first in the country barring few north-eastern States in revenue performance by recording least revenue gap of 11.5% for the year 2019-20. Telangana also achieved the highest revenues since the implementation of GST in 2017 and did not take any compensation during the years 2017-18 and 2018-19.
13 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC summons GHMC Commissioner||The Telangana High Court on Friday directed the GHMC Commissioner to appear before it to explain the inconsistencies in its actions relating to closure of polluting industries in Shastripuram of Rajendranagar in the State capital. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy hearing a writ petition filed by an industry owner challenging closure notice issued by the GHMC said the erroneous actions of the civic body is resulting in more litigation. Earlier, the HC directed the GHMC in a PIL petition to close down all industrial units in Shastripuram being operated illegally and polluting environment. The GHMC started serving notices to ‘polluting industrial units in Shastripuram’ seeking their closure. Some owners of such industries moved the HC questioning the grounds on which the civic body intended to close their units. During the hearing of one such petition filed by one Mohd. Taufiq Ahmed, the bench asked the GHMC counsel whether that unit had government permission. With the civic body counsel giving different answers to the query, the CJ said there should be clarity on what points the notices were served. “Your notices are erroneous. The grounds cited are not correct,” the CJ observed. The bench remarked that the civic body is issuing notices to the industries on some grounds but was citing different ones before the court. The bench said that because of the thoughtless actions of the GHMC, the court is being flooded with litigation. “There are already 2.10 lakh pending cases in the High Court. Please ask the civic body authorities not to harvest litigation,” the CJ said. Referring to Mr. Ahmed’s petition, the bench asked the civic body counsel if the petitioners’ unit had government permission. With the counsel initially saying there was no licence and later maintaining it had expired, the bench said the civic body authorities were confused about the notices they had served. The bench said the members secretary of Telangana State Legal Services Authority had already submitted a clear report in a PIL petition relating to Shastripuram industrial units issue. All the constructions in those areas have to be within the parameters of the master plan. The bench said the authorities should have specific information as to what constitutes a polluting industry. A book binding unit cannot be an environment polluting unit, it said.  “Your notices are erroneous. The grounds cited are not correct.” Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan
13 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bountiful rain forecast for State||With south west monsoons widespread across the State, the Meteorology department has predicted a bountiful year ahead for Telangana, with above average rainfall. The monsoon of 2020 is very likely to be between normal and slightly above normal, ranging between 94% and 110% more than average, officials informed. Normal rainfall for Telangana is 755 millimetres. Heavy to very heavy rains are likely to occur at isolated places in the districts of Adilabad, Asifabad, Mancherial, Nizamabad, Jagtial, Peddapalli, Bhupalapalli, Kamareddy, Sircilla, Karimnagar, Kothagudem, Mahabubabad, Mulugu, Warangal (Urban & Rural) and Khammam districts on Friday and Saturday, the predictions say. Low pressure area persists over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and adjoining coastal Odisha and neighbourhood with cyclonic circulation extending up to 7.6 kilometres above the mean sea level, tilting south westwards with height, a bulletin from the IMD informed. On Friday, airport area in Balapur mandal has received the highest rainfall of 63 millimetres, while Jannaram village in Mancherial, Kawal Tiger Reserve area, and Inavole in Warangal (Urban) district received considerable rainfall of over 40 millimetres. The forecast and warnings have been disseminated to the State Disaster Management Authority and various State and district officials, Met officials informed.
13 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mobile fish outlets rolled out on a pilot basis||The State Fisheries department has launched mobile fish outlets for taking quality fish and fish delicacies to the consumers’ doorstep. Animal Husbandry Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav flagged off two customised vehicles on a pilot basis on Friday. The launch follows the government’s decision to promote fisheries products through mobile outlets to be deployed in all the 150 divisions of the GHMC. The vehicles have been built according to the design developed by the Fisheries department and the department launched the project in collaboration with the National Fisheries Development Board. Each of the 150 vehicles that would be deployed would cost Rs. 10 lakh. Of the total cost, subsidy of 60% would be provided to SC/ST/women beneficiaries while it would be 40% in respect of the general category. Senior officials said the deployment of vehicles would gain momentum in the coming days and the entire GHMC area would be covered by these mobile outlets before the end of the financial year. Mr. Srinivas Yadav said the launch of the programme was part of efforts to strengthen the rural economy and encourage community-based trades. As consumers were facing difficulties in accessing quality products, the government had decided to put in place mobile outlets for their convenience. This would, on the one hand, ensure adequate marketing opportunities to fishermen while, on the other, ensure availability of fish at reasonable prices to consumers. The mobile fish outlets had been contemplated to enhance self-employment opportunities to people dependent on the profession. He lamented that fisheries was one of the most neglected sectors in the erstwhile united State and CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao had therefore decided to encourage the sector through a series of initiatives, including provision of vehicles, nets and other equipment at subsidised rates.
13 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cabinet panel stresses on robust sports infrastructure||A Cabinet sub-committee to draft a sports policy for the State government asked officials to study the best policies being implemented within the country and abroad so that some of their features could be replicated. Officials were asked to convene a meeting of senior officials of Sports, Education, Municipal Administration, Rural Development and other departments, to discuss existing facilities for promotion of sports. Facilities for sportsmen The meeting would accordingly prepare a comprehensive report on basic infrastructure available, facilities being provided to sportsmen and related issues and submit it to the Cabinet sub-committee so that it could be considered during the preparation of the policy. It was resolved to take the views of eminent sports personalities and coaches on salient features that could be incorporated into the policy. First meeting Decisions to this effect were taken during the first meeting of the Cabinet sub-committee headed by Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud on Friday. It also had ministers K.T. Rama Rao, P. Sabita Indra Reddy and E. Dayakar Rao. The Cabinet panel was constituted by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to explore opportunities and suggest a comprehensive policy to develop sports infrastructure paving the way for making it the top State in terms of sports promotion. According to an official release, the sub-committee members inquired about available infrastructural facilities, functioning of sports academies and schools, information related to coaches and coaching facilities as well as condition of stadiums in different parts of the Telangana State.
13 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Early rains advance sowing activity in TS||Amid COVID-19 related impediments in mobilising the inputs such as investment credit, seed and fertilizer for the Vaanakalam crop season, the farming community across Telangana have taken to an early beginning of the farming operations, thanks to the early rains in the State, under the influence of a low pressure area over Bay of Bengal. With 530 out of 563 rural mandals in the State recording either normal and more rainfall during the last 10 days, including 386 receiving large excess rain that is sufficient for taking up sowing, the farming community have started sowing operations with the hope that an early and in-time beginning of the agricultural season would always have an advantage for good crop yield. As on Thursday, the sowing operations have been taken up in over 1% (over one lakh acres) of the normal extent for the season — over 1.03 crore acres. As part of the regulated farming system introduced by the State government, the Agriculture Department has estimated that cultivation of crops would be taken up in over 1.3 crore acres this season with area under cotton and paddy going beyond 1.07 crore acres followed by redgram in over 12.5 lakh acres, soyabean in 4.08 lakh acres and other crops in smaller extents. The Centre has allotted 22.3 lakh tonnes of fertilizers to Telangana for the first crop season. According to official sources, the farming community has already purchased about 1.3 lakh tonnes of urea, 0.5 lakh tonnes of DAP, 0.15 lakh tonnes of muriate of potash, 1.25 lakh tonnes of NPKS, 0.1 lakh tonnes of other fertilizers so far. Besdies, the entire quantity of 1.3 lakh tonnes of seed of all crops was positioned to ensure that there’s no shortage of seed. However, in the wake of regulated farming the demand for seed of cotton, paddy and redgram has gone up sharply in the rural areas making some unscrupulous traders resorting to the sale of uncertified seed with fake branding. Recently, the police in association of the Agriculture Department officials have busted spurious seed rackets in Karimnagar and Hyderabad indicating the thriving of the illegal activity.
13 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Why arrest Cong. leaders and let off those of TRS, asks Uttam||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy has asked Director-General of Police (DGP) M. Mahender Reddy to ensure that the police do not arrest them for their proposed visit to projects on Godavari river on Saturday. In a letter to the DGP, he referred to house arrest of all Congress leaders whenever they had organised a party programme and said their privileges as Member of Parliament and Member of Legislative Assembly were being trampled upon by the police. In case the police wanted to put some restrictions, Mr. Reddy asked the DGP to give in writing in advance under what provisions of the law the restrictions were being put. The Nalgonda MP also wanted to know how the police were allowing huge gathering of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and government programmes while denying the same to other parties. He said the Kondapochammasagar opening was done by the Chief Minister with thousands of people in attendance while IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao had attended a similar programme in Sircilla on Wednesday. He recalled that Congress leaders had been arrested while on their way to projects on Krishna river a few days ago and even to the Secretariat to meet the ministers, which was the right of all people’s representatives. If the Home Ministry guidelines were applicable to Congress leaders, how was it that they were not applicable to TRS leaders and ministers, he asked.
13 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CSIR-IICT working on drug compounds to fight coronavirus||Since drug discovery takes many years, scientists are repurposing drugs that have been used to contain various flus or diseases across the world. The World Health Organisation (WHO) identified 25 such drugs to be repurposed and tested to battle COVID-19. Among them, the Council for Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) had identified five compounds and began working on them, said top scientists of the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) on Friday. The CSIR-IICT work on compounds Favipiravir, Remdesevir, and Umifenovir included developing a process technology to make them available at affordable costs in the market, once they are cleared by the regulatory authority, they said, during the webinar organised by the institute for students and others on current scenario on drug discovery and safety protocols to contain COVID. IICT director S. Chandrasekhar said scientists stood strong during lockdown to find solutions to combat the virus. CSIR-IICT scientists have been working continuously to ensure a speedy solution in the form of drugs and protection gear to reach the society at affordable prices. Masks and face shields developed at the institute are for common men, he said. Time taken for any drug to come to the market is about eight to 12 years, and can cost approximately Rs. 10,000 crore. This process involves many steps right from identifying a molecule to trials and permissions. Utmost importance, while developing a drug, is given to safety and toxicity of the drug, he explained. While there is no drug for COVID-19, science and technology developed over the years has helped in identifying the virus and possible solutions to contain it. He advised students to maintain social distancing and follow self-hygiene to defeat the spread. Senior principal scientists Ch Raji Reddy and Prathama S. Mainker spoke on repurposing of drugs. Another senior principal scientist Anthony Addlagatta detailed the working of RT-PCR testing kits for COVID-19 while his colleague S. Sridhar demonstrated the use of masks and face shields developed at a low cost. Scientist Ramanuj Narayan moderated the webinar and explained the importance of maintaining good hygiene and following preventive measures.
13 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Police foil BJP protest, place leaders under ‘house arrest’||Police foiled the bid of TS BJP leaders plan to reach Pragathi Bhavan to meet Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to seek explanation about the prevailing COVID-19 conditions in twin cities and across the State by placing them under ‘house arrest’ on Friday morning itself. Former president K. Laxman, city president and MLC N. Ramchander Rao, MLA T. Raja Singh and others had earlier sought an appointment with the Chief Minister but as there was no response decided to march from Punjagutta crossroads towards the CM’s office-cum-official residence accusing the government of ‘dictatorial’ attitude and questioned its virus control and treatment strategy with even frontline healthworkers staging protests. Party president Bandi Sanjay and other leaders, including general secretary G. Premanander Reddy, P. Sudhakar Reddy, official spokespersons Krishna Saagar Rao, N.V. Subash and others, strongly condemned the house arrest and claimed that their only agenda is to highlight the need to save people’s lives with effective public health management. ‘Undemocratic’ “In a democracy, it is natural that Opposition party leaders will meet the Chief Minister to explain about the problems of the common people and seek solutions but KCR is refusing to give any appointment. It goes against the democratic principles of the country and even the Constitution,” said Mr. Sanjay. Talking to the media at his residence, Mr. Laxman demanded an explanation from the government on why so many frontline workers including doctors, police and others are testing positive and why the government is reluctant to allow private labs to test even after getting permission from Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). He accused the TRS government of disregarding the ICMR guidelines totally and putting the people’s lives in danger. The party declared its total support to the agitating junior doctors of the Gandhi Hospital and to their demands to improve the conditions there and also decentralise the healthcare operations. They said it was ridiculous that those who tested positive are being transported from hundreds of kilometres to centralised COVID-19 healthcare facility of Gandhi when the infrastructure — physical and manpower — is under severe strain with not enough room for taking in more patients. Mr. Ramchander Rao in an open letter to KCR sought an all party meeting on the issue, recruit more staff in health and sanitation wings.
13 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Raidurg land case posted to June 26||Two writ petitions by private persons claiming rights over 86 acres of ‘government land’ in Raidurg of Cyberabad came up for hearing in Telangana High Court on Friday. Special Government Pleader S. Sharath Kumar told the High Court that he required some documents like original plaint and other papers to present the government’s contentions before the court. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy posted the pleas to June 26 for next hearing. The bench said the relevant documents and court papers relating to the cases would be made available to the SGP. Mr. Sharath Kumar said that actually there was no dispute that the said lands belonged to the government. Some private persons, none of them having any rights over the said lands, moved the courts. They made settlement by misleading the court and started claiming rights over the land.
13 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||UoH ensures fellowships during lockdown||The University of Hyderabad (UoH) has ensured that research students received fellowships during the lockdown period without any interruption, according to Vice-Chancellor Podile Appa Rao. About 500 research students of the university obtain fellowships selected through national-level tests by various funding bodies such as Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), University Grants Commission (UGC), Department of Biotechnology (DBT) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). All such students were ensured of their fellowships by the varsity. In addition, to encourage research projects, the university has been giving advance to project investigators for recurring expenses, including fellowships to project staff, pending release of grants from the funding agencies, the VC said.
13 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||2BHK housing complex ready for opening||The double bedroom housing complex at Erukala Nancharamma Nagar in Mansoorabad is complete and ready for inauguration, a statement from GHMC informed on Friday. The complex, on 1.34 acres of land, houses a total of 288 double bedroom units in nine floors and two blocks, and is complete in all respects with full-fledged infrastructure, the statement informed. Allotment has been done for 154 families which have handed over the land to government for in situ construction of the complex, in the place where a slum stood earlier. Total expenditure for the project was about Rs. 25 crore, with Rs. 8.65 lakh spent on each flat -- inclusive of infrastructural costs. Of this, the Central government’s share is Rs. 1.5 lakh per unit. Infra includes CC road, underground drainage system, water supply, power, lift facility, cellar parking for two wheelers, rainwater harvesting structures, and greenery.
13 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Medicos call off strike||Junior doctors of the Gandhi Hospital who boycotted duties after one of them was allegedly assaulted by attendants of a deceased COVID patient ‘conditionally’ called off their strike on Friday. The Telangana Junior Doctors Association released a statement confirming the resumption of duties with immediate effect. The medicos said that they were hopeful that Health Minister Eatala Rajender would look into their demands. They also stated that if their demands were not met, they would boycott duties after 15 days. The TJUDA also stated that they would form a committee which would follow-up with the State government in connection with their demands, which include recruitment of doctors, nurses and patient care providers, for the next 15 days. The attendants of the COVID-19 patient were arrested by Chilkalguda police.
13 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Call to promote greenery||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has stressed the need for taking up promotion of greenery on a mission mode with focus on more plantation during the rainy season. Participating in a meeting convened to review the progress of works relating to urban forestry, the Chief Secretary exhorted the officials concerned to intensify their work related to rejuvenation of forests and protecting them from encroachments in fulfilment of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s vision for promoting green cover across the State. Works on development of 188 forest blocks in 129 locations were underway, he said.
13 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||5 more from Banjara Hills PS positive||Five more policemen from the Banjara Hills police station tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. This came a day after 10 police officers tested positive. Sources said that on Thursday, health officials collected the swab samples of 15 officers at Banjara Hills police station, of which test results of five, including an ASI and four constables, came positive. A senior doctor from Area Hospital in Kondapur has tested positive and has since been quarantined. Complaint by scribe kin Family members of Telugu news channel journalist Manoj, who died of COVID -19 last week, lodged a complaint with Chilkalguda police station. They alleged that negligence by doctors of Gandhi led to his death.
13 June 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Mallannasagar feeder channel overflows||The Mallannasagar canal started overflowing at Erravalli, in Kondapaka mandal, in the early hours of Friday creating panic among the locals. The canal continued to overflow for about four hours from 5 a.m. to 9 a.m. when the officials intervened to stop it. According to sources, the water was being pumped from Akaram pumphouse to Murkook pumphouse. On Thursday night the region received some 94 mm rainfall resulting in water flowing into the canals and causing them to overflow and there were minor breaches at some places. Officials brought the situation under control using heavy machinery, Kaleshwaram project Superintending Engineer T. Venu said.
13 June 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Record job generation in Odisha’s Nabarangpur||In an exemplary effort to provide employment to the jobless during the continuing lockdown for COVID-19 pandemic, Odisha’s Nabarangpur district generated employment for 1,01,060 persons on Friday. This massive creation of mandays is expected to rise further in the coming days, said Nabarangpur Collector Ajit Mishra. On Saturday, the number of persons employed through MGNREGA in Nabarangpur is expected to rise by another 5,000, he added. From May 1 to June 10, a total number of 16, 69,139 mandays have been generated in Nabarangur district to allay distress of jobless ruralites during the lockdown. The Odisha government’s Panchayatiraj department had advised all district administrations to generate employment through MGNREGA to help out the poor as well as returned migrant labourers. On April 23, the total number of persons employed through MGNREGA in Nabarangpur district was only 7,805. On that day, State Development Commissioner V.K.Pandian visited Nabarangpur to review measures to counter the COVID-19 threat and enhancement of livelihood sources. “During the review meeting he had stressed on enhancing livelihood projects including MGNREGA to meet the rising need of returning migrant workers due to the lockdown situation. Then on we took up planned effort to increase employment generation through MGNREGA in all the 10 blocks of the district on a war footing,” said the Collector. Meticulous planning was made by the administration with involvement of local NGOs. Ten nodal officers were posted in ten blocks of the district to monitor the MGNREGA work. In each block one NGO with grassroot-level presence was chosen to work hand in hand with the administration. As an immediate measure, digging of 5,682 fish farming ponds was decided to be the main thrust of employment through MGNREGA in the district. At present, work on 1,000 ponds is continuing. “Enhancement of demand among needy people for MGNREGA work was possible through involvement of NGOs, timely payment of wages, transparency through daily documentation by photographs from work sites and involvement of civil society members,” said Achyut Das, a senior social activist, whose organisation Agragamee is being used for proper implementation of MGNREGA projects in Tentulikhunti block of Nabrangpur. He praised Nabarangpur administration for ensuring timely payment of wages which is a major obstacle in attracting people to MGNREGA projects.
13 June 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. Congress demands FIR, SIT probe into viral ‘audio clip’||The Madhya Pradesh Congress has demanded an inquiry into an alleged phone call recording of BJP’s Rajya Sabha candidate Jyotiraditya Scindia wherein a former Congress Corporator mentioned to him a deposit of Rs. 50 lakh in an attempt to secure a ticket ahead of the 2018 Vidhan Sabha election. Based on the alleged recording which went viral on social media, a Congress delegation, led by party Gwalior-Chambal media incharge K.K. Mishra, met Raja Babu Singh, Inspector General of Police, Gwalior Zone, on Friday demanding an FIR be registered and a special investigation team conduct the inquiry. “Let me tell you that submitting a memorandum doesn’t mean things are true. Many a time fake clips are made viral, and I don’t think there is any truth in this [the clip],” said Mr. Singh. “But since they have submitted a memo, I’ll get it inquired and see what the truth is.” Shivraj video The Congress released the audio clip a day after an audio and a video recording of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan addressing BJP workers in Indore went viral wherein he is reportedly heard informing them the central leadership had decided the fall of the Kamal Nath government. In the alleged audio clip, former four-time Congress corporator in Ashoknagar Anita Jain is heard informing Mr. Scindia that she had deposited Rs. 50 lakh with one Mr. Agarwal on the advice of “Parashar ji”, a reference to Mr. Scindia’s personal secretary Purushottam Parashar. “Ahead of the 2018 Assembly election, Ms. Jain was seeking a Congress ticket for her daughter-in-law which was eventually denied,” said Mr. Mishra. Claiming the audio clip had been doctored and pieced together from different sources, BJP spokesman Pankaj Chaturvedi, an aide of Mr. Scindia, said, “In legal and political procedures audios and videos have no importance. I hope the Congress gets some common sense.”
13 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha police collect over Rs. 1 crore in fines for violation of mask norm||The Odisha police have collected more than Rs. 1 crore as fine from people for not using masks while out of their homes. The State government had on April 9 made use of mask mandatory in public to fight COVID-19. While a sum of Rs. 1,25,84,180 was collected for violation of mandatory use mask, the State police also collected fine of Rs. 11,74,350 from people for violating social distancing norms. A sum of Rs. 1,03,800 was collected for violation of night curfew. These details were given by Director General of Police Abhay when Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik held a videoconference with senior police officers on Friday. Mr. Abhay informed that 9,205 women were contacted by police over phone to curb domestic violence during lockdown. Information about domestic violence was received from 53 women and necessary steps were taken, he said. Apart from enforcing the restrictions imposed to curb the spread of COVID-19, the police are also providing security at the 8,002 temporary medical centres set up across the State for quarantine of the Odia migrant workers returning from other States. Addressing the police officers, Mr. Patnaik appreciated the work done by the police personnel during the lockdown. “People at large saw a human face in police actions. We should carry forward this good work,” he said. Stating that the State’s fight against COVID-19 was not yet over, Mr. Patnaik asked the State police to stay alert and face the situation more professionally with a human face.  112 new cases Meanwhile, 112 more COVID-19 positive cases were detected in the State pushing the total to 3,498. As many as 120 persons were discharged from hospitals taking the total recoveries to 2,474. The number of active cases stood at 1,011. A total of 13 persons had died so far – 10 of COVID-19 and three due to other ailments, according to officials.
13 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana seeks lower GST on textiles and fertilizers||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Friday asked the GST Council to lower the rates on textiles, fertilizers and footwear and also sought extension of deadline for filing of tax for those paying GST of less than Rs. 5 crore in the wake of the unprecedented situation arising because of COVID-19 pandemic. “Haryana has demanded from the Union government not to increase the tax on textiles, fertilizers and footwear. Same demand was also endorsed by Gujarat and Bihar,” Mr. Chautala told reporters after taking part in 40th meeting of the GST Council in New Delhi. “We have also asked to remove the penalty on those who failed to file the return in the last three years. To increase the State and Central revenues, this penalty must be eliminated. Besides the June deadline of filing tax for those paying GST less than Rs. 5 crore must be extended to September 2020,” he said. Expressing concern over rise in COVID-19 cases, Mr. Chautala said that there is a need for collective effort to wipe out the pandemic from the country by creating awareness among the general public regarding social distancing and wearing of masks and washing hands frequently.  ‘Treatment for all’ “The Haryana government has been working relentlessly on the treatment of positive cases and it has been offering treatment to all who have come to Haryana. COVID-19 patients from Delhi are also being treated in Jhajjar’s AIIMS,” he said. The Deputy Chief Minister said that 25% beds of private hospitals in Haryana have been reserved for COVID-19 cases and if any private hospital failed to adhere to directives of the government, stern action will be taken.
13 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Help farmers instead of coining new phrases’||Taking a dig at the ruling BJP-JJP government in Haryana over the recent launch of “Kisan Mitra Clubs”, aimed to facilitate farmers, Leader of the Opposition and former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Friday said instead of coining new phrases, the government should take farmer-friendly decisions that would actually help them. “What is the benefit of appointing a ‘Kisan Mitra’ if the government itself has become anti-farmer,” asked Mr. Hooda. “The government should reconsider all its anti-farmer policies instead of coining new phrases. If the government wants to be a friend of the farmers, then it should implement the Swaminathan Commission report, give a fair price for the crops and reduce the input cost of agriculture,” he said.  ‘No volunteers’ The Leader of the Opposition said if the government wants to appoint “Kisan Mitras”, despite previous failures of different schemes on a similar pattern, it should appoint unemployed youth studying agriculture from the Haryana Agricultural University and not any volunteers. “This will provide employment to the youth and they will be able to contribute to the agriculture sector, based on their expertise,” said Mr. Hooda.
13 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||‘Reserve 25% beds for COVID-19 patients’||In view of rising COVID-19 cases in Gurugram, the district administration on Friday directed all public and private hospitals to reserve 25% of the total beds for positive patients. The directions issued by the District Magistrate Amit Khatri also said beds be reserved with adequate availability of human resource and logistics and the details be updated on an online portal. In a separate order, Mr. Khatri directed all registered sample collection centres and testing labs to start using the RT-PCR application to ensure real-time furnishing of details about sample collection. Meanwhile, 185 new cases were recorded in the district on Friday taking the cumulative number of patients to 2,922. However, the number of active cases is 1,927. A total of 19 people, including a Police Inspector, have died in Gurugram due to the infection so far.
13 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam hospital goofs up in COVID-19 patient case||A hospital in Darrang district became a source of embarrassment for the Assam government by discharging a person who tested positive for COVID-19 instead of another who had recovered. The district authorities have ordered a magisterial probe into the goof-up at the Mangaldai Civil Hospital in Mangaldai district. The hospital authorities had on Wednesday evening decided to discharge one Hamid Ali and five others after their recovery. But they mixed him up with Hanif Ali who had tested positive when they were to be released at 7 p.m. Both are from the same village — Dalgaon Sialmari in the district. Instead of Hamid, Hanif left the hospital with the five others in an ambulance in the presence of local MLA Gurujyoti Das, Deputy Commissioner Dilip Kumar Bora and Superintendent of Police Amrit Bhuyan. “All of them were in home quarantine when health officials on Thursday morning learnt about Hanif having been wrongly discharged. He was readmitted but he tested negative hours later. He was discharged today (Friday), and so was Hamid Ali,” Mr. Bora said. The goof-up was attributed to “not recognising the face behind the mask”. Officials said Hanif’s house has been marked as a containment zone. 6 booked in Mizoram The Mizoram police have booked six men for supplying locally brewed liquor and drugs to some people quarantined for COVID-19. Mizoram is a dry State. It is the fifth northeastern State to record more than 100 COVID-19 positive cases.
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||Centre plays forward, Kejriwal back in Delhi||It’s a different Arvind Kejriwal on view in his third term as Chief Minister of Delhi. As deaths and COVID-19 cases mount in Delhi, so do the politics around it. In a sense, given the multiplicity of authorities in Delhi, these politics are structural – not helped by the fact that the BJP controls the Central government and the municipalities – and AAP the city government. Three months after COVID-19 was declared an epidemic on March 12, the death toll has gone beyond 1,200 and daily cases – the highest single-day tally of 2,137 was reported on Friday – continue to soar, the Centre seems to have taken over. Mr. Kejriwal’s seemingly inexplicable decision to reserve Delhi hospitals for Delhiites on June 6 – which was shot down a day later by Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal – came on a day which also saw the late-evening appointment of a new Principal Secretary for the Health Department. ‘In letter and spirit’ After some noises were made by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on June 9 about the “big crisis” caused by Mr. Baijal’s reversal, Mr. Kejriwal returned from his illness, and a negative COVID-19 test, to declare a day later that he would implement the L-G’s decision “in letter and spirit”. Hours later he met Home Minister Amit Shah. The canny politician that he is, Mr. Kejriwal quickly seemed to realise that public opinion was not with him on his “reservation” decision and fell in line with the L-G’s diktat. Remember he is the same man who sat for nine days on a dharna at the L-G’s residence from June 20, 2018 demanding the passage of files related to flagship government schemes. It’s clear that Mr. Baijal, in his capacity as Chairperson of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), is in the driver’s seat as the city’s death toll breached the 1,000 mark and active cases crossed 20,000. A Delhi government spokesperson, when asked for a comment, said there was “nothing new” regarding the L-G’s role in this respect. Government sources, however, said Mr. Baijal’s proactive role over the last few days was in line with the Centre’s nudge. Exponential leap On March 4, there was a single case in the city. On Friday, the Capital recorded the highest single-day tally of 2,137 cases. As of June 12, the total number of positive cases was 36,824 with 13,398 recoveries, 1,214 deaths and 22,212 active cases. After claiming to be prepared to handle as many as 1,000 positive cases per day, and being “four steps ahead of corona” till as recently as May 30, the Delhi government has predicted a rather grim scenario for the end of July.By June 15, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday, there will be 44,000 COVID-19 cases in the city and 6,600 beds will be required. By June 30, Delhi will reach one lakh cases and need 15,000 beds, 2.25 lakh cases requiring 33,000 beds by July 15 and, by July 31, there were expected to 5.5 lakh cases and requirement of 80,000 beds. While additions to the number of hospital beds to treat novel coronavirus patients have progressed at a snail’s pace – going from 3,734 on April 4 to 8,821 on June 9, even the takeover of stadia to serve as medical facilities, which first began to be pursued in late March, is still in the works. Unfulfilled promise In fact, the Delhi government announced back on March 30 that they would take over the iconic Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, constructed for the Asian Games in 1982, and run it as a hospital. But that never happened allegedly over the issue of who would arrange for security after its transfer: the Delhi government or the Sports Authority of India (SAI). It’s also intriguing why the Delhi government didn’t turn one of its own stadiums – such the Thyagaraj Stadium – into a hospital. Given how power is structured in Delhi, the administration can work only if the Central and city governments converge on decision-making. Especially in times of a pandemic like COVID-19. Mismatch in number They could begin by addressing the mismatch in the number of “official” Delhi government-provided number of COVID-19 deaths – 1,085 – with that put forward by the three municipal corporations on Thursday– 2,098.
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||Experts from AIIMS, ICMR part of L-G’s panel to tackle COVID-19||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Friday constituted an advisory committee of eminent experts to chart the way forward regarding “various challenges” being faced in Delhi in the prevention of the spread of COVID-19 and measures to ramp up medical infrastructure, Raj Niwas said. The experts included Prof. Balram Bhargava (Director General ICMR) and Randeep Guleria (Director, AIIMS). The committee, which will also be tasked with providing examples from global and national best practices, will also consist of National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) members — Krishna Vatsa and Kamal Kishore, Ravindran, of the Directorate General of Health Service (DGHS) and Surjit Kumar Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). Raj Niwas said the committee was formed under section 17 of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) Act to advise the DDMA “on various aspects of COVID-19 management”. Earlier during the day, Mr. Baijal reviewed containment zones management strategies here with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Health Minister Satyendra Jain and senior officials from the Central and Delhi government via videoconferencing. “The L-G stated that our objective is to break the chain of transmission and reducing the morbidity and mortality of COVID-19. He also said ramping up bed capacity and medical resources should be our topmost priority in handling the pandemic so that surge in cases doesn’t overwhelm the healthcare system,” said Raj Niwas. It also said Mr. Baijal directed all District Magistrates and Deputy Commissioners of Police to focus on proper delineation, strict perimeter control, intensified IEC, active house-to-house surveillance with special focus on high-risk population for their effective management as per Centre’s guidelines. He urged field functionaries to ensure mobility restrictions, social distancing measures, hygienic practices quarantine of contacts, risk communication and awareness among public on preventive and public health measures to contain COVID-19 and its further spread. The L-G was informed that up to June 11, there were a total number of 34,867 confirmed cases in Delhi out of which 12,731 patients have recovered; 77.8% of the active cases are recuperating in home isolation. “The L-G said a large number of COVID-19 patients are in home isolation and all efforts should be made for timely response in terms of testing, triaging and shifting of patients to the required level of dedicated COVID facility to ensure proper medical care. He also directed authorities concerned to closely monitor senior citizens and persons with co-morbid or underlying medical conditions,” Raj Niwas stated.
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||Doctors’ association seek L-G’s intervention to get pending salary||The Municipal Corporation Doctors’ Association on Friday wrote to the Lieutenant Governor, drawing his attention to the non-payment of salaries to doctors at hospitals of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation and threatened to resign from government service. Salaries for the months of March, April and May have not been paid, and with no permanent solution in sight, the letter stated: “It is more so sad since this is happening when many of our doctors have contracted COVID-19 infection and one doctor has died...North MCD has not even been kind enough to release the salaries of the deceased doctor of Hindu Rao Hospital to help his bereaved family in such difficult times and for which, we doctors had to contribute individually to help his family.”  This situation has forced the association of our young doctors at the Kasturba and Hindu Rao Hospitals to threaten to resign en masse, the association highlighted. “Our association fully and unconditionally supports the reasonable demand of the RDA and has further decided that if three months salaries of all our doctors are not paid within a week, we may also be forced to resign en masse from government service,” it said. As an alternative, it proposed that they be granted permission to take voluntary retirement on a mass level after payment of their outstanding dues. It also argued that given the non-payment of salaries was a recurrent problem, which could not be resolved unless there was a permanent solution, the health department may be handed over to the State or Central government as the corporation was unable to manage salaries. It requested the L-G’s intervention in the matter.
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC directs North body to pay salary by June 19||The Delhi High Court on Friday directed North Delhi Municipal Corporation to pay the salary for the month of March to the resident doctors in its six hospitals in the Capital by June 19. An HC Bench also asked the Delhi government to release funds to North DMC so that it can pay the April salary by June 24. The court also issued notice to the Centre, Delhi government, North DMC and various doctors’ association seeking their stand on the public interest petition (PIL) initiated by the High Court on its own. The court had initiated the PIL based on news reports that doctors of Kasturba Gandhi Hospital have threatened to resign as they have not been paid salaries since March this year. The news reports also stated that recently doctors of North MCD-run Hindu Rao Hospital had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over non-payment of their salaries for last three months. The detailed order of the court is awaited.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Student receives threat calls after posting tweets||A 20-year-old journalism student was allegedly harassed and threatened on social media by a person, who she suspected to be a policeman, said officials on Friday.  FIR registered DCP (West) Deepak Purohit confirmed that an FIR has been registered in the case. The victim Tilak Nagar sais she had posted some tweets after which she started receiving threatening WhatsApp messages and calls. She said she received a missed call from an unknown number. The person said he wants to to take a revenge because of her tweets. The victim claimed that she checked the number and found that he was a policeman, posted in Crime Branch. The victim had also shared screenshots of the messages on social media, which went viral. An officer said: “The victim alleged that she had posted certain tweets from her Twitter handle after which she started receiving threatening WhatsApp messages,” the officer said, adding that they are yet to ascertain the identity of the man. The victim complained to the police regarding the matter on May 30. However, the FIR was registered two days ago, the victim said.
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||Over 2,000 cases reported in a day for the first time||The Capital witnessed the biggest spike in the number of COVID-19 cases in a single day with 2,137 new cases being reported in the past 24 hours, according to a Delhi government health bulletin on Friday. The total number of cases now stands at 36,824. For the first time, over 2,000 cases have been reported in the city. The city also reported 129 more deaths, taking the total number to 1,214. However, all the deaths did not happen in the past 24 hours. Of the total cases, 13,398 people have recovered and there are 22,212 active cases. Addressing media, Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday asked the Centre to use their beds for COVID-19 patients. “Centre-run hospitals have a lot of ICU beds. There are around 13,000 beds in those hospitals. We would like to request the Centre to use those beds for COVID-19 treatment,” he said. He also rejected the possibility of reimposing the lockdown. On allegations of civic body hospitals not being used by the government, Mr. Jaim said: “The civic bodies have their own hospitals and they should treat the COVID-19 patients themselves. We are not taking over their hospitals.” “Those who are cremated under the COVID-19 protocol, belong to two categories — those who have died of the virus and the ones who have died but were suspected COVID-19 patients. It also happens that we observe cases wherein the patient was cremated under the protocol but their reports later come negative. Therefore, if the civic bodies have the details of the casualties, it should send it to the govt. But it can’t say over 2,000 people have died if they only have numbers and not the details. There should also be a positive report of those patients and the number should be confirmed,” he added.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT directive to UPPCB on medical waste||Following a plea alleging unscientific disposal of bio-medical waste, the National Green Tribunal has directed the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board to take appropriate steps and furnish a compliance report by July 20. Referring to previous orders pertaining to disposal of bio-medical waste arising out of COVID-19 treatment, a Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “Remedial action needs to be taken and scientific disposal of bio-medical waste needs to be ensured by suitable alternative arrangements in the interest of environment and public health.” The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea filed by petitioner Ravi Sharma alleging unscientific dumping of bio-medical waste in the open.
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||53-year-old ASI succumbs to virus in city||A 53-year-old Assistant Sub-Inspector of Delhi Police died here on Friday due to COVID-19, said officials on Friday. The victim — Sanjeev Kumar — was posted at the Crime Branch, they said. Kumar tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted in GTB Hospital, said an official, adding that he was on a ventilator after complained of fever and breathlessness. On Monday, a 50-year-old Head Constable Ajay died here, said officials. His report of COVID-19 coronavirus came positive later. His family said he was admitted a day before when he complained of fever and breathlessness. Ajay from Ghaziabad was posted at Seemapuri police station of Shahdara district. Total of eight policemen have died so far due to the virus. Earlier, two Sub-Inspectors, two Constables and two Assistant Sub-Inspectors had died due to COVID-19. Over 800 Delhi policemen have tested positive for the virus so far. Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Srivastava said the number of COVID-19 cases is bound to increase in the force as the figure for the entire national capital increases. However, he stressed that it is important that the pandemic does not affect the force’s morale and also doesn’t lead to fatalities.
13 June 2020||Mumbai,||CM unveils Mumbai’s new flood warning system, calls it a boon||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday inaugurated IFLOWS-Mumbai, a state-of-the-art flood warning system developed for the city. “The flood management system is a boon for the city and it will be helpful in saving Mumbai,” Mr. Thackeray said via videoconferencing after the launch. Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare, Science and Technology, and Earth Sciences, who was present at the launch, said the system will help the people of Mumbai in a “big way” as it can predict floods. The Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) has developed the system with in-house expertise and coordination with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The Union minister said, “IFLOWS-Mumbai will enhance the resilience of the city by providing early warning for flooding, especially during high rainfall events and cyclones. Using this, it will be possible to have an estimate of the flood inundation three days in advance, along with immediate weather updates.” The Union Minister said the system was “one of the most advanced” ones and will help the city, which has been experiencing floods with increasing periodicity. “The hi-tech system will predict floods before they occur, therefore enabling Mumbaikars to take due precautions in advance. Mumbai floods, especially the ones in 2005 and 2017, are etched in everyone’s memory. This highly-advanced flood warning system will help the people of Mumbai in a big way. A similar system was already developed by the MoES and is in operation in Chennai,” he said. “In the 2004 tsunami, we lost lakhs of lives, in the absence of an early warning system. But now, India has developed an early tsunami warning system for the whole world and UNESCO has asked India to help other countries in early tsunami warning,” the minister said.   Mr. Thackeray said the State government was able to shift people to safer locations when Cyclone Nisarga made landfall near Alibaug in Raigad district last week as Maharashtra had received warnings about the cyclonic storm two to three days in advance. He said, “Hence, there was hardly any loss of human life.” Mr. Thackeray said some areas in Mumbai are below the sea level and they are flooded during the high tide. “Therefore since 2005, several pumping stations have been built in the city, which stops ingress of water and also pumps it out of the city,” he said. On July 26, 2005, Mumbai witnessed one of its worst floods, receiving 944 mm of rainfall in a day. ‘Need Doppler radars’ He also stressed the need to for four Doppler radars in the city. He said the BMC was the first civic body in the country to build its own molecular lab after a leptospirosis outbreak in the city. In a lighter vein, Mr. Thackeray told Mr. Harsh Vardhan, “Like this system, give us early warning about approaching political storms.”
13 June 2020||Mumbai,||Samples from Lonar lake sent for testing||A day after the colour of water in Lonar lake in Buldhana district turned pink, the State Forest Department has sent samples to National Environmental Engineering Research Institute in Nagpur and Agarkar Research Institute in Pune. State Forest Minister Sanjay Rathod on Friday said the samples were collected and sent for testing after the phenomenon was observed on June 9. The Forest Department had appointed Dr. Milind Shirbhate, a professor at Shankarlal Khandelwal College, to collect the samples and sent them to the research institutes. Geo-heritage monument Formed after a meteorite hit the Earth some 50,000 years ago, Lonar lake has saline water and is a notified national geo-heritage monument. Located around 500 km from Mumbai, it is a popular tourist hub and also attracts scientists from all over the world. As Lonar lake is located within a sanctuary, the Forest Department is responsible for its maintenance. The change in colour of the lake, having a mean diameter of 1.2 km, has not only surprised the locals, but also nature enthusiasts and scientists. Mr. Rathod said some experts have attributed the change to the mixing of dunaliella algae with halo bacteria, forming a beta carotine pigment and turning the water pink. He said, “There have been such instances in other parts of the world. In a lake in Iran, the water turns reddish due to increase in salinity. We are still studying the phenomenon, but it is certain that no artificial occurrence resulted in the change in colour.”
13 June 2020||Mumbai,||Elgaar Parishad case: court seeks medical reports of Shoma Sen||A special court on Friday directed Byculla jail authorities to submit, on June 19, the medical reports of professor Shoma Sen (61), an accused in the Elgaar Parishad case who is seeking interim medical bail. The court has received the medical reports of poet Varavara Rao (81) from JJ Hospital, where he was admitted on May 28 with complaints of giddiness and fainting. Arrested in 2018 Earlier on March 31, both their interim medical bail pleas were rejected by a special court set up to try cases under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). They were arrested on August 28, 2018, and had sought interim bail citing their bad health, their age, and the spread of the novel coronavirus. Ms. Sen’s application said she suffered from multiple ailments including osteoarthritis, glaucoma and high blood pressure, which could make her vulnerable to COVID-19. Mr. Rao said in his application that the elderly were more vulnerable to the virus. While rejecting their bail pleas, the court observed that the accused were booked under UAPA, along with other sections of the Indian Penal Code. The court added that the directions of the high power committee excludes prisoners booked under UAPA from getting bail. Mr. Rao and Ms. Sen are among 11 people booked by the Pune Police in the Elgaar Parishad-Bhima-Koregaon case, before the probe was taken over by the National Investigation Agency.
13 June 2020||Mumbai,||Khwaja Yunus’s mother writes to police chief||The mother of Khwaja Yunus, who allegedly died in police custody in 2003, has in a letter to the Commissioner of Police sought the revocation of the reinstatement of four suspended Mumbai Police personnel. On June 6, assistant police inspector Sachin Hindurao Vaze, and police constables Rajendra Rajmani Tiwari, Sunil Vasant Desai and Rajaram Kisan Nikam — all suspended in 2004 — were reinstated, and took charge of their postings. Khwaja (27) was arrested by Powai CID on December 25, 2002, following the Ghatkopar bomb blast. Two days later, Yunus’s brother, who visited him in Mumbai, found him weak and unable to stand. Khwaja died on January 6, 2003. Asiya Begum, mother of Yunus, has written to Parambir Singh, Commissioner of Police and chairman of the committee to review suspension orders of Mumbai Police personnel, to reverse the order revoking suspension of all four accused who are facing trial. The five-page letter says, “The Committee headed by you has directed the accused persons to join their duties with Mumbai Police.” It mentions the writ of habeas corpus and a petition filed by Yunus’s father at the Bombay High Court seeking an investigation into the case of custodial torture and disappearance of his son from police custody. The letter mentions orders passed by HC and says, “On April 7, 2004, HC said, ‘till date no disciplinary action has been taken against Sachin Vaze and three absconding police constables. We find from the record that the investigation conducted by the State government has been totally shoddy and improper. Hence, we direct the State government to suspend all the three constables and Sachin Vaze, immediately and start disciplinary inquiry against them as they have been prima facie found to be involved in the offence’.” The letter adds, “Soon thereafter, the State government moved court seeking to recall the order, however HC refused to do so and said, ‘Under these circumstances, we find no ground whatsoever to recall our earlier order whereby we had directed the State CID to treat the statements of eye witnesses Dr. Mohammad Abdul Matin Abdul Basit made before the learned Special Judge under POTA 2002 as FIR and register a separate case for the offences under Sections 302, 201 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code’.” The State government had then moved the Supreme Court in appeal which was rejected. ‘Didn’t hold inquiry’ The letter addressed to Mr. Singh states, “Despite the order dated April 7, 2004, you did not conduct any disciplinary inquiry against the accused persons, namely the four police officials. You have passed the order revoking their suspension and directing them to join the services in the Mumbai Police Force. This is completely contrary to the orders by the Bombay High Court. Your actions and inactions amount to wilful contempt and disobedience of the orders passed by the court. In the event you wanted to revoke the suspension, it was obligatory on you to seek the permission of the Bombay High Court.” Asiya Begum said, “You are required to withdraw the revocation of suspension of the four officials at the earliest and in any case within a period of seven working days from today, failing which we will be forced to bring this to the attention of the court.”
13 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Relief work in full swing as Raigad gets Rs. 75 cr. in funds||The Raigad district collectorate has so far received Rs. 75 crore of the Rs. 100 crore promised as relief for Cyclone Nisarga by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. On Friday, district magistrate Nidhi Choudhary in a video conference, informed all tehsils to start distributing the money. The relief package was announced on June 5 by Mr. Thackeray during his visit to the cyclone-ravaged areas. The cyclone made a landfall at Murud on June 3, and though only six people lost their lives, the high speed winds left a trail of destruction. The CM announced Rs. 4 lakh as ex-gratia for relatives of the deceased. Ms. Choudhary said survey of over 90% houses damaged was over. This weekend, the banks will open for people to withdraw the amounts transferred to their accounts and start the repair work, she said. “After we finish the survey of houses, we will assess the damage to crops and cattle,” Ms. Choudhary said. Of the 1,976 villages affected, electricity has been restored in 890 villages. “We are hopeful that Murud, Mhasla and Tala will get connected by Saturday to at least the tehsil headquarters. Restoration at Shrivardhan, which is the worst-affected, will take some more time. Not just the distribution, the transmission itself has been damaged at Shrivardhan.” Electricity has been fully restored at Panvel and Uran, while in Karjat it is 80%, she said. “Over 50% restoration work has been completed in Pen and Alibaug, and 70% in Mahad and Poladpur,” Ms. Choudhari said.  After we finish the survey of houses, we will assess the damage to crops and cattle Nidhi Choudhary District magistrate
13 June 2020||Pune,||Ambedkarite groups and social outfits to protest caste atrocities||At least 100 Ambedkarite and Muslim organisations as well as a few social outfits are planning a ‘symbolic protest’ against rising caste-related atrocities across Maharashtra on June 15, in the wake of the recent murder of a Dalit youth in Pune’s Pimpri-Chinchwad area. Ambedkarite activithe st Rahul Dambale, who is State president of the Republican Yuva Morcha, said in view of COVID-19 there would not be street demonstrations during Jan Akrosh Andolan. Instead, representatives of the respective outfits will submit a proposal with a list of demands to various district administration offices. Charter of demands “Members of every outfit will submit a proposal comprising a set of five demands to every tehsil office, police station and the district collector’s office in each district. We hope to put pressure on the government and urge them to listen to the grievances of the Dalit community,” said Mr. Dambale. The trigger for the protest was the deaths of Dalit activist Arvind Bansod in Nagpur and the murder of Viraj Jagtap in Pimpri-Chinchwad. On the night of June 7, 20-year-old Jagtap was brutally murdered by six men allegedly over his relationship with an upper caste girl. According to the first information report, the accused, including the girl’s father, rammed their tempo into Jagtap’s motorcycle, causing the youth to fall off his vehicle. After chasing him, the accused allegedly hit him on his head with a metal rod and stones. Four members of the group then held the victim’s hands and feet, while the girl’s father Jagdish Kate spat on him, taunting him with casteist slurs for being in a relationship with his daughter. They beat him again before leaving him in a pool of blood. All six have been arrested based on Jagtap’s statement given in hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. Earlier this month, Bansod died under mysterious circumstances, allegedly beaten to death by a group of activists from the Nationalist Congress Party. Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi chief Prakash Ambedkar accused the local police of attempting to register Bansod’s murder as a suicide case. “The deaths of Jagtap and Bansod have coincided with growing unrest among the Dalit community, which is closely monitoring the Black Lives Matter protests over George Floyd’s killing. There is simmering resentment among highly educated Ambedkarite youth at injustice and insensitivity shown to the community right from the violent clashes at Bhima-Koregaon in 2018 to the deaths of these two youths,” said Mr. Dambale. In Jagtap’s case, he said, “Even before his gruesome killing, he was threatened by the Kate family. It is shocking that there is no official condemnation by the State government in this case.” There is a general tardiness in investigating crimes committed against the Ambedkarite community, Mr. Dambale said. Over two years since the Bhima-Koregaon clashes, no trial had taken place, he said. “This is an extremely bad sign for parliamentary democracy. Justice is being frequently denied in crimes against the Dalit community, whether full-scale riots like Bhima-Koregaon or at the individual level, as exemplified by the ‘institutional murder’ of Payal Tadvi. At this rate, the Ambedkar community is fast losing trust in any government run by any party,” he said. The Jan Akrosh Andolan has demanded concrete measures by the State to stop the atrocities. “Any caste atrocity, murder must be immediately handed over to the Criminal Investigation Department. If the offender is a recidivist in an atrocity case, then he should be prosecuted under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999,” he said.
13 June 2020||Sonam Saigal Mumbai,||How many bail pleas filed due to COVID-19? HC asks lower courts||The Bombay High Court on Friday directed all lower courts in the State to submit a report on how many bail pleas have been filed due to COVID-19, what was their status, and how many have been accepted or rejected. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice S.S. Shinde was hearing three separate public interest litigations (PIL), including one filed by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), seeking the court’s intervention to decongest prisons in the State. The petitions also sought information on the health status of convicts and undertrials in the prisons, especially at Arthur Road jail, the worst-affected among the six, which have reported inmates testing positive. The other five prisons are Yerwada, Taloja, Dhule, Satara and Byculla. ‘Test more prisoners’ Senior advocate Mihir Desai, appearing for the petitioners, said as per guidelines issued on June 8, asymptomatic people, who may have come in close contact with others, are at high risk and should also be tested. Going by this, he argued, all those lodged in prisons where inmates have tested positive should also be tested for COVID-19. He also referred to the High Court’s previous order allowing prisoners to make two three-minute calls per month and sought an implementation report. On June 9, Sunil Ramanand, additional director general of police and inspector general of prisons, filed a compliance report saying inmates are getting cured in the Arthur Road Correctional Home due to unceasing efforts of the prisons department and medical authorities.
13 June 2020||Bejing,||New virus cases raise fears in Beijing||Beijing closed two markets on Friday and delayed the return of primary school students after three fresh COVID-19 cases emerged in the capital — the first after two months of no infections in the city. They raised fears of a resurgence after China had largely brought domestic COVID-19 infections under control. The majority of cases in recent months have been overseas nationals tested as they return home. But local authorities announced one new case with no recent travel history outside the capital on Thursday, followed by two more on Friday. The two latest patients are employees of the China Meat Research Centre, city officials said at a daily press conference. One of them had travelled to Qingdao in east China within the past two weeks. Beijing’s Xinfadi meat wholesale market and Jingshen seafood market were closed on Friday for disinfection and environmental sample collection after it emerged that both were visited by the patients, local media reported. Dozens of police officers were deployed to the two markets, which were cordoned off. Beijing’s Education Commission said on Friday it had cancelled first, second and third-graders’ planned return to school on Monday — affecting some 5,20,000 students, the official Xinhua news agency reported. The Commission said students who had already returned to school would carry on lessons as normal, but with stricter anti-epidemic measures in place. 597 infections Beijing students have gradually resumed lessons in waves since late April, after schools had been closed for three months during the outbreak. The city’s last case before the recent spike was reported in mid-April. In total, there have been 597 infections reported in the city — 174 of which were imported from overseas — and nine local deaths, according to official figures. The recent announcements stoked fears on social media. “Beijing will be out of control! Quick, improve the level of epidemic prevention! There may come a second wave!” wrote one user on the Twitter-like Weibo social network. “I’m living in Fengtai district (where the latest cases live), trembling with fear ... Going to buy more masks. Hope it can be over soon!” said another. Some called for mass COVID-19 testing in Beijing. China conducted similar testing campaigns on millions of residents in Wuhan. Large-scale tests turned up 300 asymptomatic carriers in Wuhan as authorities declared the outbreak was essentially over.
13 June 2020||Seoul,||On summit anniversary, N. Korea accuses U.S. of ‘empty promise’||North Korea criticised Donald Trump in a stinging denunciation of the U.S. on Friday, the second anniversary of a landmark summit in Singapore where the U.S. President shook hands with leader Kim Jong-un. It was the latest in a series of vitriolic statements from Pyongyang aimed at both Washington and Seoul, and came a day after the North implicitly threatened to disrupt November’s election if the U.S. did not stay out of inter-Korean affairs. In recent days, Pyongyang has excoriated the South over defectors launching leaflets criticising Mr. Kim into the North and announced it was cutting all official communication links with Seoul. Friday’s broadside contained some of the harshest criticism Pyongyang has sent Washington’s way in recent months, and casts doubt over the future of the two sides’ long-stalled nuclear talks process. In the onslaught, the North’s Foreign Minister Ri So-gwon accused Washington of hypocrisy and seeking regime change, saying that the hopes of 2018 had “faded away into a dark nightmare”. U.S. diplomats insist that they believe Mr. Kim promised in Singapore to give up its arsenal, something Pyongyang has taken no steps to do. The North is under multiple international sanctions over its banned weapons programmes. It believes it deserves to be rewarded for its moratorium on nuclear and intercontinental ballistic missile tests and the disabling of its atomic test site, along with the return of jailed U.S. citizens and remains of soldiers killed in the Korean War. “Nothing is more hypocritical than an empty promise,” Mr. Ri said in his statement, carried by the official KCNA news agency. Personal ties not enough Mr. Ri said Pyongyang now believed there was no hope for an improvement “simply by maintaining personal relations between our Supreme Leadership and the U.S. President”. Mr. Ri said the North had decided to bolster its nuclear deterrent “to cope with the U.S. unabated threats of nuclear war”.
13 June 2020||London,||Anti-racism protests have been hijacked by extremists: Johnson||Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Friday said a wave of anti-racism protests across Britain had been “hijacked by extremists”, as fears mounted about clashes between activists and far-right groups. In London, authorities boarded up several statues, including one of Second World War leader Winston Churchill, after previous damage and with further demonstrations planned. Mayor Sadiq Khan said the monuments, as well as the Cenotaph war memorial, were being protected against the risk of “disorder, vandalism and violence”. Re-examining legacy Statues and monuments to figures involved in Britain’s colonial past and the international slave trade have become increasing targets for activists over the last week. That has prompted calls for a re-examination of how the country’s historical legacy is marked in public spaces, and for many monuments to be torn down or relocated to museums. On Sunday, crowds in Bristol, southwest England, toppled a statue to a 17th century slave trader and philanthropist, Edward Colston, and threw it into the harbour. But while recognising the “legitimate desire to protest against discrimination”, Mr. Johnson said: “We cannot now try to edit or censor our past. “We cannot pretend to have a different history. The statues in our cities and towns were put up by previous generations,” he wrote on Twitter. “They had different perspectives, different understandings of right and wrong. But those statues teach us about our past, with all its faults. “To tear them down would be to lie about our history, and impoverish the education of generations to come.” Mr. Johnson acknowledged the anger of black and minority ethnic communities and said there had been “huge” strides in tackling discrimination in Britain. But after clashes marred largely peaceful demonstrations in London, he added: “It is clear that the protests have been sadly hijacked by extremists intent on violence. “The attacks on the police and indiscriminate acts of violence which we have witnessed over the last week are intolerable and they are abhorrent.” Protests planned With tensions running high and police promising a “robust” response to violence, the Black Lives Matter group called off a demonstration planned for Saturday in London’s Hyde Park. That followed far-right groups saying they would stage a counter-demonstration. “We want the protests to be a safe space for people to attend however we don’t think it’ll be possible with people like them present,” BLM London said on Instagram. On Friday it unveiled a billboard on the banks of the River Thames to more than 3,000 victims of what it called “state and racist violence”. Mayor Khan backed protesters. But both he and Mr. Johnson urged people to stay home this weekend, both because of the risk of spreading the coronavirus and of violence. Mr. Johnson, who has written a biography of the wartime leader, said it was “absurd and shameful” his memorial would be targeted, as he fought against fascism and tyranny. “Yes, he sometimes expressed opinions that were and are unacceptable to us today, but he was a hero, and he fully deserves his memorial,” the Premier wrote.
13 June 2020||Washington,||Trump to accept nomination in Florida||Donald Trump will accept the Republican Party’s presidential nomination in Florida, organisers announced on Thursday, following a row over COVID-19 restrictions with the Governor of North Carolina, where the event was originally scheduled. The most visible portions of the Republican National Convention, a traditional election-year gathering that is a staple of American political theatre, will be moved to the city of Jacksonville, Republican Party chairwoman Ronna McDaniel announced. “Not only does Florida hold a special place in President Trump’s heart as his home State, but it is crucial in the path to victory in 2020,” Ms. McDaniel said, adding that “we are thrilled to celebrate this momentous occasion in the great city of Jacksonville.”
13 June 2020||Berlin,||‘There are no races, there are human beings’||A row has broken out in Germany over the term “race” in the country’s Constitution. Paragraph three in Germany’s Basic Law states that “no person shall be favoured or disfavoured because of sex, parentage, race, language, homeland and origin, faith or religious or political opinions.” But the Green party this week took aim at the word “race”, pushing for a change to the Constitution in place since 1949 as a bulwark against dictatorships like the Nazi regime. “There are no ‘races’. There are human beings,” said Green party co-leader Robert Habeck, noting that a “strong sign” against racism would be to remove the term. Backing the call, Germany’s commissioner for combatting anti-Semitism Felix Klein said: “The term race is a social construct that is designed to devalue and to discriminate against people.” The Linke party and the FDP have all lined up behind the push, with some critics of the term calling for it to be replaced with words like “ethnic origin”. Even Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservatives have broken a silence on the subject to voice openness. With the debate heating up, the Justice Ministry has defended the place for the term in the Constitution, noting that it “clearly makes no references to the existence of different human races nor of the acceptance of this sense”.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Farm fresh||
13 June 2020||Dhaka,||Endangered elephant electrocuted in Bangladesh||An endangered Asian elephant died on Friday after being electrocuted by a high-voltage wire in southeastern Bangladesh, officials said. The adult male elephant was crossing private property when its tusk touched the 10,000-volt cable, local councillor Rashed Mahamud Ali said. The area is used by elephants as a route for travelling back and forth from Myanmar.AFP
13 June 2020||Kiev,||Ukraine first lady tests positive for COVID-19||Ukraine’s first lady Olena Zelenska said on Friday she had tested positive for COVID-19 amid a rise in infections. Ms. Zelenska, 42, added that her husband, President Volodymyr Zelensky, and their two children tested negative.AFP
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Waiting for a faint signal from a distant tower||There aren’t too many cars in Hawai, the headquarters of Anjaw district in Arunachal Pradesh bordering China and Myanmar. Shivumso Chikro is one of the few people to own a car in this thinly populated corner of India. Chikro is from Wakro, about 160 km southwest of Hawai, in the adjoining Lohit district from which Anjaw was carved out in 2004. He teaches history at a college in Itanagar, another 390 km from Wakro. “I left Itanagar in mid-March to spend some time at home in Wakro as the new academic session was yet to start. When the lockdown was announced I drove up to be with my wife, a government employee, and our son in Hawai, where the quality of mobile phone network is poor,” says Chikro. Dagbom Riba, Anjaw’s Deputy Commissioner, wasn’t surprised by Chikro’s application for a vehicle permit as soon as lockdown 1.0, imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, ended on April 14. Chikro’s car has an Itanagar-registered number, not unusual in a remote district. Neither did Riba think much about the reason why Chikro needed the permit — “to proceed to Internet network zone at Hayuliang in his private vehicle” from Hawai for “online classes and/or to provide subject matter study materials online to his students”. People in the frontier state along the Eastern Himalayas are used to travelling to “catch a tower” that transmits and receives radio frequency signals from mobile phones and devices. But the permit for Chikro meant descending 546 metres from Hawai’s perch at an altitude of 1,296 metres above sea level and driving for about 60 km on a serpentine single-lane and landslide-prone highway to reach Hayuliang. Granted on April 16, the permit specified the travel time-frame: Set off for Hayuliang on April 17 and return to Hawai by April 21. Habituated to watching and reading news on his smartphone in Itanagar, Chikrao was virtually cut off from the world beyond at Hawai. One of his colleagues broke to him the news during a chance conversation – that he was expected to take online classes for his second semester and sixth semester history students following a notification issued by the Rajiv Gandhi University (RGU). Don Bosco College, where Chikro teaches undergraduate students, is affiliated to RGU situated at Doimukh near Itanagar. In Hayuliang, Chikro’s phone came back to life. It was on hibernation in Hawai, where only BSNL works. But the weak network did not allow him to use Zoom or other interactive apps for connecting with his students, some of whom were unreachable in villages far from Itanagar. He did the next best thing – jot down the notes of medieval Indian history and American history and transmit them to his college as scanned attachments by accessing the basic version of his email. He could manage this only around midnight when there were fewer users to latch on to the available network speed. It took Chikro seven days to prepare the notes at the house of his nephew, two more than he was permitted to stay away from Hawai. “I was not sure if I could make another trip. So, I wanted to cover as much as I could but was a unit short of completing the history of both the countries when I left Hayuliang after a week,” he says. As luck would have it, he ran into a road blockade on his return to Hawai. Some labourers were removing a heap of earth and rocks from the road, but the progress was slow due to rain. He picked up a stranded tribesman – a stranger who was trekking to his village beyond Hawai – and searched for a place to stay after the contractor engaged in clearing the road said it was impossible to get the job done in a day. “I remembered a distant relative stayed in Andam, a village of six families near the blocked point. The two of us ended up spending two nights there, taxing their granary under stress due to the lockdown. It was around afternoon on the third day that the road was cleared. I reached Hawai by evening after dropping the stranger at his village,” says Chikro. Dropping the man was the second violation of his travel permit after overstaying at Hayuliang. “He shall not carry any other person in his permitted vehicle during his movement,” the permit read. But the district authorities saw him more as a victim of circumstances on both occasions. Distant learning Moyir Riba used to get annoyed whenever Mina Kiri called up “once in a blue moon” to enquire about her back paper in Political Science or for some official formalities. That was until she found out, during the second phase of lockdown, that Mina Kiri had to walk seven hours from her village Rapum to use a landline phone from the nearest government office. Rapum is in Shi-Yomi district, also bordering China, and about 600 km west of Hawai. It is a village of 18 families. Kiri would have completed a back paper for her Master’s degree had the examination been held in May-June like “normal years”. She had enrolled at the Institute of Distant Education (IDE) in the last quarter of 2018. The IDE, based out of RGU, has 14 study centres across Arunachal Pradesh. The nearest to Kiri is the study centre at St Francis de Sales College in Aalo, the headquarters of West Siang district, about 200 km from her village. “We are supposed to be the pioneers of online education throughout the year since we started out in 2005-06 with a Bachelor’s degree in five subjects – Economics, Education, English, History and Political Science,” says Riba, an assistant professor of Education at IDE. “We were to have done away with face-to-face classes, but poor or no connectivity made us fall back on the old-school IGNOU [Indira Gandhi National Open University] model.” “Aware of the drawbacks, IDE did not stick to the online mode. We chose to give study material in hard copy to the students. They can come to the nearest study centre to collect them and then sit at home and write assignments. They come for classes once a year, for a 10-15 day crash course in their respective subjects, and appear for their examination at the end of the academic year,” she says. IDE has two examination centres – one at RGU for students from the western half of Arunachal Pradesh and the other at Jawaharlal Nehru College in Pasighat, the headquarters of East Siang district, for students of the State’s eastern half. For most students in the far-flung districts, this means changing vehicles several times to cover 400-650 km. For some students, Riba often has to relay a message via their relatives who in turn provide the information through a relative or acquaintance at the nearest connected place – Mechuka or Tato in the case of Kiri. “It is difficult to reach my aunt. Unless she treks to where a phone is available, her teachers use my mother’s number to communicate,” says Dochuk Biru, Kiri’s nephew at Aalo. The focus across the country is on online education to make up for the time millions of students have lost due to the COVID-19 lockdown. But this is far from easy in these areas. “I have been fighting with my teachers because RGU, to which we are affiliated, the Ministry of Human Resources Development and the University Grants Commission want us to conduct online classes. But I really cannot insist on this because of the practical situation on the ground. Almost 90% of our students are from far-flung areas without connectivity, and those who have would rather not sacrifice their limited data pack on online classes that may snap any time,” says Father Jose K., the principal of Itanagar’s Don Bosco College. The All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union agrees online classes are not a solution for the State unless the mobile phone or broadband connectivity is made robust. “We do not want schools, colleges and other educational institutions to open until normalcy returns. The COVID-19 crisis is not going away soon. But online classes should not be made mandatory as there are many districts deprived of good telecom communication and electricity,” says the union’s vice-president, Meje Taku. Big plan, no headway The National e-Governance Conference organised in Meghalaya’s capital Shillong in August 2019 ended in the Shillong Declaration that “binds the government to improve connectivity in the north-eastern States by addressing issues of telecommunications connectivity at grass-root level and formulating and implementing a comprehensive telecom development plan”. The focus of the conference was on improving e-governance and enhancing electronic skills across sectors. It was seen as a follow-up of the Comprehensive Telecom Development Plan for North East Region that the Centre had in 2018 said was being finalised through the Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF). Under the plan, a private service provider was entrusted to set up more than 2,000 mobile towers for connecting 2,128 villages in Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura, parts of Assam and the national highways in the region. BSNL, the Centre said, was installing 2,817 mobile towers to connect 4,119 uncovered villages in other parts of the Northeast, primarily Arunachal Pradesh. Besides, the Union Cabinet had in May 2018 approved the provisioning of 2G and 4G mobile service in 2,173 uncovered villages and along the national highways in Meghalaya. “Internet is very limited in West Khasi Hills. BSNL is expressing helplessness and other telecom operators are also not up to the mark. Online classes have been a very limited option for a few,” the district’s Deputy Commissioner, Tableland Lyngwa, says. Nongstoin, the district headquarters, is 90 km from Shillong where the declaration on the e-governance push was announced. Lack of resources is the explanation they give about expanding or improving network, Lyngwa adds. “USOF was supposed to have rolled out the project of covering the uncovered villages. It has somehow not started this, particularly in three hill districts of Assam. The work will start as soon as the project is given the green signal,” says Sandeep Govil, the chief general manager of BSNL’s Assam circle. The case is similar for his counterparts in Nagaland’s Dimapur (with jurisdiction over Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Manipur) and Shillong (for Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura). One of the worst-affected districts in Assam is West Karbi Anglong. Mobile phones at Umswai, a village about 60 km from Guwahati as the crow flies, come to life once every 20-22 days, that too for 30 minutes at most. “Here, poor mobile connectivity is a perpetual handicap. Lately, a teacher attempted to create a Class 10 WhatsApp group to engage with the students in some way. Out of 39 mobile numbers available, only 10 have the app but hardly any connectivity to proceed,” says Albert Thyrniang, the principal of Don Bosco School at Umswai. “Even if the network signal shows ‘on’, data service is cut off. How is online class possible,” he asks. Teachers and students of the Don Bosco School at Amkatchi, about 20 km away, and an Assam government school in between face a similar situation. So do three private schools in the vicinity catering primarily to the tribal Tiwa students. “Online classes sound nice but we know how tough it can be. We have to update the district inspector of schools on the progress of the classes that we have not been able to take at all. The parents of only a few students have smartphones while many don’t own a phone. The inability of schools to impart online classes has only widened the gap between more than 2,000 students of the Umswai-Amkatchi area and their counterparts in the more fortunate parts of Assam,” says a teacher of the government school. One-way communication But there are also issues in the “more fortunate” areas such as Guwahati, the urban centre that enjoys the best connectivity in the Northeast. “The schools seem to be in a hurry to finish the classes through WhatsApp groups comprising the students of a class and some teachers. But the communication is one way as only the teachers can post as the administrators. If the students are not able to ask questions or say whether they have understood a lesson or not, how can you progress,” asks N. Khaund, the father of a Class 7 student of a private school. “We are not against online class as it appears to be the only alternative now. But not more than 20% of the students have been covered, as most students do not have access to a smartphone and recharging for parents beyond the basic need to talk is taxing on the lower middle class, not to speak of those economically weaker,” says Ratul Chandra Goswami, general secretary of the Assam State Primary Teachers’ Association. A survey conducted by the missionary schools in most of the other North-eastern States in May showed that about 10% in Arunachal Pradesh, 20% in Manipur, Meghalaya and Tripura and 40% in Nagaland received some sort of online classes. The lockdown, Goswami feels, and associated difficulties in conducting online classes could be a lesson for the government in terms of adding subsidised smartphones to its beneficiary programmes, particularly for the poor with schoolgoing children as a way of discouraging them from dropping out. Poor connectivity One of the reasons the Northeast suffers is the reluctance of telecom service providers to provide connectivity in areas where the prospective customer base is low, says Arunachal Pradesh MLA Ninong Ering. He represents the Congress from the Pasighat West Assembly constituency in East Siang district. As the party’s Lok Sabha member from the Arunachal East constituency, he had been vocal in Parliament about the poor telecom and Internet connectivity in Arunachal Pradesh, specifically along the 1,126 km-long border with China from Tawang district in the west to Anjaw in the east. In April 2018, he had written to Cabinet Secretary Pradeep Kumar Sinha, asking if the Centre was serious about spending Rs. 537 billion for infrastructure and telecommunications projects in the Northeast as had been earmarked in the 2014-15 budget. “It seems that the intention was never to get the project completed on time,” he wrote, saying the delay brought the role of the USOF administrator under suspicion. The tender for the project was opened in August 2016 but the USOF, which is under the ambit of the Department of Telecommunications, brought in new norms two months later. More conditions began to be imposed since. “Nothing has changed today, and the lockdown and economic slowdown could push the project further into the future. It is easy to talk about online classes from Delhi and other well-connected places. For people in Arunachal Pradesh, it is not only about an alternative medium of education. It is also about national security in the border areas where people catch Chinese mobile and radio signals easily,” Ering says. Connectivity is not the only issue in most parts of Arunachal Pradesh. A bigger challenge is to provide electricity for charging phones and gadgets to facilitate online or distant learning, he says. “One has to think beyond profitability to connect the sparsely populated and scattered villages high in the mountains. And the task does not end with providing outdated connectivity where one can barely speak a few words after ‘hello’,” Ering says. Individual initiatives, however, have raised hopes in certain areas such as the villages in Mizoram’s Lawngtlai district bordering Bangladesh and Myanmar. Shashanka Ala, the former Deputy Commissioner of the district, had till May pursued a private operator for providing services to 95 of 105 villages along the border that fell in communication shadow zones. “These towers have been installed in villages and highway patches over the last one year despite roadblocks, river crossings and poor transport network. It was possible because of the involvement of the autonomous council members and village council presidents, who assured protection of the installations,” she says. Saket Kushwaha, the Vice-Chancellor of RGU, would rather focus on the opportunities the connectivity issues have provided. “The Central guidelines for classes during lockdown have been in the form of advisories subject to local conditions. This unforeseen crisis has made us assess our limits and find alternatives for similar or tougher challenges that might come,” he says.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Black lives and the experiment called America||In response to the protests and racial unrest that have spread across the United States and around the world in the wake of the May 25 video-recorded murder of George Floyd, a 46-year-old African-American father of five, by white Minneapolis police officer, Derek Chauvin, who kneeled on Floyd’s neck for 8 minutes and 46 seconds until he stopped breathing, the words of Dr. Martin Luther King have been cited frequently, as they often are in times of racial tension in America. Words that resonate “Riots are the language of the unheard,” are Dr. King’s words that are incessantly invoked by pundits trying to illuminate why peaceful marches and protests by day, devolve into volatile scenes of vandalism, arson, and looting by night. There is another quote from Dr. King given in a speech to the American Psychological Association, at its annual meeting in Washington DC in 1967, seven months prior to his assassination, that is equally, if not more relevant for this current moment. In that speech Dr. King stated, “White America needs to understand that it is poisoned to its soul by racism and the understanding needs to be carefully documented and consequently more difficult to reject.” And in a challenge to his audience he added, “…Negroes want the social scientist to address the white community and ‘tell it like it is’. White America has an appalling lack of knowledge concerning the reality of Negro life.  With America just re-emerging from a nationwide three-month, COVID-19 imposed house arrest, with no sports and little on television to serve as a distraction, the nation was held, both captive audience and unwitting witnesses, to arguably the most egregious, depraved, and inhuman police use-of-deadly-force ever visually recorded in American policing history. Additions to a brutal history This video, carefully documented by 17-year-old Darnella Frazier using her cellphone, of Floyd’s murder exposed white America to the reality of, in essence, the state-sanctioned racial violence that blacks and people of colour in the United States have decried since its founding. Floyd’s death is the third unarmed black citizen who has died at the hands of white police in a four-month period. There was the case of 25-year-old Ahmaud Arbery, an African-American, who was chased and shot by a former law enforcement officer and his son and another white male, as Arbery jogged near his New Brunswick, Georgia neighbourhood. The other case was of Breonna Taylor, a 26-year-old African-American emergency medical technician living in St. Louis, Missouri, shot eight times while lying in her bed by undercover narcotics detectives. They were attempting to execute a “no-knock search warrant” on a suspect who was already in police custody, and entered the wrong residence. These recent killings are but the latest in America’s long brutal history of the taking and brutalisation of black bodies, from slavery, through Jim Crow, the Civil Rights/Black Power Movements, to the War on Drugs and the present era of mass incarceration. The  349-year period, from 1619 when the first Africans were brought to American shores, to 1968, the year blacks in principle gained their full citizenship rights with passage of the Fair Housing Act which culminated the enactment of the modern Civil Rights legislation (i.e., 1964 Civil Rights Act and 1965 Voting Rights Act). This represents 87% of Blacks’ 401-year experience (from 1619 to 2020) in what is now the United States, which was defined by crushing racial oppression. Thus, it has only been in the last 56 years, within this writer’s lifetime, that African-Americans have ostensibly been afforded the rights and freedoms that accrue from American citizenship. Yet, the brutal murder of blacks in America continues, unabated. Then and now However, this moment feels conspicuously different than those that followed in the wake of the deaths of other unarmed blacks killed by white police or self-appointed vigilantes invoking spurious claims of self-defence under the increasingly permissive provisions of “Stand-Your-Ground-Laws”, now found in a majority of American States. It feels different because unlike all of the protests and riots that have ensued after the deaths of other unarmed blacks in the past, even those of the late 1960s, where all of the protesters were primarily black, this time was different. The protesters, including peaceful demonstrators, agitators, and looters, who took to the streets of Minneapolis, a city that is 64% white and 19% black, in the aftermath of George Floyd’s death were a multiracial amalgam of people from all backgrounds. The demonstrators this time reflect a diversity that more closely mirrors that of America. And as the protests and demonstrations spread to cities and towns, big and small across America, the images that emerged were the same. White protesters carrying “Black Lives Matter” signs in white middle class suburbs and small rural towns, as demonstrations continue across the country and now around the world, clearly indicate this time is different. Striking a chord, globally And yet, the demands while at their core, are the same that they have been for generations of black folks, they too are different. At their core, the demands are for society to value a black life as much as that of a white life, or any other, in every regard. Thus, the simplicity and elegance of the phrase, “Black Lives Matter,” which captures the true essence of the now 401-year, blood-stained, struggle for freedom and racial equality and justice in America. But these protests also differ in that, they have not only transcended racial lines but they also have traversed borders and oceans as protests have spread to Canada, the United Kingdom, South Africa, New Zealand, China, the Philippines and many others, in solidarity with the ‘Black Lives Matter’ Movement, demanding an end to police brutality and systemic racism both in America and abroad. Why have white Americans reacted differently to this video of a defenceless black person brutalised and killed by the police, unlike those of 12-year-old Tamir Rice (2014), Eric Garner (2014), or Philando Castile (2016) and countless others before? Perhaps, as with the social scientists Dr. King challenged in his speech, who would employ the scientific method in their research, this video provided a sufficient sample size of evidence to convince a sceptical white mainstream that the hypothesis that the black subjects in this experiment in democracy called America, are in fact the victims of treatment by the police and the criminal justice system that is the polar opposite that of their experiences with law enforcement and the criminal justice apparatus in this country. On injustices Just as COVID-19 has exposed  the glaring racial inequities that make blacks disproportionately vulnerable to the deadly disease, so has George Floyd’s murder exposed to the world the centuries-old, state-sanctioned and extra-legal, racial violence and injustices that blacks have been subjected to in America. Yet, the deadly encounters that African-Americans have with the police — the most ubiquitous agent of the state and that in which the average citizen is most likely to have direct contact in their daily lives, at least for people of colour — is only the tip of the proverbial iceberg. These interactions between blacks and the police are emblematic of the deep, structural, racial inequalities that permeate every aspect of American society. And while it affects black, brown, indigenous, and Asian people of various intersectional social identities, in America it is most evident in the marginalised status of the black male. I submit that it is the historical, economic deprivation, incarceration, and social stigmatisation of the black male as the symbolic assailant in the American psyche that prevented a vast segment of white America from acknowledging the stark reality of black life in America. And now that not only white America but also the world has awoken to this reality, it is incumbent upon society to reject the null hypothesis that the cataclysmic criminal justice and socioeconomic outcomes affecting blacks, and by extent people of colour, is the result of their own personal failings. For if we do not, as is possible with any experiment, the one called America will ultimately fail. Ronnie A. Dunn is Chief Diversity Officer and Associate Professor of Urban Studies, Cleveland State University, Ohio
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Streamed education is diluted education||There are broadly two kinds of helmets, namely, one which protects your head and the other which protects your wallet. These two kinds capture the difference between two artefacts which look the same and go by the same name, but cannot be more dissimilar. So what then is the difference between the two? The most significant is that of design intentions. One is designed keeping safety in mind, made of durable, impact-absorbing material that has been thoroughly tested to be so. The other, on the other hand, is designed to get by and is made of quality-compromising, low-cost material. What we have here is a dilution in our conception of a helmet from its original meaning from being a gear to protect us in the case of an unfortunate accident to being a gear to protect us from being fined. Intriguingly, the act of fining riders without helmets has translated something valuable (an end-in-itself, in the service of safety) into the merely functional or instrumental (a means-to-an end, in the service of trickery). This captures the conundrum facing the contemporary: all that is of value is diluting into the functional, and there seems to be no vocabulary to capture this dilution of meaning. Our conception of value itself has been diluted to mean just exchange ‘value’. Here, I will relate this to the meaning of education.  The UGC scheme Recently, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the University Grants Commission had issued a circular to universities encouraging them to adopt massive open online courses (MOOCs) offered on its SWAYAM platform for credit transfers in the coming semesters. This sounds like a benevolent act during the national lockdown. However, it poses great danger since it is also being seen as an instrument to achieve the country’s target Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) in higher education (envisioned to be 30% by 2021; it was 25.8% in 2017–18). Here is yet another instance of a conspicuous dilution of meaning and subsequent flattening of the learning curve. Instead of expanding the network of higher educational institutions across the country and increasing seats, the government plans to make online degree programmes available for students to enrol and graduate from and add to GER. ‘Education’ is now being peddled as a combination of content and consumption, and this diluted meaning is being put to the service of achieving increased GER. MOOC-based e-learning platforms tend to reinforce a top-down teacher-to-student directionality of learning whereby the teacher ‘creates’ and the student ‘consumes’. This misses the point that teaching and learning are skills that are always in the making. The teacher is after all “an intellectual midwife” who facilitates in the birth of students’ ideas and insights through engaging in critical dialogue. In a conducive classroom environment, this role is often switched and the student plays intellectual midwife to the teacher’s ideas. Moving to a MOOC-based degree system would rob young teachers and students of these essential lessons in teaching and learning from each other. Sacred spaces Taking higher education online is much like taking up a sport such as cricket, football or boxing online. One has not actually learnt the sport unless one has engaged with it in one’s gully, stadium, field, or ring. In education, the classroom acts as a space where skills such as dialogue, debate, disagreement, and friendship are learnt and practised. It is intriguing to see that the policymakers behind the SWAYAM platform have left out courses in engineering, medicine, dental, pharmacy, nursing, architecture, agriculture, and physiotherapy on the grounds that they involve laboratory and practical work. Although this move makes sense, it seems to suggest that the pure sciences, the arts, the social sciences, and humanities curricula are largely lecture- and theory-based, and, therefore, readily adaptable to the online platform. Nothing can be farther from such a misconception. Implicit in every curriculum is the tacit assumption that the classroom is a laboratory for hands-on testing of ideas, opinions, interpretations, and counterarguments. A diverse and inclusive classroom is the best litmus test for any theory or insight. Multidisciplinarity happens more through serendipity — when learners across disciplines bump into each other and engage in conversations. Classroom and campus spaces offer the potential for solidarity in the face of discrimination, social anxiety, and stage fear, paving the way for a proliferation of voluntary associations that lie outside the realm of family, economy, and state. In the absence of this physical space, teaching and learning would give way to mere content and its consumption. Without a shared space to discuss and contest ideas, learning dilutes to just gathering more information. This could also dilute norms of evaluation, whereby a “good lecture” might mean merely a lecture which “streams seamlessly, without buffering”. This is not an argument from tradition. One could think of greater value-sensitive and socially just architectures and technologies that further foster classroom engagement and make it accessible for students of various disabilities and challenges, thereby adding more value to the existing meaning of education. But public education modelled on social distancing is a functional reduction and dilution of the meaning of education. It could add value only as an addendum to the classroom. Such platforms must be seen only as stop-gap variants that help us get by under lockdown situations and complement classroom lectures. They will help us get by with the pandemic just as a “helmet” would help us get by with traffic police waving penalty slips. Our vocabulary has many terms for the loss of function — failure, malfunction, dysfunction, breakdown, etc. — but hardly any for the loss of value. ‘Malpractice’ is the closest that comes to mind. This malpractice of the dilution of education must be resisted, else we are asking for multiple concussions. Ashwin Jayanti is an Assistant Professor at IIIT-Hyderabad. The views expressed are personal
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Names and places||Spelling and pronunciation are not “first cousins” in English. This holds good for other languages, including Tamil, a surviving ancient language. Perhaps, this aspect has not been fully taken into account by the Tamil Nadu government in its decision to change the spelling of names of 1,018 cities, towns and localities in the State. The gazette notification of April 1, 2020, which was made available only recently, is an outcome of two years of labour put in by District Collectors and a committee headed by Minister for Tamil Official Language and Culture K. Pandiarajan. It is now for the Revenue and Disaster Management Department, which handles land records in the State, and the respective rural and urban local bodies to take the notification forward. The idea is to make the anglicised names sound closer to the root of the original Tamil names. As a matter of principle, this is welcome, but it is also advisable to discover the root of the name. This does not mean that other factors such as confusion among the public and cultural or social sentiments, can be ignored. Also, without making it look like change being made for the sake of change, the exercise should be based on logic and convention. No one would object to “Sivaganga”, a constituency that had sent former Union Minister P. Chidambaram several times to the Lok Sabha, being called “Sivagangai” or “Tirumalai”, a village in the Sivagangai taluk, as “Thirumalai”. But, the process of de-anglicisation should not be taken to an illogical extreme. For instance, when “Coimbatore” becomes “Koyampuththoor” or “Vellore” turns into “Veeloor”, it defies both convention and logic and can cause much confusion. Likewise, Srirangam and Srivilliputtur, centres of religious importance, have been changed into “Thiruvarangam” and “Thiruvillipuththur”. Tamil purists may argue that “Thiru” is the equivalent term for “Sri” but what should not be overlooked is that it is because of religious sensibilities that neighbouring Andhra Pradesh has seldom attempted to give Telugu flavour to “Tirupati”, which is a Tamil name. Apart from the initial confusion over the new spellings, people in the areas concerned have started becoming anxious about getting crucial documents of identification changed once the gazette notification is implemented. It is not the first time that name changes have happened in Tamil Nadu. In fact, the State was known by the name of its capital — Madras — till January 1969, and the capital’s name was changed to Chennai 27 years later. But, the need for pragmatism was not lost on the governments in the past. Despite being called “Thiruperumbudur” in Tamil, the spelling of the town in English was retained as “Sriperumbudur” in official documents. After all, the term, Tamil Nadu itself is an anglicised name. Changes to the name or spelling of places should not disrupt public equilibrium during a difficult time.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Desert clouds||A political upheaval appears to be in the making in Rajasthan. The ruling Congress has accused the opposition BJP of trying to unsettle the Ashok Gehlot government. The BJP State President has denied the allegations, and said the accusation was an outcome of an internal tussle in the Congress and an attempt by Mr. Gehlot to spruce himself up as a battle hero. The Congress has 107 MLAs in the 200-strong State Assembly, and the support of at least a dozen independent MLAs. The BJP has 76. The Congress and the BJP both are snarled up in internal tussles. State Congress chief and Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot always believed that the top post was unfairly denied to him when the party won the State in 2018; Mr. Gehlot has the support of more party MLAs and wants Mr. Pilot to wait for his turn. In the BJP, the current central leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah do not share much common ground with Vasundhara Raje, the former CM. The BJP has turned up the heat in the State by fielding a second candidate for elections to three Rajya Sabha seats on June 19 of which it can win only one with its current strength. The BJP has used Rajya Sabha elections to engineer defections from other parties in other States, and its second candidate is more than just political signalling. The recent history of the BJP’s behaviour in comparable situations does not inspire confidence in its claim that it has no plans to usurp power in Rajasthan through engineered defections. Within the last year the BJP wrested power in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, States that it did not win in elections, through a now familiar pattern of engineering resignations of MLAs. The only reasonable explanation for such mass resignations of legislators is that they were either lured or threatened. Earlier, the BJP gate-crashed its way to power in Goa and Manipur, through questionable means. Every party has its share of disenchantment within its ranks, but using that as a facade to dismantle a popular mandate is not in the spirit of democracy. The upending of the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh in the early days of the COVID-19 outbreak, in March, was an ugly humiliation of democracy. If the BJP has plans to traverse the same path in Rajasthan, it would be a clear statement of its priorities for a second time in three months. Political instability contributed to Madhya Pradesh’s chaotic response to the pandemic. Rajasthan is badly affected. The State’s response has been reasonably robust so far but political uncertainty at this moment could spin the pandemic out of control. There is no good to time to seize power through unethical means, but this is a particularly inopportune moment.
13 June 2020||Madrid,||Derby win for Sevilla||With a video game look for fans at home, the Spanish league resumed after three months with Sevilla defeating Real Betis 2-0 in the Seville derby. There were strict guidelines in place as the topflight resumed, with ball boys being asked to disinfect the ball every time it left the field and players being told to maintain a “safe distance” when talking to the referee. Players were also asked to “minimise physical contact” during goal celebrations, though there were lots of hugging between Sevilla players after forward Lucas Ocampos opened the scoring by converting a penalty. The same happened after midfielder Fernando headed in the second.  Virtual crowds Fans were not allowed in the 43,000-capacity Ramon Sanchez-Pizjuan Stadium but virtual crowds and pre-recorded chants from fans, similar to those in video games, were added to the television broadcast sent to the rest of the world. The victory kept Sevilla in third place with 50 points, six fewer than second-place Real Madrid, which returns to action on Sunday against Eibar.  Betis stayed in 12th place with 33 points.  The result: Sevilla 2 (Ocampos 56-pen, Fernando 62) bt Real Betis 0.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Croatia’s top guns Pecic and Gorsa focus on Tokyo Games||They are on top of the world in the rifle rankings, but Croatia’s Snjezana Pecic and Petar Gorsa were disarmingly frank about their approach to the Tokyo Olympics during the ‘Happy Times’ webinar series, organised by the Manav Rachna Educational Institutions, on Friday. Asked about the loss of training time during the coronavirus pandemic, Beijing Olympics bronze medallist Pecic said, “I have 25 years of experience in the sport. Two months off will not keep me out of the game. I really hope the Olympics will be held next year, and we will be in Tokyo. I have learnt the hard way that you don’t expect to get anything in the Olympics. It is completely different to the World Championship and World Cups.” Describing her experience in Beijing, Pecic, who like Gorsa shoots in both the air rifle and the 3-position events, said, “It was my first Olympics, and I was happy to be in Beijing with athletes from other sports. I won the medal, no idea how. During pre-event training I was very nervous. I thought, if I am this shaky now, how will I be tomorrow? That bronze medal felt like gold. It was the greatest moment of my career.” Mental preparation Gorsa spoke about the mental preparation required for the Games. “We will think about the Olympics three months before the Games. Otherwise, one will get mentally saturated. Will plan carefully to be refreshed for the Olympics. Will do more mental training than shooting. I have managed to be in the final in the third Olympics. I want a strong performance in Tokyo next year,” he said. Quite happy to assist his young teammate, Gorsa said that he wanted to be remembered by the people whose lives he had touched rather “than by my own results”.
13 June 2020||Mumbai,||India calls off tour of Zimbabwe||India’s tours of Sri Lanka and Zimbabwe, scheduled for June-July and August respectively, have been called off by the BCCI “owing to the current threat of COVID-19”, secretary Jay Shah said in a statement on Friday. Both engagements — three ODIs and three T20Is in Sri Lanka and three ODIs in Zimbabwe — were a part of the Future Tours Programme (FTP), which is likely to be revised when the International Cricket Council’s Board meets next week. Camp can wait Although it is looking to stage the suspended Indian Premier League later this year, the BCCI would not rush cricketers into a preparatory camp after the hiatus, Shah stressed. “The BCCI will conduct a camp for its contracted players only when it is completely safe to train outdoors,” he stated. No rush “The BCCI is determined to take steps towards the resumption of international and domestic cricket, but it will not rush into any decision that will jeopardise the efforts put in by the Central and State governments and several other agencies in containing the spread of the coronavirus.” The cricketers and support staff have been vocal about requiring a six-week camp to get back into shape after being forced indoors since mid-March. On Thursday, IPL governing council chairman Brijesh Patel told The Hindu that a September-October window for the IPL is being considered.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||IOC and FIH dismiss plaints against IOA president Batra||IOA and FIH president Narinder Batra has found support in the ongoing power tussle within the Indian Olympic Association, cleared by both IOC and FIH of any wrongdoing in his elections. The IOC on Friday closed any investigation into allegations of illegality in Batra’s election in 2017, claiming that the election had taken place in accordance with the then IOA constitution. In a letter to IOA vice-president Sudhanshu Mittal, who had raised the complaint, IOC Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer Pâquerette Girard Zappelli said on Friday the issues had been resolved prior to the elections, hence there was no reason for IOC to intervene. The matter would be regarded as closed, Zapelli added. Earlier in the day, the FIH too dismissed Mittal’s allegations, denying any breach of rules by Batra in his election as FIH president in 2016. FIH Integrity Unit chairman Wayne Snell said in a statement that, according to FIH statutes at the time, there was no requirement for Batra to change his relationship with Hockey India after his election as FIH president in November 2016. “He therefore has committed no breach of procedure,” Snell said, dismissing the complaint. Mittal had written to both the FIH and the IOC alleging forgery and false declarations in Batra’s elections to both posts.
13 June 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Run to the Moon’ to raise funds||India’s national badminton coach, P. Gopi Chand, Arjuna Awardees Ashwini Nachappa (athlete) and Malathi Holla (para athlete) joined hands with IDBI Federal Life Insurance and NEB Sports to launch a fund-raiser run and help coaches, support staff in academies and sports foundations affected by lockdown. The run, involving mass participation from professional and amateurs, will commence on June 20 and end on July 20. Called ‘Run to the Moon’, it marks the 51st anniversary of man’s landing on the moon (falling on July 21) and will involve participants collectively covering 3,84,400 kilometres, the distance between the earth and the moon. The registration has begun and will continue till June 18. Runners have to clock a minimum of 65 kilometres during the one-month period (minimum 2.5 kms and maximum 10 kms on a given day) to constitute a successful run. Runners can participate at any place of their choice to become part of this event and is open to all participants in 10-65 years age bracket. “The current pandemic has seriously challenged the livelihood of coaches and sports staff who make sporting events possible at all levels. Through ‘Run to the Moon’, we hope to nourish the passion for sports in India and also support the unsung warriors of Indian sport,” Vighnesh Shahane, CEO of IDBI Federal Life Insurance, announced. A nominal fee of Rs. 100 will be charged from each runner, to be donated to any of their preferred sports institutions or academies.
13 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,||AIFF plans futsal league to kick off season||The All India Football Federation hopes to start the domestic season sometime in November. But before the ISL and I-League kick off, there could well be another league — futsal, played indoors with five players on either side. “Yes, we will be conducting an Indian Futsal League and the response of ISL and I-League clubs to the proposal has been quite positive,” AIFF secretary Kushal Das told The Hindu. “Some State associations want to conduct their own championships and the winners could take part in the futsal league, which will be the season-opener.” Everything, however, depended on the Indian government’s guidelines, Das said. FIFA announced recently that India’s postponed World Cup qualifier against Qatar would be played on October 8. “The Indian team will have to start training in September,” he said. “We have also got the new dates for the Women’s Under-17 World Cup, which India will host from February 17 next year. We are waiting to hear from the government.” India has also been awarded the 2022 AFC Women’s Asia Cup. “That will boost the women’s game in the country,” he said. The resumption of the Bundesliga and LaLiga was heartening and, if required, the AIFF was ready to conduct the ISL and I-League without spectators, he added.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Things should improve by year-end: Batra||Indian Olympic Association president Narinder Batra says any proper resumption of sporting activities would be possible only after a vaccine is developed for COVID-19 and it would be important to counsel players in the meantime. Battling fear “Players will have a fear at the back of their minds. Concerns of ‘what might happen’ will always be there. I expect a vaccine to be available by December or January, but counselling athletes in this period will be very important,” Batra said in an online interaction with Sportskeeda . He said the present times had forced a review of sporting activities. “Although some may begin, there can be proper resumption only when we can conduct competitions in a controlled environment. By that I mean in full control of rules and parameters of any sport,” he said, adding he was hopeful of things improving by the year-end. “New Zealand has been declared COVID free, other countries in Europe also have numbers going down. The USA, Brazil, Russia and India are the main concerns right now. I don’t see why things won’t improve and be conducive for the Olympics next year,” he said. On issues within the IOA and the frequent face-offs with the Sports Ministry on governance, Batra was categorical: “Several prominent people have held top positions in the IOA, but, with passage of time, everything has to change. I am facing resistance because I believe things must change for the better. However, there are people used to the old ways and system. For many, foreign travel is the only reason to be in sports administration. “I believe we exist because of and only for the athletes. No federation or organisation is the personal property of any person or family,” he stressed.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Harikrishna set to debut on million-dollar Tour||Grandmaster P. Harikrishna is set to debut on the million-dollar Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour by joining the game’s elite players in the $150,000 Chessable Masters beginning on June 20. Carlsen leads the online 12-player field which included Fabiano Caruana, Ding Liren, Hikaru Nakamura, Ian Nepomniachtchi, Daniil Dubov, Maxime Vachier-Lagrave, Anish Giri, Alexander Grischuk, Teimour Radjabov, Harikrishna and Vladislav Artemiev. Ranked 26th in classical format, Harikrishna will have to use all his skills of rapid and blitz chess to do well in this classy field. Currently, Harikrishna is ranked 51st in rapid and 65th in blitz ratings. Format As per the format, the contestants play each other in the round-robin format. The last four players are eliminated, leaving the remaining eight to advance to the knockout quarterfinals. In the knockout phase, each encounter involves a maximum of three best-of-four rapid games. In case of a 2-2 deadlock in any four-game match, an Armageddon game is played, where the player with white pieces has five minutes — to his rival’s four — to make the moves. In case of a draw, the player with black pieces is adjudged the winner. This is the third leg of the Chess Tour, launched by Carlsen once the pandemic took its toll on the cash-rich Grand Chess Tour.
13 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Rijiju expects a top-10 finish in 2028 Olympics||Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju on Friday said he aspires to see India finish among top 10 nations in the medals tally in 2028 Los Angeles Summer Olympics. “In the days to come, I want to ensure that not only our (India’s) participation, but our success rate also must be very high (in the Olympic Games),” Rijiju said in an Insta Live show In The Sportlight hosted by table tennis player Mudit Dani. “The target is to make India one of the top 10 Olympic nations by 2028 and have worked out certain plans and strategies with the Indian Olympic Association and National Sports Federations to this effect.” Rijiju exuded confidence that India would put up a good show in the 2024 Games but the main focus remains on the 2028 edition. “India needs to succeed at the Olympics and that is why we have created this sporting culture by launching Khelo India, Fit India movement, besides different kind of support system and grassroot level motivation.
13 June 2020||Fort Worth,||Varner and Rose share lead after bogey-free 63s||Harold Varner III and Justin Rose both fired seven-under-par 63s to share the lead as the PGA Tour returned to action for the first time in three months here on Thursday. Englishman Rose waltzed through a bogey-free round in the morning at the spectator-free Charles Schwab Challenge. Varner followed in the afternoon with a blistering round, capping it off with an 11-foot putt on 18 for his seventh birdie of the day to pull even with Rose.   Top of the heap:   63 - Harold Varner, Justin Rose, 64 - Jhonattan Vegas, Justin Thomas, Collin Morikawa, Abraham Ancer, 65 - Adam Hadwin, Tom Lehman, Jordan Spieth, Daniel Berger, Brian Harman, Gary Woodland, Bryson DeChambeau, Tyler Duncan, Xander Schauffele.
13 June 2020||Oslo,||Warholm sets new 300m hurdles WR||Double world 400m hurdles champion Karsten Warholm of Norway smashed the world record for the unorthodox 300m hurdles behind closed doors here on Thursday. Organisers chose to innovate as track and field returned with its first international, multi-discipline event, dubbed the ‘Impossible Games’. Warholm clocked 33.78s in the rarely-run event, pulverising the previous record of 34.48s set by Briton Chris Rawlinson back in 2002. Warholm’s feat was all the more impressive as he ran the race solo. Strong quintet There was more home success as a Norwegian team led by the three Ingebrigtsen brothers triumphed in a 2000m race over a strong Kenyan quintet led by Timothy Cheruiyot and Elijah Manangoi, world 1500m champions in 2019 and 2017 respectively. The Kenyans were running simultaneously via video link from Nairobi, where they had to contend not only with the city’s 1,795m altitude, but also wind and rain. The Ingebrigtsens, Filip, Henrik and Jakob, maintained an early lead over the Kenyans, the latter two brothers taking up the running from the 1km mark. The victory went to Jakob, just 19, in an European record of 4min 50.01sec that smashed the previous best of 4:51.39 set in 1985 by Britain’s Steve Cram, but remained way off Moroccan Hicham Guerrouj’s world best of 4:44.79 set in 1999.  A men’s pole vault competition saw world record holder Armand Duplantis of Sweden up against 2012 Olympic champion Renaud Lavillenie. The Frenchman had already jumped from his own back garden — off a much-shortened runway — and his effort was broadcast in line with his Swedish counterpart’s. But Duplantis benefitted from proper track conditions to win, clearing 5.86m at the third attempt. Lavillenie failed on his three efforts at the same distance.
13 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Paddlers’ gesture to help coaches||At a time when the coronavirus pandemic is wreaking havoc, sports coaching is among the worst-hit professions. In an initiative led by E. Prabhakaran, a top Tamil Nadu paddler, a group of table tennis players from the city including Sharath Kamal, G. Sathiyan, Sushmit Sriram, K. Shamini and Nitin Thiruvengadam have contributed to a fund to help the struggling lot. “When everyone was struggling with finances, I thought I should do something for the sport. I called my dear friend Sathiyan and told him about it,” Prabhakaran said. “Then slowly more people started coming in, like Sharath anna and T. Baskar anna (umpire). Each contributed a sum that he or she could afford, and we finally collected Rs. 75,000,” he added. Former State champion G. Vinodh and fellow paddler Kishore Kumar took responsibility of distributing the funds to the coaches. Prabhakaran added that they would be eager to help in the future too, whenever required.
13 June 2020||Melbourne,||Chances of T20 World Cup improve as Australia set to welcome limited crowds at stadiums||Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Friday hinted at the return of up to 10,000 spectators at stadiums with a capacity below 40,000 from July as the country races against time to be ready for the T20 World Cup in October-November and the Test series against India after that.PTI
13 June 2020||SINGAPORE,||F-1: Azerbaijan, Japan and Singapore rounds cancelled||Logistical restrictions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic has led to the cancellation of of Formula 1 races in Azerbaijan, Japan and Singapore, in pic. “These decisions have been taken due to the different challenges our promoters face in those countries,” the Formula 1 announced on Friday.PTI
13 June 2020||Mumbai,||Your YouTube account is in demand, not just among your friends||YouTube content creators might be in for dark times ahead, with a concerningly steep upsurge being observed in the demand for access to hacked YouTube accounts on the dark web. As of December 2019, India had more than 265 million users who had their own YouTube accounts, showcasing a wide range of content, including Do-It-yourself (DIY) tips, comedy, talk-shows, reviews and analysis. Each account has lakhs and crores of followers and the higher the number of followers, the more the income for the creators or ‘influencers’, as some of them are known. The risk faced by YoutTubers was noticed earlier this month by New York based cybersecurity firm IntSights, which observed that YouTube accounts are being hacked and auctioned on the dark web. Once acquired by the highest bidder, the same accounts are then used to hold the original owners to ransom and this process can be easily repeated until the victims have been milked dry. In an update put out on the IntSights blog on June 2 this year, Etay Moar, Chief Security Officer at IntSights said, “YouTube accounts from compromised computers or from logs of credentials can be of high value. While smaller channels may not be as lucrative as larger ones, YouTubers rely on them as revenue streams and might be willing to pay money to attackers to get their content and access to their channels back.” The discovery, however, was only the tip of the iceberg. Researchers also discovered that a poll was run on the dark web in the last week of May, to which 80 per cent of the respondents expressed interest in buying hacked YouTube accounts. “As always with underground offerings, when there is demand the supply is soon to follow. In recent weeks, IntSights researchers have noticed an increasing number of stolen YouTube channel credentials, of varying subscriber counts, up for sale,” Mr Moar added in the update. The trend is also being tracked closely by Indian cyber crime agencies, at both State and Central level, with India emerging as one of the biggest markets for the video-hosting website. “Hackers are cashing in on the fact that YouTube accounts get monetized after hitting a certain number of followers. With the rising popularity of YouTube and Youtubers in India, It is best to follow strict cyber security practices like two-factor authentications that are not dependent on text messages and not using the same username and password combination on different platforms and accounts," Special Inspector General of Police and cyber expert Brijesh Singh said. Especially in the current scenario, with rival platform TikTok being under heavy fire from ‘patriots’ because of its Chinese origins, YouTube seems to be winning the war and gathering more followers than TikTok. The added cause for concern, officials said, is that while the trend is a new one, the hacking process in itself is ridiculously simple. “Hackers can send out thousands of malware embedded in phishing emails every day seeking access to YouTube accounts. All the victims have to do is to click a link in an unverified email and malware, which are specifically designed to look for YouTube login details, will sniff them out and convey them to the hackers. The trend is just one more example of what a simple phishing email can lead to, and why intensive cyber security measures are all the more important,” a Cyber Crime officer said.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 09:49 IST,||Sudoku - June 13, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Bookworms fight back||“We unbox, organise, shelf, dust, and arrange together. That has been our philosophy from our origin. There is a lot of hard work going forward and we look forward to rolling up our sleeves and building another gem in the city that is special and welcoming,” says Priyanka Malhotra. She and her team are setting up Full Circle bookstore in Meherchand Market, after they decided to give up their Khan Market branch in Delhi, when the rent became unaffordable. It is not just this family-owned small bookstore that has been facing rough times because of the lockdown. Many across the country are, but there is hope. Two years ago, at The Hindu Lit For Life, Raman Shresta and Diviya Kapur both book shop owners, spoke of their struggle for survival at a panel discussion. “The seeds of this idea were probably sown there,” says Raman about the recently launched Independent Bookshops Association of India (IBAI) by six proprietors of independently owned bookshops. Their vision is to empower, promote and provide a platform for these stores. Besides Diviya and Raman, they include Leanord and Queenie Fernandes (The Dogears Bookshop, Goa), Neha Tiwari and Vishal Pipraiya (Pagdandi Bookstore Café, Pune), Aman and Mayura Misra (Storyteller Bookstore, Kolkata) and Ahalya and Meethil Momaya (Trilogy, Mumbai). “People lament the loss of readership, people moving away from bookstores and all that,” says Raman who owns Rachna Books in Gangtok, Sikkim, a beautiful store with a café and a B&B attached to it. “The industry is not empathetic to small bookstores. I think we are the frontline workers in the book business; we deliver right into the hands of the reader,” he says. “Decades of relationships with publishers and distributers count for nothing and we find ourselves sidelined. Small book stores are struggling to compete with online giants like Amazon or Flipkart.”. IBAI could be a viable alternative to Amazon and Flipkart, says Leonard Fernandes. “Most developed economies have very vibrant bookstore economies. It levels the playing field.” He gives the example of France and other European countries that have a law where retailers are not allowed to give more than a certain percentage of discount. “The booksellers and the Government’s association is strong as is the law that was laid down in the early 1980s. Whether you buy a book online or offline, the discount is the same.” “We hope IBAI will give even the most obscure bookstore an opportunity to find its voice and be heard. At the moment we do not have the numbers to be taken seriously. Collectively we will have more bargaining power,” he says. The bookstores registered with the IBAI will also extend help to each other, says Fernandes. “For example, there are small bookstores and publishers in Kolkata who lost so much stock post Amphan. We will step in to fulfil any order they have so they do not lose customers.” IBAI hopes to have an online bookstore fed by independent shops. “You can order a book online and the store closest to you sends it.” This has been an ongoing topic of WhatsAppp chats for a few years now, but it really did not translate into anything concrete, says Diviya, laughing. “But lockdown gave us the time to hone the discussions to what we are and want to be,” she says. What excites her is the possibility that IBAI will facilitate small stores sharing best practices and resources, and, at some point, maybe an online presence. IBAI will also start compiling a directory of independent book stores in the country. And she hopes, “We should be able to lobby for policy changes.” While Priyanka is not a part of IBAI yet, she says the way ahead is to see “ourselves as a community, that is collective and collaborative rather than competitive. We realise we’re in this together.”  To register with IBAI as an independent bookstore, visit Indiebookshops.in. On Instagram, Facebook, Twitter @ bookshopsindia   With inputs from Sunalini Mathew
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Old favourites||With time — or it could be the lockdown — I find myself shedding old prejudices. Take butter chicken. I remember the time when I used to look at it with disdain, and I must confess I still shudder when I think of the butter chicken pasta that a friend served me some years ago. There was a time when I had it almost every day. I used to often dine at my friend Raju’s house in my youth, and since that family loved the butter chicken from a place called TPO, next to Rivoli Theatre, it often formed a part of the dinner menu. I suppose familiarity bred contempt somewhere along the way. But I realised the dish had potential when, years later, I cooked it at home, balancing the cream with tomato ketchup and a nutty paste. Then, a couple of years ago, I had some great butter chicken delivered by a Rajasthani outlet called Roomaligarh, and decided that it was a dish that I could live with. Last week, it featured in our dinner order. I had been reading the online menu of a place called Faasos with some interest. It delivers food in Delhi (and elsewhere, too). We decided to have the Smoked Butter Chicken Royal Meal (Rs. 310), Bhuna Mutton Royal Meal (Rs. 420) and Sabudana Khichdi (Rs. 190). I ordered through Swiggy, but Faasos has its own app, too. The centralised phone number is 7700020020. The meal came on a tray with compartments, which had been plastic wrapped and then boxed. The site tells us that they have a system of contactless delivery and temperature tracking of kitchen and delivery staff. I loved the way the bhuna gosht meal had been described. It consisted of succulent boneless mutton in thick tomato gravy, served with basmati rice, dal makhni, paratha and gulab jamun. The Smoked Butter Chicken Royal Platter had all the side dishes, too. The Sabudana Khichdi came with curd. But I don’t think that is a dish one should order, for it was rather dry by the time it reached our doorstep. I suppose sago khichdi has to be eaten when it is just off the stove. I tried out a piece of the butter chicken, and liked it. It was, indeed, smoky, and the gravy was nicely tart (though I think it would have been perfect had it been just a wee bit sweeter). The rice was long-grained, and the dal was deliciously thick and creamy. The bhuna gosht was almost like the Bengali kosha mangsho. I had the crispy and flaky parathas with the meat, and enjoyed the meal immensely. What was disappointing was the gulab jamun — not the taste, for I had no complaints there, but the size. Each royal meal dish came with one gulab jamun, and we had to cut each into three pieces , so that the three-member household could have two slivers each. A small gulab jamun, further cut, was not much of a dessert. But, still, it did its tiny bit. There is a lot more on the menu — including Chhola Kulcha Meal (Rs. 145), Palak Chicken Meal (Rs. 220), Rajma Masala Bowl (Rs. 145) and various kinds of biryanis. There are wraps, too — Barbecue Chicken (Rs. 230), American Smoky Sausage (Rs. 230), Mutton Overload (Rs. 290), and Cheese Melt Paneer Wrap (Rs. 165). There is a breakfast section which includes an Aloo Paratha and Omelette Combo (Rs. 165) and Pancake with Honey and Chocolate Sauce (Rs. 170). I enjoyed my meal, the size of the gulab jamun notwithstanding. I am wondering if I should try out the wraps one day. Must find out just how overloaded the Mutton Overload Wrap is. The writer is a seasoned food critic
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||A biting satire on Lucknow and its people||Somewhere in the middle of Gulabo Sitabo there is a rather nimble give and take between Baankey Rastogi (Ayushmann Khurrana), one of the tenants of an old, crumbling Lucknow haveli, Fatima Mahal, and Pandeyji (Shri Prakash Bajpai) an old friend of the landlord Mirza Nawab (Amitabh Bachchan). “ Aaj bade din baad tapke (You’ve dropped by after a long time),” observes a catty Baankey. Pandeyji shoots back, at once piercing and dismissive, “ Pake the to tapak gaye (I had ripened, so dropped).” Three days after having watched the film I still can’t stop chuckling away at the wordplay. The beauty of Gulabo Sitabo rests solidly on its wonderful, wondrous use of language: Hindi-Urdu-Awadhi in which Lucknow talks; and fights. Everyone is techy, everyone cutting the other down to size. It’s an all out war, in which words are the weapon and such beautiful ones at that. People might be ignoble and their instincts base, their disputes might be petty and the greed that drives them lowly, but their language is dignified even when it demolishes. It’s a refined world despite the darkness and decay at its heart. A culture pirouetting on deadly wit that is slowly disappearing along with it and Juhi Chaturvedi captures it in all its sordidness and glory in her writing. The lyrics are perfectly in tune with the film’s lingo. Like “ Fati achkan ke dhaagon se latke budhau ” — an evocative description of an old man hanging on to the threads of his torn coat. The panoramic shots, the bird’s eye view of Lucknow as well as grungy close ups of the haveli, all reiterate an incredible beauty in decline. Shoojit Sircar crafts a rare film that is as much a melancholic lament as it is a biting satire on the place and its people. Against all of this, in the backdrop, plays out another fading Lakhnavi tradition, that of glove puppetry — called Gulabo Sitabo, from which the film derives its name — spun on two warring women, the wife and mistress of a man. Chaturvedi reinvents it as a tale of a landlord and tenant — Mirza and Baankey — sparring over Fatima Mahal even as Mirza waits for his Begum Fatto (Farrukh Jafar, delightfully sharp-tongued as she was in Peepli Live !), 17 years his senior, to die for him to stake a formal claim at the property. The film throws you off in more ways than one, most winningly so with its subtle gender play. It’s the women who turn the tables on men. Though it might have two top league male stars staring back at us from the posters, and both of them are in great form, they bravely play characters who come through as out and out losers. The film’s women are free birds without quite sporting the usual filmi signals of being liberated — no cigarette and sharaab (liquor). They will have their guilt-free, steamy trysts with men on the sly, be it behind the water tank on the terrace or in a shop in the market place. Together they subvert the conservative institutions from within and emasculate the male ego, in a delicious fashion. Yet, thankfully, are not judged for that. They have a playfulness, sense of humour and a zest for life.  Gulabo Sitabo surprises with how it gives heft to even the minutest of characters. Every character is idiosyncratic, be it Gyanesh Shukla (always reliable Vijay Raaz) from the archaeology department or the lawyer Christopher (Brijendra Kala) or the casting director Jogi Malang himself in the tiny role of the builder Mun Mun. What is unmissable is the overarching romance. Not between two human beings. Gulabo Sitabo is all about love and longing not quite found between individuals, all because “ haveli ke saath aashiqui (romancing the mansion)” comes in the way. But is that true love? The film’s soundtrack says it all. “ Kya leke aayo jag mein ” and “ Aana hai jaana hai, jeevan chalte jaana hai ” are the reminders of the futility of covetousness in the face of the transience of life. Eventually, it is all about letting go and moving on. Gulabo Sitabo is streaming on Amazon Prime Video
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||In fashion’s stride||As the country opens up, Chennai-based designer boutique, Collage, brings House of Kotwara to their clientele. Blending "old-world charm andchikankari", the range of summer-friendly separates is perfect for understated gatherings. Call for orders and video appointments.9500082600. Textile designer Gaurang Shah has an ongoing menswear pop-up at his store in Hyderabad. Also, a functional womenswear curation is scheduled in Chennai for July, featuring Antar-Agni, Integument and Kora.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The self-server’s prayer||O God, Please keep my near and dear ones safe, and far from illness. Keep some near and dear ones far from me too, let them stay quarantined a few weeks more. You know which ones I’m talking about, right? Of course, you are all-knowing. Especially that near and dear one who finds fault with my cooking — keep her not so near. Bless my house and all who live here. Not the mosquitoes. Bless the plants, especially the money plant, and make it grow faster than that of Mrs B, who gave me the cutting, which I think is cursed. May her roses wither! Help the jobless return to employment. Focus on making my neighbour return to office asap. His office calls are so loud, they disturb my afternoon nap. Please give him some Wi-Fi trouble. Help the sick, help the starving. Send workers home to their villages safely, especially the ones in the construction site opposite, whose hammering and drilling too are disturbing my nap. Wait, please keep back some workers, like those delivery boys, or my pizza delivery is always late. Remember, help the starving. Dear God, thank you for giving my neighbour Wi-Fi trouble. But now he hangs over the balcony and screams louder. Please give him plumbing troubles instead that will keep him indoors. I noticed that Mrs D’s cat’s picture got 45 likes. Please make my selfie get at least 55 likes. Surely the cat doesn’t pray so fervently to you. Make sure no one notices my home-cooked dahi puri picture was borrowed from Pinterest. O God, grant world peace. May all those poor people in America get whatever they want. But not free stuff they are looting from Victoria’s Secret. Here, we have to resist foreign brands, I don’t see why they should get it all free. At least make them get the wrong sizes. Talking of sizes, I have donated all my old clothes and low-rise jeans I can’t fit into now — to charity drives, including some high-heeled shoes, with minimal repairs needed. You can see my post about it as proof. Maybe you couldn’t understand my prayer the last time because of my mask, but I asked for pain relief, not rain relief. For my gas pain. Instead you made it rain and storm. Anyway, keep us all healthy, wealthy and wise, especially my husband, who is deteriorating on all three fronts. Thank you, God, and now that places of worship have opened, I would have come to personally pray to you, but social distancing and all… So please arrange blessings by Zoom call. Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Hope in a diamond ring||Jewellery is an auction mainstay, but during the pandemic, diamonds seem to be doing all the heavy lifting. In April, a Cartier ‘Tutti Frutti’ bracelet broke the record by going for USD 1.34 million. It was the highest a piece of jewellery had commanded at an online auction, this one from Sotheby’s, and featuring an exuberant mix of sapphires, emeralds, rubies. And single-cut diamonds. Not to be outdone, next week, Christie’s will present the largest D-colour diamond to be sold at an online auction. The 28.86-carat VVS1 clarity diamond ring is estimated at USD 1 million to 2 million, making it the highest valued lot ever offered for sale online at Christie’s. Other highlights include a couple of Graff necklaces and a Kutchinsky cuff bracelet, all diamond studded. These developments offer a welcome contrast to recent dismal updates on unsold diamonds in the retail sector. A Bloomberg article, for instance, quotes Gemdax, a specialist advisory firm, and observes that five of the world’s biggest diamond producers have to deal with excess inventories worth USD 3.5 billion. So what explains the robust sales at the two big auction houses, Christie’s and Sotheby’s? Coming from South Africa The answer could be collectible jewellery, with game-changing gems encouraging increased online participation from clients around the world, many of them new. “The [28-carat] diamond was originally consigned for a live auction. However, having experienced greater client confidence of transacting at higher price points online, the decision was made to move to an online sale,” explains Rahul Kadakia on email. International Head of Jewellery at Christie’s, the 46-year-old has been with the auction house for 24 years; personal highlights include 2011’s inaugural Elizabeth Taylor online sale and last year’s unique Maharajas and Mughal Magnificence “sale of the century”. Is there a backstory to next week’s spectacular diamond? “We believe the stone was probably mined in South Africa and this is the first and only time this diamond has been to market,” is what Kadakia is willing to share. As the lots won’t travel to various Christie’s showrooms to be viewed by prospective buyers, clients will have to make do with online viewing rooms and technological advancements like 3D-view for now. “Our clients have trust in the pieces that we offer for sale, so many can comfortably transact without seeing pieces in person,” adds Kadakia, revealing that clients are participating in online sales from over 150 countries. Contemporary stars Hailing from a family of jewellers in Mumbai, the auctioneer says he keeps track of diamond manufacturers and coloured stone dealers in the country, as well as star designers. Viren Bhagat is on his list of favourite contemporary jewellers — “for his unmistakable style that threads old gems and natural pearls into an East meets West marriage” — together with Joel Rosenthal for his “unmatched colour palette” and Anna Hu. Incidentally, Hu has designed three beautiful jewels for the Alrosa diamond company, which Christie’s will showcase in an online charity sale next month. As for the 28-carat headliner from the auction house, jewellery historian Usha R Balakrishnan sums up, “If it sells at a good price, it will be an important benchmark in the transition of buyer confidence to new modes of buying. Gemstones like this one always come with certificates of authenticity from the best gem labs. The onus now rests with the certifying labs.”  Christie’s Jewels Online is from June 16-30
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Esports for the win||For most teens who are into gaming, the lockdown has been the time when their parents have not been able to tell them, “Stop playing on that mobile!” Many of them are putting this extra practise to use in the upcoming ESL India Premiership. With tournaments in PUBG, FIFA, Clash of Clans and CS:GO, the fifth edition features a prize pool of Rs. 1.5 crore. While playoffs have been conducted over the past few days, the final rounds are taking place from June 15 to 17. Virtual LAN party As most IRL sporting events stand cancelled for the foreseeable future, esports has garnered a lot of interest over the past few months. Akshat Rathee, co-founder and managing director of Nodwin Gaming, which organises the tournament, says this has reflected in the number of people signing up. Declining to share exact figures, he says, “It has gone up from tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands — it is over a 300% hike on our 2019 summer season.” This sort of event gives gamers from Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities an opportunity to compete on an equal footing with people from across the country. Comparing the rise of esports to the evolution of cricket, he says, “We’re in our T20 phase! In India, especially with the wider reach of mobile data, talent can be found anywhere.” Like Paridhi Khullar, a 21-year-old digital marketer from Indore, who, as Rav3n, is one of the top PUBG streamers in the country. With no traditional sports telecasts, Rathee says they have had up to six lakh concurrent viewers for some of their most recent matches. As for their bussiness model, he explains, “We depend on corporate sponsorships for income, and not on registration fees from participants: all our events are free.” They also do not rely on advertising, instead selling the media rights — their media partner is Disney+ Hotstar, where all matches will be streamed.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||#VogueChallenge: Started by Instagram user Salma Noor (@itssalmanoor, in photo), this challenge has people photoshopping themselves on to the cover of the glossy fashion magazine. This includes those typically not featured — trans, plus-size, male,hijabi... Quite refreshing, especially in the light of editor Anna Wintour apologising for not giving space for diversity in the workplace.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||In fashion’s stride||As the country opens up, Chennai-based designer boutique, Collage, brings House of Kotwara to their clientele. Blending "old-world charm andchikankari", the range of summer-friendly separates is perfect for understated gatherings. Call for orders and video appointments.9500082600. Textile designer Gaurang Shah has an ongoing menswear pop-up at his store in Hyderabad. Also, a functional womenswear curation is scheduled in Chennai for July, featuring Antar-Agni, Integument and Kora.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Parenting and playrooms||With online classes being the norm, you might want to give your kids' room a makeover. Founder of Peekaboo Patterns, Garima Agarwal, has a free virtual consult to make the space reflect your requirements and their personality.9962430862. The University of New South Wales in Australia is organising a webinar on 'Pandemic Parenting: Building resilience in uncertain times'. Learn how the changes during the pandemic might shape relationships and how we parent. On July 1 at 7.30 am. Details: events.unsw.edu.au
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Songs for the soul||Cellist Yo-Yo Ma has been using #SongsOfComfort to tweet clips of himself playing pieces like Dvořák's Going Home , the Sarabande from Bach’s Cello Suite No 3 and, most recently, Nana by Manuel de Falla. This has inspired other musicians to share their work on Twitter. Today, The Coconut Milk Project duo, Pavithra Krishnaswamy and Goutham Kumar, are curating a virtual gig that explores how our emotions change throughout the day, using different genres of music. From 7 pm onwards. At Rs. 150 per head.7358458117
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Asiatic lions: India has recorded a 29% increase in the population of Asiatic lions in the Gir forest: from 523 in 2015 to 674 in 2020. Meanwhile, as an oil fire rages near Dibru-Saikhowa National Park in Assam, 36 species of mammals, including tigers and Gangetic dolphins, are currently in danger. Perhaps more attention needs to be paid to the lesser-known wildlife as well?
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Bucket list||Instead of masks, Sabyasachi Mukherjee’s latest is this embroideredpotli,which will be launched on Independence Day. Aptly called The Nani Bucket, it is available for pre-order at his stores in Mumbai, Delhi, Hyderabad and Kolkata. Priced at Rs. 69,500. Delivery starting August 15. Details: @sabyasachiaccessories. For monsoon basics, Melissa, the Brazilian footwear brand, has launched their Indian e-commerce platform. Pick from waterproof galoshes, slides and slip-ons. From Rs. 2,999 onwards on melissaindia.com.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Learn an art||Join veteran theatre artistes Jayakumar Janakiraman, Kalairaani and Muthukumar from the Koothu-p-pattarai team for a 21-day acting workshop. The online classes will be on from June 15 to July 5. At Rs. 10,000 per head. Call for details and registration.8072333827. Or sign up for online dance classes with Salsa Madras. Choose from Bachata (Wednesdays), Mambo (Fridays), Salsa (Saturdays) and body isolation and movement (Sundays). At Rs. 200 per session. Details on salsamadras.com.8122072572
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking pictures||Chennai Photo Biennale (CPB), in collaboration with Institut Français en Inde, is kickstarting a series of virtual engagements with French and Indian artists, curators, heads of museums and galleries. Photo artist and CPB Edition III co-curator Arko Datto will be in conversation with Damarice Amao, assistant curator, Department of Photography, Musée National d'Art Moderne, Paris. They'll talk about photographic and curatorial practices in the current times. Today, at 3 pm, on Zoom. Register on chennaiphotobiennale.com.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Celebrate World Gin Day today with beverage consultant Karina Aggarwal and co-founder of the London Cocktail Society, Emma Stokes, live on our Instagram at 5.30 pm. They'll talk cocktails, bottles and 2020 trends. Tomorrow, columnist Vasudha Rai will be in conversation with Kavita Khosa, founder of Purearth, on greenwashing in the beauty industry. At 5 pm. Catch our conversations with violinist Karthick Iyer and director Sudhir Mishra on our IGTV channel. All sessions on @thehinduweekend.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||SUM MER OF PRIDE 2020: MOVIES, BOOKS, PODCASTS||Over 50 years ago, on a late June night, Marsha P Johnson and Sylvia Rivera — two trans women — were on the frontlines of the Stonewall Riots (a series of demonstrations in response to a police raid on a gay bar) in New York City. This started off the fight for LGBTQ+ rights across the world. While the memory of the event has manifested itself into ‘Pride Month’ and celebratory parades, it would serve us well to remember its political roots, too. Even at a time when queerness was unspeakable, the LGBTQ+ community has deployed the arts to express themselves and have ended up changing minds and garnering allies. I’ve found that while the rest of the world might not have understood anything about me, there were still books, movies and music that helped me find my place in the world. Along with poets, performers and public figures from the community, I list recommendations for things to read, watch, and listen to. Our selections reflect the multiple ways that sexuality and gender intersect with discourses around class, caste, creed, and even nationality. We’ve also thrown in a few suggestions for children and young adults because prejudices are learned behaviour, we must not forget.  For an extended list, head to weekend.thehindu.com
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Hope in a diamond ring||Jewellery is an auction mainstay, but during the pandemic, diamonds seem to be doing all the heavy lifting. In April, a Cartier ‘Tutti Frutti’ bracelet broke the record by going for USD 1.34 million. It was the highest a piece of jewellery had commanded at an online auction, this one from Sotheby’s, and featuring an exuberant mix of sapphires, emeralds, rubies. And single-cut diamonds. Not to be outdone, next week, Christie’s will present the largest D-colour diamond to be sold at an online auction. The 28.86-carat VVS1 clarity diamond ring is estimated at USD 1 million to 2 million, making it the highest valued lot ever offered for sale online at Christie’s. Other highlights include a couple of Graff necklaces and a Kutchinsky cuff bracelet, all diamond studded. These developments offer a welcome contrast to recent dismal updates on unsold diamonds in the retail sector. A Bloomberg article, for instance, quotes Gemdax, a specialist advisory firm, and observes that five of the world’s biggest diamond producers have to deal with excess inventories worth USD 3.5 billion. So what explains the robust sales at the two big auction houses, Christie’s and Sotheby’s? Coming from South Africa The answer could be collectible jewellery, with game-changing gems encouraging increased online participation from clients around the world, many of them new. “The [28-carat] diamond was originally consigned for a live auction. However, having experienced greater client confidence of transacting at higher price points online, the decision was made to move to an online sale,” explains Rahul Kadakia on email. International Head of Jewellery at Christie’s, the 46-year-old has been with the auction house for 24 years; personal highlights include 2011’s inaugural Elizabeth Taylor online sale and last year’s unique Maharajas and Mughal Magnificence “sale of the century”. Is there a backstory to next week’s spectacular diamond? “We believe the stone was probably mined in South Africa and this is the first and only time this diamond has been to market,” is what Kadakia is willing to share. As the lots won’t travel to various Christie’s showrooms to be viewed by prospective buyers, clients will have to make do with online viewing rooms and technological advancements like 3D-view for now. “Our clients have trust in the pieces that we offer for sale, so many can comfortably transact without seeing pieces in person,” adds Kadakia, revealing that clients are participating in online sales from over 150 countries. Contemporary stars Hailing from a family of jewellers in Mumbai, the auctioneer says he keeps track of diamond manufacturers and coloured stone dealers in the country, as well as star designers. Viren Bhagat is on his list of favourite contemporary jewellers — “for his unmistakable style that threads old gems and natural pearls into an East meets West marriage” — together with Joel Rosenthal for his “unmatched colour palette” and Anna Hu. Incidentally, Hu has designed three beautiful jewels for the Alrosa diamond company, which Christie’s will showcase in an online charity sale next month. As for the 28-carat headliner from the auction house, jewellery historian Usha R Balakrishnan sums up, “If it sells at a good price, it will be an important benchmark in the transition of buyer confidence to new modes of buying. Gemstones like this one always come with certificates of authenticity from the best gem labs. The onus now rests with the certifying labs.”  Christie’s Jewels Online is from June 16-30
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC seeks details on quarantine norms being followed in U.P.||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Uttar Pradesh government to file a response on the quarantine norms being followed in the State. The court sought details after it was informed that quarantine guidelines issued in Noida were “contrary” to the national guidelines notified by the Centre. Advocate Garima Prasad, the counsel for Uttar Pradesh, submitted to a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan that inter-State travel restrictions have been imposed in Ghaziabad and Noida, which are part of the NCR of Delhi, as COVID-19 cases in Delhi are 40 times that of Noida and Ghaziabad. Ms. Prasad said authorities are, however, allowing the entry of essential commodities, services, media and advocates. The court noted that quarantine order issued by the District Magistrate of Gautam Budhha Nagar (Noida) was “not in conformity” with that of the Centre. “State is bound to follow the national guidelines,” Justice Bhushan observed, saying such situations could create chaos for citizens. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the Centre, briefed the court that a meeting was held with the States of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi on the court’s suggestion for a common or uniform pass system for inter-State movement. Haryana informed that there was no restriction in inter-State travel, especially through Gurugram, he said. The court asked Mr. Mehta to place on record the minutes of the meeting and posted the case for further hearing on June 17. The court was hearing a petition filed by Gurugram resident Rohit Bhalla, alleging that “complete sealing of borders” within the NCR and restrictions imposed on movement of citizens was in violation of the new guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). The plea sought to declare as unconstitutional the measures by the district administrations of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh which allegedly restrict movement for permissible activities in areas falling within the NCR due to “blanket orders of sealing borders without reasonable exceptions”. Mr. Bhalla’s petition had originally referred to the April 29 order of district administrations in Haryana, which is applicable to Gurugram and Sonepat, and May 3 public statement by the district administrations of Uttar Pradesh about Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad. It has alleged that these measures are in violation of the MHA’s May 1 guidelines which allow movement for permissible activities and has been adopted by these States. The plea has alleged that complete sealing of borders within the NCR and restrictions imposed on movement of citizens from attending to permitted activities are “grossly contradictory” and renders the relaxations ineffective.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Esports for the win||For most teens who are into gaming, the lockdown has been the time when their parents have not been able to tell them, “Stop playing on that mobile!” Many of them are putting this extra practise to use in the upcoming ESL India Premiership. With tournaments in PUBG, FIFA, Clash of Clans and CS:GO, the fifth edition features a prize pool of Rs. 1.5 crore. While playoffs have been conducted over the past few days, the final rounds are taking place from June 15 to 17. Virtual LAN party As most IRL sporting events stand cancelled for the foreseeable future, esports has garnered a lot of interest over the past few months. Akshat Rathee, co-founder and managing director of Nodwin Gaming, which organises the tournament, says this has reflected in the number of people signing up. Declining to share exact figures, he says, “It has gone up from tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands — it is over a 300% hike on our 2019 summer season.” This sort of event gives gamers from Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities an opportunity to compete on an equal footing with people from across the country. Comparing the rise of esports to the evolution of cricket, he says, “We’re in our T20 phase! In India, especially with the wider reach of mobile data, talent can be found anywhere.” Like Paridhi Khullar, a 21-year-old digital marketer from Indore, who, as Rav3n, is one of the top PUBG streamers in the country. With no traditional sports telecasts, Rathee says they have had up to six lakh concurrent viewers for some of their most recent matches. As for their bussiness model, he explains, “We depend on corporate sponsorships for income, and not on registration fees from participants: all our events are free.” They also do not rely on advertising, instead selling the media rights — their media partner is Disney+ Hotstar, where all matches will be streamed.
13 June 2020||FARIDABAD,||Faridabad lab scales down testing capacity after staffers get infected||Catering to three districts of Rewari, Mahendragarh and Faridabad in Haryana, the COVID-19 lab at ESIC Medical College and Hospital here has been forced to scale down its testing capacity drastically after more than half of its staff members tested positive for the deadly virus a week ago. One of the two government labs in Faridabad, it earlier tested 500-650 samples per day on an average, but now the figure has come down to around 30. Chief co-ordinator of the laboratory, Anil Pandey, said one of the lab technicians tested positive in the last week of May after his father, running a fruit shop in Delhi, contracted the virus. However, the father-son duo was asymptomatic. Soon, another technician developed symptoms and was found positive for COVID-19. “We then decided to collect and test the samples of the entire staff on June 4 and as feared, 10 of them were found positive,” said Dr. Pandey, also the registrar-academic ESIC Medical College and Hospital. The hospital was forced to keep its lab operations shut for a day, but the rest of the staff worked overtime to clear the backlog of the samples on Sunday. Dr. Pandey said they now test samples of only those suffering with critical illness, pregnant women and ones in the ICU. “The samples earlier sent to us are not directed to private labs and the other government lab in Faridabad,” he said. The lab at ESIC also carried out the quantitative analysis of the samples and reported the virus load unlike most of the other labs, he added. He, however, hopes to increase the sample intake from Jnue 15, with a new team of four-five lab technicians and a scientist set to take the charge. “It may still take us another two weeks to reach full capacity,” said Dr. Pandey. He rued that emergency services, such as COVID-19 labs, did not have reserve teams to ensure the operations were not hampered. “You can run routine services without a reserve team, but not the emergency services. The Central government must look into this, especially when cases are on the rise,” said Dr. Pandey.   You can run routine services without a reserve team, but not the emergency services. The Central government must look into this, especially when [COVID-19] cases are on the rise Anil Pandey Chief co-ordinator of COVID-19 lab, ESIC Medical College and Hospital
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Centre’s move of phased lifting of lockdown not made in haste’||The Delhi High Court on Friday dismissed with cost a petition by a law student challenging the May 30 order of the Centre by which the lockdown was extended in containment zones and reopening of activities was done in a phased manner outside such zones. A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad said the Central government’s decision of phased reopening of lockdown was not taken in haste and it was done to ensure a proper balance between containing the spread of COVID-19 pandemic and making it certain that people are not forced to starvation. The High Court imposed a penalty of Rs. 20,000 to Arun Aggarwal, the petitioner in the case, noting that the petition “is completely misconceived and has been filed only to gain publicity”. “He [Aggawral] has not cared to read the judgments relating to public interest litigations and the limits on the court while exercising its power of judicial review on policy matters,” the Bench said. “Nothing has been shown as to how the impugned order is so arbitrary or is based on such irrelevant consideration that it deserves to be struck down as being violative of Article 14 of the Constitution,” it added. It said that the lockdown has resulted in loss of jobs for lakhs of people. People were forced to walk considerable distance during the lockdown and stand in long queues at food distribution centres just to have two square meals a day, it said.
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Trying our best to tackle pandemic’||The Delhi government was “trying its best” to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic, it said in a statement in response to the Supreme Court’s observations on Friday. Further defending the government, it pointed out that the Lok Nayak Hospital, the biggest COVID-19 hospital in Delhi, had around 2,000 beds operational for the COVID-19 patients. “Many critical patients from the Central government and the private hospitals in Delhi are being referred to the LNJP hospital for better medication. So far, over 2,100 patients from the hospital have recovered and returned to their homes,” it stated. “The Hon’ble Supreme Court is the apex court of India and we accept their observations with the utmost respect and with absolute sincerity. The Delhi government is determined to provide healthcare for all and to ensure best possible treatment to each COVID-19 patient. But, if there are any gaps that still remain and is brought to our notice, we will act on them sincerely and immediately,” the statement said.
13 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong., BJP criticise AAP govt. after SC remarks||Delhi Congress on Friday welcomed the observation of the Supreme Court that questioned why COVID-19 testing has come down in the Capital as it was the duty of the State to conduct testing so that more people are aware of their health status. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said: “The Supreme Court has shown a mirror at the Kejriwal government, which has been taking retrograde steps regarding the testing of COVID-19 patients. Instead of expanding the testing base in the Capital, the Delhi government has been shrinking the test facilities.” Mr. Kumar wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, demanding that virus tests be made the right of every citizen in Delhi, and that it should be done free of cost. BJP hits out The BJP also launched a full-scale attack on the Delhi government. Delhi BJP president Adesh Kumar Gupta said he had from time to time “demanded” that the Delhi government increase testing, present correct figures, increase the number of beds, correct its app and take preventive measures on time, but the government was “quite busy in politics and rhetoric.” Leader of the Opposition in Delhi Legislative Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri accusing the Delhi government of “completely failing to deal with the Corona pandemic” demanded that the Centre “immediately intervene to save Delhi” as the pandemic had taken “a formidable form.”
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||Dua to move SC over notice from H.P. police||Journalist and anchor Vinod Dua on Friday said he was moving the Supreme Court in connection with a notice issued to him by the Himachal Pradesh police to appear at the Kumarsain police station in Shimla on Saturday morning in connection with an FIR lodged against him on charges of sedition. Mr. Dua said he was in contact with his lawyers, who were in the process of filing a petition for an urgent hearing by the top court. He said a team of Himachal Pradesh police arrived at his house here on Friday morning with the notice. “The distance between Delhi and Kumarsain is almost 14 hours, so I sent them a reply that I cannot come tomorrow [Saturday],” he said. “I am a senior citizen... and all senior citizens have been advised not to venture out. I also have certain medical conditions. Besides, the Himachal Pradesh government’s protocol says that anyone coming from a Red Zone has to be quarantined for 14 days,” Mr. Dua said. “I am available for any investigation through any other means,” he added.
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||Mayor, deputy to be elected on June 24||Elections for the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor in three municipal corporations of Delhi will take place on June 24, the civic bodies notified on Friday. The elections had been delayed by two months due to COVID-19. However, the SDMC’s notification states the duration of the term of the Mayor will remain unchanged. Nominations have been invited till June 17, following which an ordinary meeting of the House of the three corporations has been called for on June 24 to vote for the posts. Since the Bharatiya Janata Party holds a majority of seats in all three corporations, Mayors and Deputy Mayors will be elected from within the party.
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||Hot, humid day in Capital||The maximum temperature on Friday here settled at 41.5 degrees Celsius which was two degrees above normal for the season. The minimum was 30.3 degrees, two notches above normal. Humidity hovered between 43% and 80%. Palam weather station recorded a high of 42 degrees. Partly cloudy sky with possibility of thundery development has been forecast for Saturday.
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||As cases mount, markets likely to shut shop||Markets in Delhi may soon shut down once more, given the rapidly rising cases of COVID-19 here, traders’ body Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said on Friday. The current situation and the projection that the number of cases may hit 5.32 lakh by the end of July have left traders scared, CAIT said. The traders’ body also started an online survey among leading trade organisations in Delhi to take a call on the issue.
13 June 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- Peak power||Peak power clocked a season-high of 5,534 MW on Thursday night, electricity discom BSES said. It noted that because of the weather, peak power had been muted in the last few days. Since the easing of lockdown restrictions, the company said that peak power demand started increasing and has so far risen by about 34%. It added that it expects peak power to hit a high of 7,500 MW in July, overtaking last year’s peak power.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||#VogueChallenge: Started by Instagram user Salma Noor (@itssalmanoor, in photo), this challenge has people photoshopping themselves on to the cover of the glossy fashion magazine. This includes those typically not featured — trans, plus-size, male,hijabi... Quite refreshing, especially in the light of editor Anna Wintour apologising for not giving space for diversity in the workplace.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Parenting and playrooms||With online classes being the norm, you might want to give your kids' room a makeover. Founder of Peekaboo Patterns, Garima Agarwal, has a free virtual consult to make the space reflect your requirements and their personality.9962430862. The University of New South Wales in Australia is organising a webinar on 'Pandemic Parenting: Building resilience in uncertain times'. Learn how the changes during the pandemic might shape relationships and how we parent. On July 1 at 7.30 am. Details: events.unsw.edu.au
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Songs for the soul||Cellist Yo-Yo Ma has been using #SongsOfComfort to tweet clips of himself playing pieces like Dvořák's Going Home , the Sarabande from Bach’s Cello Suite No 3 and, most recently, Nana by Manuel de Falla. This has inspired other musicians to share their work on Twitter. Today, The Coconut Milk Project duo, Pavithra Krishnaswamy and Goutham Kumar, are curating a virtual gig that explores how our emotions change throughout the day, using different genres of music. From 7 pm onwards. At Rs. 150 per head.7358458117
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Asiatic lions: India has recorded a 29% increase in the population of Asiatic lions in the Gir forest: from 523 in 2015 to 674 in 2020. Meanwhile, as an oil fire rages near Dibru-Saikhowa National Park in Assam, 36 species of mammals, including tigers and Gangetic dolphins, are currently in danger. Perhaps more attention needs to be paid to the lesser-known wildlife as well?
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Bucket list||Instead of masks, Sabyasachi Mukherjee’s latest is this embroideredpotli,which will be launched on Independence Day. Aptly called The Nani Bucket, it is available for pre-order at his stores in Mumbai, Delhi, Hyderabad and Kolkata. Priced at Rs. 69,500. Delivery starting August 15. Details: @sabyasachiaccessories. For monsoon basics, Melissa, the Brazilian footwear brand, has launched their Indian e-commerce platform. Pick from waterproof galoshes, slides and slip-ons. From Rs. 2,999 onwards on melissaindia.com.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Learn an art||Join veteran theatre artistes Jayakumar Janakiraman, Kalairaani and Muthukumar from the Koothu-p-pattarai team for a 21-day acting workshop. The online classes will be on from June 15 to July 5. At Rs. 10,000 per head. Call for details and registration.8072333827. Or sign up for online dance classes with Salsa Madras. Choose from Bachata (Wednesdays), Mambo (Fridays), Salsa (Saturdays) and body isolation and movement (Sundays). At Rs. 200 per session. Details on salsamadras.com.8122072572
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking pictures||Chennai Photo Biennale (CPB), in collaboration with Institut Français en Inde, is kickstarting a series of virtual engagements with French and Indian artists, curators, heads of museums and galleries. Photo artist and CPB Edition III co-curator Arko Datto will be in conversation with Damarice Amao, assistant curator, Department of Photography, Musée National d'Art Moderne, Paris. They'll talk about photographic and curatorial practices in the current times. Today, at 3 pm, on Zoom. Register on chennaiphotobiennale.com.
13 June 2020||June 13 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Celebrate World Gin Day today with beverage consultant Karina Aggarwal and co-founder of the London Cocktail Society, Emma Stokes, live on our Instagram at 5.30 pm. They'll talk cocktails, bottles and 2020 trends. Tomorrow, columnist Vasudha Rai will be in conversation with Kavita Khosa, founder of Purearth, on greenwashing in the beauty industry. At 5 pm. Catch our conversations with violinist Karthick Iyer and director Sudhir Mishra on our IGTV channel. All sessions on @thehinduweekend.
