13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM announces Rs. 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said a new-look Lockdown 4.0 beyond May 17 was in the offing, while announcing an economic stimulus package for Rs. 20 lakh crore (estimated at 10% of the GDP), with a clearly defined leap towards economic reforms that will, in his words, lead to Atmanirbhar Bharat, or a self-reliant, resilient India. This amount includes packages already announced at the beginning of the lockdown, incorporating a slew of measures from the RBI and the payouts under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. ‘Relook at systems’ Addressing the nation on television, Mr. Modi said the whole world was reeling from the crisis engendered by the COVID-19 pandemic, as was India. In this crisis, however, India had had an opportunity to look at systems and institutions that were in existence before the crisis hit and how they crumbled. “We have been hearing for many years that the 21st century will be India’s century and this crisis is, I believe, one that carries a message, that we have to move forward not just to combat the crisis but to prevail,” the Prime Minister said. “That can happen when we are self-reliant.” Ramped-up capacity He gave the example of India’s ramped-up capacity in producing Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits and N-95 masks required by medical personnel and frontline health workers to illustrate his point that India could achieve this. “When the first case hit us, we didn’t produce either of these things. Now, within weeks we have the capacity to produce 2 lakh of PPE and 2 lakh of N95 masks everyday,” Mr. Modi said. Clarifying that by self-reliance he did not mean insularity and suspicion of the world as in the past, but embracing the world in the spirit of Vasudheva Kutumbakam (the world is one family). “Self-reliance in this sense is neither exclusionary nor isolationist, it is for helping the world, with our actions. In the past whenever we have acted it has impacted the world in a positive way — be it solving the Y2K riddle in 1999 or our campaigns against open defecation, tuberculosis and polio,” Mr. Modi said. He said that the new edifice of this self-reliant India would be based on the five pillars of the economy, infrastructure, demography, technologically driven systems and to strengthen demand and supply chains, with the supply chains being based on local sourcing.
13 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Surge in COVID cases continues||In yet another day of high number of COVID cases reported in Telangana on Tuesday, the total number went up to 1,326 with 51 testing positive. With two persons succumbing in the State, the number of COVID deaths too increased to 32. GHMC area continues to be the hotspot of COVID cases with 37 more persons testing positive on Tuesday. Another 14 of the total 51 confirmed cases for the day belonged to migrants. The number of active cases stood at 472 and the number of persons who tested positive in the past discharged after treatment increased to 822 including 21 on Tuesday. According to a bulletin issued by the Director of Health and Family Welfare, a large number of migrant population is entering the State from across the country, increasing the possibility of positive cases. The State government has instructed officials to ensure that the asymptomatic migrants arriving in Telangana from various points of entry to quarantine at home or in government quarantine facilities. The symptomatic migrants would be isolated for diagnostic test and for further course of action. Till date, 25 migrants have tested positive for COVID in Telangana out of a total of 1,326 positive cases. The Director of Health has requested general public to inform local authorities in case they identify any new persons including migrants arriving in towns and villages from other States so that necessary procedures are followed to quarantine them and test the symptomatic persons for coronavirus. A total of 275 health teams have been deployed in the State to screen migrants entering Telangana from 87 check posts in the border districts. About 1,000 health personnel are working as screening teams. On the two deaths reported on Tuesday, the Director of Health said that a 61-year-old man from Moosa Bowli with associated co-morbidities like hypertension and another 65-year-old man from Jiyaguda, suffering from diabetes and hypertension, succumbed at Gandhi Hospital.
13 May 2020||Chennai,||The Hindu is India’s fastest growing English daily, fourth time in a row||The Hindu has consolidated its leadership position as the fastest growing English daily in India with its Total Readership (TR) growing by 6% and Average Issue Readership (AIR) by 4% in the fourth quarter of 2019 over the corresponding figures for the third quarter, registering the highest growth rate among the top three national English dailies. The Times of India and the Hindustan Times have declined in AIR. The Hindu has added 4,61,000 readers nationally over the third quarter, which is 1,03,000 more than what The Times of India did, says the Indian Readership Survey’s recent report released by the Media Research Users Council in the fourth and final quarter of the calendar year. In south India, The Hindu has witnessed the highest TR of 46,70,000, which is higher than that of The Times of India . The Hindu ’s performance is attributed to sustained leadership in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, and gains in Karnataka.  The Hindu continues to be the largest read English daily in Tamil Nadu and Kerala, in terms of both TR and AIR. Its AIR in Tamil Nadu is higher than that of The Times of India and The New Indian Express combined. The Hindu has witnessed a consistent growth in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. In Karnataka, The Hindu has grown by 10% in AIR, whereas The Times of India and the Deccan Herald have declined. L.V. Navaneeth, Chief Executive Officer, The Hindu Group, said, “It is heartening to note that we have witnessed continued growth in all four quarters, even as we continue to disseminate verified information during these challenging times. We are thankful to our readers and to our advertisers for the continued support of our quality and credible journalism.”
13 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State plans to bring in normalcy||Kerala could expect to see the restoration of some semblance of normalcy in the coming days. Buoyed by the success in keeping COVID-19 transmission rates at a minimum compared to the national average, the State has sought the permission of the Centre to partly lift the lockdown curbs on mobility, retail trade, construction, agriculture, fishing, and manufacturing. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the government had on Tuesday send a list of recommendations to the Centre for easing the local economy out of the stagnation caused by the 47-day lockdown by allowing life to return to normal in well-calibrated phases. Kerala has demanded a resumption of domestic air travel. It has also argued for reopening the metro rail service in Kochi and passenger train service within the State. The State has argued against interstate bus and rail travel as usual for now. However, it has sought sanction to allow stage carriage and autorickshaw services within districts. Bus owners should limit the number of passengers they allow on board. The State might enable them to hike the travel fare minimally to compensate for their inability to operate at full capacity. Autorickshaws can ferry two persons if they are spouses or close kin. Otherwise, only one person can travel in a rickshaw. Mr. Vijayan warned that the government would cancel the permit of drivers who overcharged passengers. Hospitality sector Social life might get a leg-up with Kerala arguing for reopening of hotels, restaurants, and resorts, which had remained shuttered since the national lockdown. Mr. Vijayan said the government had advocated for restoring dine-in facility. The government would soon resume the sale of legal liquor. The Excise Department is considering several options, including online order-backed virtual queue system, to prevent tightlines in front of liquor shops. Another official said several other options were on the table, including allowing bars and beer parlours to open takeaway counters.
13 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Water row: Jagan counters Telangana argument||Close on the heels of the complaint lodged by the Telangana government to the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) on GO 203 issued by the Andhra Pradesh government, Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy held a review meeting on the developments on Tuesday. It is learnt that Mr. Jagan pointed out that Telangana was utilising 400 tmcft from projects on the River Krishna. Even before the water reaches the Srisailam dam, Telangana can draw from the Jurala, Bhima, Nettempadu and Koilsagar projects. At a time when Telangana is drawing water from these projects even though the water level at Srisailam is less than 800 ft, A.P. is planning to utilise the water allocated to it by the board. “How far it is justified to impose restrictions on Andhra Pradesh?” he is learnt to have said at the meeting. Taking exception to the complaint, Mr. Jagan said it was not correct on the part of the “Telangana government to politicise the issue” when A.P. was planning to utilise its rightful share. He pointed out that A.P. would be able to draw 44,000 cusecs from Pothireddypadu only if the water level was 881 ft at the Srisailam dam. 10-day window On an average, the water level at Srisailam stood at 881 ft only on 10 days in a year. A.P. would have to lift water to drought-hit Nellore and Prakasam districts during that period. The issue needs to be viewed from a humanitarian angle, he said. The Chief Minister said projects in Telangana became a reality as Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy who was at the helm in united A.P., had a humanitarian outlook. Telangana was able to draw water from the Srisailam Left Bank Canal and the Kalwakurthy lift irrigation scheme though the water level was less. The lift irrigation projects were constructed to ensure the fruits of development reached all sections, he said.
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Aarogya Setu app mandatory for returning NRIs, migrants||Expanding the ambit of the Aarogya Setu app, the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday directed that downloading it be made compulsory for all returnees (migrant labourers and those coming from abroad) for better contact surveillance and suitable medical intervention. It also asked the States to ramp up surveillance for Severe Acute Respiratory Infections (SARI) or Influenza-like illnesses (ILI) to detect any possible hidden infection at an early stage to ensure timely containment. The Ministry reported 3,604 new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total number of positive cases in the country to 70,756. With 87 more deaths, the nationwide toll has risen to 2,293. The country now has 46,008 active cases and 22,454 recovered, discharged or migrated cases. India’s recovery rate is now at 31.74% while the fatality rate stands at 3.2%, according to the Ministry. According to State Health Departments, the nationwide death toll was 2,388 with 47,544 active cases out of a total of 73,777 positive cases. Maharashtra reported 1,026 new cases and 53 deaths — 28 of them in Mumbai — taking the overall case count to 24,427 and the number of fatalities to 921, a Health Department official said. In addition to making the Aarogya Setu app mandatory, the Health Ministry also directed the States to focus on more effective surveillance, contact tracing, adequate testing and timely treatment of all the returnees, including testing at the point of disembarking, quarantining and offering further treatment. The direction comes with an announcement by the ICMR on Tuesday on undertaking a community based sero-survey to estimate the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 infection in Indian population.
13 May 2020||Jaipur,||After protest, Rajasthan runs buses for migrants||A day after migrant workers from West Bengal and Bihar staged a protest in Jaipur, the Congress government in Rajasthan on Tuesday started plying buses for those who have set out on foot for their home States. The buses will pick up the workers walking on roads and drop them at the inter-State borders. Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas told The Hindu that the migrants walking on the highways were being lodged in camps and their lists were being prepared. “A large number of workers have not registered themselves for the train journey out of lack of information. They have set out on highways with the hope of reaching home,” he said. The labourers staying in rented accommodations in the Shastri Nagar area here staged a demonstration on Monday with the demand for transport facility for travel to their home States and supply of adequate ration. The Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation sent 21 buses to the Jaipur-Agra National Highway, which picked up 850 migrants from the camps set up at two government schools in Kanota, 20 km from Jaipur.  CM’s appeal Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has issued an appeal to the migrants to stop and avail themselves of the transport facility.  Mr. Khachariyawas said buses would be sent to all the major highways and the migrants would be convinced not to hit the road with their children under the scorching sun. The workers who boarded the buses bound for the Uttar Pradesh border were screened with thermal scanners and provided with sanitisers, masks, food packets and water. Bharatpur-based Lupin Foundation has established a temporary shelter near Rarah on the Rajasthan-U.P. border to help out migrant workers during their journey. The Foundation’s executive director, Sita Ram Gupta, said the volunteers would take care of the labourers and their families if they were stopped at the border for want of documents. Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan activist Mukesh Nirvasit said he had seen a large number of migrants travelling in trucks, tractor trolleys and other vehicles near Kanota, in addition to those walking on foot. “They were coming from far-off places. They feared that they would be forced to walk if the police stopped their vehicles.” Police personnel posted on the Rajasthan-U.P. border clashed on Sunday over the entry of home-bound workers. It was later decided that only the officially registered migrants from Rajasthan would be allowed into U.P.
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,||716 new cases, eight deaths in T.N.||Tamil Nadu reported 716 new cases of COVID-19 and eight more deaths on Tuesday. Chennai, for the third consecutive day, added more than 500 cases to its total. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the State now stands at 8,718*. Of the 716 new cases — 427 men, 288 women and one transgender — 60 were children aged up to 12. Among them were two two-month-old babies and a seven-month-old. Though the State’s mortality rate is 0.69%, the deaths have been rising steadily over the last few days. As on date, a total of 61 persons have died across the State, with Chennai accounting for 39 deaths. A 69-year-old man, a resident of Chennai, was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on May 8. He died on May 11 due to urosepsis, acute encephalopathy, septic shock and respiratory failure, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. A 75-year-old man with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and pulmonary tuberculosis died at the Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital on May 11. A 63-year-old man, who suffered from diabetes and systemic hypertension, died at RGGGH on May 11 of acute respiratory distress syndrome. A 43-year-old woman, a resident of Tiruvallur, died at RGGGH on May 11. She suffered from acute myeloid leukemia and died of septic shock and respiratory failure. Another woman - a 55-year-old resident of Chennai - also died at RGGGH. She had diabetes and systemic hypertension and died of sepsis, septic shock and acute cerebrovascular accident. A 57-year-old woman from Chennai, who was suffering from diabetes, died at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on May 11, while a 70-year-old man, also a resident of Chennai, died at KMC on May 12. A 58-year-old woman who was suffering from diabetes, hypothyroidism and coronary artery disease, died at KMC on May 12. Among the fresh cases ae four persons who returned from other countries on repatriation flights. Till now, a total of 927 persons who arrived on these flights to Chennai and Tiruchi airports have been screened. Of the 743 persons who arrived at the Chennai airport since May 9, 557 have been tested. Of them, four persons have tested positive for COVID-19, while 186 samples are under process. All 184 passengers who arrived at the Tiruchi airport have tested negative. A total of 21 districts have reported new cases. Chennai added 510 new cases, taking its total tally to 4,882. Ariyalur had 36 cases, Chengalpattu 35 cases, Perambalur and Tiruvallur had 27 cases each and Kancheepuram had 24 cases. There were 13 cases in Tiruvannamalai, nine in Ranipet, seven in Theni, four each in Karur and Virudhunagar, three in Tirunelveli, two each in Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Thoothukudi and Tiruchi, and one each in Cuddalore, Kanniyakumari, Tenkasi, Vellore and Villupuram. Another 44 persons aged above 60 tested positive. As on date, a total of 487 children aged 0 to 12 and 596 persons aged above 60 have tested positive in the State. A total of 11,788 samples were tested on Tuesday. With this, a total of 2,66,687 samples have been tested so far. Two more testing facilities were approved - at the Government Kallakurichi Hospital and Chettinad Hospital and Research Institute, Chengalpattu. With this, there are a total of 55 testing facilities - 38 in the government and 17 in the private sector. With 83 more persons being discharged on Tuesday, a total of 2,134 persons have been discharged so far in the State. There are 6,520 active cases and 4,401 persons suspected to have symptoms admitted to isolation wards. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India caught in U.S.-China spat over Taiwan’s status at WHO||As tensions between the U.S. and China rise over the novel coronavirus pandemic, India, which is set to take over as the next Chairperson of the World Health Organization’s decision-making executive body in May, is faced with a major choice on whether to support a U.S. move to reinstate Taiwan’s observer status at the World Health Assembly (WHA) or to China’s opposition to it. On Monday, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar attended a seven-nation virtual meeting of Foreign Ministers, convened by U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, which appeared to be part of Washington’s efforts to gain support for its move to effect changes at the WHO. The U.S. has, in the recent past, accused it of acting as a “PR agency” for China during the pandemic. On Wednesday, Mr. Jaishankar will take part in a virtual meeting of the 8-nation Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) led by China and Russia, which will discuss responses to the pandemic. The meeting was held on the same day the U.S. Senate passed an Act (S.249) to “direct the Secretary of State to develop a strategy to regain observer status for Taiwan in the World Health Organization”, beginning with its decision-making body, the WHA. The Geneva-based WHA will hold a virtual meeting on May 18 and 19 to elect members to the 34-nation Executive Board, among other things, and it will be followed by a Board meeting on May 22. Officials have confirmed that India’s nominee will take over as the Chairperson, replacing Japan.
13 May 2020||BENGALURU,||APMC Act: ‘Govt. yet to decide on Ordinance’||The State government is yet to decide on promulgating an Ordinance to bring reforms to the agricultural produce marketing committees (APMCs) even as the Opposition has dubbed the proposed reforms as “anti-farmer”. Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekhar on Tuesday said the government had not decided yet on promulgating the Ordinance, and denied that the State was under pressure to do so. “It has not been decided yet. I have convened a meeting of APMC officials on Wednesday to discuss the issue. At this stage, the Chief Minister’s office is also looking at pros and cons of bringing the Ordinance,” Mr. Somashekhar told The Hindu . He said that as several States have already brought changes based on the Centre’s model Act, and that he had asked for details on those changes to study. His comments on Ordinance came in the light of a letter received by the State government from the Centre which has suggested that the State should consider adopting changes in the current situation to the APMCs based on the model Agriculture Produce and Livestock Marketing Act that has been circulated by the Centre. Important things proposed in the reforms include removal of restriction on sale of farm produce by allowing sales outside APMC yards. Mr. Somashekhar, however, insisted that the model Act proposed by the Union government would help farmers. “Already, owing to COVID-19 situation, farmers were allowed to sell outside APMC yards. The new changes will help farmers. The changes are also in line with these experiences,” he said. The State is expecting a revenue shortfall of Rs. 600 crore a year if the amendment comes through, sources said. ‘Under pressure’ Meanwhile, Bandeppa Kashempur, Cooperation Minister in the previous Congress-JD(S) coalition government, told The Hindu that the State had been under tremendous pressure from the Centre to bring changes to the APMC Act ever since the model Act was notified. The State government believed that the proposed changes could have negative impact on farmers, he added. “At least thrice, Union Agriculture Ministry officials had called me to ask why Karnataka was hesitant to implement the reforms. We were very clear that such big reforms required deliberations, and that reforms could not be done in a hurry. Karnataka had conveyed it very clearly to the Centre,” he said. The Centre had been asking us to move the amendments in the Assembly quickly, he added. He also said that Karnataka had filed objections to the draft that had been circulated among the States, and that senior APMC officials had gone to Delhi to raise these objections in the meeting. “I do not know what kind of pressure is the State government facing now since the BJP is ruling in the State as well as at the Centre.”
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,||With 63 cases, State sees highest single-day spike||With 63 new cases, Karnataka saw a record increase in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. The State’s tally of confirmed positive cases has now touched 925. This includes 31 COVID deaths, one non-COVID death, and 433 discharged persons. Of the 460 active cases, the condition of 449 patients is stable and 11 are in the ICU. Of the new cases, 15 are from Bagalkot, 12 from Davangere, nine from Dharwad, five each from Hassan and Kolar, four from Bengaluru Urban, three from Gadag, two each from Yadgir, Bidar, and Dakshina Kannada, and one each from Kalaburagi, Chickballapur, Ballari, and Mandya district.Kolar, Yadgir, and Hassan districts reported cases for the first time on Tuesday. With this, 25 districts in the State are now COVID-affected. Travel history Of the 63 cases, 33 have a history of travel to Ahmedabad and six have a history of travel to Mumbai. In the last three days, 51 people who have come from Ahmedabad have tested positive in the State. Of the three from Kolar, two have a travel history to Odisha and one to Chennai. Out of four patients from Bengaluru, three are women from Padarayanapura and contacts of a previously infected patient (P-454). The source of infection in the fourth person, a 35-old-year male, however, is still not known. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said all the Deputy Commissioners had prior information about the inter-State returnees. The returnees had been quarantined and tested on crossing the borders. Admitting that there was an element of risk following the influx of people from other States into Karnataka, the Minister said it was not right to come to a conclusion that the infection had reached villages. With most people violating home quarantine, the government has decided to mandatorily quarantine all those who return from other States and countries in institutional facilities. Isolation for suspected cases The Health Department has issued a circular to isolate all COVID-19 suspected cases whose test reports are inconclusive in the isolation wards of dedicated COVID Health Centres, till their repeat test result is known. This is in the wake of a pregnant woman who first tested positive and later negative. Although the interpretation in her first test report also said “inconclusive”, she was admitted in a designated COVID hospital. However, after her repeat test showed she was negative, she was discharged. There were several concerns that as she spent two days in the COVID ward she may have been exposed to the virus. Meanwhile, the Minister launched two immunity boosting products prepared by the AYUSH Directorate in Karnataka. AYUSH Director Meenakshi Negi said these products — a kashaya mix and a Unani inhaler — will be distributed free to all those quarantined and anyone with symptoms.
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Class 10 exams from June 1||Class 10 students in Tamil Nadu will begin writing their board exams on June 1, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said on Tuesday. The exams were supposed to have begun on March 27, but were postponed owing to the COVID-19 lockdown. The exams will go on till June 12 and will begin with the Language paper. Buses will be arranged to pick up and drop the students, Mr. Sengottaiyan said. Though the Class 12 exams have concluded, concerns were raised over 36,842 students not being able to write the last paper on March 24. The exam will be held on June 4. Evaluation of Plus 2 answer scripts would begin on May 27.
13 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||KEAM 2020 on July 16||The State government has decided to conduct the KEAM 2020 entrance test for various professional courses on July 16. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said the papers of the engineering examination (Paper 1 – Physics and Chemistry, Paper 2 – Mathematics) will be held in the morning and afternoon respectively on the same day. The Commissioner for Entrance Examinations had initially scheduled the examination to be held on April 20 and 21. While engineering aspirants must appear for both papers, candidates seeking admission to BPharm course will have to appear and qualify in Paper 1.
13 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||71 new COVID cases, one death in a day||The State reported one more COVID-19 death and 71 fresh cases in the past 24 hours and 58 of them are linked to COVID hotspots in other States, according to the Health Department. Out of the 71 fresh cases, only 13 were due to local transmission. As many as 930 migrant labourers returned to the State from Kalyan near Mumbai of Maharashtra. Of the 250 persons 38 tested (Kurnool 37, Kadapa 1) positive for COVID and more positive cases are expected from the persons being tested in other districts, Special Chief Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy said. On the other hand, all the fresh cases reported in Chittoor (10), Nellore (9) and East Godavari (1) are linked to the COVID hotspot Koyembedu market in Chennai. The remaining fresh cases were reported in Krishna (4) where a patient died, and Kurnool (9). The tally has gone up to 2,089 and the toll increased to 46. With 58 more patients recovering and getting discharged from hospitals the number of total recoveries is at 1,056, which is higher the number of active cases at 987. The number of active cases was either coming down or maintained at the same level from May 3, Dr. Jawahar said. The government has formed six committees for six sectors including Industries, Shops and Establishments, Agriculture and Allied Activities and Rural Development, Public Transport, Public Works and Functioning of government and private offices to study and make exit strategy to be needed post-May 17. The committee reports would be submitted on May 13.
13 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||8,000 tonnes styrene loaded into vessel||The process of sending the first consignment of around 8,000 tonnes of styrene monomer of the total 13,000 tonnes stored at LG Polymers to South Korea is likely to begin on Tuesday night, Visakhapatnam Collector V. Vinay Chand has said. The LG Polymers submitted the documents to the Vizag Customs on May 11 to export the styrene stored at its bonded warehouse to South Korea. Around 7,940 tonnes of styrene monomer was loaded on to a vessel MT Arahan docked at Visakhapatnam port by 5 p.m. on Tuesday, a communiqué released by the customs officials said.  “We have set a target to shift the second consignment of 5,000 tonnes within 72 hours by engaging another vessel to South Korea,” said Mr. Vinay Chand.
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Services resume||
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,||No help for migrants: Cong.||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a financial package and the extension of the lockdown, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the nation was disappointed by his failure to address the issues of migrants. Senior leader Anand Sharma said the package would revive the economy and help the micro, small and medium enterprises in need of financial support to pay wages. Mr. Surjewala said Mr. Modi’s announcement gave the media a headline, but the party would respond only when the “blank page is filled with Heartfelt Help of People”.page 8
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Industrial output shrank 16.7% in March||India’s factory output plummeted to record lows in March, with the Index of Industrial Production contracting 16.7%, reflecting the drastic impact of the countrywide lockdown that began on March 25. This comes after a positive growth of 4.5% recorded in February. Manufacturing sector output slumped 20% in March, while electricity generation shrank almost 7%, according to data released on Tuesday by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation. The mining sector remained flat, without any growth or contraction in output.
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||Highest single-day jump in COVID-19 deaths in city||Thirteen deaths and 406 new COVID-19 cases have been reported in Delhi in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 86 and cases to 7,639. This is the highest single-day spike in the city.
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||HC relief for DMC chief in sedition case||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday ordered that no coercive action will be taken against Delhi Minorities Commission chairperson Zafarul Islam Khan, who is facing a sedition case over a tweet posted last month, until June 22. The court order came on Mr. Khan’s anticipatory bail plea.
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Work on Museum of Prime Ministers to begin||The Central Public Works Department on Tuesday kicked off the process for the external works of the Museum on Prime Ministers of India by inviting bids, but building construction has been affected by the lockdown, said officials.
13 May 2020||Hyderabad,||12-Nearby-1||The Ganesh idol of Khairatabad, famous for its massive size and varied forms, is likely to be much smaller — even one foot — this year. Khairatabad Ganesh Utsava Samithi took this decision on Tuesday, in the backdrop of coronavirus spread. With just over three months left for Vinayaka Chavithi, preparations and rituals for making the idol are yet to begin.
13 May 2020||Hyderabad,||12-Nearby-2||The Telangana government has termed AP’s plans to divert 6 to 8 tmc ft water daily from Srisailam reservoir as “illegal and in contravention of Section 84 of the AP Reorganisation Act”. Government requested the Krishna River Management Board to stop AP from proceeding further.
13 May 2020||HUBBALLI,||12 more COVID-19 cases in Davangere||Davangere district recorded 12 more COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday, including six persons having history of travelling to Ahmedabad in Gujarat. Addressing a press conference in Davangere on Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner Mahanthesh Bilagi said that six persons (P-915 to P-920) had earlier travelled to Ahmedabad in Gujarat.
13 May 2020||DHARWAD,||Nine more test positive for COVID-19||A total of nine persons tested positive for COVID-19 here on Tuesday. All of them had returned from Ahmedabad in Gujarat and identified as P-879 (55), P-880 (31), P-881 (25), P-882 (70), P-883 (26), P-884 (18), P-885 (19), P-886 (20) and P-887 (27). They were placed under government quarantine upon arriving here. All these men have been admitted to KIMS, Hubballi, after their tests returned positive.
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Unions oppose change of Labour Secretary||Around the time when crucial labour laws in Karnataka are being looked into to bring industry-friendly changes, the government’s decision to put Principal Secretary, Commerce and Industries (MSME and Mines), M. Maheshwar Rao in concurrent charge as Labour Secretary has raised eyebrows of trade unions.
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Get details of students’ access to gadgets’||With the 2020-21 academic year likely to be delayed, the Department of Public Instruction has asked schools to conduct a survey among students to get details of the electronic gadgets they have access to at home.
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,||BMTC services: Decision only after govt. nod||Ferrying close to 35 lakh people a day, BMTC buses are the lifeline of the city’s mass transport system. But a decision on when they will resume services will be taken only after the government’s nod, officials said.
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||No air space violation at Pangong Tso||Helicopters of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) came close to the border during the face-off with the Indian Army near Pangong Tso lake in Eastern Ladakh last week, but there was no air space violation on either side, Indian Air Force (IAF) sources said on Tuesday. Separately, Army spokesperson Col. Aman Anand said there was no ongoing face-off at the Pangong Tso lake or any “build-up of armed troops in the area”. “There was no border violation on either side. IAF SU-30MKI fighters were airborne in Ladakh on routine flying and were not scrambled in response to the helicopters,” IAF sources said. Locally resolved Stating that incidents of face-off and aggressive behaviour occur on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Col. Anand said patrols disengaged after local-level interaction and dialogue. “Temporary and short-duration face-offs occur as boundary is not resolved. Troops resolve such incidents mutually as per established protocols,” he said in response to reports of an ongoing stand-off at the site. There were two incidents of face-off between Indian and Chinese troops last week which resulted in injuries to several soldiers on both sides. The first incident occurred on May 5 near Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh while the second face-off occurred on May 9 at Naku La in Sikkim. Army sources stated that the face-off at Pangong Tso occurred on the intervening night of May 5 as patrol teams came across each other and was resolved by the morning of May 6. Pangong Tso has seen such several incidents in the past including in 2017 and in 2019. As per existing agreements between India and China, operation of fighter aircraft and armed helicopters is restricted to a distance from the LAC. According to the ‘Agreement on Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the LAC in India-China Border Area’ of 1996, “combat aircraft (to include fighter, bomber, reconnaissance, military trainer, armed helicopter and other armed aircraft) shall not fly within 10 km of the LAC.”
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Passenger services resumed partially||Almost 50 days after stopping passenger trains, the Railways on Tuesday partially resumed services with eight trains operating to and from New Delhi, ferrying over 10,000 passengers. “Indian Railways begins restoration of passenger train services with eight trains today [Tuesday]. Starting in a graded manner, these trains would run from New Delhi, Mumbai, Howrah, Ahmedabad, Patna and Bengaluru,” a Railway spokesperson said. The first to run was the New Delhi-Bilaspur train that left the national capital at 4 p.m. with a booking of 1,177 passengers. The other two trains to leave from Delhi were the New Delhi-Dibrugarh special train with booking for about 1,122 passengers that departed at 4.45 p.m., and the 9.15 p.m. New Delhi-Bengaluru train with 1,162 bookings. “The three special trains ... from New Delhi with more than 3,400 passengers... Additionally, five special trains will depart from other cities towards New Delhi. These special train services will be in addition to the Shramik Specials,” the spokesperson said. Giving details, the Indian Railways said a total of 741 PNRs were generated for 1,177 passengers travelling in the New Delhi-Bilaspur train, 442 PNRs for passengers travelling in New Delhi-Dibrugarh special train and 804 PNRs for passengers travelling in New Delhi-Bengaluru special train. Till Tuesday evening, 90,331 tickets for 1,69,039 passengers were booked across the 15 pairs of special trains, meaning 30 trains travelling to and fro, the Railways said. The Railways said since May 1, it had run 575 Shramik Special trains till 4 p.m. on May 12, in which 463 trains had reached destination and 112 were in transit. “More than 6.8 lakh people have travelled,” it said. Entry gate The Northern Railways said in a statement that entry to the New Delhi railway station would be allowed only from the Paharganj side for all confirmed ticket holders and no entry for passengers would be permitted from the Ajmeri Gate side.
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||Parliamentary panel questions dilution of labour laws||The Parliamentary Committee on Labour has written to State governments demanding an explanation on dilution of labour laws during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Committee Chairman and BJD leader Bhartruhari Mahtab said any amendments to the law would need legislative sanction. The issue will be taken up, whenever the committee next meets. Need legislative nod Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Mahtab said, “We have written to the States seeking information related to the changes they have made in labour laws. They have utilised two instruments — using the executive order or ordinance. Whatever be the instrument, it has to get the sanction of the legislature and subsequently it will be scrutinised in the court of law.” The Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, and Gujarat State governments have modified labour laws in a bid to attract investments and restart economic activity hit by the nationwide lockdown. Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat have also amended their Factories Acts and increased the work hours from 8 to 12 hours a day or 72 hours per week. Asked whether these changes by the States while the country is battling the COVID-19 pandemic and Parliament has not met since March 22, is a case of executive overreach, Mr. Mahtab said, “I would say as per the Disaster Management Authority Act, in this time of pandemic, executive takes precedence in the decision-making processes.” However, he added, “But my only concern here is that Parliament is not in suspended animation; legislators have a role to play both inside and outside Parliament and they can very well do that.” Revising laws The Narendra Modi-led NDA government has been working to codify 44 existing labour laws into four codes. The Code on Wages Bill was cleared recently. The Code on Occupational Safety, Health and Working Condition, Code on Industrial Relations and Code on Social Security are before the Lok Sabha. Several Opposition parties have severely criticised the move by BJP-run States to suspend labour laws. Ten Central trade unions on Monday said they were considering approaching the International Labour Organization (ILO) against the move.
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India may miss nutrition targets||India is among 88 countries that are likely to miss global nutrition targets by 2025, according to the Global Nutrition Report 2020 released on Tuesday. It also identified the country as one with the highest rates of domestic inequalities in malnutrition. In 2012, the World Health Assembly identified six nutrition targets for maternal, infant and young child nutrition to be met by 2025. These require governments to reduce stunting by 40% in children under five and prevalence of anaemia by 50% among women in the age group of 19-49, ensure 30% reduction in low-birth weight and no increase in childhood overweight, increase the rate of exclusive breastfeeding in the first six months up to at least 50% and reduce and maintain childhood wasting to less than 5%. According to the Global Nutrition Report 2020, India will miss targets for all four nutritional indicators for which there is data available — stunting among under-five children, anaemia among women of reproductive age, childhood overweight and exclusive breastfeeding. Underweight children Between 2000 and 2016, underweight rates have decreased from 66.0% to 58.1% for boys and 54.2% to 50.1% in girls. However, this is still high compared with the average of 35.6% for boys and 31.8% for girls in Asia. In addition, 37.9% of children under five are stunted and 20.8% are wasted, compared with the Asia average of 22.7% and 9.4% respectively. One in two women of reproductive age is anaemic, while at the same time the rate of overweight and obesity continues to rise, affecting almost a fifth of the adults, at 21.6% of women and 17.8% of men. India is identified as among the three worst countries, along with Nigeria and Indonesia, for steep within-country disparities on stunting, where the levels varied four-fold across communities. Stunting level Stunting level in Uttar Pradesh is over 40% and the rate among individuals in the lowest income group is more than double those in the highest income group at 22.0% and 50.7%, respectively. In addition, stunting prevalence is 10.1% higher in rural areas compared with urban areas. The same applies for overweight and obesity, where there are nearly double as many obese adult females than there are males (5.1% compared to 2.7%). Coming at a time the world is battling COVID-19, which has exposed different forms of socio-economic inequities, the authors have called for promoting equity to address malnutrition.
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Do numbers matter in Rajya Sabha ?||The Indian Constitution provides for parity of powers between the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha in law, making an exception in some cases. The Money Bill or Finance Bills can be introduced only in the Lok Sabha which only can approve the Demands for Grants. On the other hand, the Rajya Sabha has some special powers as requiring to adopt a resolution allowing Parliament to legislate on subjects in the State List and creating All India Services, besides approving proclamations of Emergency and President’s Rule when the Lok Sabha is dissolved. Renowned British philosopher and political economist John Stuart Mill as early as in 1861 said in his great treatise Considerations on Representative Government that management of free institutions requires conciliation; a readiness to compromise; a willingness to concede something to opponents and mutual give and take. The Bryce Conference on Reform of House of Lords in early 20th Century observed that a second chamber is to interpose only so much delay in the passing of a Bill into law as may be needed to enable the opinion of the nation to be adequately expressed upon it. Famous constitutionalist Abbe Sieyes pithily noted that if a second chamber dissents from the first, it is mischievous; if it agrees, it is superfluous. Obstructionist tag If the House of the People is prone to passions of the moment and volatile political considerations, is the Rajya Sabha free from the same? Has the Rajya Sabha been obstructionist? To understand these in perspective, a scrutiny of law-making in the country since 1952 may be in order. Elections to the Lok Sabha are held every five years and before that on dissolution of the House. For the Rajya Sabha, one-third of the members are chosen every second year reflecting its permanent nature. While the Lok Sabha elections hold a mirror to the recent will of the people, the Rajya Sabha is envisaged to convey the same in different phases of development marking some continuity. The Executive lasts only as long as it has a majority in the Lok Sabha, but in law-making, both the Houses are at par. Given the possible variations in the composition of both the Houses on account of different modes of election to them, did it impact the nature and speed of legislation? Unlike Lok Sabha An analysis undertaken by the Rajya Sabha Secretariat recently revealed that during the past 68 years since the first general elections in 1952, the government of the day had a majority in the Rajya Sabha only for 29 years and was in a minority for 39 years, including an unbroken stretch for the past 31 years. This pronounced divergence in numbers in the two Houses of Parliament does not indicate any adverse impact on the broader course of legislation except in a few cases. Since 1952, the Rajya Sabha held 5,472 sittings and passed as many as 3,857 Bills till the Budget Session this year. There are, however, a few discordant notes during this long journey of legislation. But there is no case for terming Rajya Sabha as “obstructionist”. So far, Parliament held only three Joint Sittings to resolve differences between both the Houses. The first instance was in 1961 when the then Nehru government enjoyed a majority in the Rajya Sabha but the Dowry Prohibition Bill, 1959 suffered a defeat. In 1978, the Banking Services Commission (Repeal) Bill, 1977 was rejected by the Rajya Sabha and in 2002, the Prevention of Terrorism Bill, 2002 could not pass the Rajya Sabha scrutiny. The Rajya Sabha was taunted as regressive when it rejected the Constitution (Twenty-fourth Amendment) Bill, 1970 for abolishing privy purses to erstwhile rulers after it was passed by the Lok Sabha. In 1989, the Constitution (Sixty-fourth and Sixty-fifth Amendment) Bills seeking to empower local governments fell short of the required special majority in the Rajya Sabha, though the government had the numbers. The required spirit of cordiality between the two Houses suffered a dent on some occasions. First when Rajya Sabha members were not included in the Public Accounts Committee in 1952. Again, when the Income Tax (Amendment) Bill, 1953, was introduced in the Rajya Sabha, some members questioned its certification as a Money Bill by the Lok Sabha Speaker. When the controversy was thickening, Prime Minister Nehru intervened, asserting that “For those who are interested in the success of the great experiment in nation building that we have embarked upon, it is a paramount duty to bring about this close cooperation and respect for each other (House).” Rajya Sabha members objected to when the Lok Sabha Speaker referred the Major Port Trust Bill, 1963 to its Select Committee without involving Rajya Sabha members and this Bill was later referred to its own Select Committee again. Continuing with some reservations voiced in the Constituent Assembly about having a second chamber, some members of the Lok Sabha moved resolutions as early as in 1954 and again later in 1971, 1972 and 1975 for the dissolution of the Rajya Sabha. But wise counsel prevailed and such efforts were thwarted. As per the constitutional provisions, the Rajya Sabha at best could hold a Money Bill for 14 days during when it has to return such Bills without or with amendments for the consideration of the Lok Sabha. There were some occasions when such amendments of the Rajya Sabha were accepted by the other House as in cases of the Travancore Cochin Appropriation (Vote on Account) Bill, 1956, The Union Duty of Excise (Distribution) Bill and the Estate Duty and Taxes on Railway Passenger Fares (Distribution) Bill, 1957 and the Income Tax Bill, 1961. During these years, the government of the day enjoyed a majority in the Rajya Sabha. At the same time, there were instances when amendments proposed by the Rajya Sabha were rejected by the other House. There were occasions when the Rajya Sabha sat over Bills passed by the Lok Sabha for a long time including the Prevention of Corruption Bill, 1987 and the Dock worker (Safety, Health and Welfare) Bill, 1986. If this was checking hasty legislation, the Rajya Sabha had passed five Constituent Amendment Bills in one day on Auguest 25, 1994 when the government of the day did not have the numbers. The Rajya Sabha has also made amendments to several Bills passed by the Lok Sabha and these were accepted in several cases by the other House. Though the present government, too, does not have the required numbers in the Rajya Sabha, members of different parties rose to the occasion in passing landmark legislation relating to the GST, Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code, Triple Talaq, Unlawful activities, Reorganisation of Jammu & Kashmir, Citizenship amendment and so on. This goes to prove that numbers in the Rajya Sabha is not an issue as far as law-making is concerned. It is a different concern which applies broadly to the legislatures of the country. Increasing disruptions An analysis by the Secretariat revealed that the productivity of the Rajya Sabha till 1997 has been 100% and above and the past 23 years have thrown up a disturbing trend of rising disruptions. Productivity fell to 87% during 1998-2004, 76% during 2005-14 and 61% during 2015-19. While the time spent by the Rajya Sabha on legislation since 1978 remained the same at about 29%, a concern emerges in respect of the ‘Oversight’ function of the House. Legislatures ensure accountability of the executive through Questions, Calling Attention Notices etc. Time share of this important Oversight function of the Council of States in the total functional time of the House during 1978-2004 was 39.50%. This fell to 21.99% during 2005-14 and to 12.34% since 2015. This decline is primarily on account of disruptions forcing cancellation of Question Hour frequently. Disruptions also dent the quality of law-making as seen in passing of Bills without discussion sometimes. However, the Rajya Sabha is proving to be more and more a ‘deliberative’ body with increasingly more time being spent on this function. The time share on deliberations under instruments like Short Duration Discussions, Zero Hour, Special Mentions, Discussion on Budgets and working of ministries, Motion of Thanks to President etc was 33.54% during 1978-2004. It rose to 41.42 % during 2005-2014 and to a high of 46.59% during 2015-19. After the initial frictions, Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha have proved to be constructive partners in steering the socio-economic transformation of the country since 1952, co-scripting pioneering laws. This partnership has been guided by the required spirit of co-operation and camaraderie despite divergence in the composition of both the Houses for most part of this journey. By virtue of this, Rajya Sabha can’t be said to be ‘obstructive’. What needs to be addressed by all the stakeholders is that while enabling Rajya Sabha to retain its independence, it should not be seen as ‘disruptive’ as evidenced over the past two decades. Political passions should not be the basis of such disruptions, if the perception is that they are. The line between obstruction and disruption is very thin and we should guard against it. Both the sides of the House have a stake in proper functioning of Rajya Sabha.  (M. Venkaiah Naidu is   Chairman of Rajya Sabha)
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Work on Museum of PMs to begin||The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) on Tuesday kicked off the process for the external works of the Museum on Prime Ministers of India by inviting bids, but building construction has been affected by the COVID-19 lockdown, according to officials. The proposed museum on the Teen Murti Estate, the former residence of late Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru that houses the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library, was supposed to open by October this year, according to officials of the Union Culture Ministry. The CPWD, the agency of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs executing the project, floated a tender inviting bids for “external development and lighting works” on Tuesday, with May 28 being the last date for submitting and opening bids. The tender document gives the contractor six months to finish the project, of which estimated cost is Rs. 10.30 crore. A CPWD official said the formalities involved should be completed by the first week of June, giving the contractor till December to complete the work, which includes constructing roads in the complex. A pre-bid meeting through video conference would be held on May 20, the tender document said.
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Defence think tank renamed unilaterally’||Due process was not followed while changing the name of the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA), leading members of the premier think tank have told the government during a high-level meeting held on May 8.  The Hindu has learnt that several members of the executive council (EC) of the renamed Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (MP-IDSA) told Defence Minister Rajnath Singh that they should have been consulted before the institute was renamed. The 165th edition of the Executive Council of MP-IDSA met on May 8 in a meeting chaired by Mr. Singh. Because of the COVID-19 crisis, a few members participated through video conference. However, during the meeting, which was attended by Director General of MP-IDSA Sujan Chinoy, some members of the EC said that MP-IDSA is a registered society and changing the name of the institute should have been effected only after taking the EC into confidence. One member said that as a procedure, any change in nomenclature of the Institute calls for a proposal to be cleared by the General Body. “The Minister took note of our dissatisfaction on this issue. We were quite clear that changing the name of the premier think tank in this manner showed disrespect for processes that should have been followed meticulously as IDSA was conceived as a society and government can not just change its identity,” said a member. The member said such decision-making affects the established identity of the Institute and casts a shadow on its autonomy. Those who attended the meeting of the EC told The Hindu that they respect the contribution of the late Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar to the country’s security but maintained that attaching Mr. Parrikar’s name to IDSA politicises a defence-related institute and sets a precedent that they do not approve of. “It’s not about the individual but the whole renaming itself. Defence institutions should not be named after politicians,” said a member on condition of anonymity. IDSA, which was set up in 1965, evolved to become the most famous think tank of the strategic affairs community in India over the years. In February, the government renamed the institute after the late Defence Minister and BJP leader Manohar Parrikar.
13 May 2020||Guwahati,||IAF ‘traces’ kin of 1968 crash victim||The Indian Air Force (IAF) has reportedly traced the family of one of its Junior Commissioned Officers who died in a plane crash in Himachal Pradesh 52 years ago. Warrant Officer S. Bhattacharjee was among 102 armed forces personnel in the IAF’s ill-fated AN-12 aircraft that went missing over Rohtang Pass in Himachal Pradesh on February 7, 1968. The disappearance of the aircraft remained a mystery until 2003 when members of the Himalayan Mountaineering Institute found a body, identified as that of sepoy Beli Ram. Alina Bareh, a homemaker in Meghalaya’s West Jaintia Hills district, was taken by surprise on May 2 when a caller told her that she had been identified as one of the family members of Warrant Officer Bhattacharjee. She was told his body had been recovered from the Dhaka Glacier at an altitude of 5,240 m in Himachal Pradesh two years ago. “Some IAF officials paid a visit on May 7 and said tracing the family was their basic job. They said they would get back but we haven’t had any official communication. We don’t know if the body is in Delhi or anywhere else. How can we believe without seeing the body?” Ms. Bareh, 55, said from her residence in Jowai town, about 75 km from State capital Shillong. But she said her mother, the late R.T. Bareh, would often tell her and her two brothers about their father and how he was captured and imprisoned by enemy forces. At the time of the crash, she was three years old and Warrant Officer Bhattacharjee in his forties. Delay explained Officials at the Eastern Air Command near Shillong declined to speak on the development. But a member of an association of ex-servicemen in the northeast said Meghalaya’s matrilineal system — children take the surname of the mother — could have led to the delay in finding Warrant Officer Bhattacharjee’s survivors.  The AN-12 BL-534 in which the Warrant Officer and 101 others perished was on a flight from Chandigarh to Leh in Ladakh but had to turn back after experiencing bad weather. It lost contact over Rohtang Pass. There were several attempts to search for the debris of the aircraft after a team of mountaineers found the body of Beli Ram in 2003. An Army expedition team recovered three more bodies in August 2007. Warrant Officer Bhattacharjee’s body and some parts of the aircraft were recovered in July 2018. An expedition by the Dogra Scouts under the Western Command, joined later by an IAF team, in July-August 2019 discovered more bodies trapped in the snow and major portions of the aircraft.
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Aarogya Setu mandatory for travel, says Railways||The Railways on Tuesday said it was mandatory for those travelling via the 15 special trains to download the government’s Aarogya Setu mobile application. The announcement, made through a tweet after May 11 midnight, comes even as the guidelines issued by the Railways on Monday said that all passengers were “advised” to download and use the app. “Indian Railways is going to start a few passenger train services. It is mandatory for passengers to download the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones, before commencing their journey,” the Railways had tweeted, along with links to download the application. Meanwhile, the Health and Family Welfare Department of the Delhi government also issued on Tuesday a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), which stated that all the asymptomatic persons coming into Delhi would be allowed to go to their respective homes. “Further, they would be requested to download the Aarogya Setu app on their mobiles,” it said. So far, about 9.8 crore people have downloaded the app, which saw a controversy over privacy and data security issues. The contact tracing application is supposed to alert users in case they come in close contact with a person infected with COVID-19. The Railways on Sunday announced plans to start 15 pairs of special trains from May 12 onwards. They will run from New Delhi, connecting Dibrugarh, Agartala, Howrah, Patna, Bilaspur, Ranchi, Bhubaneswar, Secunderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Madgaon, Mumbai Central, Ahmedabad and Jammu Tawi.
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Maharashtra panel decides to release 50% prisoners||In a move to decongest prisons in Maharashtra, especially after the outbreak of COVID-19 in Arthur Road jail that has infected at least 184 prisoners and 26 officials, a high power committee on Monday decided to release 50% of the total 35,239 inmates across the State prisons. The committee consists of Justice A.A. Sayed of the Bombay High Court, along with Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Sanjay Chahande and Director-General of Prisons S.N. Pandey. Mr. Chahande told The Hindu that prisoners would be released in due course of time. He said legislation such as the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors, the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and others were exempted from being considered. The order, a copy of which is with The Hindu , however, does not state the time frame within which the prisoners will be released, and neither does it reveal the category of prisoners who will be released. Contrary to decision The move is contrary to the March 25 decision of the committee where it had decided to release 11,000 prisoners. Since March 25, more than 5,000 prisoners having minor or moderate charges against them have been released. But this was not sufficient as courts were not granting bail to many accused, and the virus outbreak at Arthur Road jail had seen unrest within its premises with inmates protesting for their release, particularly because the jail, with a capacity to hold just 800 prisoners, was overpopulated with 2,700 prisoners, and the jail authorities had expressed their inability to handle an outbreak as early as March 2020.  The Superintendent of Arthur Road prison, in a letter to the courts, had categorically stated that it would be impossible to maintain social distancing in the jail considering it had 2,700 inmates. Despite the letter, the court has not only refused bail to prisoners having serious ailments, but also refused bail to a person infected with COVID-19.
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Will wait for details, says Congress||Moments after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a financial package along with the extension of the lockdown in a new form, Congress leaders on Tuesday reacted cautiously, preferring to wait for the fine print of the package. While Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the nation was ‘deeply disappointed by the Prime Minister’s lack of empathy and failure to address the issues of migrants,’ senior party leader Anand Sharma welcomed it. “Welcoming PM’s announcement of an economic package of Rs. 20 lac crore and will wait for the details. This will help in reviving the economy and reassuring for the micro, small and medium enterprises in urgent need of financial support for workers’ wages. Hope the poor, migrant workers who have lost livelihood and incomes, and have suffered the most, will get relief,” Mr. Sharma said on Twitter. He said the Mr. Modi’s announcement gave the media a headline but the party would respond only when the “blank page is filled with Heartfelt Help of People.” “Dear PM, The mammoth heart breaking human tragedy of migrant workers walking back home needed compassion, care & safe return. India is deeply disappointed by your utter lack of empathy, sensitivity & failure to address the woes of millions of #MigrantWorkers!” Mr. Surjewala tweeted.
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Congress divided over views on China||Deputy Leader of the Congress in the Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma publicly snubbed his colleague and party leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Tuesday by stating that Mr. Chowdhury’s views on China were his personal and don’t reflect the party position. Mr. Chowdhury had urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to accord diplomatic recognition to Taiwan without any delay after it had donated one million masks during the COVID-19 pandemic. In his now deleted tweet, the Mr. Chowdhury had also commented on the border skirmish between Indian and Chinese troops. “Be careful China, Indian forces know how to defang the venomous snakes like you, entire world is watching the sinister design of yellow expansionist,” Mr Chowdhury, the Congress MP from Behrampore, tweeted on Monday. Contradicting his views, Mr. Sharma who heads the Congress’s foreign affairs department said the party valued the ‘strategic partnership’ between the two countries. “The Indian National Congress recognises and values the special strategic partnership between India and China. As two ancient civilisations and large economies of the world both countries are destined to make a significant contribution in the 21st Century,” he tweeted. “The views of Congress Lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury in China are his own and do not reflect the party position,” he said. Earlier too, the Congress had to distance itself from Mr. Chowdhury’s comments during the debate on revocation of special status for Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370.
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Call to set up common data portal for migrant travel||Despite the provision of special trains and buses, a second wave of migrant workers has now begun walking home again. This is because of glaring lacunae in the Union Home Ministry’s orders, leading to confusion on registration procedures, arbitrary travel protocols and a black market in Shramik Special tickets, says an analysis by the Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN), a volunteer group. On Tuesday, SWAN wrote to Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, recommending that the Ministry set up a common data portal for migrants to register their travel requests. “It will also take data from existing State-specific mobile apps. The portal in turn interfaces with all stakeholders involved in planning their journey, including medical staff, police, district authorities of States and the Railways,” says the letter. It added that registration of workers on the portal must be unconditional, based only on the workers’ choice to return home. The onus for issuing passes should lie with the State from which the migrant is travelling, it said. The network identified problems with the current system, including conflicts in the four orders dealing with inter-State travel issued by the Ministry since April 29. “In the absence of information on the number of trains, a black market has developed,” said the letter.
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Second phase of Vande Bharat Mission to begin on May 16||The Vande Bharat Mission will continue to focus on evacuating stranded Indians from the Gulf countries while including new regions like Central Asia and East Europe during the second week beginning from May 16. Informed sources said the operation would include 149 flights and feeder flights to help people reach home in different parts of India. Apart from Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Oman, Kuwait, Bahrain, and the United Arab Emirates, the non-scheduled commercial flights will evacuate nationals from Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Ukraine, Georgia and Armenia among others. The sources said that in all, around 31 countries from South and Southeast Asia, the Gulf region, Eurasian region and North America would be covered in this phase. One flight would evacuate Indians from Lagos in western Africa. The neighbourhood, especially Bangladesh and Nepal, will also get a share of flights. While several hundred Indian students and professionals were evacuated by non-scheduled commercial flights in the first week from Bangladesh, at least 157 students from Kashmir remain in Dhaka. These students from the Community Based Medical College and the Kumudini Women’s College are expected to be airlifted in a special flight to Srinagar during this phase. Already evacuated The United States, the U.K., Russia, Japan are some of the major countries that have already evacuated their citizens from India during the lockdown period. The second phase will have several flights to these countries to evacuate Indians who remain there.
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Decision on power project deferred||The Forest Advisory Committee, the apex body of the Environment Ministry tasked with deciding whether forest land can be diverted for industrial projects, has once again deferred its decision on a controversial hydropower project in Arunachal Pradesh. The 3,097 mw Etalin Hydropower project, in the State’s Dibang Valley, has been delayed for over six years. This is because it required diverting 1,165 hectares of forest in a region of rich biodiversity. In 2015, the FAC had ruled that the Environment Impact Assessment commissioned by the power company had not properly accounted for the environmental impact of the project. It recommended that an “internationally credible” institute conduct studies over multiple seasons to record the region’s ecological constitution. It had also recommended that the National Tiger Conservation Authority be consulted, because tigers had been sighted in the region. In 2019, the FAC reviewed the progress of the environment appraisal and said neither of its recommendations had been fully complied with, though a wildlife assessment was done by the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun. This is an autonomous institute funded by the Environment Ministry. An FAC subcommittee conducted a site-visit in February this year. The committee recommended that 15 hectares of forest land could be salvaged and a further 423 hectares would be handed over to the State forest department after commissioning the project. Also, 2,78,038 trees would have to be felled. With these and a few other conditions, the FAC subcommittee approved the project. On April 23, the FAC decided that it would be “prudent” to get an input from the Ministry of Power. The reasoning, according to the minutes of the meeting, was that since 2015 the government may have changed its policy on hydropower projects. Several hydropower projects have undergone a rethink because of the costs, ecological damage and alternatives in the form of wind and solar energy.
13 May 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra tally crosses 24,000||Maharashtra recorded 1,026 new cases on Tuesday, pushing its COVID-19 tally to 24,427. The State also recorded 53 deaths, a highest jump in a single day, pushing the death toll to 921. The same number of deaths were recorded on April 10 as well. Of the 53 deaths, the highest number of 28 was recorded in Mumbai, followed by six in Panvel, two in Thane, six in Pune, five in Jalgaon, three in Solapur and one each in Raigad, Aurangabad and Akola. State Health officials said that 29 patients who succumbed were men and 24 were women. Of these, 35 had several co-morbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, etc. The overall Mumbai Metropolitan Region has emerged as the most concerning zone, with a majority of cases and deaths reported from here. While Mumbai remains a hotspot within the MMR region, Thane has recorded 1,144 cases and 14 deaths so far. Navi Mumbai had recorded 955 cases and four deaths, the Kalyan Dombivali region has recorded 384 cases and three deaths, while Mira Bhayandar has recorded 243 cases and two deaths. Nearly 18,000 cases have been recorded from the MMR, with the highest number of 14,947 cases reported from Mumbai. The region has recorded over 600 deaths, the highest number of 556 deaths being from Mumbai alone. On Tuesday, 339 patients were discharged after recovery and, till date, nearly 5,125 patients have been discharged. Online OPD On Tuesday, the State also launched an online OPD service called e-Sanjeevani for patients who want to seek medical advice online. The joint venture between the Centre and the State will offer free consultations between 9.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. from Monday to Saturday.
13 May 2020||Bhopal,||Madhya Pradesh records 201 new cases, four deaths||Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday registered 201 new COVID-19 cases, taking the count to 3,986, the Directorate of Health Services has said. Indore, the worst-hit city, recorded the highest number of cases at 81, followed by Bhopal (30) and Ujjain (27). The count of active cases stood at 1,901, according to a bulletin issued by the Directorate. Meanwhile, four deaths owing to the illness were reported during the day. The State-wide death toll has climbed to 225. Two deaths were reported from Indore and one each from Bhopal and Burhanpur. So far, 92 persons have died in Indore. The fatality rate in the State stands at 5.7%. As for recoveries, 113 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day after recovering from the illness. So far, 1,860 persons have recovered in the State.
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,||PM Modi announces economic package||“In the past few days we have seen how local supply chains and shops are the only things that have helped,” he said. The Prime Minister said the economic package would not be based on incremental changes, but a quantum leap in bold reforms with regard to land, labour, law and liquidity. “In the last few days we have seen the suffering of our workers, migrant labour, street vendors and daily wagers and farmers. This package will be aimed at them. It will be aimed at the honest tax payer, at our industry that makes its capital work,” he said. Sources said the reforms will keep away from “trickle down” effects and will be bold in scope. “The emphasis will be as much on governance systems as on liberalising the economy. Self reliance in this case will not mean isolation. There is no talk of only a financial stimulus but of a reform stimulus and a mindset overhaul,” said a senior government source. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is expected to give details of the package starting on Wednesday, Mr Modi said. “Therefore, the lockdown that will be in place after May 17, or Lockdown 4.0 will be of a different kind than what went on before. Based on the suggestions given by State governments, we will be finalising its shape before May 17,” he said. Prime Miniter Modi signed off on a strong note to buy local, and to be vocal about it. “Local production helped us in this crisis, and when you look at several global brands, they began as local but were marketed and raised to a global level. We have to do the same with our produce. We need to be vocal about local,” he said. “We must and will make India self reliant,” he said.
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Industrial output shrank 16.7% in March||“I have been looking at IIP data from April 1982 onward, and this is the biggest ever contraction since then. It is no surprise, as all industrial activity was halted for one week, apart from State-level lockdowns which began earlier,” said D.K. Pant, chief economist of India Ratings and Research, part of the Fitch group. “April is going to be much worse. I would project a 60-70% decline,” said Pronab Sen, eminent economist and former Chief Statistician of India. “Frankly, I don't think most industries will see any recovery. FMCG sector may begin some recovery in May, but the rest of the industry is going to continue in the doldrums.” All categories of manufacturing industries showed a contraction in production in March, with the worst affected being the automobile sector, which saw a 50% decline, and the computer and electronic products sector, which fell almost 42%. The manufacture of machinery, electrical equipment and other metal products saw a 31-33% fall in output. “Auto sector has been in negative territory for a while now. This goes beyond the India lockdown,” said Dr. Sen, noting that supply of both electronic components and auto parts were affected by the earlier shutdown in Wuhan, China. The most resilient sectors were coke and refined petroleum products, which only contracted 1.8%, and food and beverages manufacture, which shrank 10.5% and 6.4% respectively. “For a lot of MSMEs, they may have already lost the plot,” said Dr. Sen.
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,||App mandatory for returning NRIs, migrants||Working with the Health Ministry, National Centre for Disease Control, State health departments and key stakeholders, the ICMR survey is being coordinated by its National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE) and National Institute of Research in Tuberculosis (NIRT) in Chennai. “This household level cross-sectional survey will cover 24,000 adults across four strata of districts on the basis of reported cases of COVID-19. Overall, the survey will be conducted in randomly selected 69 districts from 21 States,” an ICMR release said. It added that the survey will involve collection of venous blood samples from 400 randomly selected individuals (one per household) from 10 clusters in each district. “Sera from these individuals will be tested for presence of IgG antibodies using ELISA test developed by ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. The results of the survey will provide information about spread of SARS-CoV-2 infection in different parts of the country. Besides this community-based survey, Health Ministry is also initiating hospital-based surveillance to monitor the trend of infection in all districts,’’ added the ICMR release.
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. prepares draft protocol on flight travel||Passengers may have to prepare themselves to sit shoulder-to-shoulder aboard planes once the government allows flights to resume. However, airports will have to draw symbols on floors, check-in counters and chairs on their premises to ensure social distancing, and passengers will have to report earlier to avoid crowding, according to a draft protocol prepared by the Ministry of Civil Aviation. Air travellers have to mandatorily download the Aarogya Setu app, and carry only one baggage that will have to be checked in. In the beginning, passengers can only check in online and will have to report two hours before departure. Those above the age of 80 will be barred from taking a flight. These are some of the measures included in the draft protocol, which was shared with airlines on May 9. Outlets for food and beverages at airports may be allowed to remain open. The protocol also lays down that airlines must ensure crew pairing, that is, the same set of pilots and cabin crew work in a team, to avoid cross contamination. Three rows vacant While there is no provision for leaving the middle seat empty, airlines will have to leave the last three rows vacant for isolation of those passengers who develop a medical condition. If this is implemented, the government would be going back on its earlier advisory to airlines, which required them to leave the middle seat empty.
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,||India caught in U.S.-China spat over WHO||India is likely to hold the post for the next three years. The timing of the appointment is crucial, given the worldwide debate on the role of the WHO during the pandemic, and criticism of WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. The meeting was attended by the foreign ministers of Australia, Brazil, India, Israel, Japan, and the Republic of Korea. Significantly, all invitees other than India are major non-NATO allies of the United States, who would be expected to support Washington’s call. “Secretary Pompeo and his counterparts discussed the importance of international cooperation, transparency, and accountability in combatting the COVID-19 pandemic and in addressing its causes,” said U.S. State Department spokesperson Morgan Ortagus, in a veiled reference to China and the virus’ origins in Wuhan. “They also discussed collaboration toward preventing future global health crises, reaffirming the importance of the rules-based international order,” Ms. Ortagus added. The MEA declined to comment on whether Taiwan was discussed during the meeting, or whether India has decided on supporting the U.S. on its move to include Taiwan as a WHA participant. A senior official said the meeting had discussed “strengthening and reforming” the WHO.
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Deeds and results||The law of karma binds one and all. Every being is born to experience the effects of one’s past deeds, good and bad. None can escape from facing the fruits of one’s actions. This truth clearly flashes in Dasaratha’s mind when, having sent Rama to the forest, he is in the grip of extreme sorrow and also realises that his life is going to end in this fashion, pointed out Swami Paramasukananda in a discourse. He is alone with Kausalya and seeks solace in her presence. Accepting that he deserves every word of her harsh accusations, which clearly reflect her sorrow, the king pacifies her and very humbly asks her to refrain from committing any further sin of blaming her husband. He sees clearly that people easily commit sins when giving vent to their emotions like anger, desire, etc, unmindful of the terrible and fearful effects that quickly get attached to each one’s individual karma account. The suffering experienced by individuals is not something targeted on them indiscriminately; it is their own earnings from their past deeds. He recalls the act of adharma that he had committed long back in his past life when he was young and unmarried. He had gone hunting in the forest and did not get any prey on that day. Suddenly, he heard the sound of someone drinking water from a nearby pond and he presumed that it was an elephant. Skilled in aiming the target by sheer focus on the sound, he now sent an arrow that did not miss the target. But soon he heard an anguished cry and rushing to the spot found that he was guilty of killing an innocent man who had the sole responsibility of caring for his aged and blind parents. This crime is now chasing Dasaratha and he knows he has to endure the blind parents’ dying curse of putra soka he had incurred then.
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Manmohan discharged from AIIMS||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was on Tuesday discharged from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), where he was admitted around 8.45 p.m. on Sunday following complaints of uneasiness and chest pain. Dr. Singh reportedly developed a febrile reaction to a new medication. “He is stable and responded well to the care provided,” said a senior AIIMS official.
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||CITU to push for safety gear for workers||The Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) said on Tuesday that it would observe Thursday as a “day of demands” for safety gear, frequent tests and insurance for the frontline workers fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. In a statement, it said that the condition of frontline workers was worrysome. “As the COVID-19 cases in the country are increasing, the cases of the frontline workers getting infected and succumbing to the disease are also increasing. This is mainly due to the lack of safety gears,” it said. Doctors, nurses and paramedical workers at hospitals, as well as field workers and police personnel, were at the risk of infection, it said. “In most of the States, workers are not entitled to the much-publicised Rs. 50-lakh insurance package, and it does not cover treatment expenses,” it added.
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||Lockdown achieved little, says Yechury||CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said that in 49 days of the lockdown, which ends on May 17, the government has achieved very little, since it failed to ramp up testing and supply of personal protection kits for the medical staff. The government, he said, has been inhuman towards the migrant workers who were left with little option but to trudge to their homes in the face of hunger. Mr. Yechury was interacting with reporters online during a live session on social media on Tuesday. “We have completed 49 days of this lockdown. When it was first announced, the number of positive COVID-19 cases were 566; today it stands at 70,756. The number of deaths was 10 and today its 2,295. We could have done a lot better if we had done more testing, if we had provided adequate protection to our doctors,” he added.
13 May 2020||AHMEDABAD/New Delhi,||Gujarat Law Minister’s poll win set aside||The Gujarat High Court on Tuesday invalidated the election of Law and Education Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama to the Legislative Assembly. It held that he won the poll to the Dholka seat in 2017 based on “corrupt practices” and held his election as “unlawful” and “null and void”. The petition was moved by Congress candidate Ashwin Rathod, who challenged Mr. Chudasama’s win with a slender margin of just 327 votes. Mr. Rathod said several malpractices were committed in the counting process. Justice Paresh Upadhyay delivered the verdict, which was kept reserved for several weeks after several hearings. He held that the victory was achieved through “irregularities and malpractices” during the counting of votes. Justice Upadhyay refused to stay the order to give time to Mr. Chudasama to avail further legal remedy by approaching the Supreme Court. As a result, Mr. Chudasama no longer stands to be a legislator unless and until he gets a stay from the SC. He also refused the petitioner’ prayer that he should be declared victorious. The Election Commission of India on Tuesday set up a three-member committee to examine the Gujarat High Court judgment.
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||HC relief for minorities panel chief||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday ordered that no coercive action will be taken against chairperson of the Delhi Minorities Commission Zafarul Islam Khan, who is facing a sedition case over a tweet posted last month, until June 22. The court order came on Mr. Khan’s anticipatory bail plea. Mr. Khan, 72m said in his pleathat he suffered from heart disease and hypertension and was highly susceptible to COVID-19 infection.
13 May 2020||Ahmedabad,||Journalist held for news item on Gujarat CM||The Ahmedabad police have arrested a journalist, who runs an online portal, for publishing a speculative story on a change of guard in the State. The portal “Face of Nation” carried a story that the BJP high command had summoned Union Shipping Minister Mansukh Mandavia and he was likely to replace Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis in the State. The story was carried on May 7. Subsequently, all local media reported it, which prompted Mr. Mandavia to issue a clarification that the Gujarat CM was not being replaced. On May 11, the journalist, Dhaval Patel, was picked up by the crime branch after a constable filed an FIR stating that the story was baseless and amounted to creating “instability and atmosphere of fear” in the State.
13 May 2020||Chandigarh,||3 arrested for supplying arms||Punjab Police on Tuesday arrested three people for allegedly supplying weapons to gangsters and drug traffickers in the State, a senior officer said. Gurpreet Singh, Sukhdev Singh and Sarabjit Singh were booked under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, the IPC and the Disaster Management Act, the police said. Some of the weapons recovered from them included a double barrel rifle and different types of pistols along with live rounds, they said.
13 May 2020||B. Tilak ChandarMADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Spirit of SC order extending limitation period can’t be ignored’||While likening the COVID-19 lockdown to emergency, the Madras High Court Bench in Madurai has said there cannot be a myopic reading of Section 167 of the Cr.P.C (dealing with police investigation), “conveniently ignoring the spirit” of a recent Supreme Court order invoking its power under Article 142 of the Constitution to extend limitation period, Justice G. Jayachandran said, while rejecting the bail petition filed by S. Kasi, an idol theft case accused. He took a different view of another High Court Judge, Justice G.R. Swaminathan, who held that an accused would be entitled to “default bail” after a lapse of the time period mandated for police to file a final report. While granting bail to a man last week, Justice Swaminathan observed that the SC order on extension of limitation period did not deal with Section 167 of the Cr.P.C. Justice Jayachandran observed that though the SC order had not specifically mentioned police investigations, the apex court had invoked its powers under Article 142 in the view of the lockdown. Section 167 of the Cr.P.C. envisaged completion of investigation within a period of 60 days or 90 days, depending upon the gravity of the offence. If the investigation was not completed within the period, the accused was entitled to bail, he said. He, however, said no courts below could obliterate the intention of the SC by offering pedantic interpretation, oblivious of the provisions of law and spirit behind such laws. Since the State had restricted free movement of public, law-enforcing agencies were directed to ensure complete lockdown. Judicial proceedings were conducted through videoconference. In such circumstances, investigating agencies were unable to conduct investigation and submit their reports in courts, he said. Justice Jayachandran observed that any attempt to misread the SC order or misinterpret it would cause injustice. Violators of law could not take undue advantage of the extraordinary situation and enjoy the liberty. The spirit of the SC orders was to do complete justice. Therefore, it was needless to mention that the limitation under Section 167 of the Cr.P.C. also got extended, he said.
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Besides Chennai, cases surging in Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur||Chennai’s neighbouring districts continue to bear the brunt of the Koyambedu market cluster. The COVID-19 case counts of Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur districts have been rising even as the State capital witnesses a surge in cases linked to the market. As of Tuesday, Chengalpattu had a total of 391 cases and Tiruvallur, 467. Both districts had fewer cases before the emergence of the Koyambedu cluster. There were a total of 86 cases in Chengalpattu and 61 cases in Tiruvallur as of May 1. The surge in cases began during the second week of May. K. Kolandaswamy, retired Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, said districts situated close to Corporations that were thickly populated were bound to face such a situation, and this was what had happened to both Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur. “Till Monday, Tiruvallur district had a total of 440 cases. Of these, 211 persons are linked to the Koyambedu cluster. Of them, 136 are index cases — vendors who had visited Koyambedu; as many as 58 are their primary contacts, i.e., their household contacts, and 17 are secondary contacts,” an official said. Extensive measures Prior to the emergence of the Koyambedu cluster, the district had very few containment zones and had contained existing cases well, he said, adding, “The district shares its border with the Greater Chennai Corporation at Villivakkam and Poonamallee. After cases from the Koyambedu market started to emerge, contact-tracing was done extensively, and we picked up all those linked to the market. We made a block-wise list of those who had visited the market that week. There were about 1,200 such persons, and we lifted samples from all of them.” Around 200 persons who had visited the market have been quarantined. ‘Under control’ Though the cluster changed the COVID-19 trajectory for the district, officials said the situation was now under control. “We have strengthened surveillance in the border areas and are picking up cases of Influenza-Like Illness and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection from containment zones. We are also taking up massive disinfection work,” an official said. Unlike in the southern districts, where lorry drivers and loadmen linked to the market have tested positive for COVID-19, the border districts are seeing a different pattern, another official said. “Take Chengalpattu, for instance. Here, we have people who travel in small vans or share-autos and procure vegetables from Koyambedu for their shops in the district. Many of them run grocery stores, and their family members are also involved in the business. There are also wholesalers, who procure vegetables and distribute them to shops in the district,” an official said. Till Monday, Chengalpattu had 356 cases, of which nearly 150 were linked to the Koyambedu cluster, he said. “Testing of the persons who are linked to the Koyambedu cluster and are under quarantine continues,” he added.  As of Tuesday, Chengalpattu had a total of 391 cases and Tiruvallur, 467
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fever surveillance to be intensified||Fever surveillance is being intensified in north Chennai, where at least 50-60% of COVID-19 cases come from a single zone — Royapuram. Simultaneously, a new admission protocol has been laid down to prevent overloading hospitals. According to officials, Royapuram and Tondiarpet zones account for the maximum number of cases in the northern part of the city. “When compared to these two zones, Manali and Madhavaram have fewer cases and report new cases only once in a while. There are about 100-odd new cases in Royapuram and Tondiarpet today. We continue to monitor all zones, with the focus being on these two zones,” an official said. As of Tuesday morning, Tiruvottiyur (zone 1) had 98 cases, Manali (zone 2) 50 cases, Madhavaram (zone 3) 65 cases, Tondiarpet (zone 4) 327 cases and Royapuram (zone 5) 742 cases. Officials said that they were intensifying fever surveillance in the areas and were testing as many contacts and symptomatic persons as possible. “We have fever outpatient services at the urban primary health centres and are conducting door-to-door surveillance and screening. We are testing persons suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19. We want to screen and test vulnerable populations in need of medical attention,” he said. The northern region is testing around 500 samples a day. A senior official pointed out that while the focus had been on cases emerging from the Koyambedu cluster, there was a need to continuously monitor other sources of infection in the city, the north Chennai cluster being one of the areas of focus where measures were being intensified. The northern region has two COVID-19 screening centres at Communicable Diseases Hospital and Bharathi Women’s College, and one COVID-19 Care Centre which houses about 300 patients at present. “While screening persons, we note down their age and check for co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, kidney disease, heart conditions and cancer. Such conditions put them at risk. “When the results of positive cases arrive, we send persons aged above 55 and having co-morbidities for hospital admission. Young persons who are asymptomatic or have very mild symptoms are brought to the screening centres,” an official said. At the screening centres, the oxygen saturation level is checked using pulse oximeters. Blood parameters are checked, and chest X-ray is done. Admission protocol “We are basically screening patients for the level of medical attention needed. If persons — young, asymptomatic and with no co-morbidities — have a separate room at home, they are sent for home isolation. If they live in houses with no such facilities or in slums, they are sent to the COVID-19 Care Centres. This new protocol is helping to reduce the patient load at hospitals. Those requiring treatment alone can be managed at the tertiary care hospitals,” he said. With certain relaxations in the lockdown, officials said that people had started to move around and insisted that those stepping outside their homes should wear masks.
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC refuses to quash tax evasion case against Karti Chidambaram||The Madras High Court on Tuesday refused to quash criminal prosecution launched by the Income Tax Department against Sivaganga Member of Parliament Karti P. Chidambaram and his wife Srinidhi Karti Chidambaram in 2018 for alleged tax evasion in 2014-15 and 2015-16. Justice M. Sundar held that the contentions raised by the litigants before the High Court were clearly issues to be canvassed during the course of trial before a Special Court for cases against legislators and not grounds for quashing the entire prosecution before trial. The allegation against the couple was that they had accepted part payment in cash for selling one of their properties at Muttukadu near Chennai to Agni Estates and Foundations Private Limited but did not disclose the cash receipts in their income tax returns. Rejecting their preliminary argument that the launch of prosecution was barred by limitation, the judge said, the argument would pale into insignificance in view of applicability of provisions of the Economic Offences (Inapplicability of Limitation) Act of 1974. The judge also agreed with Special Public Prosecutors N. Baskaran and M. Sheela for I-T department that the prosecution had been launched solely on the basis of searches and seizures and therefore the contention related to absence of any assessment order need not be countenanced. The SPPs informed the court that the Directorate of Enforcement (ED) had conducted searches in the offices of a private firm named Advantage Strategic Consulting, in which Mr. Chidambaram was one of the former directors, and seized soft copies of certain documents. Those documents were shared with the I-T sleuths who, in turn, conducted searches in the offices of Agni Estates and Foundations and seized 163 notebooks, the contents of which reportedly corroborated with the soft copies shared by the ED with the I-T Department. “The third point (regarding the prosecution having been launched solely on the basis of statement made by the land purchaser, a third party) raised by the petitioners gets neutralised by the stated position of the prosecution that there is corroboration,” Justice Sundar said. Passing a common judgment, he also dismissed two other petitions filed by the couple challenging the recent transfer of the case from the Economic Offences Court presided over by a Metropolitan Magistrate to the Special Court led by a Sessions Judge. The judge held that the High Court Registry ought not to have transferred the case, triable by a Magistrate, to a Sessions Judge. He, however, concurred with B. Vijay, counsel for the Registry, that the couple had failed to prove any prejudice caused to them due to such transfer. If the case had been tried by a Magistrate, the petitioners would have got a chance to appeal before a Sessions Court and then file a revision before the High Court. But now that the case was being tried directly by a Sessions Judge, they could only come on appeal to the High Court. “The argument of petitioners that one tier, namely, revision under section 397 of Code of Criminal Procedure is taken away does not hold water as courts have repeatedly held that revision under Section 397 is not a legal right and that it is only a discretionary relief,” the judge said.  HC unhappy  In the same breath, he expressed displeasure over the High Court Registry having removed a Metropolitan Magistrate’s court in Chennai from the list of special courts designated for trying cases in which Members of Parliament and the Legislative Assembly were involved. He pointed out that offences which attract up to seven years of imprisonment should be tried by Magistrates and those that attract higher punishment should be tried by Sessions Courts. Recalling that the Supreme Court had ordered for designation of sufficient number of magisterial as well as sessions courts as special courts to try cases booked against legislators, the judge impressed upon the need to designate one or more Magistrate courts in Chennai as special courts.
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin decries govt. decision to hold Class X exams||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday criticised the Tamil Nadu government’s decision to conduct the Class X board examinations from June 1. The announcement by School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan would cause further anxiety to parents and students at a time when fears persist about the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. In a statement, he said that when the Prime Minister himself was consulting Chief Ministers every week, the State government had taken a unilateral decision without considering the views of representatives of teachers’ unions and parent-teacher associations. “There is no clarity on whether the COVID-19 lockdown would be extended beyond May 17. What is the need for making a hasty announcement on the SSLC examinations?” Mr. Stalin asked. Referring to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s request to the PM not to resume flight and train services till May 31 since Chennai was witnessing a spike in cases, Mr. Stalin wondered how students would be able to appear for the examinations since many of them were away from their home towns. “Examinations should be conducted only after normalcy returns. Students and parents should be mentally prepared for the examinations. It is unjustifiable on the part of the School Education Department to create further confusion,” he said. CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan said it was not appropriate to hold the SSLC examinations from June 1 since there was a prediction that the State would witness a spike in cases in the end of May and the beginning of June.  Exams should be conducted only after normalcy returns. Students and parents should be mentally prepared for them
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Nearly 3 lakh e-passes issued in a week’||Around three lakh e-passes for movement during the COVID-19 lockdown have been issued in the last one week, after the introduction of the Tamil Nadu e-pass system (https://tnepass.tnega.org/), according to the government. The figure accounts for 50% of the applications submitted by individuals and industries. About six lakh applications have been processed, of which 4.5 lakh are from individuals and the rest from industries. Only companies permitted to operate by the State government can apply for the e-pass. The passes — intra-State and inter-State — are being issued by the Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency (TNeGA) for four reasons — medical emergency, death, wedding and cases of stranded persons. According to a TNeGA official, on an average, each application gets cleared within 30 minutes, especially those in respect of medical emergencies and death. As there were complaints that applications citing the two purposes had been pending with some District Collectors for more than 24 hours, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami asked officials whether a provision could be made for alerting the Collectors automatically. Subsequently, an automated alert system was created for the District Collectors and the Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation. “Every hour, the Collectors are being alerted about any application for medical emergency or death that has been pending for more than an hour. Now, the applications are, on an average, being cleared in 20 to 25 minutes,” explained the official. He added that a “close watch” is being kept on applications being received by the Collectors. In respect of inter-State movement, applications land at the decision box of the State Control Room at the TNeGA, and in the case of intra-State movement, applications go to the Collectors concerned/Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation. In respect of the latter, the Collectors of the destination districts are being informed about the issue of passes so that they plan accordingly. In the case of inter-State movement of people, since Tuesday, applicants are having to furnish documentary proof of having obtained the permission of the destination State, except for Maharashtra and Rajasthan. The new requirement has been introduced following the insistence of other States. The official said that invariably, absence of proper documents in support of identity or address was the main reason for rejection of applications. Also, essential details such as the reason for travel and vehicle number will have to be provided, the official said. “If all the details and documentary proof are provided, it is highly likely that applications will be approved,” the official added.  According to a TNeGA official, on an average, each application gets cleared within 30 minutes, especially those in respect of medical emergencies and death
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Diabetics must keep testing blood sugar at home: experts||With the COVID-19 pandemic rendering people with co-morbidities more vulnerable to a more intense version of the infection, persons with diabetes must check their blood glucose levels with a simple glucometer at home frequently, according to a study published in the peer-reviewed journal, Diabetes and Metabolic Syndrome. The paper, by Sukanya Nachimuthu, R. Vijayalakshmi, M. Sudha and Vijay Viswanathan, looked at 100 respondents – senior citizens with Type 2 diabetes and children with Type 1 diabetes, studying their ability to cope during the pandemic. It was administered through an online tool between April 1 and 15. Dr. Viswanathan of M.V. Hospital for Diabetes said, “Thanks to the pandemic, patients are advised not to visit hospitals unless it is an emergency. For diabetics, this means no lab tests or consults with diabetologists. Coping with diabetes can be a big task for the groups we studied.” While about 80% of respondents said that they were regular with diet and exercise, only 28% were checking their blood sugar levels regularly. Only 30% of the participants on tablets and insulin were checking their sugar levels regularly using a self-monitoring blood glucose (SMBG) test during lockdown. About 40% mentioned that they were anxious about COVID-19. “There is no overemphasising the need for regular SMBG checks, especially among patients with diabetes on insulin therapy when there is a lockdown, and no access to regular healthcare sources. Patients must be educated more on this aspect to keep their diabetes under control and avoid any hypoglycaemia,” Dr. Viswanathan added.
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||22 promoted as SO reverted to ASO post||As many as 22 employees in various departments of the Tamil Nadu government, who were promoted as Section Officers during February-March this year, have been abruptly reverted as Assistant Section Officers (ASOs) citing “want of vacancy” as the reason. The Personnel & Administrative Reforms (P&AR) Department has informed the employees individually that they were “reverted to the post of Assistant Section Officers in the forenoon of May 11, 2020 for want of vacancy in the post of Section Officer”. Consequently each of the 22 officials stand to lose between Rs. 15,000 and Rs. 20,000 a month, according to an affected employee. These officers are serving in the Departments of Personnel & Administrative Reforms, Public Works, School Education, Labour & Employment, Higher Education, Co-operation, Food and Consumer Protection, Highways and Minor Ports, Environment & Forests, Industries, Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, Information Technology, Municipal Administration and Water Supply, Housing and Urban Development and Revenue. “This is a clear case of lack of planning. How did the P&AR Department promote them as SOs in the first place, when there are no vacancies,” charged J. Ganesan, former president, Tamil Nadu Secretariat Association (TANSA). He alleged that the P&AR department had promoted the 22 officers without properly undertaking an estimate of vacancies. This had led to an unpleasant situation with the officers being reverted to the post of ASO. The State government’s recent decision to enhance the age of superannuation to 59 years had no bearing on the decision to revert them. “The rules say only if there are vacancies, panels can be drawn for promotion. So, neither did they have a plan nor did they go by the rules. This is a case of mismanagement,” an official charged. These 22 officers, on their promotion, recently completed their mandatory training. Earlier, the government used to have Section Officer (non-independent) posts, also called SONI posts, to accommodate people in this situation. But, the P&AR Department had abolished the post. “Now for the fault of the P&AR Department, these officers are suffering,” an official contended. Despite multiple attempts, officials in the P&AR Department could not be reached for comment.
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers question need to hold SSLC exams in June||Teachers across the State have questioned the need to conduct the Class X board examinations in June, especially when COVID-19 cases continue to rise. Ever since the closure of schools in mid-March in view of the pandemic, teachers’ associations have been appealing to the School Education Department to cancel the board exams altogether this year. “Even if the exams are going to be held, the department could have waited till the schools reopen sometime in July. Teachers and students in places like Chennai, which have a higher number of cases, are extremely concerned about how the exams will be conducted,” said P.K. Ilamaran, president, Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association. Stating that nearly 9.45 lakh students from across the State would be attending the exams, Mr. Ilamaran questioned the need for ‘hurriedly’ scheduling them in June which, he said, would put both students and teachers at risk. The board exams were supposed to have begun on March 27, but schools had already been closed by that time. Since then, teachers of government schools in particular have not seen or interacted with their students. “We have no idea whether the students are even in a proper frame of mind to take up the exams right now. Had the exams been scheduled at a later date, we could have asked for one or two weeks’ time to meet with and motivate students,” said Patric Raymond of the Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers’ Federation. As part of preparations for holding the exams, schools which have remained shut for well over a month have to be sanitised. Many other arrangements should also be in place, teachers say. “Even if physical distancing is enforced in the exam centres, what about students who need to travel to write the exam? There is still no clarity on the availability of public transport,” said a teacher from Dindigul.
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||85-year-old pitches in for PM CARES Fund||As a 10-year-old, Saroja Sundararajan fared exceedingly well in all subjects except Mathematics. Before the final examinations, her teacher warned her about her poor performance in Mathematics, which shook her deeply. That evening, her father came up with some exciting methods to teach her maths. She went on to score a hundred in the examination. Years later, she became a Maths teacher and also bagged the Best Teacher Award at the national level. Today, 85-year-old Saroja Sundarajan isn’t resting on her laurels. To help pitch in for PM CARES Fund, she has been selling her Maths activity worksheets through a website created for it. “Thousands of people are suffering in the country because of COVID-19 pandemic. While I’m confined to my house, I want to contribute in some way to help society,” she says. Within a span of two weeks, she prepared 100 worksheets for children studying in classes VI to VIII and came up with a website,https://www.mathfundsindia. comwith the help of a teenager. On Monday, the policy think tank of the government, Niti Aayog, put out a tweet appreciating her effort. “Children aged between 11 and 13 are impressionable and they can love or hate a subject at this time,” she says. “When art is integrated with Mathematics and taught through activity-oriented sessions, children will fall in love with this subject." “Teaching and learning Maths should be fun. Sometimes, teachers begin a chapter warning them that it could be very tough. That doesn’t help. Instead, when they begin with a puzzle or a game or by sharing an anecdote, they can immediately grab the attention of students,” she adds. After an extensive teaching career, she served as a consultant with Hey Math! and then volunteered to help poor students, she adds. Now when she isn’t preparing worksheets or solving problems, she begins baking, her latest fascination. “I have been hooked to finding new techniques to make healthy desserts and I’m loving it,” she adds.
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Industry bodies seek amendments to labour laws||Representatives of various industries urged the Tamil Nadu government to ease lockdown curbs on Tuesday. They complained of various obstacles to operating under a restricted environment. During a virtual meeting of the Expert Committee, tasked with shaping a lockdown exit strategy for the State, the industry representatives sought an extension of working hours and relaxation of labour laws, among other measures. A senior official said, “They have asked for an extension of working hours from eight to 12, since they have less workers and they need to work more. They have also sought certain relaxations in legislations like the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and others.” Another official, who was at the meeting, said, “The industry representatives pointed out how other States have relaxed labour laws, and urged that T.N. follows suit. They said that with only 50% of the workers, the full potential of their industrial units cannot be achieved.” Representatives of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), the Tamil Nadu Small & Tiny Industries’ Association (TANSTIA), the Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries’ Association (CODISSIA), the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO), and the Council For Leather Exports (CLE), among others, attended the meeting. The Expert Committee is expected to submit its report to the CM. Salary payments TANSTIA has said it cannot pay salaries in full to workers. In a statement, association president S. Anburajan said, “We are surprised that the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) has issued an order [asking employers] to pay full salary to all workers, irrespective of their employment status.” “It is not justifiable to pay full salary to people who have not worked even a single day. There are frontline workers, security guards and hospital staff who have reported for duty on all working days [amid the pandemic-induced lockdown]. Is it justifiable to pay the same (full) salary to these people as well as others who have not worked during these days,” he asked. He said the MHRD must recall the notification.
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. earmarks Rs. 219 crore for free rations for June||The State government has set aside Rs. 219 crore for the provision of toor dal, edible oil and sugar free of cost to all ration cardholders in June, as part of its COVID-19 relief measures. The amount has been sanctioned towards the purchase of 9,667 tonnes of toor dal, 2.07 crore pouches of palmolein oil and 43,282 tonnes of sugar. Though 20,775 tonnes of toor dal are required per month, the State government has been able to reduce the quantity of requirement in view of the Centre’s allocation of 11,108 tonnes to Tamil Nadu. This is the third time since April that the government has given approval for the provision of rice and other essential commodities free of cost to ration cardholders. In late March, the government sanctioned Rs. 2,187.8 crore, which included the component of cash support. In mid-April, it sanctioned Rs. 184.3 crore for May. Along with the latest order, the aggregate amount of funds sanctioned is around Rs. 2,592 crore. As for the expenditure to be incurred for June, the procurement rate of toor dal is Rs. 30,000 per tonne, amounting to around Rs. 29 crore. For palmolein oil, it is Rs. 25 per pouch of one litre for 1.56 crore pouches, and Rs. 91.25 per pouch for 51.75 lakh pouches (totalling Rs. 86.22 crore). For sugar, it is Rs. 25,000 per tonne for 39,552 tonnes, and Rs. 13,500 per tonne for 3,730 tonnes (totalling around Rs. 104 crore).
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,100 passengers arriving on special trains to undergo RT-PCR tests||As over 1,100 people are expected to arrive in Chennai on special trains, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday urged the Union Home and Railways Ministers to keep them in quarantine facilities on railway premises until all of them are screened for COVID-19. Since there was a possibility of the infection spreading in the air-conditioned trains, the passengers would be allowed into Tamil Nadu only after undergoing RT-PCR tests. As there were practical difficulties in screening over 1,100 passengers in one go, they should be kept on railway premises until they are screened, the CM said. Once testing is done, within a day or two, those with the infection and those without it will be sent to hospitals and home quarantine facilities, respectively, Mr. Palaniswami said in an official press release. The CM also insisted that regular train services to Chennai should not be resumed, since the city’s case count was on the rise. Following the Railways’ announcement that it would operate Rajdhani Express trains — from New Delhi to Chennai and Chennai to New Delhi — from May 13, Mr. Palaniswami had, in a video-conference with PM Narendra Modi, insisted that train services should not be resumed till May 31. However, the Railways said the Rajdhani Express trains would be operated since reservations for May 14 and 16 had already commenced. 13,000 sent home The CM said 13,000 migrant labourers had been sent back to their home States so far. He also announced a compensation of Rs. 3 lakh to Sakthivel, a police driver who was grievously injured in a melee involving migrant workers in Kudankulam on May 9, and Rs. 1 lakh to Anthony Jegatha, a police inspector who sustained minor injuries in the incident.
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘DBT in power sector may not work in T.N.’||The idea of Direct Benefit of Transfer (DBT), being pushed by the Centre through the latest draft Electricity (amendment) Bill also, may not be workable in Tamil Nadu, given the volume and complex scheme of subsidy involved, according to officials dealing with the power sector. Unlike in many other States, a host of categories of consumers is getting free or heavily subsidised power supply in Tamil Nadu. For example, around 2.1 crore domestic consumers are getting free power supply up to the first 100 units bi-monthly. Besides, depending upon the level of consumption, they are getting per unit subsidy of Rs. 1 or Rs. 0.5 for the consumption of another 100 units. Over 21.4 lakh farm connections, 11 lakh huts and 77,100 handloom weavers are getting free power supply, apart from lift irrigation cooperative societies. Places of worship and power looms are getting subsidised supply up to certain level of consumption. Of all these categories of consumers, only the two categories – domestic consumers and farmers – stand out in view of their consumption. The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco), which is burdened with mounting losses, hopes to get about Rs. 8,400 crore from the State government towards tariff subsidy this year. Domestic category Of this figure, the share of the domestic category comes to Rs. 3,500 crore, of which the free power component comes to Rs. 2,000-Rs. 2,200 crore, and that of agriculturists, Rs. 4,300 crore. However, officials at the Tangedco point out that all these figures have been worked out on the basis of the 2014 tariff and this does not meet the actual cost adequately. On an average, it costs Rs. 8 per unit to the Tangedco to supply a unit of electricity. Then, the total amount of subsidy that the Corporation should get from the government will be more than Rs. 20,000 crore, of which the domestic category accounts for Rs. 9,600 crore and the farmers, Rs. 10,500 crore, officials say.
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2 police officers infected||An Additional Commissioner of Police involved in COVID-19 prevention, identification, quarantine and treatment has tested positive. The officer as on duty in the northern part of city, which has a high number of COVID-19 positive cases. The senior officer was admitted to a private hospital in Porur, said a senior police officer. The Additional Commissioner of Police had two Joint Commissioners and six Deputy Commissioners working under him. Samples of his family members and those of his office staff were taken for tests. Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) from T. Nagar police district also tested positive. Meanwhile, an Assistant Commissioner of Police from Flower Bazaar Police district and six policemen tested positive. On Monday, eight inspectors from the Manali zone and other places and an Assistant Commissioner of Police were admitted to city hospitals. As per statistics provided by police, as on Monday evening over 11 officers in the rank of inspector or above, 18 sub-inspectors, 39 from other ranks, 23 constables from Armed Reserve, 29 personnel from Tamilnadu Special Police and 19 trainees besides nine from Fire Service and five Home Guards are among 153 uniformed personnel to test positive.
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dept. of Posts to open savings accounts for construction workers||In a bid to reach out to the construction workers affected during the lockdown, Department of Posts has joined hands with the State government to disburse financial assistance through India Post Payments Bank (IPPB). It is now in the process of opening IPPB accounts for construction workers across the State to help them avail cash aid without hassle. Officials of the Postal department said about 30,000 savings accounts have been opened for construction workers across the State in the past three days. Of them, nearly 7,000 savings accounts have been opened in Chennai city region. The data about registered construction workers was shared by the Assistant Commissioner of Labour (Social Security Scheme) of the respective region with the post offices.
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police custody for man who claimed cure for COVID-19||The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Court in Egmore ordered custodial interrogation of K. Thiruthanikachalam, who claimed to have the medicine for treating novel coronavirus (COVID-19). Thiruthanikachalam was arrested by Cyber Crime police last week following a complaint lodged by Director of Indian Medicine and Homoeopathy. He had circulated videos on social media claiming that he had found the medicine for COVID-19. The Cyber Crime policetold the court that it wanted to hold further inquiry into the registration of the Siddha hospital run by him and the authenticity of his claims on medicines. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Roslyn Durai granted the cyber police custodial interrogation of Thiruthanikachalam till May 18.
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation unveils app for telemedicine||The Greater Chennai Corporation on Tuesday launched an app offering telemedicine services to people free of cost. Special nodal officer J. Radhakrishnan launched the “GCC Vidmed” app on Tuesday. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash was present. “Residents can use the app to get telemedicine services free of cost 24×7. The pandemic has increased the risk of getting COVID-19 infection in hospitals. The app allows people to consult a physician without visiting the hospital,” said an official. Those availing telemedicine services will be screened for COVID-19 once the doctor finds symptoms. Arrangements will be made to send teams of doctors to help such residents at home. The civic body has started telecounselling for residents in the containment zones. Any resident can call 044-25384520 to get help, including on civic issues, relating to COVID-19.
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Birthday greetings pour in for CM||President Ramnath Kovind, Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and senior leaders from across the country extended their birthday greetings to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K. Palaniswami, who turned 66 on Tuesday. Mr. Modi in his tweet said: “Greetings to Tamil Nadu CM Thiru Edappadi K Palaniswami Ji on his birthday. May Almighty bless him with good health and long life in the service of people.
13 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Dengue prevention lies in the hands of residents, says Corporation||With only a fortnight or so left for the southwest monsoon season, it is time for the city to brace up to fight another battle – against dengue. Usually, ahead of June, the Coimbatore Corporation asks the city’s residents to keep their surroundings clean, destroy old, unused items and trash that could turn mosquito breeding sources and marshals its domestic mosquito breeding checkers and other staff in the health department. But this year is different as the Corporation is already stretched, what with the fight against COVID-19 eating away its resources and demanding full-time dedication of its workforce. Sources in the Corporation say that after the first monsoon rain, the domestic mosquito breeding checkers – there are 800 of them – go door-to-door to check for breeding sources. They check both inside and around the houses to destroy breeding sources and urge the residents to clean the bottom of their refrigerators, sunshades, etc. This time, though, with the Corporation diverting all its checkers to fight COVID-19, it will be difficult for the Corporation to send them to fight dengue. Even if the Corporation were to send the checkers, they may be reluctant to enter homes or commercial establishments and the occupants too may find it difficult to let them in, given the COVID-19 scare and the need to maintain personal distancing. Likewise, the Corporation workers will not go to every household to pour chemicals into water containers to prevent mosquito breeding. Nor will they go around every house destroying unsafe water containers. Therefore, the best way for the city’s residents to keep themselves safe from dengue is to keep their surroundings clean and only they can do it. The Corporation, at best, can only fog and it will do so, the sources say. The city usually sees a spike in dengue cases, after a dip during summer. In 2018, the number of dengue cases was four in June and 15 in July. In 2019, the city saw five dengue cases in June and 27 in July. A senior health officer says the city’s residents should put to use in the next few months the lessons they have learnt during the COVID-19 lockdown period – keeping their surroundings clean and taking responsibility for it. The Corporation can and will play only a supportive role, he adds.
13 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNAU predicts normal SW monsoon for western T.N.||Seven districts in western Tamil Nadu will receive normal southwest monsoon and Salem will see near normal rainfall, the Agro Climate Research Centre at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) has predicted. In its forecast for the monsoon season – June to September, the Centre said Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Namakkal, Erode, the Nilgiris, Tiruppur and Coimbatore could receive normal rainfall with a plus or minus 10% deviation. Salem district could see near normal rainfall – minus 10.1% to minus 20% below normal rainfall. Professor and Head of the Centre, S.P. Ramanathan, said the Centre had arrived at the prediction after feeding the last 30 years’ southwest monsoon data and factoring in the Southern Oscillation Index and Sea Surface Temperature values for the Pacific and Indian oceans. The prediction report said Krishnagiri would receive 377mm (normal 399mm), Dharmapuri - 377mm (normal 393.4mm), Namakkal - 314mm (normal 339.3mm), Erode - 221mm (normal 229.8mm), the Nilgiris - 770mm (normal 759.9mm), Tiruppur -144mm (normal 154.8mm), and Coimbatore -194mm (normal 189.8mm). The month-wise predicted rainfall for Coimbatore would be June -40mm (normal 40.8mm), July - 60mm (normal 60mm), August -32mm (normal 30mm) and September - 62mm (normal 59mm).
13 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK functionary held on assault charge||The Ukkadam police on Tuesday arrested Kottai Abbas, youth wing organiser of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, for alleged assault on two youth. He was released on bail the same day. Police said that Abbas and a few others were searching for his relative’s daughter who allegedly eloped with a youth from Kottaimedu. On Monday, Abbas went to the youth’s house and had an argument with the latter’s friends. It is alleged that Abbas assaulted two of them. Based on a complaint lodged by one of the youth, Ukkadam police station arrested Abbas under Sections 294 (b), 323 and 506 (i) of the Indian Penal Code. Following the arrest of Abbas, DMK functionaries including Singanallur MLA N. Karthik went to the police station.
13 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Three special trains leave Coimbatore||Over 4,000 migrant workers were sent to their hometowns by three Shramik special trains from Coimbatore Junction on Tuesday. Officials with the Salem Division of Southern Railway said that the three trains left for the States of Odisha, Bihar and Jharkhand. The first special train was bound for Khurda Road Junction in Odisha, which had 1,318 passengers and left at around noon. The second train’s destination was Muzaffarpur Junction in Bihar, which had 1,464 passengers. The train left Coimbatore Junction at 4 p.m. The third train for Tuesday was bound for Jasidih in Jharkhand with 1,464 passengers and left at 9 p.m., according to the railway officials. As of Tuesday, nine Shramik special trains have been operated from Coimbatore Railway Station. The special trains were operated for the fifth consecutive day on Tuesday. With this, workers from Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand working in the district and who had registered for returning to their hometowns through the special trains and identified by the district administration have all returned. A district administration official said the plan was to have 18 trains to Assam, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, and BIhar to help about 20,000 workers return home. Nine more trains would be operated and the service to Assam would start in a day or two.
13 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Partially-charred body of man found under bridge||An unidentified man, aged around 35, was found murdered under a bridge near Periyanaickenpalayam here on Tuesday. According to police, the man’s partially-charred body was found under a bridge at Naickenpalayam on Tuesday morning. Coimbatore district (rural) Superintendent of Police Sujit Kumar, Additional Superintendent of Police G.S. Anitha, and Deputy Superintendent of Police (Periayanaickenpalayam division) Mani visited the spot. A team from Coimbatore Medical College Hospital autopsied the body at the place and collected visceral samples. The body was buried in a graveyard at Naickenpalayam. Periyanaickenpalayam police have registered a case based on a complaint lodged by a village officer.
13 May 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Traders hail relaxation norms||Traders and customers here have wholeheartedly expressed their satisfaction after the State government announced some relief to the curfew norms following the COVID-19 pandemic. Following a meeting with trade and industry representatives three days ago, the officials, led by Collector M. Vijayalakshmi, gave the nod to open shops and establishments since Monday, with guidelines to be followed by the shopkeepers and the visiting public. Speaking to reporters on Tuesday, Dindigul Chamber of Commerce Coordinator B.M.S. Murugesan said that the trade and industry welcomed the move of the government to relax the restrictions. After over 40 days of indoors, the move to keep shops open with restrictions and on specific timings had come as a big relief as the economic conditions of people in different sections would improve from now on. Thanking the district administration for immediately agreeing to the suggestions of the traders and merchant community, he said that it had now made the people to be more responsible and ensure that there was no more covid positive cases. “We have all been adhering to social distancing norms. Sanitisers are kept at the shops and showrooms. We hope to revive and save lives from COVID-19 virus,” Mr. Murugesan said. The automobile showrooms, mobile outlets, paint stores, hardware merchants, grocery stores and other commercial undertakings, including small textile shops (without air-conditioners), tea and bakeries and restaurants (only takeaway), functioned as per the stipulated timings. Health officials said that out of the 41 containment zones in the district, 25 had been given full relief after the patients from these locations, who tested positive, were discharged from the Karur Government Medical College Hospital. The only issue now is that the discharged people should strictly remain in home quarantine for a fortnight. Since last week after a meeting with the Collector, 40 mills had got the approval to reopen with one-third strength.
13 May 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Bus facility for students appearing for board exams’||Minister for School Education, Youth Welfare and Sports Development, K.A. Sengottaiyan has said that buses will be arranged for Class 10 students appearing for their examinations from June 1 to June 12. Addressing reporters at Gobichettipalayam on Tuesday, he said that the Leader of the Opposition M.K. Stalin had questioned how students could appear for their examinations when the Chief Minister had requested the Central government for not resuming flight and train services till May 31. “Buses will pick up students from their houses and drop them after examinations, including for students in hill areas,” he said. Personal distancing Mr. Sengottaiyan said that steps were taken to ensure students maintain personal distancing while writing their exams and added that students have to wear masks. “Students and parents need not fear as all precautionary measures will be taken,” he added. The Minister said that postponing the examinations further would affect the students’ career and added that only after discussions, the School Education Department had decided to conduct the examinations from June 1. He said that examinations in many States were conducted and even paper valuations had come to an end.
13 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Migrant worker rescued in Erode||A 24-year-old woman migrant worker from Tiruppur, who lost her way while travelling on foot with a few others to their native in Assam, was rescued by the police here on Tuesday. A woman fainted on the road near the District Headquarters and Hospital here and was rescued by the traffic police. She was identified as Hasina from Assam. She told the police that she was working at a hollow blocks manufacturing unit in Tiruppur and was living with her sister. Due to lockdown, they decided to return to their native. A group of persons started their journey on foot from Tiruppur. However, she lost her way and reached Erode. Later, members from Jeevitham Trust, a non-governmental organisation, took her to the Corporation Municipal School at Karungalpalayam, where she was provided accommodation. Efforts were on to trace the other members in her group, the police said.
13 May 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Couple murdered near Karur||A couple were hacked to death at Ayyampalyam near here on Monday night over a property dispute. A group of three persons of Rayanur barged into the house of T. Renganathan, 35, an AC mechanic, and attacked him with sickle, leaving him with severe injuries on his face, head and neck. It also attacked his wife Deepika, 29, who came to his rescue. She received cut injuries on her head, face and neck. Both died on the spot. The accused escaped from the spot. The police rushed to the spot and removed the bodies to the Government Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. It is alleged that D. Parthiban, 25, of Rayanur and his brothers Praveen, 25, and Gowtham, 19, murdered the couple over a land dispute. The accused were close relatives of the victims, who have a four-year-old daughter. The Vellianai Police have registered a case.
13 May 2020||KODAIKANAL,TAMIL NADU||School gifts PPE kits||As part of the community outreach programme, the Bhavan’s Gandhi Vidyashram here donated 250 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits which include coverall, headcover, masks, pairs of gloves and shoe shaped cover to the medical professionals in Dindigul district. C. Radhakrishnan, Principal, Bhavan’s Gandhi Vidyashram and Parent Teachers’ Association President Ganesh Kumar handed over the kits worth Rs. 2 lakh to Collector M Vijayalakshmi at the Collector's office. A press release from the school said, “The safety of doctors and healthcare workers is very important, for which we have donated PPE kits to show our solidarity with the people.”
13 May 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested after video of women being beaten up goes viral||Maharajakadai police have registered a case against four persons after a video of them beating some women in a neighbourhood rivalry went viral on Whatsapp. The accused Vadivel, Ravi, Sakthivel and Ranjitha had attacked the complainant’s family members over a verbal duel about use of water from the common pipe for irrigation. The altercation escalated and the accused started thrashing the women of the complainant’s family with logs. The video of the attack that took place on May 7 was circulated soon after. Additional Superintendent of Police Shaktivel toldThe Hinduthat three persons have been arrested. However, a counter complaint was filed by the accused, based on which an FIR was filed against the victims as well.
13 May 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-servicemen canteen temporarily closed||The military canteen for ex-servicemen here was temporarily closed after thousands thronged the canteen without masks and ignoring physical distancing norms on Tuesday. The canteen for household provisions at subsidised rates for ex-servicemen was opened after a period of over a month at a wedding hall in the town. What was meant to be the opening of canteen to issue tokens for distribution of provisions at a later date turned out to be a congregation of crowd, suspending all precautions against COVID 19. There was neither adequate arrangements made to prevent gathering of a crowd nor any physical distancing arrangements. Krishnagiri has the second largest number of ex-servicemen in the State, next only to Vellore and has a large number of beneficiaries availing the provisions in the military canteen located in the town. There are over 8,000 members in the canteen. Though the tokens were meant to be issued at 8 a.m. on Tuesday, people made a beeline to the canteen from before dawn. Following this, the authorities ordered closure of the canteen temporarily. M.Nandan, Assistant Director, Ex-servicemen Welfare, said that following complaints of overcrowding and discarding of physical distancing norms, the Collector asked for the canteen’s closure for now.
13 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Nightingales’ in distress||While nurses were being celebrated world over on International Nurses day on Tuesday, a section of them belonging to Tamil Nadu MRB Nurses Empowerment Association were pressing for their long-pending demand of switching from consolidated pay to time-scale based pay. Despite working for six hours in uncomfortable personal protection equipment (PPEs) or delivering babies at ungodly hours in remote primary health centres, the nurses, who sat for the Medical Recruitment Board (MRB) exam in 2015 to join government medical services, get a meagre salary of Rs. 14,000. Secretary of the association’s Madurai chapter S. K. Sujatha said she wrote the exam in 2015, hoping to ensure steady salary raises and a promise to move to time-scale based pay. Ms. Sujatha who works at a Primary Health Centre (PHC) in one of Madurai’s remote villages, said she did the exactly the same work as all staff nurses from her batch but received only 1/4th of the salary. Another nurse, who worked at Government Rajaji Hospital’s COVID-19 ward a week ago, said her experience of working at the ward involved wearing PPE between 8 p.m. and 2 p.m. As someone who first worked in a ‘COVID-19 suspected ward’, she said she had to clear bedpans and provide food in an extremely uncomfortable attire. “Many lab technicians and postgraduate students would often call us over the phone and pass on instructions. Although they had to conduct the blood tests, they would delegate the task to us,” she said. As someone who wears a pair of spectacles inside her PPE, her glasses would often shift providing an unclear view of the patient’s veins. Despite this, she would work. “At the end of my shift, my palms and fingers would have shrunk due to lack of blood supply from wearing tight gloves. I would oil my hands and continue my shift the next day,” she said. Despite working this hard, the nurse said she received the standard Rs. 14,000, while regularised junior staff nurses were paid Rs. 42,000. Ms. Sujatha said that rural PHCs became the first screening centre for people who travelled to their villages from other parts of Tamil Nadu or other States. “We are provided inadequate PPEs, N-95 masks and gloves.” Since March, she had been using the same mask and gloves which were first provided. “In case we need any additional material, we must buy it ourselves,” she said. Another nurse from an Urban PHC, said that all nurses at her PHC used surgical masks. “Despite doing 12-hour shift and delivering newborns without the help of a medical officer, we are not given any N-95 masks. It is the least that the health department can do as we are frontline workers,” she said. Ms. Sujatha said that although Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced workers at the GRH’s COVID-19 ward would get double salary, only names had been collected. “The government is also ignoring the several hundred nurses who work at Taluk hospitals and PHCs without knowing whether or not they are exposing themselves to the disease.” Ms. Sujatha is proud to serve during this disastrous time but she also needs money to ensure that her children’s future is secure. “We are thankful for all the claps and petals. It will be great if we can get more salary though,” she said. Collector T. G. Vinay said N-95 masks and PPEs need not be used by PHC workers. Adequate triple layer masks had been provided as Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation was providing continuous supply to the district.
13 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||West Masi Street traders in a quandary over conflicting orders||Traders from West Masi Street lining up in front of Special Monitoring Officer Kamaraj at the Circuit House in Madurai on Tuesday had an Hamletian query: to open or not to open their shops. The delegation said that West Masi Street in the Temple City had a large number of outlets selling textiles, jewellery, home appliances, construction material, hardware and garments. There were also hotels, banks and eateries. In short, the stretch was the lifeline for residents and traders. The street also had a few residential buildings. Since March-end, shops and other commercial establishments on West Masi Street and surroundings downed shutters due to COVID-19 pandemic. Under such circumstances, when the State government announced reopening of 34 type of shops and establishments all over the State on Monday, with certain exceptions, there was no official word to traders on the street that they alone should not reopen their shops. Hence, going by the Government Order, shopkeepers opened their businesses on Monday. However, within two to three hours, authorities led by the police directed them to down shutters. Confusion prevailed for the next two hours as the shopkeepers had customers lined up in their showrooms. “Our employees returned to work after 44 days. Suddenly, the authorities directed us to close the shops without giving any reasons,” the delegation told Mr. Kamaraj. The Special Monitoring Officer assured the traders that he would in to look their grievance after holding discussions with officials. According to Saravanan of Meenakshi Fan House, dealer in home appliances, they had appealed to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami last week to consider giving them permission to reopen their establishments. Home appliances and consumer electronics together accounted for a turnover of Rs. 7,500 crore per annum in the State. The sector employed 25,000 frontline salesmen and GST remittances stood at Rs. 1,875 crore per annum. About 40% of the earnings came in between March and May. If there was any further delay in permitting the shops from opening, at least 10,000 people might go jobless in manufacturing, logistics, service engineers and advertising agencies, Mr. Saravanan said. When contacted, Collector T. G. Vinay said that a positive case was reported near West Masi Street on Monday. “It is not necessary that shops there need to stop sales or shut down. Only the street where the positive case has been identified needs to be barricaded. We will reassess the situation,” he added.
13 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||46 wholesale vegetable shops sealed||Forty-six wholesale shops at Paravai vegetable market were sealed on Tuesday for not shifting their business out of the venue and for flouting personal distancing norms. In order to reduce crowding at the market in the wake of spread of COVID-19, the district administration instructed a few shops to temporarily shift to a nearby vacant plot. One portion of the plot was allocated for setting up wholesale shops selling potatoes and onions. Another portion was earmarked for those selling brinjal, tomato and lady’s finger. However, when Collector T.G. Vinay and Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan inspected the market on Tuesday, they found that the wholesale shops from ‘A’ block selling onions and potatoes had not shifted to their allocated space in the adjacent plot. Hence, on a directive from the Collector, the entire block was barricaded and 44 shops were sealed. “These shops continued to sell vegetables to customers with total disregard to personal distancing norms,” said a Corporation official who was present during the inspection. In addition, two more wholesale shops were sealed for flouting personal distancing norms. The Collector instructed the shopkeepers to have a public address system to sensitise all traders, loadmen and drivers to wear face masks and maintain personal distancing.
13 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Stone quarry closed||Revenue Divisional Officer R. Soundarya (RDO) on Tuesday inspected a stone quarry that was causing pollution and impacting agriculture at Karuvelampatti village in Tirupparankundram taluk. She was accompanied by officials from revenue and mines department. B. Lakshmanan, a resident, submitted a petition to Collector T. G. Vinay on Monday stating there was heavy crop damage as dust from blasting rocks settled on their produce. The impact of the blasts also caused damage to houses and a local school building.  The Revenue Divisional Officer said she had submitted a report based on theteam’s observations at the site. The administration had served a notice to the quarry stating that no activity must take place until further action had been taken by the Collector.
13 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Protest held||Conservancy workers of Madurai Corporation, affiliated to CITU, staged demonstrations across the city on Tuesday, demanding protective equipment for all workers and regularisation of jobs. The workers held demonstrations in front of Corporation ward offices of Sellur, Aruldosspuram and Subramaniapuram. Around 50 workers protested at each of the locations. They held placards and raised slogans against the civic body. CITU general secretary M. Balasubramaniam said there were still some conservancy workers who had not received safety gear. The protesters sought regularisation of jobs for around 1,700 contract and 700 daily wage workers of the Corporation. “These workers put their lives on the line and disinfect the city. Hence, the government must regularise their jobs,” the CITU leader said. It must also give a solatium of Rs. 50 lakh to families of conservancy workers who died due to COVID-19.
13 May 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure safety practices’||Collector K.Megraj held discussions with traders on Tuesday regarding the precautionary measures to be taken. Mr.Megraj said shop owners had been advised to ensure that they and their staff wore masks. Customers must follow physical distancing and wear masks and the traders had been told not to sell products to people who did not follow these practices. Shops that did not follow these measures would be sealed. He said that about 600 migrant workers had been sent to their homes and 860 workers from other states sought to return to the district.
13 May 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Relief materials distributed||District Collector K.Megraj on Tuesday distributed relief materials to hair dressers and members of transgender community residing in Namakkal taluk. The grocery kits were distributed to 100 hair dressers and 27 transgender women, a release said.
13 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry revises working hours from eight to 12||The Puducherry Labour Department has temporarily extended working hours to 12 hours in a bid to boost efficiency of industries reopening with reduced workforce following gradual lifting of lockdown regulations. A notification from the department said that the work hours have been revised from eight to 12 hours for a period of three months. The Puducherry unit of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has welcomed the measure contending that it would improve operational efficiency of industrial units in a scenario of labour shortage. M. Sankaranarayanan, CII chairman in Puducherry, said the amendment would improve productivity in the manufacturing sector and also ensure supply of essential goods and services to various parts of the country. The Labour Department notification is in line with the CII representation submitted to the State government earlier. Supply chain With the large presence of MSMEs, this initiative would also help in strengthening the vendor supply chain of products manufactured in the region, he felt. The CII urged the industries to adhere to the guidelines issued by the Central and the Union Territory governments on maintaining physical distancing, sanitisation and other safety and precautionary measures.
13 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Aarogya Setu app mandatory for government servants||Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao on Tuesday said that it was mandatory for all government servants to download Aarogya Setu mobile application. The app is an important tool in its fight against the spread of COVID-19, he said, addressing a press conference in the Assembly.
13 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corpn. collects swab samples from pregnant women||The Salem Corporation on Tuesday launched a programme to collect swab samples from expectant mothers for COVID-19 tests. Corporation Commissioner R.Sadheesh launched the programme at the urban primary health centre in Kumarasamipatti here along with City Health Officer K.Parthibhan. The swab samples will be collected at all 16 urban primary health centres here. Mr.Sadheesh said, “Swab samples are being collected from pregnant women whose delivery is expected in a month as part of COVID-19 containment measures. The samples are being collected from walk-in sample collection booths.” He said that the details of more or less 11,000 pregnant women here had been collected and they were being regularly monitored. The tests would help avoid complications during pregnancy as there were chances of the newborn getting affected with COVID-19. Mr. Sadheesh added that the testing measures would also help in containing the disease. There were about 500 women in the Corporation limits with expected delivery dates within a month, officials said.
13 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested under POCSO Act||Police on Monday arrested a man from Mallur for allegedly sexually misbehaving with a Class VIII student. According to police, the girl was staying with her uncle following the death of her parents. The girl alerted her neighbours when the accused allegedly misbehaved with her. Mallur police on Tuesday arrested and remanded the accused.
13 May 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Man held for defamatory post against CM||Police arrested a 28-year-old man for making defamatory post against Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami through his WhatsApp account. According to police, the accused Manikandan posted a WhatsApp status condemning the Chief Minister for allowing Tasmac outlets to function in the State amid lockdown. Based on a complaint lodged by AIADMK functionaries, personnel from the Steel Plant police station arrested the man and remanded him in custody.
13 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DMK petitions Collector||S.R. Parthibhan, DMK MP, and party’s MLA R. Rajendran handed over 4,000 petitions collected from 13 revenue districts to District Collector seeking COVID-19 relief. The petitions were collected through Ondruinaivom Va programme.
13 May 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||‘Arrest illegal sand miners who attacked government staff’||Expressing anguish over ‘rampant illegal sand mining’ in Devakottai taluk in Sivaganga district, members of Village Administrative Officers Association have demanded the State government to arrest 10 persons in this connection. Association State coordinator R. Arulraj told The Hindu that sand lifting from Sarugani riverbed came to the notice of the VAO concerned on the night of May 9. When he and three other colleagues visited Vellikatti, they were assaulted by illegal sand miners. It was suspected that at least three tractor loads of river sand was lifted at that time, the VAOs said, and demanded the arrest of all the 10 accused named in the FIR. The kingpin was the husband of a village president. “The police at Thiruvempathur station have just registered a case. All the accused were roaming freely in the village. It gave us an impression that the police were hand in glove with the accused,” they alleged. Three months ago, when there were complaints that illegal sand mining was taking place, the VAO secured at least 10 bullock carts laden with sand and handed them over to the police. Though a case was registered, no action followed, Mr. Arulraj said, adding the officers were getting threat calls from anonymous numbers. Another office-bearer said, “We are living in constant fear. The higher-ups in the district administration have been telling us that they would take it up with the police and ensure protection, but nothing seems to be happening. With the ruling party’s support, sand miners are destroying natural resources.” Mr. Arulraj said the Association members were also roughed up by some people across Tamil Nadu when they tried to discharge their duties during the COVID-19 pandemic times. “Our members, who went to paste stickers in front of houses to inform inmates that they were in home quarantine, the residents attacked and abused us in Cuddalore, Kanniyakumari, Dindigul, Thoothukudi and Kaliyakavilai,” he said. Tamil Nadu Grama Nirvaga Munnetra Sangam also demanded the government to direct Sivaganga police to arrest the accused. A fortnight ago, when The Hindu published a news item that illegal sand mining was rampant along the Vaigai near Manamadurai, Collector J. Jayakanthan stated in a press release that CCTV cameras had been installed at 15 key locations and vehicles without valid permission would be seized. A control room was established at the Collectorate to monitor movement of lorries round the clock, he added.
13 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Delay in releasing CCE data resented||Farmers resent inordinate delay in releasing the data pertaining to the crop cutting exercise (CCE) of the 2019-20 rabi season. The CCE was conducted by the crop insurance company in February-March this year for the crop raised on about 3,11,787 acres in Thanjavur district during the rabi season. Pointing out that the insurance company officials had completed the exercise 25 days prior to the completion of harvest in all the 3.11 lakh acres, the Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association secretary Sundara Vimalanathan said as per the crop insurance rules the insurance company has to release the CCE data within four weeks of completion of the CCE. Further, they have to assess the loss within four weeks of releasing of the CCE data. However, though the CCE had been completed by March first week the insurance company had not released the data till now, he said. Stating that by this time the insurance company should have released the list of farmers eligible to receive insurance relief, he said that citing the COVID 19 pandemic as the reason for the delay in releasing of CCE data and subsequent declaration of crop loss compensation could not hold water in view of the fact that the virus scare gripped the nation by the last week of March only. Since the field works had been completed much before the lockdown, the insurance company could have completed the loss assessment work by asking their employees to complete the process by working from their homes during the lockdown period as the entire process of crop insurance had been digitised, he said.
13 May 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||‘SMS police if you want to go out of house’||Next time you want to step out of your house to go to a market or visit a doctor or anywhere in Theni district, then you have to give an SMS to 9488056600. In the next few seconds, you will get a reply with a six digit number after which alone you can go out to the destination. The SMS, which contains a QR code, is issued by the Theni district police and it’s valid for three hours. The SP Sai Saran Tejaswi said on Tuesday that with the COVID-19 pandemic, it had been proposed to restrict the movement of residents. Unless there was any utmost requirement to step out, people should stay indoors as it would help the administration to break the virus chain and ensure a healthy environment around. By and large, the district had been containing the virus effectively so far. To ensure that it was totally free of the cases and to move to the green zone, such measures were taken, Mr. Tejaswi said and added that the intention of the police was not to harass or harm the people. The custodians of law were present only to help the law-abiding citizens and expected the people to support the machinery voluntarily. The SP also said that during this kind of medical emergency, the challenges could be overcome only with the public support. Though certain restrictions were being relaxed after the public wanted, the police felt that there was a rise in the movement of residents. Inquiries at random in the district indicated that not many had a convincing reply for having come out of their houses. The district has 59 positive cases of COVID-19 and 42 among them have been discharged.
13 May 2020||THENI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||7 test positive in Theni district; 4 new cases in Virudhunagar||Seven persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Theni district on Tuesday. Collector M. Pallavi Baldev said while one of the new cases, tested at a check post, was found to have come from Gujarat, the others had been to other districts. They are all from Odaipatti panchayat and Devadanapatti panchayat. The areas have been declared containment zones. Virudhunagar district reported four new positive cases, including two pregnant women. With this the total number of positive cases registered in the district has increased to 44. Thirty-one patients have been discharged and 13 persons are under treatment. Among the four fresh cases, two are from Chennai. While a pregnant woman from a place near Aruppukottai had returned long back from Bengaluru, baby shower function was held for her on Monday. “The infection was detected when the antenatal mother was tested as a precautionary measure. The source of infection and her contacts are being traced,” Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan said. Meanwhile, a couple who returned from Chennai three days back were tested positive. The families were planning for baby showering function for her in Tiruthangal. Tirunelveli Three patients tested positive in Tirunelveli district. One person from Ervadi and another person from Koodankulam were found to have contracted the viral infection when they were tested while crossing the check-post at Gangaikondan. The third patient is from North Vijayanarayanam near Munanjipatti. With this, the total number of positive cases from the district has increased to 93. While 30 are being treated at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, the others were discharged. Dindigul Collector M. Vijayalakshmi said two cases from Choolapuram in Gujiliamparai block tested positive. Preliminary inquiries revealed they had been to Gujarat and returned home recently. They had been shifted to Government Medical College Hospital in Karur. Thoothukudi The total number of positive cases in Thoothukudi has touched 35 with addition of two new cases on Tuesday. Eight of them are now undergoing treatment at Medical College Hospital. Tenkasi Tenkasi district recorded one new positive case and the toll of the district is now 53. The new patient, a woman, is from Poigai near Kadayanallur. Thirty of the patients have been discharged from hospital. Kanniyakumari Kanniyakumari district’s tally has moved to 26 with one person testing positive on Tuesday. Nine patients are under treatment at Government Medical College Hospital at Asaripallam.
13 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||69 more test positive for virus||Sixty-nine more patients have tested positive for COVID-19 virus in central districts on Tuesday. Most of the cases were reported from Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. While Ariyalur accounted for 36 fresh cases, 27 persons tested positive for the virus in Perambalur district. Four patients were affected in Karur and two tested positive in Tiruchi district. No fresh cases were reported in Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts. Out of 27 positive persons in Perambalur, 11 were ante-natal and 5 post-natal mothers. Seven patients had come to the Primary Health Centres with complaints of fever and cold. Three had returned to Perambalur from Koyambedu market. One patient had returned from Maharashtra. M. Geetha Rani, Deputy Director of Health, said that out of 27 patients, 24 were being treated at the Government Hospital in Ariyalur. Remaining four patients were put in institutional quarantine. In Ariyalur, Collector D. Rathna said that out of 36 patients, who tested positive for the virus on Tuesday, 30 had returned to their native villages from Koyambedu. Remaining six patients were in contacts with those quarantined. Almost all of them were asymptomatic. They were being treated at Government Hospital in Ariyalur. Two persons, who tested positive for the virus in Tiruchi, had returned from Maldives via Kochi. While a patient belonged to Mannachanallur, other belonged to Musiri. Both of them were asymptomatic. Out of the four persons, who tested positive for the virus in Karur district, three were from Pallapatti. One patient was from Uzhaipali Nagar in Karur. Meanwhile, 35 patients, who were treated for COVID 19 virus, were discharged from the Government Hospital in Ariyalur on Tuesday. Of them, 24 had returned from Koyambedu and 11 were their contacts. Two of them were children. They were given a warm send off by doctors, nurses and paramedical staff. All of them were asked to quarantine themselves for 14 days in their homes. Similarly, the Government Hospital in Perambalur saw the discharge of 20 patients. Most of them were linked to Koyambedu. In Tiruchi, six COVID 19 positive persons were discharged from the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. One more patient was discharged from the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on Tuesday.
13 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Take steps to invigorate manufacturing sector’||While anticipating a change for the better in the wake of appointment of a high-level committee by the State government under the Chairmanship of former RBI Governor C. Rangarajan to assess the impact of pandemic on the economy, there were calls for steps to invigorate manufacturing sector at the earliest. Though some MSME units re-started operations earlier this month, workers have not been able to turn up due to the lockdown restrictions. Most of the units have not opened due to various constraints. Having conveyed to the Central and State governments their plight caused by the slump in orders from BHEL several times in recent years, the already struggling member units of BHEL Small Industries Association (BHELSIA) and Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (TIDITSSIA) that have been hit the hard by the pandemic eagerly expect the high-level committee to come out with short-term and long-term solutions for their revival. Requesting for representation of various MSME associations from Tamil Nadu for arriving at remedial measures, president of BHELSIA Rajappa Rajkumar, in a letter to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, called for formulating an interim and immediate solution to ensure survival of units that were in a critical situation, alongside addressing long-term issues for steady growth of MSME sector. As an association with 450 MSME units employing around 40,000 persons, BHELSIA will be able to play a vital role in the committee for revival of the MSME sector, he said mooting formation of a separate committee to take care of interest of MSME sector immediately for preparing a comprehensive report in a week. TIDITSSIA Appreciating the government for dealing well with the unprecedented pandemic, the president of TIDITSSIA R. Ilango said in his letter to the Chief Minister that the industrial fraternity will be grateful if a representative of the Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries Association is included in the high-level committee. ‘We feel our opinion and suggestions in formulating relief packages to MSME will be very helpful to all concerned,’ Mr. Ilango said.
13 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Face readers installed||As an alternative to thumb-based biometric attendance, the use of which has been suspended in offices to prevent the spread of the corona virus, the Tiruchi Corporation has installed biometric face readers at its various offices across the city at a cost of Rs. 30 lakh and brought into operation. Employees, upon arrival at their respective offices, need to just stand in front of the biometric face reader for a few seconds. The moment the device recognises the face of the employees, it makes a beep sound, indicating that attendance has been punched in. The employees will have to repeat the process when they leave for homes after completing the day’s duty. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said the electronic device had been erected at 120 offices of the corporation. To implement the system, all details of about 3,000 employees of the corporation were collated. Name and designation of the employees, their birth date, joining date, work place and shift details were compiled. More security features were added to ensure that the employees adhered to the work schedule correctly. In the thumb-based attendance system, there were complaints that employees marked their presence at the nearby offices to their residences. Under the new system, they had to mark their presence only at the designated office. Otherwise, the device would not recognise their faces. The biometric face reader averts any chance of spread of the corona virus. Contract employees and outsourced employees have been brought under the new system.
13 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Engineering colleges in dire straits||Managements of many of nearly 100 engineering colleges in Tiruchi region of Anna University are facing financial crisis and feel stranded in the backdrop of an uncertain admission season caused by the pandemic. With the compulsion of servicing debts to banks on the one hand and the necessity to fall in line with the government’s directive not to collect fee, managements say they find themselves in deep trouble. While the Central and State governments are responding to demands of industries, the pleas for financial support made by educational institutions that have also sourced term loans from banks have remained unanswered, P. Selvaraj, secretary of the Consortium of Self-Financing, Professional, Arts and Science Colleges, and founder Chairman of Shivani Group of Institutions said. Private managements have paid salary of teachers till March and are struggling to cough up money to settle salaries for April. The government must at least consider in right earnest our request for overdraft credit on SC/ST student scholarships and first generation graduates, he said. Last month, the AICTE directed colleges not to insist on payment of fees till the lockdown is lifted and normalcy is restored. Revised timelines will be issued by AICTE in due course, the communication said, directing the institutions to display the information on their websites and communicate the same to students through email. The financial problem, sources in Anna University said, has turned severe for many of 60 colleges for which the first-year admissions did not exceed 100 last year. The plight of 20 colleges where the entire student strength is in the range of 100 is acute. Now, the situation is such that teachers with Ph.D. qualifications who are being paid more are being eased out by managements due to cash crunch. Those with M.E. and M.Tech. qualifications who are paid a maximum of Rs. 20,000 a month have not received salaries for months in many colleges, sources said. As the admission to engineering course has been witnessing a decline in recent years, a number of managements have not been able to fill even 50 % of sanctioned strength. But then, norms of the All India Council for Technical Education requires the managements to continue maintaining faculty strength in the teacher-pupil ratio of 1:15. Managements of a number of institutions are contemplating opting for progressive closure, implying that they cannot admit students for first year, sources said.
13 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Garbage generation comes down||Garbage generation has come down by about 40 % in the city since the imposition of total lockdown. According to sources, the average garbage collection that stood at 360 tonnes in 2001 went to 435 tonnes in 2014. It was about 450 tonnes in 2019. The city now produces about 460 tonnes of garbage a day. Of this, bio-degradable waste accounts for 51 % . Biodegradable waste include green, paper and food waste and biodegradable plastics. Other biodegradable wastes include sewage, sewage sludge and slaughterhouse waste. Sanitary workers collect non-biodegradable waste such as tyres, plastics, electronic goods and others. Out of the four zones in the city, Golden Rock zone generates about 125 tonnes of waste, followed by K. Abishekapuram zone with 115 tonnes. Srirangam and Ariyamangalam zones generate around 110 tonnes each. The Gandhi Market, which has more than 3,000 wholesale and retail outlets, generates about 50 tonnes of waste. Hotels and restaurants account for about 50 tonnes of waste. Until March 25, the city generated about 460 tonnes of solid waste. But, it has come down to 270 tonnes. The garbage collection has come mostly from households. There is hardly any collection from hotels, restaurants, office buildings, construction sites, renovation sites and industrial units for the last 45 days. “The data clearly reveals that commercial waste accounts for about 40% of total waste in the city and domestic waste about 60%. The data will be useful for us to introduce a few more measures in solid waste management plan,” says S. Amuthavalli, City Engineer. She said that most of the garbage collection from households had been processed and disposed in 32 micro compost yards. Not many loads were transported to Ariyamangalam compost yard. She said that since the curbs on lockdown had been relaxed, the average garbage collection would go up. The corporation had geared up to do the needful. The sanitary workers had been sensitised to the need for resuming collection in commercial establishments too, except those listed in the bulk garbage generators.
13 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tobacco products seized||Designated Officer R. Chitra of Food Safety Department nabbed Shaukat Ali, 65, at Kallakudi on Monday on the charge of smuggling banned tobacco products and illegally stocking them for sale. A bag containing banned tobacco products worth Rs. 1 lakh was seized from a house where Shaukat Ali had illegally stocked them. He had brought the contraband on a two-wheeler from Perambalur district. A case has been registered. He has been running a rice shop and indulging in this act for a year now.
13 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||1,332 migrant workers leave for Bihar on special train||A group of 1,332 jubilant migrant labourers from Bihar, who were working in Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project’s (KKNPP) expansion programmes and also in other projects in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts, left for Patna at 10 p.m. on Tuesday on a special train. This is the first special train to be operated from this region to North India after train services were suspended following nationwide COVID–19 lockdown. While 1,036 labourers are from Tirunelveli district, 296 are from Thoothukudi. The migrant labourers at the KKNPP, who would usually leave for their hometowns between March and May every year, were striking work for the past few days demanding operation of special trains to their States. Besides affecting the ongoing construction of the third and the fourth reactors, it triggered tension at the KKNPP where these construction labourers had been settled in temporary sheds. In the violence that ensued, a woman Police Inspector and a constable were injured in stone pelting. Since 901 migrant labourers from Bihar are leaving for their State on the special train, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish, who had a discussion with the KKNPP top brass and the heads of the contracting firms at the Collectorate on Monday evening to finalise the modalities for sending the labourers back to their places safely, had arranged for a medical camp on the KKNPP premises on Tuesday. A team of doctors screened the migrant labourers and handed over certificates narrating their health condition, which have to be submitted to the officials at Patna. Similar exercise was organised in Thoothukudi by Collector Sandeep Nanduri, Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan and Superintendent of Police Arun Balagopalan on Tuesday. After the end of the medical examination, they were brought to Tirunelveli on 33 buses to board the special train while the labourers from Thoothukudi arrived here on 10 buses. Ms. Shilpa had also made arrangements for bearing the migrant workers’ travel fare of Rs. 13.12 lakh on the special train, food and drinking water. “To ensure physical distancing on the train, none will be accommodated in the middle berths,” a railway official here said. The special train, which will not stop in any stations, will halt at three places en route for the change of loco pilots. As the KKNPP asked the migrant labourers to register their names online if they wanted to return to their native places, 3,500 of the 5,000-odd workers living on the KKNPP premises, have registered so far. Of these, 1,200 are from Jharkhand for whom another special train will be operated on Wednesday.
13 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Second train leaves Tiruppur for Bihar||Two days after Tiruppur saw its first special train leave the city with migrant workers, the second Shramik special train was operated from the Tiruppur Junction on Tuesday. Officials from the Salem Division of Southern Railway said that 1,464 migrant workers were sent in the special train to Hajipur Junction in Bihar, which left the junction at 1 p.m. The train had 24 coaches, all of which were disinfected prior to its operation. While 1,140 workers were allowed in the first train on Sunday, 1,464 workers were allowed on Tuesday due to the increased accommodation as the middle berths were also allotted for the passengers, railway officials said. The body temperature of all the workers was checked at the railway station and they were provided with food parcels and water bottles. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan inspected the proceedings at the station and gave send off to the workers. He said that 10,400 migrant workers had registered on the State government’s online portal requesting to be sent to their hometowns. Nearly 720 workers had been sent by buses so far. More special trains were being arranged for the migrant workers from Tiruppur to States such as Odisha, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, he said in a press release. Noting that there were no active COVID-19 cases in the district, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said that Tiruppur district had been declared as an orange zone and the restrictions in 32 containment zones were being relaxed in a phased manner.  Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said in a tweet on Tuesday that 3,520 workers from Tiruppur district had been sent to their hometowns.
13 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers stage protest in Tiruppur||Nearly 1,000 conservancy workers participated in the protests organised by the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) here on Tuesday. According to K. Rangaraj, district secretary of CITU, nearly 500 conservancy workers attached to the Tiruppur Corporation participated in a demonstration in the city. The protesters demanded one-month special pay as announced by the Chief Minister, cash assistance for the kin of conservancy workers who died of COVID-19, Rs. 600 every day for daily wage labourers and regular medical check-ups and safety equipment for them. Over 400 workers participated in similar protests organised in Palladam, Udumalpet and Uthukuli. The protests will intensify across the State if the demands are not met by May 17, he said.
13 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||FSSAI seizes 82 kg of stale baked items and snacks||Over 80 kg of baked items and snacks were seized and destroyed by the Food Safety and Drug Administration department here on Tuesday. Following a spate of complaints from local residents, officials from the department raided 15 shops and businesses and checked whether the products were being sold as per the norms defined by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). Officials said that the products were checked to ascertain whether the date of manufacture and the date of expiry, as well as the FSSAI license number were clearly visible in the packaging. As many of the outlets did not display this information clearly, or were selling stale products unfit for consumption, the department seized 82 kg of baked goods and snack items, including bread, rusk, biscuits and other snacks from the shops and destroyed them. Officials said that the value of the destroyed products was estimated to be around Rs. 20,000. J. Thanga Vignesh, Designated Officer, Food Safety and Drug Administration Department, the Nilgiris, said that five of the shops have also been sealed. “We will issue warning notices to these shops and fines will also be imposed. Only after the fines are paid, and the shop owners agree to properly label their products and to follow food safety norms would they be allowed to reopen,” said Dr. Thanga Vignesh. The officer also said that the department was receiving many complaints of merchants selling old, stale goods at their stores. He said that strict action was being taken against such business owners.
13 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||SI, constable suspended for demanding bribe||A sub-inspector of police and a constable attached to the Erumad police station in Pandalur have been suspended after they were captured on video demanding bribe from a person whose vehicle the police had seized during the nationwide lockdown. Vehicle seizure According to informed sources, sub-inspector Kannan, and station writer Suma had demanded Rs. 10,000 from the person to release the vehicle. Complaint However, the person surreptitiously recorded a video of the two demanding bribe and had sent the video along with a written complaint to district police officials. After the incident came to light, the two police personnel were placed under suspension. When contacted, Nilgiris district Superintendent of Police V. Sasi Mohan confirmed the suspension of the police personnel. He said that the incident took place last week, and that the police were investigating the veracity of the video sent to them.
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Madurai police issue advisory to residents||The Madurai City Police have issued an elaborate advisory asking people not to wear jewellery and carry high-value goods in order to prevent crime. According to a release, people going for morning walking should use main roads where there are a lot of members of the public. They should go for walking between 6 a.m. and 8 a.m. Women should avoid drawing kolams before 6 a.m. and should avoid wearing heavy jewellery and high-value wrist watches. Jewellery can be safeguarded by depositing them in bank lockers, instead of keeping them at home. They should be extra cautious while carrying their hand bags, mobile phones, credit cards and debit cards. Besides, the police have advised people against carrying a lot of cash while going out. Not only known habitual offenders, but new criminals could also indulge in theft, robbery and dacoity, the release said. People should use quality locks for their main doors to secure themselves. Besides, they should also keep their grill gates always locked. Residents should also maintain personal distance from those coming home for delivery of parcels, letters and from suspicious persons. The police also want people to always try to stick to main roads and avoid narrow and secluded lanes. Whenever they move out, they should also keep an eye on people around them. The police reminded people against leaving valuable things in their vehicles and also to not give lift to strangers. People should accompany children while they are being sent for special classes and pick them up. People should have emergency helpline numbers stored in their mobile phones. Youths should keep a tab of people coming to their residential areas. People should keep their houses and streets under the vigil of closed circuit television cameras. They can store the City Police WhatsApp number 83000-21100 in their mobile phones and reach out to them immediately when necessary.
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||716 new cases, eight deaths in Tamil Nadu||A 43-year-old woman, a resident of Tiruvallur, died at RGGGH on May 11. She suffered from acute myeloid leukemia and died of septic shock and respiratory failure. Another woman - a 55-year-old resident of Chennai - also died at RGGGH. She had diabetes and systemic hypertension and died of sepsis, septic shock and acute cerebrovascular accident. A 57-year-old woman from Chennai, who was suffering from diabetes, died at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on May 11, while a 70-year-old man, also a resident of Chennai, died at KMC on May 12. A 58-year-old woman who was suffering from diabetes, hypothyroidism and coronary artery disease, died at KMC on May 12. Among the fresh cases are four persons who returned from other countries on repatriation flights. Till now, a total of 927 persons who arrived on these flights to Chennai and Tiruchi airports have been screened. Of the 743 persons who arrived at the Chennai airport since May 9, 557 have been tested. Of them, four persons have tested positive for COVID-19, while 186 samples are under process. All 184 passengers who arrived at the Tiruchi airport have tested negative. A total of 21 districts have reported new cases. Chennai added 510 new cases, taking its total tally to 4,882. Ariyalur had 36 cases, Chengalpattu 35 cases, Perambalur and Tiruvallur had 27 cases each and Kancheepuram had 24 cases. There were 13 cases in Tiruvannamalai, nine in Ranipet, seven in Theni, four each in Karur and Virudhunagar, three in Tirunelveli, two each in Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Thoothukudi and Tiruchi, and one each in Cuddalore, Kanniyakumari, Tenkasi, Vellore and Villupuram. Another 44 persons aged above 60 tested positive. As on date, a total of 487 children aged 0 to 12 and 596 persons aged above 60 have tested positive in the State. A total of 11,788 samples were tested on Tuesday. With this, a total of 2,66,687 samples have been tested so far. Two more testing facilities were approved - at the Government Kallakurichi Hospital and Chettinad Hospital and Research Institute, Chengalpattu. With this, there are a total of 55 testing facilities - 38 in the government and 17 in the private sector. With 83 more persons being discharged on Tuesday, a total of 2,134 persons have been discharged so far in the State. There are 6,520 active cases and 4,401 persons suspected to have symptoms admitted to isolation wards. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)   Among the fresh cases are four persons who had returned from other countries on repatriation flights
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||As on May 12     Persons in hospitals: 114 (Male -25, Male child – 1, Female – 88) Govt. hospitals: 91 Private hospitals: 23 Persons tested +ve so far: 146 (No new case on Tuesday) Active cases: 1 Persons recovered: 144 (Three discharged on Tuesday) Death: 1    House quarantined: 1,400 Positive: 114 (No fresh cases on Tuesday) Discharged from ESI Hospital: 114 (No active cases)
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Decision on BMTC services only after govt. nod||Ferrying close to 35 lakh people a day, Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) buses are the lifeline of the city’s mass transport system. But a decision on when they will resume regular services will be taken only afterthe government’s nod, BMTC officials said. BMTC managing director C. Shikha said that resumption of normal bus services would happen only after the government’s green signal. “As of now, we are providing bus services for essential services and to ferry migrant workers to designated railway stations. Because of the existing lockdown norms, it is not possible to resume normal services. It will all depend on directions from the government,” she said. On Tuesday, the transport corporation carried out medical tests on employees who had gone to their home towns before the lockdown. The screening was done at the depot level. “As a safety measure, we asked all the employees who had gone to their native place to undergo medical tests,” said Ms. Shikha. Shivayogi C. Kalasad, MD of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation, said that though measures have been taken to resume services in the green zones, COVID-19 cases being reported in such areas had put them in a tight spot. “We will go by the directions of the government on providing bus services in these areas,” he said. Contract buses Ever since relaxations were announced in lockdown, BMTC buses have been in great demand from companies and industrial units looking to book them on contract basis to ferry their employees. Already, 127 buses have been booked and negotiations are on for 300 more. Ms. Shikha told The Hindu that based on the requirement of companies and industries, buses were being operated to Whitefield, Peenya, Electronics City and other areas. The BMTC provides three types of non-AC buses, and the charges vary from Rs. 4,500 to Rs. 10,000, depending on bus type, number of hours required (12 to 24 hours), and kilometres (100 to 250) operated. Last month, the State government directed the BMTC to provide buses on contract basis for companies and industrial units. In addition to private organisations, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) too has taken contract bus services to ferry pourakarmikas. A BMTC official said, “We are receiving more enquiries on contract services. Some have decided to wait till May 17 on the assumption that relaxation could be givento public transport.” The BMTC is also operating buses to transport people carrying out essential services such as hospital and government office work by issuing monthly passes.
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lockdown decisions: U-turns or course correction by govt.?||The Indian Railways started the Shramik special trains on May 3 to ferry migrant workers to their home States. But, the Karnataka government stopped them on May 6 and hurriedly reintroduced them on May 8 after drawing severe flak. This is only the latest of at least half-a-dozen instances of the B.S. Yediyurappa-led BJP government in Karnataka doing flip-flops on key decisions ever since the lockdown was introduced. Both the Opposition and a section within the ruling BJP say these U-turns raise questions over the quality of administration and leadership. Another section, however, say that they show a government which is not rigid and is amenable to course correction. In a faction-ridden BJP, such flip-flops have become a pretext for a hushed campaign against the Chief Minister — that “with advancing age and deteriorating health, the CM seems to have lost his grip over administration”. It can be recalled that party legislators had circulated at least two unsigned letters since February seeking a change in leadership. However, sources close to the Chief Minister term this charge “motivated” and argue that it was Mr. Yediyurappa who has been the “most hardworking” and cite the relatively better performance of the State in tackling COVID-19 as proof of his leadership. Revenue Minister R. Ashok said: “The decision making in the State is only responding to a fast evolving, dynamic situation that is also unprecedented. It reflects a readiness for course correction without any ego issues.” Tight rope-walk Multiple sources in the government, The Hindu spoke to, painted a more nuanced picture of a tight rope-walk between concerns over health, welfare, and economy. For instance, a senior legislator cited the flip-flop over Indira Canteen as reflecting this rather difficult situation. The government-run subsidised canteen was initially closed to ensure social distancing and then an order was issued to provide free food through them to feed thousands who had lost livelihood. Within days, it was made a paid service because free food led to crowding. “Making it paid was a strategy to prevent crowding and it worked,” he said. However, civic activists have consistently argued that such “strategies” against the poor are nothing short of inhuman. The same rationale lay behind charging exorbitant bus fares from migrants, which left the government red-faced as the Opposition Congress offered to pay for their travel. This forced the government to make it free. “Charging more than double from homebound migrants was neither good governance nor good politics,” admitted a senior Minister. who did not wish to be named. Adding to the existing confusion — with interests of economy, health or political posturing often clashing with each other — is also a Cabinet marred by one-upmanship between Ministers, sources said. For instance, the strategy to make services paid to prevent crowding and thereby ensuring social distancing has been championed by one group of Ministers, while others hold a contrary view. “In an unprecedented situation, mistakes were made trying to balance various concerns. As various persons, including Ministers and bureaucrats, present their concerns, it is on the Chief Minister to take a holistic view and decision. He may have erred a few times, but has been open and opted for course correction to his credit,” said a legislator. Meanwhile, activists working on the ground argue that some flip-flops have come with a clear political agenda. The decision to “let BJP MLAs rule the roost” in distribution of ration kits and such other welfare measures led to its politicisation, finally leaving out the most vulnerable to fall off the safety net, they argue.
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Bicycle Mayor’ seeks cycle lane||To encourage people to use non-motorised vehicles and bring a positive impact on public health, achieve greener mobility and reduce pollution, Bengaluru’s ‘Bicycle Mayor’ Sathya Sankaran has written to Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao requesting dedicated cycle pathways on important corridors. He has also urged the Commissioner to make 193 roads across the city free from vehicles and allow only pedestrians and cycles for at least three months. Mr. Sankaran said that restricting vehicular movement on a few roads would de-congest roads and help people maintain social distancing, apart from reducing pollution. “This is the right time to implement it. Crowded areas and roads, including DVG Road, Cunningham Road, Malleswaram 8th Cross, parts of Gandhinagar, should be blocked for vehicular movement so that people can walk or cycle while maintaining social distancing,” he said. He added that if corridors like the Outer Ring Road (ORR) had a dedicated cycle lane, thousands of people would cycle to offices. “In this regard, a 1.5 metre cycle lane between the bus priority lane and the normal road is easily workable. Installation of bollards is the only work needed, which can be done along with installation of bollards for the bus lane on ORR,” Mr. Sankaran said.
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Race on to complete bus lane before BMTC services resume||Starting from where they left off before the COVID-19 pandemic hit normal life, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has resumed the installation of plastic bollards and demarcation of stretches with red paint along the bus priority lane between Tin Factory and Silk Board on the Outer Ring Road (ORR). The civic body had started installing plastic bollards along the lane in the last week of February, but had to stop work owing to COVID-19 in the third week of May. A BBMP engineer said the work was being carried out in shifts, with reduced workforce and all precautionary measures. “Because of shortage of bollards, for the time being we are installing bollards every two metres at many places. We are expecting the delivery of more bollards after May 17. Bollards will then be installed every metre, as planned earlier.” A Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation official said if bollards are installed by the time the BMTC starts operating buses, it would help in speedy stabilisation of operations. Citizens are happy there will be physical barriers on the bus lane before ORR returns to normal traffic. Srinivas Alavilli of Citizens for Bengaluru, which conducted the #NimbusExpress Bus Yatra , said the agencies concerned should take advantage of the lockdown restrictions so that the bus priority lane is more efficient and effective when ORR returns to normalcy. K.G. Mohan, an active participant in the bus lane awareness campaign, said the agencies concerned should seize this moment to extend the facility to other corridors. “This is the right time and way to bring about behavioural change in motorists with initiatives such as bus priority lane,” he said. In the early days, metal bollards were installed on ORR during the trial run. However, because of fear of accidents and as many of them were damaged, the metal bollards were removed.
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||First Bengaluru-Delhi train amidst lockdown chugs out||The first passenger train service from Bengaluru to New Delhi during the lockdown brought a smile on the faces of hundreds of passengers who were stranded in the city. They stood in long queues on the footpath of Gubbi Thodappa Road to enter the Sangolli Rayanna City Railway station premises. The Railways had asked the passengers to report 90 minutes before the departure of the train, but many reached four hours in advance. Maintaining social distancing became difficult initially. Passengers had to undergo mandatory screening prior to boarding the train and they were also asked to download ‘Aarogya Sethu’ app. A total of 1,076 people booked tickets online. The train left the station at 8.30 p.m. On concerns raised for operating AC coaches, SWR in a statement said that as per the Ministry of Health guidelines, AC coaches are designed to have a higher air replacement rate and replaces air 12 times per hour. Coaches will have temperature of 25 degrees Celsius during the journey. Shramik Special trains On Tuesday, the SWR operate several ‘Shramik Special Train’ services for migrant workers. Trains were operated from Chikkabanavara to Haridwar with 1,076 passengers, Malur to Danapur with 1,527 passengers, Chikkabanavara to Lucknow with 1,520 passengers, one more train from Chikkabanavara to Lucknow with 1,520 passengers, and Malur to Purulia (West Bengal) with 1,548 passengers on board.
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools asked to get details of students’ access to gadgets||With the 2020-2021 academic year likely to be delayed, the Department of Public Instruction has asked school managements to conduct a survey among students to get details of the electronic gadgets they have access to at home. Department officials said this was being done to analyse which mode would be most easily accessible for students in case the need for online classes arises. The department will collect the data from 1.04 crore students who are studying in classes 1 to 10. Sources in the department said the data of 46 lakh students has already been completed. So far, around 60% of the 46 lakh students for whom data entry is complete have reported that they have access to a smartphone and internet connection. About 94% have also reported to have access to radio and television. K.G. Jagadeesha, Commissioner for Public Instruction, said some details to be collected from students include whether they have access to a smartphone, computer, television, laptops, tablets, or radio; if they have internet connection; if the students or parents have email addresses. Available on SATS The Deputy Directors of Public Instruction have been vested with the responsibility of ensuring that the details are made available on the Student Achievement Tracking System (SATS). All schools, private, aided and unaided, who follow both Central and State syllabus, have been asked to furnish these details. Mr. Jagadeesha said the data would give an idea of the gadgets that students have access to. Based on the survey, the department should rope in philanthropists and provide tablets or smartphones to students who do not have access to it, so that they don't miss out on e-learning. Another official of the department said: “We are doing this exercise first so that we can see which e-learning mode best suits students. There is no point devising a learning activity without knowing the ground realities. Besides, understanding which medium will be most useful, we will also get to decide on whether the online classes if conducted will be synchronous or asynchronous.” Mullahalli Suri, president of Parents’ Association, appreciated the move. “The department will most likely have to conduct online classes as even after the lockdown is lifted, social distancing may not work in schools,” he said.
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Opposition slams government for move to amend APMC Act||The Opposition Congress and JD(S) on Tuesday slammed the State government for moving towards promulgating Ordinance to bring reforms in Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) by adopting the Model APLM (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2017, of the Centre. Terming the move as “anti-farmer”, the Opposition urged the government to amend the Act through discussion in legislature. Addressing presspersons here on Tuesday, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president-designate D.K. Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah termed the State government’s proposal to clip powers of APMCs as “anti-farmer”, and said such reforms would only benefit MNCs and other supermarket chains. The Congress opposed the Ordinance to the APMC Act as it would disturb the existing arrangement as price discovery happens at AMPC markets that have been built over the years. The State has more than 150 APMCs, and about Rs. 600 crore revenue is generated to the State exchequer annually. While BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have amended the APMC Act, Karnataka has been asked by the Union Agriculture Ministry to promulgate an Ordinance. The changes to APMC Act will remove restrictions on sale of farm produce and benefit farmers who are severely hit by the COVID-19 lockdown, the government had claimed. However, pointing out that agriculture is a State subject, both the leaders said that the Centre should not interfere and that the Act should be amended only after discussion in the legislature. Amending the Act through ordinance would dilute the powers of APMCs, they alleged. Meanwhile, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy questioned the State government about the hurry to amend an important Act through Ordinance. “It should be discussed in legislature. When people’s attention is diverted due to the COVID-19 crisis, what is the hurry?” he asked. Further, he said that Maharashtra, which had adopted changes, is moving back since the proposed reforms failed. “The proposed reforms will completely dilute the law, including provisions for criminal prosecution. Any sale now inside or outside APMC has to be registered, which will not be required in the proposed ordinance,” he said.
13 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Can’t stop labourers merely for not having money to pay for travel: HC||Observing that migrant workers would not have been leaving the State en masse if their employers had adopted the right approach, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to convene a meeting of employers, workers’ unions, and NGOs to explore the possibility of generating money to fund travel of labourers who cannot afford to pay for their travel. The court also directed the Centre and State governments to look into the issue of paying travel fair for those workers who cannot afford it as they are under distress due to lockdown. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna issued the directions during a videoconference hearing of PIL petitions on issues that have arisen due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Prima facie, considering present plight of migrant workers, the governments cannot deprive their right to go to their home States only because some of them have no money to pay for their travel, the Bench observed.  ‘Where were captains?’  “Where were the captains of our industries? Now [when migrant workers are leaving] we know what is the importance of migrant workers for our economy. They come all the way to earn their livelihood leaving behind the family’s elders and children at their villages....”, the Bench observed orally. Pointing out that lack of information on travel facility is one of the reasons why migrant workers are venturing into walking to reach their home States, the Bench directed the State government to specifically inform every registered migrant worker that they can certainly go to their State and inform them about the likely travel schedule. The migrant workers are insecure as they feel that they will not be allowed to go back to their home States, the Bench said while asking the government to take assistance of trade unions and NGOs to reach the migrant workers with proper information.  As it was pointed out to the Bench that some of the employers of migrants workers have not paid wages, the Bench said that the State government will have to examine the grievances such migrant workers. Meanwhile, the Bench directed the government to inform what arrangements are being made to bring back migrant workers of Karnataka from other States.
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Why is govt. hesitant to give details of passes issued for Nikhil’s wedding?’||Observing that it will send wrong signals if the State government allows a class of people to arrange weddings in style during lockdown, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday asked why the government was hesitating to give details of vehicle passes issued for people to attend the wedding of K. Nikhil, son of former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy. The court made these oral observations after the government admitted that the Ramanagaram Deputy Commissioner ought to have specified the number of guests allowed to attend Mr. Nikhil’s wedding but defended the DC’s action saying that there was no specific prohibition on number of guests for attending weddings in the Ministry of Home Affairs’ then guidelines. “If you allow a class of people to organise marriage in style then every citizen should be permitted to arrange marriage in style [during lockdown]. It will send wrong signals when you allow some persons...,” a special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna observed orally. Also, the Bench said the State government cannot act like a private litigant to bank upon a loophole in the MHA guidelines as the State ought to have enforced the objective of lockdown norms strictly. If there is no proper information on vehicle passes, then it requires an inquiry, the Bench observed orally. Though the government said that now on, it will not allow more than 50 persons to attend a wedding, it had not replied to the court’s earlier direction to give details of vehicle passes issued for Mr. Nikhil’s wedding ceremony. The court had sought details of vehicle passes as it was alleged that persons from many district travelled to attend the wedding despite ban on movement. Restrictions in HC Meanwhile, the Bench pointed out that the High Court itself had to restrict number of persons to attend the oath taking ceremony of five additional judges held last week. The Chief Justice said that only 10 family members of each judge were permitted to attend the oath taking ceremony, and only the family members of a particular judge taking the oath were allowed to enter the room at a time. He also said that only three family members of each judge were allowed to attend the welcome ceremony for the newly appointed judges. The special Bench, which is hearing through video conferencing the PIL petitions on issues cropped up due to lockdown, has adjourned further hearing till May 18.
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Padarayanapura to see swab collection from today||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike will begin collecting swab samples of residents in the containment zone in Padarayanapura ward from Wednesday. In a video message on Tuesday, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said that in light of 46 cases being reported from the zone, the civic body had decided to test all the residents in the neighbourhoods where the most number of COVID-19 cases have been reported. Admitting to a delay in testing, he said swab collection was to have started on Monday. “However, the swab collection kiosk was elsewhere. A kiosk has now been set up in the containment zone. The government has given its assent for this exercise, which will be taken up on Wednesday,” he said. With regard to action against hospitals that gave out wrong results, he said the office of the Deputy Commissioner, Bengaluru (Urban), had issued showcause notices. “Action will be initiated against the hospitals after they respond,” Mr. Anil Kumar said. Meanwhile, the BBMP Joint Commissioner (East) has issued an order directing all medical officers of health to ensure that shops and traders do not sell tobacco and tobacco-related products, except in parcel. This is to prevent people from gathering at the shops to consume such products. The order stated that in case of any violation, the trade licence of the shop would be cancelled. Health survey The BBMP will also be taking up a health survey across the city. The survey will be based on the voter list, said the BBMP Commissioner. He said that the health survey team has been directed to include even those not enrolled in the list. He urged citizens to cooperate with the team and provide them all the details sought.
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Don’t hold unnecessary online classes: Minister||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar has warned private schools to not conduct unnecessary online classes. He has written to the Commissioner for Public Instruction asking him to issue necessary directions in this regard. He said that online classes should not be a burden for parents and students and that many private schools were exploiting students and conducting online classes for a long duration without keeping the attention span of the child in mind. The Minister said that classes need to be planned keeping in mind scientific basis as well as the adverse impact of a child’s health. Many private schools conduct online classes even during summer holidays. While some schools have restricted the classes to extra curricular activities, many hold classes related to academics for a long duration. Students are denied the classes if parents have not paid online fees.
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Construction workers claim they have been locked up||In another example of mounting frustration among migrant workers unable to return home, over 300 workers staged a snap protest demanding that they are allowed to go home, leading to a tense situation on Monday. They alleged that they had been locked up at a construction camp at Doddabanahalli to prevent them from leaving. The Kadugodi police rushed to the spot and pacified the workers by offering to make the necessary arrangements for transportation. The workers, from West Bengal and Rajasthan, have been working for Sumadhura construction company. They accused the management of locking them up in the camp throughout the lockdown and not taking care their basic needs. They further alleged that though they wanted to go back to their home towns, the company was trying to hold them back so that it could resume work once the lockdown was lifted.
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man cheated of Rs. 45 lakh||The Hanumanthnagar police are on the lookout for a conman who allegedly duped a 75-year-old businessman of Rs. 45 lakh. The victim, Madhava Rao G., met Raghunath M.G. in 2018 during a religious programme. Raghunath, claiming to have high contacts in the Tirupati temple trust, offered to get him a pass for special darshan. Rao paid him Rs. 45 lakh as fee for a pass for him and his relatives. But even waiting for over a year, Rao did not get his turn and could not reach out to Raghunath. He finalle approached the police last week.
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Manivannan is now Secretary of Animal Husbandry Dept.||A day after being transferred out of Labour Department without providing a post, IAS officer P. Manivannan was on Tuesday appointed as Secretary of the Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Department. While a controversy erupted over his transfer from Labour department after a letter of the Karnataka Employer’s Association to Chief Minister in which the association sought changing him from the Labour Department’s leadership role, sources said that it was his misunderstanding with the government functionaries over distribution of dry rations that led to his transfer. On Tuesday, his transfer was trending on Twitter with several social media platform users using the hashtag #bringbackmanivannan even as an online petition was started urging the State government to reinstate him. Meanwhile, trade unions also slammed the government for transferring him under pressure from the corporates.
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Extend term of GPs for six months: Cong.||With the term of gram panchayats (GPs) scheduled to end on May 24, the State Congress has urged the government to extend their term for another six months as per the law, since it will not be possible to hold elections due to COVID-19 crisis. The government is expected to take a decision on this in a day or two, official sources said. Addressing presspersons, Congress leaders D.K. Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah urged the government to continue the term of the members for six months.
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IMA opposes sealing private hospitals||The State unit of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has taken strong exception to sealing of private hospitals if any patient from there tests positive for COVID-19. IMA State president Madhusudan Kariganur said while institutions such as NIMHANS and AIIMS had closed down their out-patient departments, most private hospitals, even in rural areas, have continued to function as usual. “Without adequate PPE kits and N95 masks, we are taking the risk of attending patients, some of whom may be carriers of the virus. Six private hospitals have been sealed down in Bengaluru in the last one month on charges of not taking adequate precautions, which is unfair,” he said. IMA secretary Srinivas S. said as per the guidelines, there was no need to seal the hospitals for days. “The hospitals can be disinfected and reopened within 24 hours. Let the close contacts of patients be quarantined,” he said. “We will soon meet Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar,” he said. Meanwhile, Health Minister B. Sriramulu has called for a meeting with private hospitals on Wednesday.
13 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||CM assures support||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday held a video-conference with the Kannada-speaking community in the UAE and heard their grievances. He assured them support from the State government, said an official note.
13 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 test made compulsory||Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa has instructed officials to carry out compulsory COVID-19 tests for pregnant women and other vulnerable persons residing in areas facing seal-down and buffer zones. The officials should ensure that all pregnant women and other vulnerable persons in a 100-m radius of areas facing seal-down and in the one kilometre buffer zone undergo COVID-19 tests without fail. The officials should also gather information about those who have bought medicine for cough, cold, fever and respiratory problems from pharmacies and make them undergo mandatory tests for COVID-19.
13 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘25 % industries have resumed operations’||Minister for Large and Medium Industries and district-in-charge for Dharwad Jagadish Shettar has said that following relaxations given after the second phase of lockdown, nearly 25 % of industries in the State have resumed operations. Speaking after distributing food kits on behalf of SS Foundation to attenders, typists who function under the Hubballi Bar Association and photocopy shop owners at the Hubballi Court Complex here on Tuesday, Mr. Shettar said that the focus was now on encouraging more economic activities after the lockdown. Mr. Shettar said that due to the impact of COVID-19 pandemic, investors from several countries were shifting out of China and the BJP government had constituted a task force to attract such investors and facilitate investments in the State. “The task force comprises senior officials and the focus is on getting investments to tier-2 cities in the State,” he said. Clarifying that it was difficult to bring the number of COVID-19 cases to zero, he said that, at present, nearly 50 % of COVID-19 positive patients were getting discharged from hospitals after treatment. The Minister said that of the 107 positive cases reported in Belagavi district, already 37 persons had recovered and 37 more were on the path of recovery. Mr. Shettar stressed on the need to take precautionary measures, including wearing masks, using sanitisers and maintaining social distancing, which, he said, would become a part of normal life even after lockdown was lifted. Mr. Shettar recalled his association with the Hubbballi Bar Association as a member and also, his father’s association who was member of the Bar for five decades. MLC Pradeep Shettar, president of Hubballi Bar Association Ashok Baligar, secretary Guru F. Math and others were present.
13 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Health activist dies; relief sought||The death of an ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) in Ballari took a new turn on Tuesday after her family members and social activists demanded Rs. 50 lakh compensation. Sakamma (51), ASHA from Badanahatti village in the district, was involved in the survey of pregnant women, lactating mothers, children, elderly and tuberculosis patients in her village for the last one month because of COVID-19. She, who was suffering from illness, collapsed when on duty on Sunday and was immediately rushed to the Vijaynagar Institute of Medical Sciences in Ballari. She, however, breathed her last as she reached the hospital. Shivashankar, district president of Karnataka Prantha Raitha Sangha demanded a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh and a government job for her family. Considering her involvement in COVID-19 survey activity, her swab samples had been collected and sent to a lab. She tested negative after she passed away.
13 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Special train carrying 1,230 migrant workers reaches Kalaburagi||As many as 1,230 migrant workers from Mumbai reached Kalaburagi through a Special Shramik Express in the early hours on Tuesday. The special train carrying the migrant workers arrived at 2.20 a.m. at Kalaburagi Railway Station. MP Umesh Jadhav, Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat, Chief Executive Officer P. Raja, Kalaburagi Railway Station manager Prasad Rao and officials from the Health and Family Welfare Department received the migrant workers. The travellers from each bogie were screened and stamped for institutional quarantine before they left for their respective taluks. The district administration also facilitated bus shuttles to carry all the workers to their native places. Of the 1,230 migrants, 800 are from Chittapur taluk, 150 from different places in Kalaburagi district and 250 from Yadgir district. All the passengers will be quarantined at the centres set up in their villages for two weeks. They will undergo swab throat test after 12 days and they will be allowed to go home only if they test negative. Besides train facilities, Mr. Jadhav also arranged for NEKRTC buses and private logistics to bring the stranded workers from Mumbai to their native places. Meanwhile, some migrant workers of Afzalpur hired a truck from Mumbai to reach their native place.
13 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||1,428 migrant workers leave Puttur for Bihar||The first Shramik Special from Mysuru Division of South Western Railway ferrying 1,428 migrant workers belonging to Bihar started at 2.30 p.m. from Kabakaputtur Railway Station in Puttur, Dakshina Kannada, on Tuesday. Being run on the State government’s request, the train has 24 coaches and it will reach Bapudham Motihari in Bihar via Arsikere Jn., Ballary Jn., Guntakal Jn., Vijayawada and Gaya Jn. at 7 a.m. on Thursday, said a release. As migrant workers in the Puttur revenue sub division could not be accommodated on two Shramik Special trains arranged from Mangaluru on Sunday, the State government, on the insistence of MP Nalin Kumar Kateel and MLA Sanjeev Matandur, arranged the train service from Puttur on Tuesday.
13 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Merger of Archaeology, Tourism departments opposed||If the State government has its way, one of the oldest archaeological departments in the country established in 1885 that raised the bar for excavation and conservation, may lose its identity or even cease to exist. There is a proposal to merge the Archaeology Department fully with the Department of Tourism as part of the endeavour to restructure various branches of the government so as to ‘streamline’ the functioning and administrative procedure. Senior officials in the Department of Archaeology, Museums and Heritage told The Hindu that such a move was regressive in nature as the focus of tourism was revenue generation through leisure activities and destination marketing while the objectives of Archaeology, Museums and Heritage was academic in nature given to exploration, excavation and conservation. The Department of Archaeology, Museums and Heritage was taken out of the purview of the Ministry of Kannada and Culture two years ago and tagged along with the Tourism Ministry, as the latter had more funding. However, it retained its identity as a separate department. But the present move is to fully merge it with Tourism Ministry as a result of which the 135-year-old Archaeology Department, will cease to exist as a separate entity, according to the officials. “Any future research publication will have the imprint of Department of Tourism and not Department of Archaeology, Museums and Heritage and hence will lack academic gravitas,” said officials opposed to the merger. Devarakonda Reddy, president, Karnataka Itihasa Academy, said they are not only opposed to the merger but want the Archaeology Department to be attached and tagged with Department of Kannada and Culture as it was until two years ago. “The proposed merger has more to do with revenue issues rather than promoting academic excellence and conservation,” said Dr. Reddy. The department under B.L. Rice, R. Narasimhachar, and M.H. Krishna brought out the antiquity of Karnataka history and culture and with it a slice of Indian history, to the rest of the world. It is unthinkable that such a department will have no independent existence, he added. N.S. Rangaraju, an academician and former Dean, Department of Ancient History and Archaeology, University of Mysore, said the academic exercise of archaeology cannot be clubbed with tourism. “A megalithic burial site will excite the archaeologists as it will stretch the history of the place by a few centuries. But it will mean little to a person heading the Tourism Department,” said Prof. Rangaraju. B.L. Rice, the first director of the department, brought out Epigraphia Carnatica and published 9,000 inscriptions in 12 volumes. Subsequently, the department undertook major exploration and excavation works in Talakadu, Hampi, Sannati, and Annigeri, all of which helped trace the antiquity of the State’s history and culture, according to Prof. Rangaraju, who sought the continuation of State Archaeology Department as an independent entity. The department is credited with the discovery of Ashokan inscription in 1891 at Brahmagiri dating to 250 B.C. which helped establish the southern limits of the Mauryan empire. Such endeavours including publication of inscriptions, archaeological reports, etc., will take a backseat under the Department of Tourism, said the scholars opposed to the merger.
13 May 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Staggered action plan to revive tourism||Post lockdown, a staggered and multi-stage action plan has been conceived by the State Tourism Department to shore up the sector which generates 3.5 million direct and indirect jobs and accounts for 14.8% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). The focus will be on hyper-local tourism to encourage both intra-district and inter-district travels in the first stage followed by encouraging inter-State and international tourism in the subsequent stages. The first stage of intra-district promotional drive will be to encourage people to dine out within the city and modelled after Love Your Local campaign of Singapore to put the sector back on track. “Survival first followed by revival is how we are looking at the tourism sector which has completely collapsed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, resulting in lakhs of job losses across the State,” said Kumar Pushkar, MD, KSTDC. He told The Hindu that online and virtual meetings have been conducted with the stakeholders on reviving the sector besides eliciting their suggestions. The challenge is to infuse confidence among the tourists of the safety and hygiene and these two elements will be the tagline of the promotional drive. The Tourism Department will tap social media to send messages to the target audience to build up the tempo for revival of the sector, said Mr. Pushkar. Promoting MICE tourism will be part of the revival scheme apart from promoting wellness tourism and marketing adventure sports in the State. Tourism Minister C.T. Ravi and other officials will participate in the meeting of the National Tourism Task Force constituted by the Centre to revive the sector. The stakeholders on their part have sought a moratorium on loan repayment for at least one year, a tax holiday for one year and a reduction in the GST slabs for hotels and restaurants, entry tax waiver for tourist vehicles coming into the State for one year, soft loans etc.
13 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Bus services in Udupi district from today||Intra-district and city buses will start their operations in a limited manner [from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m.] in Udupi district on Wednesday. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said that on public demand, the district administration had given clearance to a few Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus and private bus services. These buses will take passengers in half their seating capacity to maintain social distancing. Passengers boarding these buses should compulsorily wear masks. Keeping the masks over their head or hanging them from the necks will not be tolerated, he said. The KSRTC would run four buses on Udupi-Kundapur route; three buses on Udupi-Karkala route; two buses each on Kundapur-Byndoor, Udupi-Manipal, Udupi-Barkur-Siddapur and Udupi-Brahmavar routes; one bus each on Udupi-Hebri, Udupi-Kaup-Mallar, Udupi-Alevoor, Udupi-Malpe and Udupi-Hoode routes, he said. These buses should be compulsorily sanitised before starting their daily journey. Bus staff should compulsorily wear gloves, masks and use sanitisers, Mr. Jagadeesha said and added that inter-district bus services continued to remain banned. KSRTC Depot Manager Uday Shetty said that depending on demand, city and intra-district bus services could be increased. Private Bus Operators Association Kuilady president Suresh Nayak said that a few private operators were likely to run 10 to 15 intra-district buses from Wednesday. But private city bus service was unlikely to start here on Wednesday. The association would hold a meeting on Wednesday and decide its next move, he said.
13 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Injured shifted||In a kind gesture, police personnel on duty near Shashtry Chowk in Yadgir shifted an injured person, who fell off his motorcycle after hitting a barricade put up across the Yadgir-Hyderabad Main Road, to the District General Hospital on Tuesday. The injured, Naganath, is an employee of the North East Karnataka Road Transport Corporation.
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Convene legislature session to discuss changes to labour laws: HDK||Stating that he would appeal to the Governor to exercise his discretion before giving assent to promulgate the Ordinance to dilute the labour laws, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Tuesday urged the State government to convene a legislature session to discuss the issue before changes are brought in. Speaking to presspersons here, Mr. Kumaraswamy said changes like increasing work hours has been discussed with stakeholders, and deliberated in the legislature. “It is unfortunate that Karnataka is trying to follow Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh models for diluting the labour Act. We are far more industrially advanced than those States. Without bringing the issue for discussion, changes are being brought in,” he said. Stating that other States may have done it under pressure to please the Centre, Mr. Kumaraswamy said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa owes his position to the people of the State. “I’m aware the MSME sector is in problem due to COVID-19. But their problems started with the introduction of GST. The sector needs to be strengthened. I will write to the Governor to use his discretion and consult experts before giving his assent for promulgating the Ordinance,” he said. Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar also opposed the government’s proposal on suspension of labour laws for two years for the benefit of industrialists. They said such “proposals are detrimental to the interests of labourers.” The party would oppose laws that are against the interests of labourers, they said.
13 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Coir corpn. plans to launch ‘COVID Mat’||In a bid to prevent pathogens from entering houses, offices, shops, and institutions, the Kerala State Coir Corporation will soon launch ‘COVID Mat’ (disinfecting floor mat). Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac told The Hindu that the COVID mat will be made available across the country. “The corporation has come up with three models. The Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology is finalising the disinfectant to be used. They need to test the disinfectant to ensure it would not create any skin problems and other issues. We are expecting a report from them in the next couple of days. Once they issue the certification, the State government’s expert committee on COVID-19 will look into it. After receiving the nod, the product will be launched on a pilot basis before making it available pan-India,” Dr. Isaac said. The new product is set to give a fresh lease of life to the coir industry reeling under the impact of COVID-19. “Exports have come to a standstill. The commercial production of COVID mats will generate sufficient jobs for weavers,” the Minister adds. The disinfectant will be poured over the mat until saturated. When a person, barefoot or wearing shoe, steps on the mat, the disinfectant will sanitise it. The water and disinfectant will have to be replaced every three days. In two weeks T.K. Devakumar, chairman, Kerala State Coir Corporation, says the product will be launched in two weeks’ time.
13 May 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||A problem of plenty at Idukki reservoir||As the summer season draws to a close, the Idukki reservoir with a high level of water storage is a cause for concern. With the impending southwest monsoon, there are many worried faces in Idukki, given the experience of floods in the past two years. The water level in the dam was 2,346.53 ft on Monday, 42% of the total reservoir level. The maximum storage level is 2,403 ft. The low level of generation at the Moolamattom power house, attributed to technical problems of generators and the lockdown, has resulted in a better storage level in the reservoir. A Kerala State Electricity Board official says there has been a reduction in demand due to the lockdown, pushing down power generation. The Idukki dam is reserved for power generation during the peak season in summer. The largest dam in the State can hold 52.8% of the total storage capacity of the dams in the State. The water storage reaches the lowest level by May and goes up once the monsoon gains strength. With the district witnessing good summer rain, the inflow to the Periyar has picked up. There were allegations that water released from the Idukki reservoir in August 2018 led to large-scale devastation in downstream areas, including Kochi. There was storage of 25% prior to the monsoon in 2018 and it neared the maximum storage level by the end of July. In 2019, authorities reduced the water level to 19.5% in view of the monsoon season. The failure to use the storage during the peak season also disadvantages the KSEB as it has to purchase power at a high rate. Technical hitch When contacted, an official at the power house said there was a technical hitch in generator 6 which had been under trial and it would be rectified in two weeks. Though power generation had been increased from 5 million units (mu) to 8 mu from April 23, the minimum water level to be reached was 36%. Earlier this year, two generators underwent repairs, affecting power generation.
13 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||855 migrants set to leave Wayanad today||As many as 855 migrant workers in the district will leave for their home States by train on Wednesday. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, District Collector Adeela Abdulla said that 4,311 migrant workers had registered for the journey. Of them, 855 workers, including 509 from Jharkhand and 346 from Rajasthan, would leave from Kozhikode railway station. 26 squads Meanwhile, the district administration formed 26 squads to enforce the directives issued by the Health Department. Stringent action would be taken against the owners of shops and other business establishments who failed to observe the directions, the Collector said.  At border As many as 427 persons, including 38 tribal workers, crossed the Muthanga check-post on the Kerala-Karnataka border till 8 p.m. on Tuesday. Among them, 39 persons, including the tribal workers, were sent to COVID-19 care centres. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation had operated a special bus from Shivamogga to Thakarappadi near Muthanga for 28 tribal workers, who had been stranded in ginger plantations of Malayali farmers in various parts of Shivamogga district in Karnataka.
13 May 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Minister steps in for nurses||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja’s intervention helped end the woes of nurses at a private hospital in Kannur on International Nurses Day on Tuesday. The nurses staged a protest on Tuesday against the policies of the hospital management. The Koyili Hospital management’s alleged decision to send several nurses in the hospital on forced leave for more than 10 days in a month without payment and not providing enough medical equipment, including masks, irked the nurses. They alleged that the hospital did not even provide any transport facilities for those who were coming for duty from faraway places. Besides, the hospital was also planning to cut their salaries, they alleged. The agitation in front of the hospital was conducted after ensuring that patients were not affected because of it, said the nurses. The Indian Nurses Association held a discussion with the hospital management. After the Minister intervened in the issue, the management agreed to the demands of nurses.
13 May 2020||Kasaragod,KERALA||No new cases in Kasaragod||No new case of SARS-CoV-2 infection has been reported in Kasaragod. However, the district still has 1,149 persons under observation. Of them, 963 are in home quarantine and 186 are in the hospital. Of the 5,140 samples sent for lab tests, 4,638 turned negative. Results of 40 samples are awaited. As many as 6,336 Keralites, who were stranded in various States following the lockdown, reached the State through the Talapady check-post.
13 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Students develop software to detect COVID-19||Students of Rajagiri School of Engineering and Technology have developed a software prototype that can identify whether a person is COVID-19 positive or has other conditions like pneumonia, using a chest X-ray. When the scanned image of an X-ray is fed to it, the software, developed using machine learning, a branch of artificial intelligence, would be able to tell the user if the patient is COVID-19 positive, has pneumonia, or neither of the two. The software could be taught to identify other infections too, said Anusree R., who is part of the team of four B. Tech Computer Science students at the college. Anusree, along with Aarsha Joji, Alaka V. Louis and Amalu Sebastian, had initially developed the software as a final-year project to detect pneumonia-related cases using X-rays, but with the rise in COVID-19 cases in the country, decided to incorporate the disease too. “The software would be able to present its results in a few seconds, reducing the amount of time that other forms of testing might take,” Anusree said. The students are also developing an app to improve access and convenience. “X-rays are also a lot cheaper than testing swabs,” said Sangeetha Jamal, Assistant Professor at the college.
13 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||2 policemen suspended||Two civil police officers attached to the city police district headquarters were suspended following their alleged involvement in a case registered by the excise in connection with the seizure of illicit liquor. The suspension comes in the wake of the excise report about their alleged role. Dipin, one of the CPOs, was arrested along with Vignesh from whose house at Thoppumpady the excise seized over 14 litres of Indian Made Foreign Liquor on May 7. The other suspended CPO, Basil Jose, is absconding. The bottles in which the liquor were found had the labels but not the hologram stickers of Bevco.
13 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC seeks Centre’s response||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the Union government to file a statement in response to a public interest litigation challenging its directive making the use of Aarogya Setu app mandatory for all employees, including those in the private sector. When the petition came up for hearing before the Bench comprising Justice Anu Sivaraman and Justice M.R. Anitha, Union government standing counsel Jaishankar Nair submitted that the Union governmentissued an order notifying the Aarogya Setu Data Access and Knowledge Sharing Protocol, 2020.
13 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Surveillance measures intensified in Kollam||In the wake of the return of expatriates and Keralites from other States, the district administration has intensified surveillance measures to keep tabs on those in quarantine. Squads that include people’s representatives, volunteers, police, health officials, and ASHA workers will be involved in monitoring activities and issuing necessary guidelines for the public. Rapid response teams Nearly 100 rapid response teams will be functioning on the field, covering railway stations, roads, and border areas. The Health Department will conduct screenings in 12 centres for migrant labourers returning to their States. Boards in a handful of Indian languages will be used to communicate with the labourers and ensure they have no symptoms such as fever, cold, cough, diarrhoea and vomiting. A health team will also check whether they had any contact with SARS-CoV-2 positive persons in the past. After the thermal screening, all those with symptoms will be separated from the rest. Guidelines The officials have instructed those coming from abroad and other States to strictly follow the protocol and those who need quarantine facilities will be accommodated at expatriate welfare centres. A spread sheet containing taluk-level data of all centres has been prepared and the allotment details will be entered simultaneously. A committee chaired by Additional District Magistrate P.R. Gopalakrishnan will be in charge of supervising the facilities provided by the district administration. The district has not reported any positive case in the last 13 days and currently only three patients are undergoing treatment at Government Medical College Hospital, Paripally. According to health officials, all the three are stable and are expected to leave the hospital shortly.
13 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Two-year-old tests positive||After an interval of six days, Kottayam on Tuesday reported a fresh case of COVID-19 with a two-year-old child testing positive for the disease. According to health officials, the child, along with his mother, came to Kottayam on May 9 and was in home quarantine at their residence in Uzhavoor. The test results of the serum samples collected from the woman are yet to be received. “Both the child and mother, who remain stable, have been shifted to the special isolation ward at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam. The woman is yet to develop any symptoms of the disease,” said an official. 19 co-passengers Nineteen other persons from the district had travelled along with them on board a flight from Kuwait. Nine were sent to institutional quarantine centres while the remaining 12, including the child and its mother, were permitted to remain in home quarantine. A Malappuram native who had travelled by the same flight tested positive for the virus earlier. As many as 1,687 of the 2,753 persons who were issued passes to return to Kottayam from other States reached the district by Tuesday afternoon. The number of people who returned from overseas destinations till Monday evening stood at 178. Migrants’ return Meanwhile, uncertainty prevails over the return of migrant labourers camping across the district allegedly due to non-cooperation of the destination States. Though the district administration had completed the proceedings to send back nearly 21,000 workers from various States around a week ago, none of them could go home in the absence of a Shramik Special train service from the district. “Several States such as West Bengal and Bihar are not responding to the State’s communication in this regard. Hence, we are not in a position to send them back at this point of time,” explained a senior official with the district administration.  Mother yet to show any symptoms of disease; test results awaited.
13 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Over 3,500 under surveillance in Kozhikode||As many as 3,543 people are under surveillance in Kozhikode district on Tuesday, including 423 people who were newly added to the list. Fifteen people are under observation at the Government Medical College Hospital. No new SARS-CoV-2 positive cases were reported from Kozhikode even as the number of expatriates under observation went up to 240, including 76 people who came on Tuesday. Of them, 110 are at the Covid care centres under the district administration and the rest are at their homes. There are 36 pregnant women among them. Earlier, seven persons who landed at the Calicut International Airport by a Bahrain-Kozhikode flight were shifted to the medical college hospital after they exhibited COVID-19 symptoms or were found to have other health issues during an initial screening. A release said that four of them were natives of Kozhikode district, two were from Kannur and one was from Palakkad. A native of Pathanamthitta was shifted to the Covid hospital in that district. As many as 184 people were on board the Air India aircraft IX 0474 that landed at the airport at 12.40 a.m. There were 116 men and 68 women. There was a resident of Goa too on the flight, who returned home by a special vehicle. Of the seven persons admitted to the hospital, four were shifted to the ambulance and taken to the isolation ward from the runway itself. The other three too had health issues and were taken to the hospital later. Ninety other travellers, including 38 from Kozhikode, were shifted to Covid care centres. Eighty-six people, including six senior citizens, 22 pregnant women, and 41 children aged below 10, were sent to home quarantine. S.M. Street shops open The shops on S.M. Street, the commercial hub of Kozhikode, opened after a gap of around 50 days on Tuesday. The shops were opened after the owners submitted an affidavit to the police regarding the shop area. The district administration had decided to let the shops open in view of the festival season, despite the lockdown. However, they are to follow the Covid protocol and allow only one customer per 50 square foot of shop space to ensure social distancing and should also follow safety procedures. Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti district secretary K. Sethumadhavan said over 40% of the shops had opened on Tuesday. The remaining shops did not open as they did not get their affidavits checked in time. The shops will remain open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Only those who are there for shopping will be allowed in. Customers will have to report their purpose of visit at the entrance of the street and produce a bill on the return.
13 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||31 flights for State in second phase||Like in the first phase of the Vande Bharat Mission, Kerala will get preference in the second phase of the evacuation of Indians stranded abroad beginning May 16. As many as 31 flights will fly down to destinations in Kerala. The Ministry of External Affairs and the Ministry of Civil Aviation have chalked out plans for the second phase to operate about 149 flights from 30 countries. Most of these flights will be from the U.S., Canada and the U.K., apart from Gulf countries such as the UAE and Saudi Arabia. National carrier Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express will operate these flights. Sources told The Hindu that countries which have not been given preference or left out in the first phase would be included in the second phase. Already the Indian diaspora in European countries such as Germany, France, Spain, Italy and Ireland have been raising demand with the Indian missions abroad to help them reach home. “However, students and health-care workers from Kerala stranded in the Philippines, Russia, Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Ukraine and Georgia have been requesting flights to either Kochi or Thiruvananthapuram,” the source said. Expiry of visa Students in the Philippines are facing issues such as expiry of visa in that country. About 200 of them studying for medical courses are waiting to return from Manila. However, students whose visas have expired after January 1, 2020 and those who wish to travel to India by special evacuation flights have to request to the Liaison Officer of their respective educational institutions to contact the Philippine Immigration Office, Quezon City, to extend their visas.
13 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Subhiksha Keralam project launched||Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran launched the Subhiksha Keralam project in the Kozhikode Corporation by planting tapioca on a vacant plot at Karimpanapalam on Tuesday. The four-acre land, including the 2.6 acres handed over to the corporation by the Kerala Water Authority, will be used for tapioca cultivation under the project. The corporation was the first local body in the State to launch a mission to ensure food security in the city against the backdrop of COVID-19 outbreak on April 28, under the name Samrudhi 2020. A day later, the State government launched the Subhiksha Keralam project and Samrudhi was merged with it. Corporation Secretary Binu Francis said the scope of Samrudhi had been expanded under Subhiksha Keralam and that more land and workforce would be available. Kudumbashree units, area and community development societies will be encouraged to take up large-scale farming.
13 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Tiger threat in Vadasserikkara panchayat||Threat of a tiger attack looms large over Vadasserikkara grama panchayat and adjoining Medappara in Thannithode, where a plantation worker was killed by a tiger a few days ago. K.R. Mohanan, a worker engaged in rubber tapping at a plantation at Chembon in Vadasserikkara, narrowly escaped the wild beast on Tuesday morning. It was at 4.30 a.m. when Mohanan spotted the striped animal lying on the ground between a teak tree and a rubber tree. The animal chased him for about 100 metres to the backyard of a nearby house and retreated into the plantation when people raised a loud noise. The Forest Task Force, camping at Maniyar and Medappara, rushed to the spot. Experts say the pug marks revealed that the tiger may be four to five years old. Forest team The forest party led by divisional forest officer M. Unnikrishnan and K.V. Harikrishnan is camping at Vadasserikkara. The police spotted the tiger in the bordering forest area with the help of drones. The Forest Department has placed an iron cage, with a goat as a bait, at Vadasserikkara to trap the animal. This is in addition to two cages set up to capture the animal at Medappara. The tiger killed a calf at Maniyar, near Vadasserikkara, on Sunday.
13 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||One-month lull broken in Pathanamthitta||After a lull of one month devoid of any new COVID-19 case, a 69-year-old woman was tested positive for the virus infection on Tuesday. According to the district health administration here, the woman who came to the Cochin international airport from Abu Dhabi on a special Air India flight on May 7 was quarantined at a COVID Care Centre at Ranni the next day. She developed symptoms later and was shifted to the Pathanamthitta General Hospital on Sunday. Her swab samples tested positive in a clinical examination at the virology laboratory in Alappuzha on Tuesday. Five contacts As many as five primary contacts of the patient were placed in quarantine on Tuesday. With five more quarantined persons being hospitalised in the past 12 hours, the number of persons under observation at the isolation wards of two government hospitals went up to 11 on Tuesday. Of this, seven persons are at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry and four others, including the new patient, at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital. A medical bulletin released here said that the nasal and throat swabs of 27 persons tested negative on Tuesday. So far, 18 samples collected from various quarantined persons in the district have been tested positive, while 4,416 samples tested negative for the infection, the bulletin said. Clinical examination results of 143 samples are awaited. 1,191 quarantined According to the bulletin, 1,191 persons have been quarantined at different parts of the district as on Tuesday. As many as 1,088 among them have come from other States and 98 others from abroad while five others are primary contacts of the new patient.
13 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State enters new phase of containment||Kerala is entering a new phase of COVID-19 containment as it grapples with the huge influx of non-resident Keralites from places where disease transmission is intense and the situation can alter the dynamics of the epidemic in the State, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Tuesday. About 70% of the current crop of cases in the State are those imported from other parts of the country or abroad while the rest are a result of local transmission through contact with known or unknown sources of infection. Ever since the evacuation of expatriates in the Gulf began on May 7, seven persons who landed by flights have been found to be SARS-CoV-2 positive. All co-passengers of these patients in those flights are under the Health Department’s special surveillance. Mr. Vijayan said he had requested the Centre to insist that those boarding the flights to India were put through antibody testing. Mr. Vijayan tasked the police with ensuring that persons in isolation at home did not jump quarantine. Home quarantine meant ‘room quarantine’. Given the continuing influx of Keralites from epidemic hotspots in the country and abroad, the State anticipates containment to be an uphill task now and the challenges of managing a huge case numbers can likely overwhelm the system. The government would put persons who enter Kerala without the requisite pass in mandatory institutional quarantine for 14 days. The police have to ensure that persons who enter Kerala through rail, road, sea and air routes follow quarantine orders. They should isolate persons who jump home quarantine in government facilities. Special officers would monitor persons arriving at railway stations and ensure they head straight home and enter into isolation. On Tuesday, five new COVID-19 cases were reported in the State, four of whom had come from the Gulf and one from Chennai. Three of these cases were located at Malappuram and one each at Pathanamthitta and Kottayam. The State’s total case number so far is 524. However, 489 have recovered from the disease. 32 patients now There are 32 COVID-19 patients in the State at present and 23 of them have contracted the disease from outside the State. While 11 persons returned from the Gulf recently, six came from Chennai, four from Maharashtra, and two from Nizamuddin in New Delhi. Of the nine cases who contracted the disease through local transmission, six are in Wayanad. All six are believed to have contracted the disease from a truck driver who has been to Chennai. In various districts, 31,616 people are under surveillance, of whom 31,143 are in home quarantine and 473 in hospitals.
13 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Entry pass must for people arriving by trains||As part of containing the spread of COVID-19, entry pass has been made mandatory for those travelling by special trains in the New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram Central-New Delhi sector. The passengers have been asked to apply for the entry pass on https://covid19jagratha.kerala.nic.in as per the new guidelines issued by the government. Those who have applied for pass indicating modes of travel other than train should resubmit the application indicating the mode as ‘train’. Quarantine In the arriving railway station — Kozhikode, Ernakulam Junction and Thiruvananthapuram — the details of the passengers will be verified and a medical screening will be conducted. Quarantine guidelines will be the same as that of persons coming by road. Vehicles for arriving passengers will be allowed only to the designated place and only the driver will be permitted to pick up the passenger, subject to social distancing norms. The driver will also be put in home quarantine for 14 days.  The district administrations will provide facilities at stations for medical screening and issuing exit passes to those travelling out of the State. Passengers with valid tickets should reach the stations at least four hours before departure for medical screening and obtaining certificate. The screening will be limited to convey asymptomatic status of the person. Contact history with COVID-19 confirmed cases will be recorded in the certificate as per self-declaration. Train 02432 New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram Central Rajdhani superfast special train will leave New Delhi at 11.25 a.m. on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Sundays from May 13 to reach Thiruvananthapuram Central at 5.25 a.m. on the third day. The train will reach Mangaluru Junction at 6.25 p.m. and Kozhikode at 9.52 p.m. on the second day and Ernakulam Junction at 1.40 a.m. on the third day. Return journey Train 02431 Thiruvananthapuram Central-New Delhi Rajdhani superfast special train will leave Thiruvananthapuram at 7.45 p.m. on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays from May 15 to reach New Delhi at 12.40 p.m. on the third day. The train will reach Ernakulam Junction at 11.10 p.m. on the same day and Kozhikode at 2.47 a.m. and Mangaluru Junction at 6 a.m. on the second day. The train will have one first class, five AC 2-tier and 11 AC 3-tier coaches.
13 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police to strictly monitor quarantined returnees||The police have issued a strict warning for those arriving from other States against violating the guidelines of home quarantine during the mandated isolation period. Station house officers and Janamaithri beat officers have been entrusted with keeping tabs on the returnees to ensure that they complied with the norms. Those violating the regulations will be relocated to institutional quarantine facilities. Legal action would be initiated against the violators, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. The district administration sent 331 people to quarantine on Tuesday as part of the ongoing COVID-19 containment efforts. With this, the number of people under surveillance was now 4,250. They included 4,072 people who were quarantined in their houses. 45 in hospitals While 45 people were being treated in various hospitals, the corona care centre at the Mar Ivanios College hostel accommodated 133 people. The City police registered petty cases against 146 people for failing to wear masks outdoors. Twenty-seven others were also booked under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020 for violations of lockdown norms. As many as 17 vehicles were also seized. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police registered 230 cases, arrested 229 people and seized 157 vehicles.
13 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||HSE valuation begins today||Valuation camps for Higher Secondary Education (HSE) examinations held before the lockdown will get under way on Wednesday amid protests by various teachers’ unions. The valuation will be held at 88 of the 92 stipulated centres. The process has been stopped in two centres which are hotspots. They are GHSS, Meenangadi, and GVHSS, Mananthavady, in Wayanad district. The other two centres, SMV Government Model HSS in the capital city and MMV HSS at Parappil in Kozhikode district, are COVID-19 rehabilitation centres. The Directorate of General Education on Tuesday issued a fresh circular rearranging the valuation timings as 9.30 a.m. to 4.30 a.m. in view of lack of public transport. Earlier, it was a.m. to 5 p.m. However, the circular said that teachers desirous of evaluating more papers could reach the camps at 8 a.m. The first phase of the valuation will extend for a maximum of eight days. A statement from the directorate said the valuation centres had been cleaned and disinfected. All social distancing norms should be followed by the teachers. Sanitiser, handwash, and masks were mandatory. Various teachers’ unions have been up in arms against the government decision to start the camps. The unions alleged that the government was hasty in starting the camps even when the lockdown was in force. The Aided Higher Secondary Teachers Association (AHSTA) questioned the need for holding the HSE valuation when the SSLC valuation had been extended. “The government has said that no action will be taken against teachers who do not take part in the valuation, but what is the need for conducting a process in which all teachers cannot participate. At least the remaining examinations should have been completed,” S. Manoj, general secretary of the organisation, said. K.T. Abdul Latheef of the Kerala Higher Secondary Teachers Union said either there should be public transport or special arrangements for teachers to participate in the camps. The government stance was leading to a lot of apprehension among teachers, he said.
13 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online classes for schoolchildren get under way on June 1||Pravesanotsavam this time may be different from what one witnesses on the first day of each school year. Colourful classrooms, buntings and banners, and sweetmeats may elude students as they start the academic year amid the COVID-19 pandemic, but the State is determined that all 40 lakh schoolchildren studying in government and aided schools will get their first lesson on June 1 online. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday announced during his press conference that online classes would get under way on June 1, while a final decision on regular classes would be made at a later date. Telecast Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath told The Hindu that recording of first chapters of subjects for all classes except class 11 was under way for telecast through Victers channel. “The academic year will begin on June 1. Modules are being prepared and classes will begin that day for all grades with a brief introduction by the Chief Minister,” the Minister said. One subject will be taken up each day. For instance, for Plus Two students, classes will be held for an hour each in the morning and the afternoon. These will be shown again at night for the benefit of those who missed the earlier telecast or want to view them again. These will also be available on YouTube for downloads too. The Minister said the idea was for teachers to view these classes from schools while students from home. After the class, using social media such as WhatsApp groups or the like, teachers could clear doubts, get feedback, and give assignments to students. A centralised online feedback system would also be created later. He said they expected to reach out to 95% of the students through Victers channel. In the case of the remaining students, they could head to the nearby school to view these while conforming to the lockdown norms or go to a nearby library. Only in very distant areas could there be some hurdles. There, arrangements for providing downloaded material would be made.
13 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ban on large gatherings may continue in State||A senior official said here on Tuesday that the government was loath to allow large gatherings at the current stage. Hence, the reopening of air-conditioned shopping malls, cinema halls and on-premise retail of liquor in bars and beer parlours might take more time. Public parks, stadiums, gymnasiums, swimming pools, beaches, and clubs would remain closed until further orders. However, the government might allow simple recreational activities such as individual outdoor games. The limit on the number of persons at weddings, funerals, places of worship and other social events would continue. The State would require businesses to close at 7.30 p.m. It would encourage home delivery and courier services. The ban on the sale of cigarettes, pan and allied tobacco products would continue until further orders.
13 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||231 enter State through Inchivila check-post||A total of 231 people, including 113 women, crossed over to Kerala through the Inchivila inter-State check-post on Tuesday. They included 207 people from Tamil Nadu, 13 from Karnataka, five from Puducherry, four from Maharashtra and one each from Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. As many as 170 of those who arrived hail from Thiruvananthapuram. While 78 people came from COVID-19 red zone areas, all except one person were sent to their homes where they remain quarantined. One person was taken to Dr. Somerwell Memorial CSI Medical College and Hospital after he expressed his inability to self-isolate himself in his house.
13 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NH work clears another hurdle||The six laning of the National Highway 66 has cleared yet another hurdle with the Standing Financing Committee of MoRTH clearing the first 39-km corridor from Thalapady to Chengala in Kasargod. Once the MoRTH issues the order, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) can open tenders and the formalities can be completed to award the work. The corridor had been awaiting the approval of the committee for the last six months. The six-lane corridor from the Kerala-Karnataka border, with an RoW of 45 m and estimated to cost Rs. 1,968.84 crore, will be completed in two-and-a-half years, Chief Minsiter, Pinarayi Vijayan told a press conference on Tuesday.
13 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kerala varsity UG exams from May 21||University of Kerala has decided to conduct its final year undergraduate (UG) examinations from May 21. The sixth-semester CBCSS (Choice-Based Credit and Semester System) examinations will get under way on the day and the fifth and sixth semester examinations of distance education courses will commence on May 28. The 10th and fifth-semester examinations of the integrated five-year LLB programme of the varsity will begin on June 8 and 16 respectively. The sixth semester examinations of the three-year LLB course will get under way on June 9. Considering the limitations that existed in transportation facilities, the university will permit students to appear for the examinations in subcentres near their native places.
13 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM lauds nurses’ selfless service||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in greeting the nurses’ community on the occasion of International Nurses’ Day, spoke in glowing terms about the nurses who had elevated Kerala’s public health system to a new high during the COVID-19 pandemic. If Kerala has won much praise even at international fora over the manner in which it had effectively contained the pandemic, it was largely due to the selfless service and dedication of the nurses, who fearlessly and at great personal risk, took care of patients. Sacrifice of Lini He recalled the sacrifice of nurse Lini, who lost her life while caring for a patient during the Nipah outbreak. He said that the nurses who continued to be on the front line of the State’s battle against COVID-19 were the State’s pride. He vowed that the government would do its best to ensure that their safety was never compromised.
13 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Students from Gulf can sit for SSLC, HSE exams||Students from the Gulf reaching the State will be given an opportunity to write the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) and higher secondary education (HSE) examinations in the State. They will be given an opportunity to select an examination centre that is convenient to them, a Quality Improvement Programme monitoring committee meeting convened by Director of General Education Jeevan Babu K. through videoconference decided on Friday. Teachers’ union representatives attended the meeting. Steps will be taken for students, especially those studying in pre-matric hostels, sports and residential schools who returned home owing to the lockdown, to write the examinations in nearby centres. Principals’ views Education Department officials will ascertain through Principals and headmasters in the district if all students are in a position to appear for the examinations. This is to ensure proper facilities for them.
13 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Scientists find new tree species in southern Western Ghats||Scientists have discovered a new tree species, Cryptocarya sheikelmudiyana, belonging to cinnamon family in the Western Ghats. Distributed in the wet evergreen forests of southern Western Ghats, the tree has been located in two locations at the Anamalai landscape near the Valparai plateau: Sheikelmudi of the Parambikulam Tiger Reserve and the high forest area of Malakkappara in Kerala. The new species is a buttressed top canopy tree seen along the hilltops of wet evergreen forests. It has been named after the type locality, Sheikelmudi, in the northwest of the Valparai plateau. The name has its origin from the Kadar indigenous community language: ‘Shekel’ means ‘sacred’ and ‘mudi’ means mountain top.  13 trees located A team of scientists located 13 trees – 12 at Sheikelmudi and one at Malakkappara. The scientists included P.K. Fasila, K.H. Amitha Bachan and T.P. Girija of the Research Department of Botany, MES Asmabi College, Kodungalloor, and A.K. Pradeep of Department of Botany, University of Calicut, Tenhipalam.  Cryptocarya sheikelmudiyana bears flowers and fruits from September to April. Leaves are simple and alternate. They are greenish when fresh and blackish when dry. Fruits are glabrous and light-green when young and black when mature and are single seeded. The dispersal of seeds is by birds such as hornbill and mammals such as lion-tailed macaque and civets. The genus Cryptocarya brown, evergreen trees belonging to laurel family Lauraceae, comprises around 300 species distributed in warm tropical regions, especially in Asia. Most of the species are found in wet evergreen forests, sometimes in moist deciduous forests, warm broad-leaved forests, and inland hill forests or sholas -- montane subtropical evergreen forests. In India, Cryptocarya is represented by 15 species, of which 10 are endemic. The team carried out a comparative study with specimens of five morphologically similar and sympatric species, (distributed in the evergreen forest of southern Western Ghats) such as C. anamalayana Gamble, C. stocksii Meisn. C. wightiana Thwaites, C. lawsonii Gamble, and C. praetervisa Gangop., Chakrab & A.S. Chauhan. And the new species showed 52% dissimilarity with its closest allies.
13 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Two from Thrissur die of COVID-19 in Gulf||A 60-year-old man from Kadavallur near Kunnamkulam died in Dammam, Saudi Arabia, owing to COVID-19 on Monday. Balan Bhasi had been working in a bakery as supervisor for the past 29 years. He was admitted to the ICU of the Dammam Central Hospital three days ago. Another person from Chovannur near Kunnamkulam died in Dubai due to the disease on Tuesday. Asok Kumar, 53, had been working in a workshop in Dubai for many years.
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Should Kerala change its COVID-19 strategy?||Kerala has done a wonderful job in COVID-19 control so far, keeping the numbers at a very low level. However, I have serious reservations about the sustainability of the strategy. A rich island nation such as New Zealand can take all measures to control the pandemic and still absorb the economic impact of remaining isolated from the rest of the world. Remittance down But, Kerala is a consumer State and depends on products manufactured in other States and a lion’s share of its income is from Non-Resident Indians. Even before the pandemic, this remittance had been drying up due to the economic challenge in the Gulf. Keralites will starve if the supply of essentials from neighbouring States stops. The State treasury is already in the red and is on the verge of a grave financial crisis. I believe that the State may be able to effectively quarantine Keralites returning home, though this will require the efforts of the entire government machinery. The pandemic is expected to last for a long time. Can the State continue monitoring those who are coming home in such a structured mode and still sustain the economy? Industrialised States such as Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, and Maharashtra can survive the crisis, as these States have a strong economy. No crisis in T.N. I work in Chennai, a hotspot with hundreds of cases being reported every day. Of these, nearly 98% cases are asymptomatic contacts. But there is no serious COVID-19-related health-care crisis in Tamil Nadu. The economy is strong and the State can very well balance the health impact and economic slowdown.  The COVID-19 control efforts by Kerala have been widely appreciated. Unfortunately, such media attention has pushed the State into an achievement mode and it is now under pressure to maintain it. So what is the solution? First, Kerala should denounce her achievement mode and accept reality. It is an Indian State and not a rich island nation. It cannot continue the very high standards of pandemic control without strong and sustained financial backup. Extreme containment measures are financially unviable in a consumerist State with near-empty coffers. It may not be a futuristic strategy to divert the attention of the entire government machinery and resources to contain the outbreak to an extremely low level. The excellent containment of the outbreak so far has raised the expectation of the public. The public should be counselled on the need to prepare for a long-haul and the need to live with the virus. Unviable strategy Quarantining interstate passengers is not a long-term viable strategy from an economic perspective. Though this practice is based on the recommendations from the Union Ministry, it will have a larger impact on Kerala. A more practical, futuristic, and viable approach should be devised. With the influx of Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) and interstate passengers, the number of cases is bound to increase. We should consider a hospital-based syndromic approach for virus screening, rather than running after the virus and testing all contacts. Kerala should concentrate more on rebuilding the economy, by rehabilitating NRIs and initiating urgent measures to be self-reliant on agricultural products. A balanced, sustainable approach of curbing the pandemic at a practical and realistic level, without seriously impacting the economy should be the medium to long-term aim of the State.  (The writer is a consultant in infectious diseases, Apollo Hospital, Chennai, and advisory member, National Antibiotic Policy)   Keralites will starve if the supply of essentials from neighbouring States stops. The State treasury is already in the red and is on the verge of a grave financial crisis.
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||KEAM 2020 on July 16||Mr. Vijayan said the online entrance examinations for the three-year and integrated five-year LLB course will be held on June 13 and 14, while the Kerala Management Aptitude Test (KMAT), the online entrance examination for MBA, will be held on June 21. The entrance test for MCA will be conducted on July 4. The government has decided to do away with the practice of conducting entrance examination for diploma holders from polytechnic colleges to gain BTech through lateral entry. The CEE has been entrusted with conducting the admission process after ranking the candidates on the basis of their aggregate marks in the polytechnic courses. In view of the prevailing travel difficulties, KEAM entrance examination candidates will be provided an opportunity in June to apply for a shift in their opted examination centre. This is bound to benefit several aspirants stranded in places outside the State. Polytechnic courses The final-year examinations of the polytechnic courses will commence during the first week of June. Students will be permitted to appear for the examinations in polytechnic colleges close to their native places.
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Remembering front-line warriors||
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Space for all||
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Honouring frontline workers||
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Third train with migrants leaves Alappuzha||The third train from the district carrying stranded migrant workers to Bettiah in Bihar departed from Alappuzha on Tuesday. The train is transporting 1,140 commuters. Earlier in the day, migrant workers from Mavelikara and Karthikappally taluks were taken to the Alappuzha railway station on buses of the KSRTC in accordance with the COVID-19 guidelines. All the commuters have been issued medical certificates, food and water before boarding. Eight more expatriates were shifted to COVID care centres in the district on Tuesday, taking the number to 85. Officials said 128 expatriates had reached the district so far.
13 May 2020||Alappuzha,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala coir body plans to launch COVID mat||In a bid to prevent pathogens from entering houses, offices, shops, and institutions, the Kerala State Coir Corporation will soon launch ‘COVID Mat’ (disinfecting floor mat). Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said the mat would be made available across the country.  The new product is set to give a fresh lease of life to the coir industry, which is reeling under the impact of the COVID-19 lockdown.
13 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||New norms for first train to Delhi post lockdown||People waited anxiously for the first air-conditioned train from Bengaluru City to New Delhi and the Indian Railways made elaborate arrangements to ensure social distancing and handing over of the persons alighting at the Anantapur and Guntakal stations to the district administration. Squares have been painted on the platform floor for the passengers getting into the train to maintain social distance and both the stations have been spruced up. The train arriving at seven minutes past midnight at Anantapur and an hour later at Guntakal will bring 32 passengers from Bengaluru to Anantapur and 15 to Guntakal. Health check While the majority of the seats in the 20-coach special AC train No. 02691 had been booked, it was not clear how many would get into the train from Anantapur and Guntakal. Passengers were asked to reach the railway station more than an hour prior to the scheduled departure of the train as health of all the passengers would be checked, their addresses of destination collected and the information passed on to the respective district administration. Running as per the Rajadhani Express schedule, it would have one 24-berth First AC coach, five 46-berth Second AC coaches and 11 64-berth Third AC coaches along with a pantry car and two power generator coaches. Guntakal Senior Divisional Manager Prashant Kumar said no tatkal and waiting list had been allowed, hence some berths might go vacant for some distances. The train stops only at Anantapur and Guntakal between Bengaluru and Secunderabad. Its pairing train will start from New Delhi and reach Anantapur via Secunderabad and Guntakal on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the physical ticket booking had been stopped and only those with 100% concession like Army personnel, ex-Army personnel, MPs, MLAs or railway staff could book at the railway counters without any cash transaction till May 17, said Chief Public Relations Officer Rakesh. Disappointment Several people (mostly migrant labourers) had been reaching Anantapur and Guntakal stations to check if any trains were running to Madhya Pradesh, Bengal and Uttar Pradesh and going back disheartened. An entire rake has been placed on the Anantapur platform to enable people from Bengal to reach their destinations, but despite the A.P. government’s request, the Bengal State government has not given permission for them to enter that State, which has been delaying the start of the train for the past three days.
13 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||KIA Motors resumes operations||The KIA Motors India Limited in Anatapur district has resumed operations after the lockdown norms are relaxed. The plant is now manufacturing 30 units of Seltos and Carnival models per hour at its Erramanchi assembly unit. The company, which engaged around 300 employees during the lockdown for maintaining the plant premises, increased the number from Friday last after the lockdown norms were relaxed. By Tuesday, it is running the assembly line only in one shift of eight hours with close to 1,000 personnel, dishing out 240 cars per day. Out of the 30 ancillary units (original equipment manufacturer) that supply parts to the main plant have also come on stream. The units have stocked enough for a month’s requirement. Social distancing Based on the permissions accorded by the district administration for transporting employees from various green zones, the company has deployed 52 buses while complying with the social distancing norms and COVID-19 protocols. The staff from the containment zones in Anantapur and other areas have been asked not to report for duty.
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die of infection, 51 new cases in Telangana||Two deaths and 51 fresh cases of COVID-19 have been reported in Telangana. Andhra Pradesh reported one more COVID-19 death and 71 fresh cases on Tuesday. Karnataka witnessed a record increase of 63 fresh cases raising the State’s tally of cases to 925. The case total in Karnataka includes 31 COVID deaths, one non-COVID death and 433 discharged persons. Of the 460 active cases, 449 patients were stable and 11 in the ICU. Of the new cases, 15 were from Bagalkot, 12 from Davangere, nine from Dharwad, five each from Hassan and Kolar, four from Bengaluru Urban, three from Gadag, two each from Yadgir, Bidar and Dakshina Kannada and one each from Kalaburgi, Chikkaballapur, Ballari and Mandya district. Kolar, Yadgir and Hassan, which were COVID-19 free reported cases for the first time on Tuesday. With this, a total of 25 districts were affected. Of 63 cases, 33 had a history of travel to Ahmedabad and six to Mumbai - both COVID hotspots. In the last three days, 51 people who came from Ahmedabad tested positive. Of the three from Kolar, two visited Orissa and one, Chennai. Out of four patients from Bengaluru, three were women from Padarayanapura, contacts of a previously infected patient. However, the source of infection in a 35-old-year male was unknown. Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar, the COVID spokesperson, said all the Deputy Commissioners had prior information about inter-state returnees and they had been quarantined and tested. With most people violating home quarantine, the government had decided to quarantine arrivals from other States and countries in institutional facilities. The State Health Department issued a circular to isolate all COVID-19 suspected cases whose tests were inconclusive in isolation wards of dedicated Health Centers, till their repeat test result was known. They should not be kept in dedicated COVID hospitals, the circular stated. In Andhra Pradesh 58 fresh cases were linked to hotspots in other States, the Health Department said. Of the fresh cases, only 13 were due to local transmission. Also, 930 migrant labourers returned from Kalyan near Mumbai and they transited Guntakal railway station en route to Kurnool, Anantapur and Kadapa after which they were immediately tested. Of 250 persons, 38 tested positive (Kurnool: 37, Kadapa: 1) and more cases were expected in other districts, Special Chief Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy said. On the other hand, all fresh cases in Chittoor (10), Nellore (9) and East Godavari (1) were linked to the Koyambedu market in Chennai. The remaining fresh cases were in Krishna (4) where a patient died, and Kurnool (9). Among migrant labourers who returned to Vizianagaram and Srikakulam district, only a few positive cases were reported, he said. “We are testing all incoming persons especially those from Maharastra, Rajasthan and Gujarat. So far about 8,000 have been tested,” he said. Plasma was being collected from patients in SVIMS, Tirupati and Kurnool GGH and AIIMS, Mangalagiri had received in-principle approval for a clinical trial on plasma therapy. Kerala was entering a new phase of COVID-19 containment as it grappled with the influx of non-resident Keralites from places where the disease transmission was intense. The situation could alter the dynamics of the epidemic, Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, said on Tuesday. Five new cases were reported in Kerala, four of whom had come from the Gulf sector, while one had returned home from Chennai. Three of these cases were at Malappuram and one each at Pathanamthitta and Kottayam. In Telangana, two deaths and 51 fresh cases took the number of cases to 1,326. With two deaths, the number of people who succumbed rose to 32, a bulletin said. It added that 21 people were discharged from hospitals after recovery, with the number of people discharged at 822. There were 472 people under treatment. Of new cases, 37 were from Greater Hyderabad.  (With inputs from PTI, Vijayawada & Thiruvananthapuram Bureaus)
13 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Same person heading Industries & Labour Depts. is conflict of interest’||Around the time when crucial labour laws in Karnataka are being looked into to bring industry-friendly changes, the government’s decision to put Principal Secretary, Commerce and Industries (MSME and Mines), M. Maheshwar Rao in concurrent charge as Labour Secretary has raised eyebrows of trade unions that term it as conflict of interest. Over the last fortnight, the Industries Department has been pushing for changes in labour laws, which the Labour Department has been opposed to so far. Among the Acts that are being discussed are the crucial Factories Act, Industrial Disputes Act, Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, and Minimum Wages Act. As MSME and Mines Principal Secretary, Mr. Rao has suggested changes in Factories Act to increase working hours per shift from the current 8 to 12 in line with the decision taken in Gujarat. He has also sought postponement of implementation by one year of the revised minimum wages notified under the Minimum Wages Act, which was to have come into force from April 2020. Further, the MSME and Mines section in the Commerce and Industries Department has sought exemption from paying rise in variable dearness allowance in the wages during 2020-21 and also defer the payment of PF and ESI contribution for a period of three months, all of which was viewed as anti-labour and opposed to by the trade unions. Changes opposed In fact, in contrast with Mr. Rao’s proposal to dilute some of the labour laws, the Labour Department that he heads now, in a note put out recently, has said that if industries were given exemption from labour laws, workers would be denied their legitimate facilities. The Labour Department, which studied the U.P. model of three years holiday from labour laws, which is now being considered in Karnataka too, has said that the proposal to provide labour holidays would mean a large workforce would be denied facilities, and it is important to discuss the matter with stakeholders before taking the decision. The Labour Department also felt that the situation in Uttar Pradesh was very different from what it is in Karnataka, which is already industrialised, providing employment even to the migrants. Meanwhile, AITUC Secretary, Bengaluru, M. Sathyananda said: “This is a clear case of conflict of interest. The Industries Department has put up its wishlist. In industrial relations, the capital and wage are always in conflict and a tripartite mechanism is its corner stone. With the same person now heading industries and labour departments, it is not possible to have an unbiased view.” Further, with industries bodies such as Karnataka Employers’ Association seeking change in the Labour Department leadership, the same person heading these two departments, will not lead to a congenial atmosphere. He also said that unlike Gujarat, U.P. and Madhya Pradesh that have announced labour holidays, Karnataka already has a diverse range of industries working well for decades. Attempts to reach out to Labour Minister A. Shivaram Hebbar and Mr. Maheshwar Rao for their views did not fructify.
13 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||MAH units resume operations in Chittoor||The five notified MAH (major accident hazard units) industries in Chittoor district commenced operations from Tuesday, after a 50-day lockdown due to COVID-19. In the backdrop of the recent gas leak tragedy in Visakhapatnam and the lockdown guidelines, Deputy Chief Inspector of Factories M.V. Sivakumar Reddy and other senior officials of the department of factories and pollution control board conducted inspections at the Indian Oil Corporation Limited at Yadamarri near Chittoor. Mr. Reddy said the other four MAH units were those concerning manufacture of aluminium barium, chocolates and automobiles, located at Sri City, Sikalahasti and Kuppam. Skeleton staff Mr. Sivakumar Reddy said at all the units, only 50% of the workforce would be allowed in each shift. Involving the workforce on alternate days, all the staff would be covered.
13 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Frontline health personnel shine under pressure||An Auxiliary Nurse Midwifery (ANM) staffer, a head nurse and a PG student have been among many others who have contracted COVID-19, but frontline medical personnel have not let their guard down. Undaunted by family pressure, social stigma and the risk of contracting the infection, they have been at the forefront of the battle against the pandemic. An ANM working at Reddypalem tested positive recently was conducting a door-to-door survey in a red zone, when she tested positive. However, the authorities were surprised after they had learnt that her daughter was being treated for a rare disease, which needed her close attention. They let her undergo home quarantine. The woman is being assisted by her family as she tends to her young daughter.  Duty first One of the first positive cases in Guntur is a PG attending to her duties at the Infectious Diseases Hospital at Gorantla. The doctor used to stay in a working women’s hostel at Brodipet. She attended to patients at the ID Hospital, which was the first COVID hospital in the district, even when personal protective equipment was in short supply. After testing positive, she was shifted to an isolation facility. Her roommates were also shifted to the facility, and soon after quarantine period, she resumed work. A young paediatrician was attending duties at a COVID hospital and her parents are an anxious lot, but once she is in the hospital, she works with single-minded dedication. “We used to get tense in the early days of the outbreak, but we are getting used to this experience. We also realise that this is not going to go away in the near future and we feel proud of our daughter,’’ said her father. With Guntur recording a record number of positive cases (387), the frontline medical personnel have stood up. Whether working in eight-hour shifts in diagnostic labs, attending to patients in critical care units or heading the teams in ICUs, the medical professionals have truly placed service above self.
13 May 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana to fight A.P.’s decision to lift water||The State government has taken a serious view of Andhra Pradesh government’s decision to lift 3 tmcft of water from Srisailam project for its proposed new lift irrigation projects. ‘Unilateral decision’ Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was categorical in saying that the proposed lifting of water from Srisailam project was “unilateral” and against the interests of Telangana. The State government has resolved to take to legal recourse against the neighbouring State’s decision, claiming that it was committed to protect the interests of the State. “The government will not compromise when it comes to the interests of the State,” the Chief Minister said. He reviewed the situation arising out of AP’s decision with senior officials late on Monday evening where he directed the officials concerned to file a complaint with the Krishna River Management Board. The AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, made clear that the permission of the Apex Committee was mandatory for taking up any project on inter-State rivers either in Telangana or AP. But the neighbouring State government did not obtain the permission of the Apex Committee or consulted the Telangana government in the matter and unilaterally went ahead with issuing the order for lifting the water in spite of the fact that Srisailam was an inter-state project. “Issuing orders without consulting the TS government or taking the consent of the Apex Committee is highly objectionable,” the Chief Minister said. The lifting of water from Srisailam would have adverse impact on the availability of water in erstwhile united Mahabubnagar, Rangareddy and Nalgonda districts and the government would not compromise on this. The Chief Minister said the government took up projects to harness 950 tmcft of water from Godavari as its share, but the State still had shortage in meeting its agriculture, domestic and industrial needs. The officials concerned should therefore request the Centre to allot 650 tmcft of surplus water of Godavari to Telangana enabling the State to meet its requirements.
13 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS urges KRMB to stop A.P.’s water diversion||Telangana government has termed Andhra Pradesh plans to divert 6 to 8 tmcft of water everyday from Srisailam reservoir by increasing the capacity of Pothireddypadu head regulator and taking up a new lift system as “illegal and contravention of Section 84 of the AP Reorganisation Act” and requested the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) to stop AP from proceeding further. In a letter addressed to the Chairman of KRMB on Tuesday, Principal Secretary (Irrigation) Dr. Rajat Kumar pointed out that no new project is allowed to be taken up by the member States without appraisal and recommendation of the river board and the prior approval of Apex Council comprising the Union Water Resources (Jal Shakti) Minister and the Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The river board has been requested to initiate necessary action to prevent AP from taking up any further action including calling and awarding tenders as per G.O. 203 issued by AP on May 5 for the proposed Rayalaseema Lift Scheme and enhancement of water drawal capacity of Pothireddypadu head regulator (PRP) to 80,000 cusecs. The Telangana officials have drawn the attention of the river board about the legal obligations of AP and sought directions to AP to submit detailed project reports about the diversion plans. Mr. Rajat Kumar explained in the letter that the AP government had given administrative approval for the water diversion with Rs. 6,829 crore by taking up new pumping system to draw 3 tmcft water a day from Srisailam from near Sangameshwaram and drop it into Srisailam Right Main Canal (SRMC) at 4 km away from PRP, besides increasing the water drawal capacity of PRP to 80,000 cusecs amounting to over 7 tmcft water a day. Besides being totally in contravention of the provisions of the Bifurcation Act, the project would also adversely impact the interests of Telangana. “Srisailam being the common reservoir for the two States, AP can’t plan additional diversion of water without the consulting Telangana,” Mr. Rajat Kumar said in his letter to KRMB. He explained that Telangana is dependant on water from Srisailam for drinking water needs of Hyderabad and Mission Bhagiratha schemes in combined Mahabubnagar, Nalgonda and Rangareddy districts. Riparian rights Further, substantial irrigation requirement is under Nagarjunasagar Left Bank Canal, Alimineti Madhava Reddy Srisailam Left Bank Canal, Kalwakurthy, Palamuru-Rangareddy and Dindi lift irrigation schemes, as also power generation at Srisailam Left Bank power house. There can’t be any justification by AP to take up project in violation of the riparian rights of another basin State. The proposed project intends to divert Krishna water to another basin affecting the availability of water to in-basin projects. “Taking advantage of the absence of telemetry system at PRP, AP is indiscriminately diverting Krishna water outside the basin without any proper account now”, Mr. Rajat Kumar pointed out in the letter.
13 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fourth ‘Vande Bharat’ flight brings 331 Indians||GMR-led Hyderabad International Airport handled the fourth ‘Vande Bharat’ arrivals evacuation flight from the United Kingdom (UK) in the early hours of Tuesday. The national carrier, Air India flight AI 1839, a Boeing 773 aircraft, arrived via New Delhi at the airport with 331 Indian citizens stranded in the UK. Passengers were serviced through the fully sanitised international arrivals of the main passenger terminal. Later, the same aircraft departed as AI 1840 carrying 87 passengers from Hyderabad to New Delhi, from where they were to be airlifted to the US. The flight departed at 05.31 am. Passengers here too were serviced through the fully sanitised Interim International departures terminal that had been kept ready for these passengers. All safety protocols, including thermal screening and social distancing, were put in place to ensure a safe travel to passengers. The airport has kept the international arrivals and the entire stretch right from the aerobridge to the arrivals ramp fully sanitised and fumigated. All arriving passengers and aircraft crew were brought out of the aircraft in a batch of 20-25 persons. Each passenger/crew was screened by thermal cameras positioned at the aerobridge exit under supervision of the Airport Health officials (APHO) while CISF personnel in their protective gear escorted the passengers to the immigration clearance. Glass shields were provided at each manned immigration counter to avoid any personal contact between passengers and officials. Passengers were taken for mandatory 14-day quarantine at the designated locations in the city. Four ‘Vande Bharat’ evacuation flights from various countries, including US, UK, Kuwait and UAE, repatriating over 750 Indian citizens stranded off-shore with passengers quarantined by the government on their arrival at homeland. About a dozen international flights serving close to 1,000 foreign nationals were repatriated by various special relief flights to other countries.
13 May 2020||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rare owl creates flutter near Chittoor||A rarely sighted Indian Eagle Owl on Tuesday created flutter by reportedly attacking passersby at Diguvamagam village on the Chittoor-Aragonda road, 20 km from here. According to information, the sub-adult owl, unusually sporting a mane around its head, was seen hopping and flying at low height on the rural road from dawn to noon. The bird flew parallel to passing motorcycles and reportedly tried to hit the rider or the pillion rider with its claws. Seeing the curious crowds that gathering at the area, the owl retreated into the nearby bushes. Later in the noon, when it re-emerged, some youth tried to catch it thinking that the bird might have been hurt, but in vain. The owl with all its agility glided into the sky and disappeared towards a hillock. ‘Unusual sight’ Khadar Basha, a mango trader of nearby Aragonda village, said that he had seen the owl of similar species four years ago on the same road. “Rarely do we see these big-sized owls on trees and cable wires at dawn or dusk. But it is very unusual to see it at noon, that too flying parallel to two-wheelers. Strange, the bird displayed a tendency to stalk passersby,” he said. A shy bird A Tirupati-based ornithologist and nature lover, Karthik Sai identified the bird as Indian Eagle Owl, but sporting an inquisitive mane around its head. “It’s a very shy bird. The species are strictly found away from human habitations, feeding on reptiles, lizards and rabbits in hillocks and shrub jungles. These birds nestle among rock cavities and in areas which remain inaccessible to reptiles and other birds of prey, to protect the eggs and younglings,” he said.
13 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 with T.N. link test positive in East Godavari||Three drivers with a travel history to the Koyambedu market in Tamil Nadu have tested positive for COVID-19 in the Kothapeta area of the Amalapuram Revenue Division in East Godavari district on Tuesday. “The three drivers, natives of Kothapeta area, are in the age group of 30-55. They had recently travelled to the Koyambedu market transporting fruits and vegetables from the Konaseema region,” Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy told The Hindu . “The total number of cases with links to the Koyambedu market is four by Tuesday. One driver who went to the same market tested positive on Monday,” he added. The three have been admitted to the GSL Hospital in Rajamahendravaram.
13 May 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||INS Magar arrives from Male with 202 evacuees||INS Magar , carrying 202 Indians from the Maldives, arrived at the Kochi port a little before 5.45 p.m. on Tuesday as part of Operation Samudra Setu. INS Magar , based at the Southern Naval Command in Kochi, is the second ship to repatriate stranded Indians from the Maldives.    INS Jalashwa had brought 698 people on Sunday and is set to evacuate another batch of around 700 people on May 15. 91 from Kerala Those who came on INS Magar included 91 people from Kerala, 83 from Tamil Nadu and 28 people from 13 other States and Union Territories. The vessel is berthed at the BTP jetty of the Cochin Port Trust and the disembarkation procedures, including examination and clearance by the Port Health Organisation, Customs and Immigration, were being carried out inside the terminal, said a communication from the Port Trust. Those with COVID-19 symptoms would be taken to the Karuvelippady Taluk Hospital or Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam, for treatment. Meanwhile, Air India Express flight AI 1924 from Dammam landed at the Cochin interational airport at 8.05 p.m. On Tuesday with 174 passengers. Another flight, IX 485 from Singapore, is scheduled to land at 10.50 p.m. The flight is on the way as The Hindu goes to press. Flight from Dubai Staff Reporter writes from Kannur: An Air India flight, Boeing 737, carrying 180 expatriates from Dubai arrived at the Kannur international airport at 7.42 p.m. on Tuesday evening. The passengers include 20 pregnant women, five children and 43 others who require immediate medical attention.  In addition to 109 persons from Kannur, 47 from Kasaragod, 12 from Kozhikode, seven from Malappuram, three from Male, one each from Wayanad and Thrissur were on the flight. The Health Department conducted a rapid medical examination at five special desks set up at the airport.
13 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector orders probe into goof-up at GGH||Bodies of two patients allegedly got exchanged at the Government General Hospital here and the authorities on Tuesday buried the body of a non-COVID patient A. Rambabu, 66, of Budhwarpeta with all protocols while the body of the COVID victim remained at the hospital. Rambabu had come to the hospital on May 7 with complaints of cold and cough, but tested negative for COVID-19. When the relatives of Rambabu, who died on May 9, came to collect the body, they were shocked to find the body that of the other and only then the hospital staff realised the mistake. Agitated relatives then staged a a protest at the GGH and the Collector’s office. Three-member panel Collector G. Veerapandian instituted a three-member committee consisting of GGH Superintendent Narendranath Reddy, District Medical and Health Officer Ramagiddaiah, and Kurnool Medical College principal P. Chandrasekhar to identify and punish those responsible for the goof-up.
13 May 2020||KURNOOL / ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Discharged patients overtake positive cases in Kurnool||The number of patients getting discharged from COVID-19 hospitals in Kurnool district has for the first time overtaken the number of positive cases undergoing treatment. With nine new positive cases being reported on Tuesday in the district (seven from Kurnool city and two from Nandyal), the total number has gone up to 584, but with 14 patients getting discharged on Tuesday, the total number of patients discharged has gone up to 298 against 270 patients still getting treated in COVID hospitals, while the number of deaths remained at 16. Among those discharged on Tuesday were an 82-year-old woman and a three-year-old baby, both hailing from Kurnool city and discharged from GGH Kurnool and Shantiram COVID Hospital in Nandyal, District Collector G. Veerapandian said. The Central team from AIIH&PH, comprising its Director Madhumita Dobe and institute professor Sanjay Kumar Sadhu Khan, visited the fever hospital and Shantiram COVID Hospital in Nandyal as part of its third day’s visit in the district on Tuesday. The team members stressed on the need for adhering to the government guidelines to contain the spread of coronavirus. Out of the 14 persons discharged on Tuesday, nine were from GGH Kurnool, three from Viswabharathi Hospital and one each from COVID Care Centre and Shantiram Hospital. There were no new cases officially reported in Anantapur district on Tuesday as results of samples tested till 6 p.m. on the previous day were reported. Anantapur’s tally The total number of positive cases remained at 142, with active cases standing at 90 and the number of persons discharged 45. Number of persons dying due to COVID remains at seven. Meanwhile, the Koyambedu returnees now pose a big problem for the district administration and a threat of new areas coming under COVID-19 red zone. Focus on traders Some persons from Chennekothapalli were put in quarantine and samples sent for testing for which results were expected on Wednesday. The district officials were actively trying to trace all those who had gone to Koyambedu in Chennai and of them 350 were contacted by Tuesday.
13 May 2020||MANGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||NIT-K develops low-cost, reusable face shield||The National Institute of Technology-Karnataka (NIT-K), Surathkal, has developed an economical, reusable and transparent face shield using locally available low-cost material to fight against COVID-19. According to Arun M. Isloor, Professor and Head, Department of Chemistry at the institute, the production cost of each face shield will be a maximum of Rs. 12. Mr. Isloor who supervised a team of volunteers who prepared the shield at the institute said that the Director of the institute K. Uma Maheshwar Rao handed over 300 such face shields to Sindhu B. Rupesh, Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada on Saturday. A yoga mat, a polyester transparent sheet, a synthetic adhesive and welcrove tape have been used for making the shields. “Each shield can be used for at least 90-100 days by washing it in soap water or by using some four droplets of hand sanitiser,” Prof. Isloor said. He said that during mid-March he saw his Malaysian collaborators wearing face shields made of an elastic band, which was not only expensive but inconvenient for long-time wearing. One evening he observed his son playing with his yoga mat, whichmade him to think that it can be used for making the face shield. Availability of PPEs One of the important reasons for the rapid spread of the COVID-19 across the globe is lack of availability of Personal Protecting Equipment (PPEs) such as hand gloves, protective coverage, masks, face shield, etc. The PPEs are out reach of the common people due to high cost and limited supply. Total lockdown of industries also add to the lack of supply, he said.
13 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Koyambedu effect: Nine more cases emerge in Nellore district||The Chennai connection of traders is proving costly as nine more persons having links with traders in Koyambedu tested positive for COVID-19 in SPSR Nellore district. The infected traders from Nellore and Sullurpet were dealing with their counterparts in the Koyambedu vegetable and fruit market. With this, the number of confirmed cases went up to 111, health officials said. Active cases stood at 32 as 76 patients were discharged from the COVID-19 isolation ward on recovery so far. Three persons had succumbed to the disease.  Curbs in place Collector S.V. Seshagiri Babu and Superintendent of Police Bhaskar Bhushan oversaw the implementation of the containment action plan in Sullurpeta. Civic staff led by Muncipal Commissioner N. Narendra Kumar sanitised the town with focus on Mahadevaiahnagar and Vanamthoppu areas from where the infected persons hailed. Health workers began testing of primary and secondary contacts of the patients. Sullurpeta MLA K. Sanjeevaiah appealed to the frequent visitors to Chennai for sale of essential commodities to voluntarily undergo tests. All entry and exit points of the town were sealed by the police besides stepping up vigil in Tada on the Tamil Nadu border. All vehicles coming from the neighbouring State were thoroughly checked. Following this, traffic piled up on the Chennai-Kolkata highway. In Nellore, the authorities decided to arrange temporary sheds at the Sri Venugopalaswamy College for sale of vegetables and other essential commodities and close down the A.C. Subba Reddy vegetable market. Drones were deployed to keep a watch on those coming out of their homes. No new cases In Ongole, health officials heaved a sigh of relief as no new cases were reported on Tuesday. The number of active cases stood at three with 60 patients cured of the disease.
13 May 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leader raises concern over housing project||BJP National Executive Member and MLC Somu Veerraju on Tuesday sought Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s intervention to stop conversion of the Kolamuru and Burugupudi wetlands for the housing purpose as the sites are prone to floods. Both the wetlands, Kolamuru in Rajamahendravaram rural and Burugupudi in Korukonda mandal in East Godavari district, spread over 525 acres, are proposed to be distributed among 32,000 families. Nearly 400 acres of this land belongs to three individuals while the rest belongs to the other private landowners. In addition to flagging environmental issues, the MLC has alleged that the government has paid Rs. 45 lakh per acre as against Rs. 24.5 lakh, which is double the rate offered for a land secured for the housing scheme. In a letter written to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday, Mr. Veerraju observed: “The Chief Minister should order a probe into the site selection procedure and package paid for the two wetlands. The State government is spending a whopping Rs. 250 crore, including for levelling the wetlands for the housing purpose.” Referring to the site inspection reports (March 2020) submitted by Executive Engineer M.S.S. Ravi Babu of Water Resource Department, Central Division Dowleswaram, Mr. Veerraju said: “The Water Resource Department’s field inspection has concluded that the Kolamuru and Burugupadi wetlands are prone to the floods. If it is flooded, nearly one lakh people will have to be evacuated from the site. Levelling the land will lead to the inundation of the surrounding areas.” Mr. Veerraju has appealed to the State government to withdraw the housing project from the wetlands and added that his party would intensify their protest in the event of the government failing to do so.
13 May 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||NDRF monitoring transport of styrene monomer to South Korea||A special chemical team from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Pune, headed by Commandant Anupam Srivastava, is monitoring the shifting of styrene gas from the LG Polymers plant in Visakhaptanam. The leakage of gas from the plant in Visakhapatnam on May 7 led to the death of 12 persons and hospitalisation of about 400 persons. Six villages in the vicinity of the plant — R.R. Venkatapuram, Kothapalem, Gopalapatnam, Padmanabha Nagar, Pendurthi and Kakani Nagar — were the worst affected. NDRF 10th Battalion Commandant Zahid Khan told The Hindu on Tuesday that the gas leak tragedy was a major operation ever handled by the force in A.P., Telangana and Tamil Nadu States in the last few years.  Pat for respose team NDRF Director-General S.N. Pradhan praised the 10th Battalion Regional Response Centre (RRC) which swung into action within minutes of being alerted. Personnel in safety gear rushed to the plant and the affected areas and saved many persons, he added. A team under the supervision of Assistant Commandant D. N. Singh and the special chemical team is monitoring the shifting of the gas from the seaport to the vessel. The gas is being shifted in a three-km-long pipeline, Mr. Khan said. “It will take four to five days to shift the gas from the storage tank to the vessel from where it is will be transported to South Korea,” the Commandant said. Another team headed by inspector Ankit Kumar was making door-to-door visits in the affected villages to create awareness among residents.  Focused on the job “Residents who returned to their homes are requested not to take any food and water, left at homes, before the incident. They should sanitise their houses and follow the suggestions of National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) scientists,” Mr. Zahid Khan said. The RRC rescued more than 100 persons and evacuated about 1,500 families in coordination with the AP Fire Services, the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), the police and other departments. “About 60 NDRF personnel are rendering services in Visakhapatnam and they will stay put till the completion of the operation,” Mr. Zahid Khan said.
13 May 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown: 165 child marriages stopped||Officials of the Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Department prevented 165 child marriages in the State during the 49-day lockdown period. Almost all the weddings were planned at their houses. “The Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS), Integrated Child Protection Scheme (ICPS), Disha Centres, Child Marriage Prohibition Officers (CMPOs), Anganwadi workers, police and Asha workers with the help of locals stopped the minor marriages,” WD&CW Director Krithika Shukla said. The teams responded to the messages received to Women Helpline-181, AP Mahila Commission, Childline-1098, ‘Dial 100’ and to the respective District Child Protection Units (DCPUs), Ms. Shukla said. Counselling The WD&CW staff gave counselling to the bride and bridegrooms, their parents, kin and the villagers on the ill-effects of child marriages. They also explained about the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and other IPC Sections, and the punishment for those who violate the laws. “If we feel that there is no security for the children after stopping the marriage, or if they don’t want to stay with parents, they will be admitted in Karturba Balika Vidyalayas or Swadhar Homes, run by the government with the reference of the Child Welfare Committees (CWCs). Officials will ensure that the victims continue their education and give counselling for them,” the Director said. The DCPU, CMPOs and the Anganwadi staff stopped 46 child marriages in Anantapur district, 34 in Srikakulam, 13 in Krishna, 12 in East Godavari, 11 in Nellore, nine in Visakhapatnam, eight in Kurnool, seven in Chittoor, five each in Prakasam and Vizianagaram, four in Guntur and three child marriages in Kadapa district. “In appreciate all our staff who went into villages and stopped the minor marriages during the lockdown period,” Ms. Shukla said.
13 May 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Migrant workers from T.N. reach Srikakulam and Vizianagaram||With the operation of ‘Shramik Special’ trains, migrant labourers reached Andhra Pradesh from different parts of the country, including Tamil Nadu. As many as 889 labourers belonging to Srikakulam district and 37 from Vizianagaram district arrived at the Srikakulam railway station in the early hours of Tuesday. Srikakulam in-charge Revenue Divisional Officer R. Ganapati and other officials received the workers. Later, buses were arranged to send them to various quarantine centres. Mr. Ganapati said COVID-19 tests would be conducted on all the workers. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas directed the officials to follow the COVID-19 protocol in letter and spirit since many of the migrant workers could have been affected by the virus. Vizianagaram Deputy Collector for Land Acquisition Salman Raju welcomed the labourers and arranged special buses to take them to the Parvatipuram quarantine centre. “The cooperation of the labourers was sought to follow the COVID-19 protocol for their own safety and others staying in the quarantine centres,” he said.  (With inputs from Vizianagaram)
13 May 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Praise pours in for nurses from all quarters||Praises poured in from all quarters for the nurses, who have been rendering commendable service in fighting the dreaded coronavirus, on the occasion of International Nurses' Day on Tuesday. They celebrated the occasion on a grand scale and paid floral tributes to British nurse and social reformer, Florence Nightingale, on whose birth anniversary International Nurses' Day is celebrated every year. At many places, nurses lit the candles and paid tributes to those who died due to COVID-19, and took oath to render justice to their profession and to society. In some hospitals, nurses felicitated the retired and the senior ones to mark International Nurses Day. Pushpa, nursing superintendent of the Government General Hospital (GGH), Vijayawada, along with other staff garlanded the portrait of Florence Nightingale and recalled her services. “I took the profession with passion. But, I came to know about the value of a nurse during this pandemic. I am proud of being a frontline staff and happy for serving the patients,” said a nurse, G. Rekha. Scores of people greeted nurses by sending messages and mails to their social media groups. Doctors and other staff were seen greeting nurses on the occasion. “I casually opted for nursing course after Intermediate. Now, I am observing the service being done by my seniors during the global health emergency,” a nursing student, Gundla Sowmya, said. “ Nurses who are serving the patients in COVID hospitals are great,” a housewife Ravula Rajani Priya, said.
13 May 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD mulling trial and error strategy to allow darshan after lockdown||Even as a clear picture is yet to emerge over the lifting of the lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) is understood to have started formulating strategy for reopening the hill shrine of Lord Vnkateswara for darshan on a ‘trial and error’ basis. Though the third phase of the lockdown is due to expire May 17, it is still uncertain whether or not the Central government would allow the opening of places of worship. Letter to Chief Secy. However, sources say that the TTD has also sent a letter to Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, seeking permission for organising a trial run of its plans of allowing darshan only after the lockdown is lifted. According to sources, speculations are rife that the trust board is toying with the idea of allowing only the residents of Tirumala and Tirupati to have darshan, apart from the TTD employees as the latter do not need accommodation. COVID-19 protocols “Time slot tokens may be issued and only a couple of hundred of devotees may be allowed to have darshan on an hourly basis with strict compliance with the COVID-19 protocols such as wearing masks, maintaining social distance among others. Sanitisers will also be made available at the entry and other vital points,” say sources. After experimenting with the system for a week or two, the TTD is planning to take a call on extending the permission for darshan to the people hailing from other parts of Chittoor district and the State. Then it will be extended to the devotees from other States after the curbs on the inter-State travels are relaxed. The sources say that all these plans will be executed in a phased manner, with adherence to the directives of the State and Central governments on COVID-19. High-level meeting A final call on the modalities will be taken only after a high-level meeting with TTD Additional EO (Tirumala) A.V. Dharma Reddy, they say, adding that the TTD has no plans to allow more than a thousand devotees an hour for darshan until the threat of the pandemic subsides.
13 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotees miss festivities of Gangamma jatara||The dancing of youth in symmetry to the beating of ‘Palakalu’ in rustic rhythm, the smearing of charcoal, kumkum and chalk powder all over the body and the dressing of men in glittering female attire used to be the flavour of the season, which are now grossly missing. But for the lockdown, the Thathayagunta Gangamma temple, located in the heart of Tirupati, would have witnessed its annual folk festival ‘Ganga jatara’, which usually draws devotees from across Rayalaseema and the bordering districts of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The devotional fervour and the festivities are nowhere to be seen, with the temple management announcing to postpone the folk festival and also keeping the temple under lock and key as a precautionary measure. Devotees walk up to the locked main entrance, make a symbolic gesture of paying obeisance at the main threshold and leave after offering a few rupees into the makeshift ‘hundi’ arranged at the gate. Only a privileged few are allowed into the shrine close to the sanctum sanctorum, while the general crowd is retained at the gate. Native residents of Tirupati settled elsewhere make it a point to visit their home town during the festival and visit the temple by smearing charcoal over their body. The festival ends in the early hours of Wednesday.
13 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu objects to ‘chopping Mada forest’ for house sites||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Tuesday took objection to the government’s reported ‘decision to clear the Mada forest’ in East Godavari district to provide housing for the poor. The TDP leader tweeted, “@ysjagan’s decision to wipe out the Mada Forest will not just bring large scale devastation to Kakinada in the form of storm surges and land erosion, but will also destroy the livelihoods of more than 54,000 fishermen and their families #SaveMadaForest FromJagan.” He wondered how the government was clearing the Mada forests recognised by the UNO. “The government is filling up the land with soil. What would happen to people in the event of cyclones? What about the safety of people who construct houses there?” he asked. Picture proof Mr. Naidu posted pictures of the Mada forest near Kakinada then and now. The TDP expressed its solidarity to ‘Save Mangrove’ campaign of the students who are protesting against destruction of mangrove forests being developed as the first shelter bed along the coast from Srikakulam to Godavari districts.
13 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Koyambedu market impacts four districts in State||The Koyambedu market in Tamil Nadu, which has emerged as a COVID-19 hotspot, has apparently impacted four districts in the State. About 20 persons from the State who visited the market contracted coronavirus. Also, 13 people who returned to Anantapur and Kurnool from Kalyan in Mumbai of Maharashtra were found to be positive. Officials told this to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at a review meeting on COVID-19 on Tuesday. The officials said that 33 fresh cases were reported in the State. As many as 10,730 COVID tests were conducted on Monday. A total of 1,91,874 tests were conducted so far. Andhra Pradesh conducted 3,594 tests per million (TPM). The positivity rate stands at 1.09% in the State as against the national average of 4.02%. Likewise, the death rate is 2.20% against the national rate of 3.24%. The recovery rate stands at 50.55% against the national rate of 31.86%. The focus is on people coming from other States, the officials said. The Chief Minister asked the officials to hasten the paddy procurement process and see that farmers did not incur losses. He also asked them to focus on the export of prawns. Rythu Bharosa Kendras The officials informed Mr. Jagan that the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) would be ready for inauguration by May 30. The kiosks at the RBKs were being established and would be ready by May 15, they said.
13 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Highest number of tests conducted in Krishna in State: Minister||Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, who is Krishna district in-charge Minister, has said that the highest number of COVID-19 tests were conducted in the district in the State. After a review meeting on COVID-19 in the district on Tuesday, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said as many as 18,616 tests were conducted so far. Of this, 14,866 turned negative. Results of 3,408 cases were awaited. While 342 positive cases were reported, 175 got treated and discharged from the hospitals. At present, 266 patients were undergoing treatment at the hospitals, he said. The government has set up 34 quarantine centres in the district. Three centres with a capacity of 1,000 beds were being operated. In addition, a total of 8,000 beds were kept ready for the coronavirus patients. At the Government General Hospital in Vijayawada, 500 beds and 87 ventilators were kept ready. Also, at Pinnamaneni College 650 beds and 25 ventilators were available. The experts and doctors were available to treat the coronavirus patients, he said, adding, “10 beds should be kept ready for quarantine facility in every village and ward secretariat jurisdiction.” The Minister said that the government has set a target of procuring 5 lakh metric tonnes of paddy in the district. So far, 2 lakh MT of paddy was purchased. By the end of June, remaining 3 lakh MT would be procured, he said. Referring to mango, the Minister said that the farmer should be paid Rs. 7.50 per kg. The government would intervene If the market rate was below that. The government has created 20.65 lakh mandays to rural labourers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in the district. Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani), Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivasa Rao, MLAs Malladi Vishnu, Kaile Anil Kumar, District Collector Imtiaz Ahmed, Police Commissioner Dwarka Tirumala Rao, district SP Ravindra Babu and others were present.
13 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||400 fined for not wearing masks in city||Officials of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation have fined over 400 persons found not wearing a face mask and spitting in public places at various locations in the city. The civic body has made wearing a face mask mandatory in order to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. The city has nearly 350 positive cases. Dial Your Commissioner It announced that a fine of Rs. 100 and Rs. 1,000 would be collected from the public for not wearing masks and spitting at public places. Four teams were formed to enforce the same and a total fine of Rs. 48,650 was collected so far since May 7. As many as 400 persons were penalised for not wearing masks. In order to address the grievances of the public, Municipal Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh will attend the grievance redressal calls of citizens from 11 am to 12 noon daily from Monday to Friday hereafter, according to a release. People can dial 0866-2954114 and lodge their complaints with the Commissioner.
13 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Harsh Vardhan rings up Jagan||Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Harsh Vardhan telephoned Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy soon after a video conference with the Chief Minister’s addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. Mr. Jagan disclosed this at a review meeting on Covid-19 on Tuesday. The Union Minister was of the opinion that Mr. Jagan touched upon pertinent aspects that need to be addressed, such as the stigma surrounding the COVID-19. Rather than calling for a blanket extension of the lockdown, the Chief Minister pitched for a rather different approach. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddysuggested that creating self-awareness is more important than imposing restrictions , which is adding to the stigma , the Union Minister said, according to a press release.
13 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t pay power bills, Bonda urges people||Former TDP MLA Bonda Umamaheswara Rao has asked people not to pay the power bills until the government revised the tariff slabs in a logical and rational manner. Addressing a press conference on Tuesday, Mr. Rao said that people should object to the steep hike in bills and register their protest in front of the visiting electricity staff. The government would cancel the white ration cards if the poor families paid the latest power bills which were around Rs. 3,000. Also, there was a possibility of denying other social benefits like social security pensions, he said.
13 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Victims of gas leak stage protest at KGH demanding better medical treatment||Chaos prevailed at King George Hospital (KGH) here on Tuesday, as victims of the LG Polymers gas tragedy staged a protest seeking higher compensation and better medical care. They alleged that in a bid to give them lesser compensation, they were being discharged from hospital even though they were experiencing nausea and discomfort. Several women came out of the ward where they were undergoing treatment and put forth a list of demands. Some women alleged that while they were promised several lakhs of rupees as compensation, they were now being asked to leave the hospital after being given only Rs. 25,000. Some women alleged that they were not being given proper medical care. While appreciating the gesture of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in granting Rs. 1 crore as ex gratia to the bereaved families, they wondered what they would do with the meagre amount of Rs. 25,000. “Take away our plots and homes and hand them over to the company, and give us homes and plots at a safe distance away from the plant,” a woman said. “Why should we relocate? We have been living there for several years and we will not vacate the place. The company should be shut down and shifted elsewhere,” another woman remarked. Meanwhile, a woman who was undergoing treatment at Rajendra Prasad Ward came out with her baby, alleging that her baby was unwell but she was being discharged. She took the baby into the Paediatrics Ward and the baby was examined by doctors. She said that doctors had advised not to breastfeed her baby and that the infant’s condition was deteriorating. The duty doctors advised her to give bottle milk (infant formula) to the baby. The woman said she has high diabetes. Her 14-year-old son, who began vomiting after inhaling the gas, was given treatment and sent home on the first day itself. She alleged that the boy was discharged without proper treatment. Her newborn girl, who was treated at the adjacent Paediatrics Ward, was discharged after her condition improved. “We have admitted her again to monitor her condition,” Dr. P. Venugopal, Head of the Paediatrics Ward, told The Hindu on Tuesday evening.
13 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas leak survivors reluctant to return home||Survivors of the gas leak at RR Venkatapuram are in no mood to return home, as they are yet to fully come to grips with the accident . Few people returned to spend the night at their homes on Monday, the first day after the government declared the locality safe. Apart from the fear of another gas leak, residents are also complaining of a pungent smell in their homes which is making them uneasy. Many residents from the five areas of RR Venkatapuram – Venkatapuram, SC-BC Colony, Kamparapalem, Nandamuri Nagar and Padmanabha Nagar – who had returned to their homes on Monday morning, went back to their relatives’ houses for the night. Only a handful of people slept in their homes. A large number of families are yet to return as of Tuesday morning. Locals said that on Monday morning, a woman from the area reportedly fell unconscious while cleaning her house. This sparked panic in the area, with many leaving their homes again by the evening. ‘Pungent smell’ “There is a pungent smell in all the rooms of our house. On Monday, we cleaned some parts of the house and left by evening. My family is scared of sleeping in the house,” said Mohan Rao, a resident of RR Venkatapuram, who came to clean his house on Tuesday morning. P. Venkatesh, a resident of Ramalayam Street, who slept in his house on Monday night with his family, said that despite scrubbing the floor of his house twice, it still gives off a pungent odour. “My family was unable to sleep properly due to the smell. Moreover, we are yet to shake off the fear in our minds,” he said. A ward secretary from RR Venkatapuram said in Venkatapuram area, there are around 1,050 houses in which nearly 4,000 people reside. On Monday night, only around 100 to 200 people slept in their homes. By Tuesday morning, around 500 people came back to their homes. Thorough cleaning On Tuesday morning, locals were seen cleaning every household item. They say that even after washing clothes and curtains three times, the smell remained. All the household things are taken out and kept on the terraces . Some residents were seen using incense sticks to flush out the smell . ASHA workers and ward volunteers have been visiting all homes to enquire about the health of locals and spread awareness on dos and don’ts. Food was supplied to locals at major junctions, while the GVMC deployed water tankers to supply drinking water. There were reports that two ward volunteers reportedly fell unconscious while opening a room in a house at Venkatapuram. However, officials said that it was due to heat and overwork and not related to the gas leak.
13 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Test results of reservoir’s water awaited||Water samples from the Meghadrigedda reservoir are being tested to determine whether the gas leak at LG Polymers has affected the quality of the water. Following the leak, apprehensions were expressed over the safety of the reservoir’s water, prompting the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation to suspend supply of drinking water from Meghadrigedda until its water was found to be safe. Drinking water is now being supplied to the city from Yeleru, Mudasarlova and Tatipudi reservoirs. The Regional Water Testing Laboratory under the Institute of Preventive Medicine took samples for four successive days from May 7 and confirmed its biological and bacteriological safety, sources said. However, since the water had to be tested for precipitate of styrene, the District Collector had directed the APPCB to carry out another test. The samples were collected and the APPCB tests declared that there was no effect of styrene on the water in the reservoir. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana on Sunday, ordered that another test be conducted. On Monday, an expert from APPCB collected samples and took them for testing, sources said. Meghadrigedda is the only major reservoir close to the city. It has a capacity of 8 MGD and a major portion is earmarked for industrial supply, it is learnt.
13 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Assurance sought on shifting of plant||Residents of RR Venkatapuram and other villages on Tuesday once again raised their demand of shifting the LG Polymers chemical plant from their neighbourhood. The gas leak survivors said that the only way the government can help them is by shifting the company from RR Venkatapuram to somewhere outside the city. Since the protest at the LG Polymers plant on May 9, residents of RR Venkatapuram have been constantly approaching political representatives urging them to shift the plant. On Monday, several locals appealed to K. Kannababu, who is the district in-charge Minister, and Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao, to shift the plant. On Tuesday, YSRCP leader Malla Vijaya Prasad visited RR Venkatapuram and was met by a group of locals who demanded to know why the government was not giving them any assurance about shifting the plant. Officials told the locals that action would be definitely initiated as per the report given by the committee. “Till today, there was no concrete assurance from the government that the company will be shifted. Some say that the company would shift its plant to some other country. Can the government promise that such incidents will not occur again?” residents Y. Navya and B. Polisamma asked. Some youths said that nobody from the company has visited the area till now to enquire about the situation. “Soon after the gas leak, I ran for some distance and then fell unconscious. We lost many of our friends in the incident and doctors said that there are going to be long-term side effects. Why can’t the government shift the company?” questioned G. Varalakshmi.
13 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPCB draws flak for ‘misleading’ press note||The Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) has come under fire from several quarters over a ‘misleading’ press note that it had issued in the wake of the gas leak at LG Polymers. A group of scientists and social activists criticised the APPCB over the stand that it took on granting clearances to various industries, including LG Polymers. ‘Denial of responsibility’ An outfit called Scientists for People said it was shocked to see the contents of the press release issued by the Regional Office of the APPCB in Visakhapatnam. “It is more in the tone of excuses reeled out by a student for not doing his homework. It is a highly irresponsible denial of responsibility vested in them to protect the environment and people,” the organisation said. Former Union secretary E.A.S. Sarma said the APPCB tried to absolve itself of any involvement in industrial units obtaining Environment Clearance (EC) under the Environment (Protection) Act, by saying that ECs for Category-A projects are issued by the Union Ministry of Environment & Forests and ECs for Category-B projects by the State Expert Appraisal Committee (SEAC)/State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA). “APPCB should not have suppressed the fact that it acts as the Member-Secretary of SEAC and supports both SEAC and SEIAA,” Mr. Sarma said. “Consent for Establishment (CFE) and Consent for Operation (CFO) cannot be given to a unit without an Environmental Clearance (EC). The consents handed out by the APPCB to LG Polymers are illegal. It is an imprudent attempt by the PCB to absolve itself of any responsibility for the disaster,” said V.S. Krishna of Human Rights Forum. It should be made clear to the public that the APPCB’s Consent for Establishment and Consent for Operation approvals were not standalone clearances, totally unrelated to the conditions stipulated in the statutory EC. APPCB could not issue CFE/CFO and allow any industrial unit to operate without a valid EC. The conditions laid down in CFE/CFO could not be out of tune with those in the EC,” Mr. Sarma stated. The scientists questioned as to how APPCB and its experts evaluated the plant before giving its consent.
13 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ministers sleep in affected villages||In an attempt to build confidence among the residents of RR Venkatapuram, Member of Parliament V. Vijayasai Reddy, along with several Ministers and YSRCP leaders slept in the areas affected by the gas leak from LG Polymers on Monday night. They also had dinner with the residents and gave a patient hearing to their woes. Mr. Vijayasai Reddy and Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao slept at Padmanabha Nagar, while Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu and Malla Vijaya Prasad spend the night at RR Venkatapuram. Municipal Minister Botcha Satyanarayana and VMRDA Chairman Dronamraju Srinivasa Rao slept at Nandamuri Nagar. Similarly, Minister Dharmana Krishna Das and MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana slept at BC Colony and Kamparapalem. Sanitation work On Tuesday morning, the YSRCP leaders inspected the colonies. Minister Dharmana Krishna Das inspected the sanitation works before visiting various houses in SC Colony. Mr. Vijayasai Reddy said the residents have started to return to their houses at RR Venkatapuram. “The government will help the residents in every possible ways,” he said.
13 May 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Permanent dispensary in affected area likely||Collector V. Vinay Chand on Tuesday said that medical camps will run continuously for one month in RR Venkatapuram to treat people for any after-effects of the disastrous gas leak that occurred last Thursday. “The decision was taken in accordance with the instructions of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy,” Mr. Vinay Chand said, adding that sanitation activities that began in the five areas of RR Venkatapuram from Monday will continue for one week. The Collector also said that they are also mulling to set up a permanent medical camp in the area. MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, district in-charge Minister for Visakhapatnam K. Kannababu and Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao and other Ministers have informed the Chief Minister that there should be a permanent dispensary, where medicines and specialist doctors should be available to the locals. “As of now, we would run static medical camps, but in future, a place would be identified and a permanent dispensary would be set up,” he said. The decision to continue sanitation activities for another week was taken following inputs from the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI). The institute has given a set of guidelines on how to sanitise streets, outside houses, water bodies, food and others. Specialist doctors Mr. Vinay Chand said that an ambulance has been stationed in the area to attend to any emergency. “Styrene monomer exposure has been found to have largely affected skin, eyesight, digestion and respiration, and we have drafted specialist doctors from the departments of ophthalmology, dermatology, gastroenterology and pulmonology from Andhra Medical College and will station them at the village,” he said. “Most of the patients were discharged from hospital on Monday, and today there will be more discharges,” he said.
13 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Take stringent action against firm, NGT urged||Institute for Solid Waste Research & Ecological Balance (INSWAREB) director N. Kalidas on Tuesday sought stringent action against LG Polymers, stating that the firm has committed a series of violations in operating its chemical plant. In a representation to the National Green Tribunal team probing the styrene vapour leakage from the plant on May 7, he said that the land use logistics around the plant prohibited its operations. Hence, it was imperative that the industry had to be penalised. The State Government should be asked to provide the land and bear the cost of rehabilitation, he said. Mr. Kalidas said that it was surprising to learn that the company had not obtained environmental clearance since 1997 but was allowed to operate by regulatory authorities, implying a connivance between successive State Governments and LG Polymers. ‘Don’t force people to go home’ Meanwhile, the CPI(M) on Tuesday appealed to the government not to force people of the five villages hit by the gas leak to return home. Conditions are still not conducive for living at Venkatapuram, a team of CPM leaders that toured Venkatapuram led by party leader Ch. Narsinga Rao on Tuesday said. Forcing people to return because Ministers slept there for a night was not justified, they said.
13 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. has let down women’||The YSRCP Government has let down the women who voted for it by allowing liquor shops to open, State Telugu Mahila president and former MLA Vangalapudi Anitha alleged. Instead, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should fulfill his poll promise by imposing total prohibition, she said. The decision to open the shops has left women disturbed as their husbands have now once again taken to liquor after a gap of over 40 days, she said at a 12-hour fast organised by Telugu Mahila demanding closure of wine shops and total prohibition, at the TDP office here on Tuesday.  Prior to the protest, party workers broke liquor bottles and entered into an argument with police personnel present at the spot.
13 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Arrest LG management’||CPI-ML (Liberation) district convener P.S. Ajay Kumar has demanded the arrest of the management of LG Polymers for the gas leak. He questioned the approval given to the company for expansion without any public hearing and allowing it to start production during the lockdown.
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maternal bond||
13 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Semi-permanent shed for border check-point||The rather restrictive inter-state travel procedure due to COVID-19 is here to stay, at least for a long time. This is evident given conversion of the temporary tent of the check-point into a semi-permanent shed like structure this side of the Penganga river bridge on NH 44 in Adilabad district, which serves as the border between Telangana and Maharashtra. This inter-state border located about 19 km from the district headquarters town is the major entry point into the south from central India. Thousands of vehicles transport goods and passengers everyday on this route. “We do not know for how long we need to continue the check-point established in the backdrop of COVID-19. But we need to keep safe the staff manning the place round the clock, which is why we are putting up a semi-permanent shed,” observed Collector A. Sridevasena. The Collector was evidently seized of the safety of the staff in view of the weather conditions that prevail during this season and during the monsoon ahead. “The gale force winds will not only uproot the tent but will play havoc with the temporary electrical connections,” she pointed out to drive home the point. At any given point of time there are 84 officers and staff from four departments, the revenue, health, police and road transport manning the check point on the incoming and outgoing sides of traffic. 22,000 migrants exit According to an official report, about 22,000 people crossed over into Maharashtra during the last 10 days while about 5,100 entered the State at the check-point on the inter State border that Telangana shares with Maharashtra at Penganga river bridge on NH44. While the outgoing individuals were given thermal screening and their details noted down before issuing them passes to go to respective destinations, the incoming persons had to undergo this process as well as stamped for quarantine if they were from Telangana.
13 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Delayed testing led to sudden spike in cases||The death of a female COVID-19 patient due to delay in testing has made the State government go back on its decision of not testing all primary contacts of coronavirus patients. The wife of a COVID-19 patient from P&T Colony, Dilsukhnagar, contracted the infection from the dialysis unit of a corporate hospital. She was not tested initially even as her husband turned positive. She eventually fell ill and died of the infection, after which authorities tested the family members — all 10 tested positive for the virus. Incidentally, a famous film artiste-turned-politician’s son was also among those infected from this family. This is just one sample case of delayed testing. In fact, what appeared as an unexpected spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases in the GHMC area on Monday, was not all that unexpected for health authorities. For, their earlier decision to refrain from testing primary contacts without symptoms was the reason behind the sudden spike. A majority of the 79 positive cases detected on Monday pertained to delayed testing of primary contacts. For reasons best known to the State government, primary contacts had not been tested immediately after diagnosis of the index cases. Areas such as Saroornagar, Kapra, Jiyaguda, and Secunderabad contributed mainly to the positive cases on Monday, and all of them were primary contacts of the already diagnosed patients. For instance, in Jiyaguda, 27 persons tested positive in a single day on Monday, and all of them were family members of the existing patients. Officials said there was a delay of 10 to 20 days in testing primary contacts of all infected persons, who did not show any symptoms. Primary contacts are immediate family members and friends who stay in regular contact with the infected persons. “Probably, as the localities were already declared containment zones, a relaxed approach was assumed with regard to testing primary contacts. After some delay, they were all tested at once, resulting in the spike on Monday,” an official shared. Testing of primary contacts was reportedly delayed in all cases of dialysis patients getting infected from various colonies of Saroornagar and Kapra. A total of 10 patients who were going for dialysis at two corporate hospitals tested positive, but their primary contacts without symptoms were not tested immediately. When they finally were, 30 of them turned positive. Six persons who tested positive from Secunderabad too were primary contacts from four households, officials informed. “The government seems to have initially baulked from testing persons without symptoms, thinking of it as a waste of scarce resources. But later they woke up to the reality and decided to test all primary contacts,” an official said. Another government source attributed the decision to paucity of medical infrastructure and staff.
13 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Khairatabad Ganesh to be smaller this year?||Lord Ganesh idol of Khairatabad, famous for for its massive size and varied forms, is likely to be much smaller - even one foot- this year. Khairatabad Ganesh Utsava Samithi, the body which plays key role in erecting the idol and organising festivities, took this decision on Tuesday in the backdrop of coronavirus spread. With just over three months left for the Vinayaka Chavithi festival, preparations and rituals for making the idol are yet to begin. “The festival is on August 22 this time and we are supposed to perform karra puja (stick worship) on Monday. We realised that it cannot happen due to lockdown,” Samithi convenor Sandeep Raju said. Even for this ‘karra puja’ close to 2,000 devotees, organisers and volunteers gather. With restrictions on movement of people, the Samithi said it cannot adhere to its regular schedule of festivities and traditions practised before installation of the idol. Khairtabad Ganesh idol was installed for the first time in 1954. It was of one foot height. “Due to this unforeseen and unexpected situation, we want to repeat what we have done in the first year of installation,” Mr. Raju said. Soon after ‘karra puja’, preparations begin for making the idol by securing steel rods and other material. Last year, the idol was 61 foot tall. Around 150 workers were engaged to make it. With spike in COVID cases, the organisers feel it would be difficult to make idol of such size by complying with ‘physical distance’ norms. As thousands of devotees visit and offer prayers to the idol at Khairatabad, it becomes a sort of ‘tourist spot’ during festival time. For police and organisers, it would not be possible to ensure that physical distance is followed by the crowds flocking the place. But the organisers are still hoping against hope. “If a vaccine is discovered in the next few weeks, then we can engage more workers and carve out a huge idol living up to the expectations of devotees,” Raj, son of Samithi chairman Sudarshan said. Khairatabad idol is surely going to be much smaller. But we will surely make efforts to make it as impressive as possible,” he added.
13 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL production hit for first time in 7 years||The coronavirus pandemic and its offshoot lockdown conditions have made Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) register a decline in its annual production of coal in the recently ended 2019-20 fiscal, for the first time since 2013-14, and carried it into the new fiscal with the April production going down by about 45.5%, compared to April last year. Despatches of coal too recorded decrease in 2019-20 for the first time since formation of Telangana and in the first month of 2020-21 they were down by over 45%. “The main reason for decrease in despatches has been the nose-diving demand for energy consumption with all industrial activity, except the ones engaged in the production of essential products/goods, coming to a literal halt from March 22,” a senior official of the coal company said when contacted. As the lockdown continued through the month of April, the demand for coal has come to a naught in the industries such as cement, which consume coal in production, and the demand from power generation units remaining low. According to Singareni officials, the coal production in April was 3 million tonnes against the target of 5.52 million tonnes. In April last year, it was 5.5 million tonnes. Similarly, coal despatches too were in the same measure at 3.04 million tonnes against the target of 5.1 million tonnes. Despatches in April last year were 5.57 million tonnes. In percentage terms, production of coal in April was only 54% of the target and despatches at 60% of the target.
13 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC reserves orders in PIL on insisting treatment at Gandhi||Telangana High Court on Tuesday reserved orders in a PIL petition seeking direction to State government to permit private hospitals and diagnostic centres to treat and conduct tests for COVID-19 patients. The petitioner, G. Jai Kumar, contended that the State government’s decision to treat coronavirus suspects and patients only at Gandhi Hospital was arbitrary and illegal. He said private hospitals and diagnostic centres with proper infrastructure should be allowed to treat and hold tests for patients. A bench of Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Justice K. Lakshman posed a volley of questions to government over its insistence that all COVID-19 patients be treated at Gandhi Hospital, before reserving orders. Under Article 21 of the Constitution, a citizen has right to life which includes the right to medical treatment. Under what authority was the government compelling people to approach only Gandhi Hospital, the bench sought to know. Govt.’s argument Advocate General B.S. Prasad said it was a reasonable restriction in the backdrop of instances where private hospitals were accused of charging patients exorbitantly. Private hospitals sending patients suffering from some ailments to Gandhi Hospital was not uncommon. There was likelihood of private hospitals indulging in indiscriminate tests in the guise of diagnosis and exploiting the patients. Moreover, treatment at Gandhi Hospital was free of cost, he said. He also mentioned that the State government had transformed the Gachibowli sports complex into an exclusive hospital for COVID-19 patients. Inadequate infra The bench observed that there were many media reports about inadequate infrastructure at Osmania and Gandhi Hospitals. Ventilators were being acquired by government hospitals following coronavirus outbreak. Before that, such crucial instruments were not available in required number there, the bench said. Justice Ramachandra Rao asked whether the government can provide details of how many politicians and bureaucrats availed treatment facilities in government hospitals. “When a person can afford to pay for treatment in a corporate hospital, on what ground can State stop that person,” the judge asked.
13 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Coronavirus figures lead to misgivings among citizens||For eight days between March 30 and May 10, Telangana recorded single digit COVID-19 cases. On Monday, the total number of cases spiked after Hyderabad city recorded 79 positive cases. A comparable single-day jump in numbers was on April 3, when 75 cases were logged. While the low numbers in the State should have boosted confidence among citizens, it has only triggered misgivings. “There have been two deaths in my apartment complex where a number of senior citizens live. Even the members of households where the deaths have taken place have not been tested,” says Raji Reddy, who lives in an apartment complex near Sindhi Colony in Secunderabad. The apartment has been quarantined with restriction on movement. Concerns raised Aditya Belde took to Twitter on May 11 to report his uncle’s death and its non-inclusion in the day’s bulletin issued by the Telangana Health Ministry. “I am Aditya my Babai B Srinivas (Hyd) who has tested corona positive on 9 May and expired on 10 May my total family has quarantined & I see no deaths on 10th in all the major websites. Can u plz take up this case up and give us a clear clarity (sic),” wrote Mr. Belde and tagged IT Minister K. T. Rama Rao and Health Minister Eatala Rajender. On Tuesday, officials visited the family in the quarantine facility at Erragadda and told them that the family member’s death was not added due to a mapping issue. Missing numbers are part of the big puzzle of Telangana’s fight against COVID-19 pandemic where the first positive case was recorded on March 2. The Health Ministry bulletin had 10 rows of information in the initial days including number of passengers screened at airports, self-reported passengers, numbers reported by others, people who are asymptomatic and advised home isolation, symptomatic and hospitalised, samples collected, negative, positive and results awaited. Shrinking statistics Information about number of samples collected ceased to flow on March 26 when 1,319 persons were tested during the period. Within days, the 10 rows shrunk to just four. On April 2, the bulletin had four rows and two columns. Then for a few days, there was district-wise break up of the positive cases. Currently, the bulletin is being bulked up with information about how many districts have recorded zero positive cases. Fuelling the misgivings about the spread of the disease is social media where even movement of an ambulance is being peddled as a discovery of COVID-19 case in a locality. Messages about new are also rife on resident welfare association WhatsApp groups.
13 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lockdown sees spurt in domestic violence cases||When the government and people in general are grappling with the pandemic and leading a life under lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus since the last week of March, many women in the State, ironically, had to face a spike in domestic violence too. Of a total of 8,410 complaints registered at Sakhi One Stop Centres across the 33 districts in 2019-20, 5,703 were related to domestic violence and 384 to dowry harassment, accounting for 72% of the total number of complaints to OSCs. The past one month, despite lockdown, had not seen much of letup in domestic violence cases. In April, 89% of the total number of cases registered were of domestic violence. Current research The numbers would support the current research world-wide about the increased risk of violence within the home because of the lockdown, said Prof U Vindhya, Sakhi OSC Project Leader and Deputy Director, Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Hyderabad campus. The One Stop Centres provide integrated support and assistance to women affected by violence, both in private and public spaces, and provide access to medical, legal and psychosocial counselling and shelter services. For instance, from January 1 to April 23, the percentage of domestic violence cases out of the total cases registered with OSCs were 40% in January, 68% in February, 61% in March and jumped to 89% in April. According to the annual report for 2019-20 on One Stop Centres in Telangana , of the 8,410 cases registered in the State, the highest number of cases were registered in Medchal-Malkajgiri district (1,193), followed by Rangareddy (894) and Hyderabad (614), pointing to the largest concentration of reported cases in urban clusters. Then come Karimnagar, Nizamabad, Nalgonda, Warangal urban, Jagityal et al. The Sakhi OSCs are a Central government initiative for women’s safety in the aftermath of the horrific Nirbhaya incident and the subsequent recommendations by the Justice Verma Committee and Usha Mehra Commission in 2013. In Telangana, the One Stop Centres were set up in 2017 first in the erstwhile nine districts and subsequently in all the 33 districts by the Department of Women Development and Child Welfare (DWDCW). The department roped in the School of Gender Studies, TISS, in 2017 as knowledge partner for the Sakhi OSCs Project and TISS set up a Project Management Unit in April that year in the Directorate of DWDCW. Various NGOs were selected as support agencies and they recruit and supervise OSC staff to work on rotational shifts providing round-the-clock services.
13 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court nod for Intermediate valuation||Telangana High Court on Tuesday permitted the Board of Intermediate Education to go ahead with valuation of 9,65,000 answer scripts of Intermediate students. A bench of Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Justice K. Lakshman, hearing a PIL plea moved as lunch motion, directed the government to comply with all guidelines like observing physical distance, wearing masks and usage of sanitisers by all persons involved in the process. A social activist K. Omprakash had moved the lunch motion challenging the spot valuation of Intermediate answer scripts. Following lockdown, the valuation of Intermediate answer scripts had been kept in abeyance. Recently, the Intermediate Board decided to begin the process of valuation and roped in the services of nearly 10,000 lecturers for the process. The petitioner expressed apprehensions that assembly of lecturers for valuation of papers would give scope for the spread of the virus. The bench rejected his contentions, stating that there could not be complete lockdown for ever. If discovering a vaccine for the virus took two years, all works could not be stopped for that long, apprehending that something would go wrong, the bench said. Advocate General B.S. Prasad said valuation of the answer scripts would be completed in 10 days. Process begins Valuation of Intermediate answer scripts began on Tuesday with 4,350 teachers pressed into service across the State in 34 camps. On the first day, only English, Sanskrit, Math and Civics subjects were taken up for valuation. A statement by the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) said that in addition to the 12 spot valuation camps, 22 buildings were hired to maintain physical distance among the teachers. Examination personnel were given masks, sanitisers and liquid soaps while their temperature was also recorded with the infra-red guns. Spot valuation camps were fogged and cleaned with disinfectants. In the GHMC area, transportation was provided for staff to all the five valuation camps. Similarly, RTC made arrangements for the transport of personnel in the districts. Telangana Private Junior Colleges Managements Association president Gouri Satish handed over 3,000 bottles of sanitisers for use at the camps.
13 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cancel Kaleshwaram, Dummugudem tenders, says Congress||Alleging manipulations in the tender process of Rs. 24,000 crore called for during the lockdown period in Kaleshwaram project including Dummugudem Lift Irrigation project, the Congress demanded that the tenders be cancelled and government go for global tenders. The Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and Nalgonda MP, N. Uttam Kumar Reddy alleged that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was directly involved in it, ensuring that the contract goes to his relatives and friends. “The tender was called and closed during the lockdown period and the cost estimates have been boosted by 30 to 40 % at the cost of public exchequer,” he alleged while addressing senior Congress leaders through a video conference here on Tuesday. He said May 12 (Tuesday) was the last date for submitting bids for Dummugudem project and the Rs. 3,000 crore tender has been already finalised and claimed that it would be awarded to L&T when the bid opens on Wednesday. “If this is not manipulated then how would we learn who is bidding and who is getting the L1 price,” he asked. The TPCC chief also claimed that the Chief Minister had remained silent on the works taken by Andhra Pradesh government for the last six months to draw additional 4 TMC of water from Pothireddypadu. CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, MLAs Jagga Reddy, D. Sreedhar Babu, MP A. Revanth Reddy, Marri Shashidhar Reddy, Ponnala Lakshmaiah, Nagam Janardhan Reddy, V. Hanmanth Rao, former Ministers and others participated.
13 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘More data is required to quell fear and panic’||The statistical parameters and the information in public domain in Telangana has shown a big variation over the past two months. We asked Raghupathy Anchala, who teaches epidemiology, research methods and operational research, how useful is the publicly available information and how it can be improved. Can the information about COVID-19 spread have any use in understanding the exponential growth or flattening of the curve? There is a lot of missing data to comment on the exponential growth or flattening of the curve. The number of tests done are not mentioned on many days since mid-April. The number of positive or negative cases would depend on the number of tests that are performed on any given day. We need to have data on doubling time and Ro (R nought or the mathematical term that indicates how contagious is the disease) so as to comment on the exponential growth or flattening of the curve. Ro is a concept that gives an indication about the expected number of cases that can arise from one case in a susceptible population. What impact does limited information have on public health? Publicly available complete information is mandatory to quell fear and panic in the population. We would also need data on the severity of cases. Clarity on number of asymptomatic, mild, moderate and severe cases would be required. Adding information on number of positive cases with data on age, gender, death rate, co-morbid conditions needs to be put upfront so that public is aware of these risk factors.
13 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Aurobindo staff donate Rs. 3 cr. to HKMCF||Aurobindo Pharma Ltd and Group of Sister Concern Employees has donated Rs. 3 crore to Hare Krishna Movement Charitable Foundation (HKMCF) in support of feeding the poor, underprivileged and unemployed in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh to an extent of 1.85 lakh meals daily in association with GHMC, donors and other municipalities. Vice-chairman of Aurobindo Pharma K. Nithyananda Reddy and his colleagues lauded the service of the foundation and said about 19,000 employees voluntarily contributed one-day pay to the cause. Thanking the firm, HKMCF president Satya Gaura Chandra Dasa said the centralised community kitchen with a capacity of about 50,000 meals was built at Narsingi in 2016 with the support of Aurobindo Pharma Ltd and for several years it had been serving thousands of underprivileged people under various programs such as Bhojanamrita, Annapurna and Saddimuta. This kitchen had now become a fountain head of hygienic food for the poor, weaker and vulnerable sections of society, now affected by COVID 19.
13 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minor raped; case filed||A minor girl was allegedly raped in the Shahinayatgunj police station limits. While the incident took place on May 7, the issue came to light after the 17-year-old victim lodged a complaint with the police late on Monday night. In the complaint, the victim stated that her foster parents had been lodged in the Chanchalguda Central Jail for about 45 days. She had then stayed at a house in Fatehdarwaza for 15 days and then at her grandmother’s house. She returned and then slept in a room. Around 2.30 a.m., three youths entered the room and one of them allegedly raped her while two others held her down. The victim mentioned that she could recognise the accused. A case under Section 376-D and the POCSO Act was registered.
13 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Production to be in tune with industrial activity||The management of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) is planning to ramp up coal production and despatches once the industrial sector opens up completely. A meeting led by Chairman and Managing Director N. Sridhar discussed the company’s performance during the ongoing lockdown period and plans to achieve the targets in coal production and despatches after the lockdown. Monsoon season would generally affect the performance to some extent, but the company has to be prepared to keep the two in proportion to the demand after the resumption of industrial activity, Mr. Sridhar told the meeting attended by senior executives here on Tuesday. The company was able to ensure supplies of necessary coal to the power generation companies having coal linkage with Singareni during the ongoing lockdown period. However, supplies to other industries were stopped as they were shut down due to the lockdown conditions. The company had to be all prepared to resume supplies to other industries as well with the resumption of industrial activity, the CMD said. He, however, told the executive to continue to COVID precautionary measures in all mining and handling areas. As the impact of COVID-19 is expected to continue towards July-end, the company had to be prepared for the situation of working with restrictions and to the impact of monsoon period on the production and despatches.
13 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Regulated crop cultivation from this rainy season||In a significant decision that can bring far-reaching changes in cultivation of crops, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said that a system of regulated cultivation of crops would commence this rainy season. The decision was taken to make agriculture profitable, he asserted. Mr. Rao will convene a video conference with field-level officers on May 15, to directly discuss with them about the policy decision. The CM held a review meeting at Pragathi Bhavan on Tuesday on crop rotation and crop colonies with Health Minister Eatala Rajender, Planning Board Vice-Chairman B. Vinod Kumar, Rythu Bandhu Samithi president Palla Rajeshwar Reddy and other agriculture department officials and CMO officials. A decision to begin the reform with paddy crop in the ensuing rainy season was taken. It was decided to cultivate paddy in 50 lakh acres with fine and normal variety and Sona variety of paddy in 10 lakh acres. The government will soon come with guidelines. The Rythu Bandhu scheme would be extended to only those farmers who would abide by the government’s directive and procure only such crops by giving a support price, he said.
13 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pact to make ventilator||Hardware prototyping centre T-Works, an initiative of the Telangana government, has signed a memorandum of understanding with Bhagwati Products, the manufacturing arm of Micromax, for production of mechanical ventilator for COVID-19. The Micromax group firm would take up manufacturing of the device at its manufacturing facility in E-City, Maheswaram. “We are happy to have Micromax on board for the development of the emergency use ventilator,” T-Works Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Sujai Karampuri said. Co-founder of Micromax and chairman of Bhagwati Products Rajesh Agarwal said “we are excited to partner with Telangana in providing low-cost ventilators in these times of crises. A release by T Works said the ventilator had been successfully demonstrated to doctors from Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) and IT and Industries Minister K. T. Rama Rao on April 20.
13 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||University of Hyderabad entrance tests rescheduled||The University of Hyderabad (UoH) has rescheduled its nation-wide entrance examinations for admission to all its postgraduate and research programmes to the first week of August and the classes will begin on September 1. The last date for applications for fresh admission has been extended to May 22. As a part of its phased return to academic activities, the university made it optional for final semester of PG students to write a special end-semester examination only if they were not satisfied with their grades computed on the basis of continuous assessment and past performance. This optional special exam would be held from July 4 for those opting for it and they should report on July 1. The ongoing post-graduate (PG) students should report on July 12 and their end-semester exams would be scheduled from August 3. Research students would come back to the university in a staggered manner from June 15 to 29.
13 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR is the first to foresee COVID impact||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation on Tuesday has proved yet again that Telangana government with its foresight has been leading the country in COVID containment. The Prime Minister announced that the next course of action after the expiry of lockdown deadline on May 17 would be announced in the coming days in consultation with the State governments. The announcement indicated the continuance of the lockdown, albeit with relaxations covering different sectors that promised revival of economic activities. The Telangana government was the first in announcing the extension of the lockdown till May 29 and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was the first in the country to assess the possible impact of the virus. He was particular that allowing train travel could lead to further complications and exacerbation of the impact of the virus. From the first case reported from the visit of Indonesians to Karimnagar early in March, Telangana was the first State to announce the lockdown simultaneously with the Janata Curfew observed on March 22.
13 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Just a cold, says KTR on his sneezing visuals||After visuals surfaced of IT Minister and TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao repeatedly sneezing at an official programme in Sircilla raising concerns about his health, he clarified that it was just an allergic cold and nothing to do with the novel coronavirus. In a tweet, Mr Rama Rao wrote: “Developed an allergic cold (struggling for many years) en route to Siricilla. Didn’t want to cancel my visit suddenly as it would inconvenience many people. Apologies for any inconvenience I may have caused inadvertently (sic)”. ‘COVID warrior’ He responded after netizens posted the video tagging him and asking him to take care of his health and also wishing a quick recovery. One wrote, “Disturbed to know that you were down with flu symptoms yesterday in Sircilla. Concerned about your health. You have been a Covid warrior since the virus engulfed us, unmindful of your health. Please reassure us about your health.” You are our hope. Please take care.” Some others called him a COVID warrior promoting physical distance, the need of wearing masks and use of sanitisers.
13 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Smooth-coated otter spotted near Himayatsagar||The spotting of rare species in urban areas during COVID-19 lockdown reached the city, as a smooth-coated otter was seen near the Himayatsagar. “We were busy watching terns when we saw a mammal running towards the water and started clicking pictures. To our surprise it was a smooth-coated otter,” said Srikanth Bhamidipati, who was with Gokul Krishna on a bird-spotting expedition near the lake on Sunday. This species is marked as vulnerable in the IUCN red list.
13 May 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||BJP State chief booked for lockdown violation||BJP State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar was booked for violating lockdown restrictions in Nalgonda on Tuesday, District Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath said in a press statement late on Tuesday. Along with Mr. Sanjay Kumar, district president K. Sridhar Reddy and others were also booked under Section 188 IPC – “disobedience to order promulgated by a public servant,” at the Peddavoora police station. Mr. Ranganath said conducting meetings with party activists and leaders in “large number” or organising gatherings were against the rules. The BJP chief and MP from Karimnagar Sanjay Kumar, who was in Nalgonda on Tuesday, visited sweet lime fields, interacted with aggrieved farmers and party leaders and later addressed the media in Peddavoora police station limits. “Nowhere the leaders had followed physical distancing norms, and also violated all lockdown regulations,” Mr. Ranganath said.
13 May 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Godavari water released from Tukkapur||After more than 30 hours of struggle by scores of engineers and technical experts, Godavari water from Mallannasagar surge pool to Kondapochamma linked canal was released on Tuesday evening. Entire team of officials who were present there celebrated the event. The Godavari water from Kaleswaram reached Ranganaiksagar during the last week of April. From there, it has reached Tukkapur after testing all the four motors. From here, the water will be pumped to Akkaram pump house travelling about 18 km, from where it would be released to Kondapochamma reservoir. Actually, the officials planned to release water from Tukkapur on Monday and all arrangements were completed, but somehow the motor has not functioned. This forced the officials to address the technical problem by working for more than 30 hours. Finally they were able to release the water on Tuesday late evening.
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||Capital sees highest single-day jump in COVID-19 deaths||Thirteen deaths and 406 new COVID-19 cases have been reported in Delhi in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 86 and the cases to 7,639, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. This is the highest single-day spike in the city. But Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that though the deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, these cases did not happen in just one day. “These deaths are not yesterday’s [Monday], they are of the past few days,” the Minister told the media. The number of COVID-19 deaths reported by the Delhi government has been lesser than the data on the number of deaths from hospitals. For instance, when the total number of deaths was 68 according to the Delhi government on Friday, the number of deaths from just two COVID-19 designated city hospitals were 117. The Delhi government had said that the hospitals send the number of deaths to a Death Audit Committee appointed by the government and only the committee can certify them and only those would be counted in the health bulletin On Monday, the Congress and the BJP had accused Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of hiding the actual number of deaths due to COVID-19. Mr. Jain said that some hospitals were not sending death summaries to the Delhi government and the government had ordered them to send details of deaths within 24 hours. “We had written to hospitals to send reports of death immediately. Hospitals have started sending death summaries,” the Minister said. Of the 7,639 cases, 2,512 people have recovered and there are 5,041 active cases. Meanwhile, one more area was removed from the list of containment zones on Tuesday. Currently, there are 80 such zones in Delhi. The District Magistrate (South East) in a separate order said that the government is removing G and D Blocks of Nizamuddin West from the list of containment zones. But this change was not reflected in the Delhi government’s official list of the zones till 9 p.m.. Stranded labourers Meanwhile, about 800 of the 2,200 stranded labourers from an L&T construction site in Dwarka were sent back to Bihar on Tuesday, officials said. “Initially L&T said that they want to restart construction. Then it came to our knowledge that the labourers are interested in going back home. We discussed the matter with Railway Ministry and made the arrangements. The labourers did not have to spend any money on the travel,” District Magistrate (South West) Rahul Singh said.
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal seeks suggestions from Delhiites on lockdown restrictions||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal at 12 p.m. on Tuesday sought suggestions from citizens on lockdown relaxations post-May 17 and also said the government would send a proposal based on these to the Centre on Thursday. 3L WhatsApp messages Following this, the government claims to have received 3 lakh Whatsapp messages, 5,000 emails and 25,000 recorded messages/suggestions from citizens regarding easing lockdown restrictions post-May 17 in 5 hours (12 p.m. to 5 p.m.). He said the suggestions received will also be discussed with doctors and experts. The suggestions can be sent by calling on the toll-free number — 1031 — WhatsApp number — 8800007722 —or by sending emails to delhicm.suggestions@gmail.com by 5 p.m. on Wednesday. “Yesterday [Sunday], the Prime Minister discussed the situation with all the Chief ministers of the country. He [PM] asked the States the level of relaxations and restrictions that they want,” he said. “The PM has directed that all States should submit their proposal about the lockdown post-May 17 by May 15. I want suggestions from the people of Delhi regarding the removal of lockdown,” he said, adding based on the suggestions, the government will prepare a recommendation and send it to the Center. The virus is spreading and full removal of lockdown “would not be a good idea”, he added. However, Mr. Kejriwal said he wanted suggestions on the tenure and gravity of the relaxation, on the sectors that should get relaxation, and whether the public transport system should begin. “I also want your suggestions on whether markets and industrial areas should re-open. If the relaxations come into play, we have to maintain social distancing, wear masks, and follow all the other norms...,” he said. He also announced a compensation of Rs. 1 crore for the family of civic body teacher who died due to COVID-19on May 4. She served food to the needy but could not report to duty on April 24 owing to ill health. “We all are proud of COVID warriors like her,” he said before announcing the compensation.
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||No quarantine for asymptomatic rail passengers||The Delhi government on Tuesday said that people arriving at railway stations in the city without any symptoms of COVID-19, will not be quarantined and they will be allowed to go to their homes. On the other hand, “mild symptomatic” people will be directed to undergo “home quarantine” and symptomatic people will be tested and quarantined, according to a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for passengers arriving in Delhi by train, released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. “All the asymptomatic persons coming to Delhi shall be allowed to go to their respective home after ascertaining that they are asymptomatic. Further, they would be requested to download Aarogya Setu app on their mobiles, if possible,” the SoP issued by the Health and Family Welfare Department of the Delhi government said. “Ministry of Railways shall ensure that all those boarding the train shall be compulsorily screened and only asymptomatic persons shall be allowed to board the train,” the SoP read.
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||Two arrested in gym trainer’s murder case||Two men were arrested from Punjab in connection with a gym trainer’s murder last year, the police said on Tuesday. The accused — Vikas (27) and Rohit Sagar (30) — suspected sharpshooters of the infamous Kapil Sangean alias Nandu gang was held from Punjab on Monday, they said. The victim — Mohit Mor — who had over 5.17 lakh followers on TikTok was killed on May 21, 2019. The incident took place when Mohit went to meet his friend at a photostat shop in Najafgarh’s Dharmpura when three people on a motorcycle shot him at least 13 times before speeding off. The juvenile involved in the killing was nabbed last year. The police said the arrested men were wanted in several cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion, robbery and MCOCA. They added that a cash reward of Rs. 1,20,000 and Rs. 25,000 was declared on Vikas and Rohit’s arrest respectively. DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said they received information on Monday that Vikas was hiding in Loh Garhh, Zirakpur, Punjab along with his associate Rohit. “A raid was conducted in the area and they were nabbed after a brief chase,” he said. On their instance, two sophisticated pistols along with five live cartridges was recovered from Delhi, he added.
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||Salaries of healthcare workers pending: Mayor||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has not been able to pay salaries to staff of various cadres, including municipal healthcare workers, for the last three months, said Mayor Avtar Singh while appealing for grant of funds from the Delhi government on Tuesday. This comes following a letter by the Municipal Corporation Doctors’ Association to the Prime Minister, raising the issue of salaries and threatening to resign “en masse” as they would be left with no option. Nurses working at hospitals run by the civic body said that they had not received at least two months’ salary. Despite efforts to improve revenue generation and budgetary grants received from the GNCTD, the municipal corporation has not been able to disburse salary for the last three months to various cadres of North DMC. This has not only adversely affected their morale but also put them under immense hardships, said Mr. Singh. In a statement, he wrote that the body has been short of revenue since its formation in May 2012. The non-implementation of the fourth Delhi Finance Commission (DFC) and rejection of certain recommendations of the fifth DFC had caused a major dent in the civic body’s finances, he said. The cumulative effect of non-implementation of the fifth DFC amounts to Rs. 3.683 crore as on March 31, it read.
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||CM taking suggestions after failure to contain virus: Cong.||The Delhi Congress on Tuesday said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was now seeking suggestions from Delhiites as the government had failed to control the COVID-19 pandemic by taking autocratic decisions. “Instead of addressing the issues arising due to the pandemic head-on by taking the suggestions of the opposition parties, Residents’ Welfare Associations and other informed people, Mr. Kejriwal had taken autocratic decisions and now by seeking suggestions wants to pass on the blame to the people for his own failures,” said Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar.
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||IPS rank-officer tests positive; 4 policemen quarantined||An IPS rank-officer of Delhi Police on Tuesday tested positive for COVID-19, said officials. Following this, three to four policemen have been quarantined. Earlier, his PA had tested positive for the virus. The officer has mild symptoms and is currently under home quarantine, they added. According to an order issued by Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava on Tuesday, a detailed SOP has already been issued for daily health monitoring and handling of emergency cases in respect of policemen due to prevailing pandemic.
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||Anuj- Ghaziabad||Gautam Buddha Nagar reported one more death on Tuesday, taking the COVID-19 toll to three, said officials. The district has reported five new cases, they said. District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said a 60-year-old resident of Noida’s Sector 19 died of COVID-19 related infection at Sharda Hospital. His wife is also admitted to the same hospital.
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin-tiwari||BJP Delhi chief Manoj Tiwari on Tuesday demanded an inquiry by the Chief Minister’s Office in the alleged diversion of food items from Hunger Relief Centres. Mr. Tiwari did so on the basis of a video in which dried rotis allegedly high jacked from one such centre were found in large numbers at an undisclosed location. The video was tweeted by a party worker.
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Siesta time||
13 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Opposition takes Punjab govt. to task||Amid the ongoing stand-off between Ministers and Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh in Punjab, not only the Opposition but even a Congress leader on Tuesday took the government to task by pointing fingers at the prevalence of “liqour mafia” in the State. While the former Deputy Chief Minister and Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal said that the “ministers-bureaucrat confrontation” has led to a complete administrative paralysis in the State, Congress Member of Parliament Partap Singh Bajwa asked Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to initiate a probe into the allegations over “liquor mafia”. “Punjab government is at war with itself, leading to an utter collapse of the government machinery,” said Mr. Badal. He said, “...at the core of this collapse is a fight over grabbing liquor mafia benefits. Ministers should stop making a laughing stock of themselves by refusing to sit with this or that officer and come clean on what exactly is their complaint against the officer. But the issue seems to be much more than ego. It is about corruption.” Mr. Bajwa took to Twitter on the issue and asked the Chief Minister to initiate an inquiry. “Given that the Govt has constantly failed in meeting the Excise Deptt.’s revenue targets, the only answer is that there is something wrong within the Department. I fear a Govt-Contractor nexus has formed and this must be probed immediately,” he added. Aam Aadmi Party State president and MP Bhagwant Mann hit out at the Chief Minister, who, he alleged, was acting like a mute spectator in this hour of crisis looming large on the State leadership.
13 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||BJP leaders allege mismanagement in Meerut||With the cases of COVID-19 rising in western Uttar Pradesh, local BJP leaders are complaining against the local administration for mismanagement. After Agra Mayor Naveen Jain wrote to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Rajya Sabha member Kanta Kardam has raised the issue of negligence in Meerut’s Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Hospital, in a letter written to the CM. She said that patients were avoiding getting admitted because of lack of treatment, food, and sanitation facilities in the hospital. She lamented the rising number of deaths in the district, including that of a BJP worker. She added that in certain markets such as Delhi Road, Naveen Mandi and Lohiya Nagar, people didn’t seem to have fear of getting infected despite a spike in the number of cases and the administration was not ensuring proper testing in those areas. She also demanded closure of wine shops as the district was in the red zone and social distancing was not being followed at these outlets. A similar demand was made by Sahibabad MLA Sunil Kumar Sharma. In a letter addressed to the CM, he demanded that if it was necessary to open wine shops, a COVID tax should be levied on liquor and it should be supplied only online. ‘Free hand to officials’ Sources in the party said that some leaders were agitated that the government was not listening to the party’s voices on the ground and had given the bureaucracy a free hand. “Opening the wine shops and letting labourers walk is not good for the party’s image,” said a source requesting anonymity. “People would soon start saying that the BJP is no different from other parties,” he said. On Tuesday, the video of a member of BJP’s district committee Deepak Sharma went viral where he made allegations of corruption against the District Magistrate. A local journalist said one had to see who were raising the voice. “They could be those who had not been given their ‘cut’.” Ms. Kardam told The Hindu that there was no division in the party. “We are fighting the battle against COVID together. Unlike the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party, our cadre is working on the ground. However, there are certain officials who are still living in the past and are not able to put the message of Narendra Modi and Yogi Adityanath into practice. I wanted to highlight the gaps in the process and the CM has taken note of my letter.” The party’s U.P. vice-president said one could not control the virus but one could certainly provide proper facilities to the infected persons. “We can certainly prevent people from dying because of the virus by timely intervention.”
13 May 2020||Indore,||Returning home with broken dreams, rising debts||Unsure if the lockdown will ever be lifted, Suresh Chandra Rawat is driving his place of work back home in Rajasthan. Once a cherished dream, the kulfi faluda counter, occupying half of the modified pick-up truck, is more of a white elephant now. His wife and daughter barely manage to slide behind the counter, atop which the helper is perched precariously. “We were left with nothing to eat in Pune. So, we had to leave,” said Mr. Rawat, 22, headed for Chittorgarh. “I sent my parents money. This time, I had to ask them for Rs. 7,000 to buy food and pay for diesel and toll tax,” added Mr. Rawat, unsure of making it home with Rs. 1,500 left for the remaining journey from Indore. Seated next to Mr. Rawat, who made around Rs. 2,500 a day, is Durgalal Kharol, who made Rs. 400 a day selling ice cream. “ 2020 toh poora gaya (2020 is gone entirely),” he said morosely. The increased demand in the summer offered them an opportunity to make the yearly trip. On the Mumbai-Agra highway are scores of ice cream and kufli vendors from Rajasthan, who’ve lost out on a year’s earning owing to the lockdown. Only at roadside eateries offering food free do workers disgorge. And at one such eatery in Dhule in Maharashtra, the parked pick-up truck bearing the initials ‘RJ’, for Rajasthan, gave Mr. Kharol, 37, some hope. He had started walking back to Bhilwara a week ago with his younger brother, who now sits at the counter’s edge in the truck. “After registering with the local authorities in Pune for transport back home, we waited for 10 days,” said Mr. Kharol, who entrusted his cart to his landlord. “I told him I will return. There is no work back home.” However, Mr. Rawat will take to farming until next summer. “My earnings have been on the wane. Last year, we were shooed away from there. Now six-seven new vendors have come in my area. And now we face the lockdow ,” he said. Hoping to repay debt, his father had landed in Pune seven years ago and bought a push-cart for Rs. 1,000. A part of the debt is still outstanding.
13 May 2020||Kolkata,||Brawl over toilet use triggers violence in Hooghly district||Communal violence, triggered by a minor brawl over use of a public toilet during the lockdown, has spread in parts of Hooghly district. On Wednesday, violence erupted in Bhadreswar and bombs were sporadically hurled. A retired jute mill worker Sekh Shamsuddin, however, said that in Bhadreswar, on the western bank of river Hooghly, they were protected by “Hindu brothers.” “Some men came from outside and attacked our houses, but the Goala (milk traders) community, our neighbours, came out spoke to them and sent them back,” Mr. Shamsuddin told The Hindu . Rajkumar Roy, a neighbour of Mr. Shamsuddin, said that those who came to “create a disturbance were outsiders who were not allowed to mobilise in the area.” He, however, indicated that the incident was “small”. But it was not as small about a kilometre further north in Telinipara, closer to the river. In Telinipara, tension started building since Monday evening as some members of a community were stopped from visiting a public toilet, fearing spread of the virus. Some locals argued that one family in the area was affected and thus the access to the toilet was blocked. The other community protested, resulting in a scuffle, locals said. “Soon after clashes were reported, bombs were hurled, a few shops vandalised, vehicles set on fire. Thankfully No one was killed or even very severely insured,” a policeman said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee issued a warning on Wednesday while blaming the Bharatiya Janata Party’s leaders for the provocation.
13 May 2020||SITAPUR,||Lockdown leaves patients struggling for medical care in U.P.’s Sitapur||It’s around 3 p.m. and patients accompanied by their kin continue to trickle into the district hospital in Sitapur. Several police guards are stationed at the gate but no thermal screening is done for visitors. At the hospital, only the emergency services are running. Some patients arrive in ambulances. At the entrance to the main hospital building, Nandlal Prajapati and a relative push a wheeled stretcher bearing his brother towards an ambulance. The patient is suffering with an abdominal lump and has been referred to the Medical College in Lucknow, 90 km away. This is the second time that Mr. Prajapati’s brother is set to be transferred to another hospital during the lockdown. A migrant worker in Delhi, he was brought to Sitapur in an ambulance after doctors in the national capital refused to operate on him as his family was not around. They could not travel to Delhi. “He was brought home in an ambulance. Here [district hospital] they are telling us they can’t treat him,” said Mr. Prajapati. He said the hospital told him there were not enough beds to admit his brother. Several other patients, including a father-son duo who had suffered injuries after a roof collapsed on them, narrated similar stories of being referred to Lucknow for treatment that they had expected to get at the district hospital. In another corner of the hospital compound, which was built in 1886, Kamruddin and his family are sitting under a tree, their heads bowed in grief. A few hours earlier, his mother Raessa died of internal injuries she suffered after being run over by a tractor trolley in a field. On Sunday evening, when a heavy thunderstorm hit parts of Uttar Pradesh, Mr. Kamruddin’s mother was out tending to the family’s goats as they grazed. Mr. Kamruddin alleged that after spending a night in the hospital when he stepped out for a cup of tea at 6 a.m., he was not allowed to re-enter the premises till 11 a.m., ostensibly to comply with social distancing norms. His mother reportedly died at 8 a.m. Mr. Kamruddin alleged that the hospital lacked proper medical facilities. “You can complain as much as you want, but nothing happens,” he said. As he was speaking, Shubham Shukla, a student whose family owned the tractor that hit Mr. Kamruddin’s mother, tried to defend the hospital. He said the woman was provided all possible emergency services but was too badly injured to survive. The lockdown curbs have compounded the problems of the locals. Doctors are not always available at the community health centres due to COVID-19 duties, and residents, especially those from rural areas, are facing logistical inconvenience due to the travel restrictions. Logistical inconvenience A few metres away, Ram Het, his wife Neelam and her mother-in-law are sitting on benches, waiting for a motorbike to arrive and take them home to Sanda, 50 km away. Neelam fell unconscious a few days ago following which she was brought to the district hospital in an ambulance. Her CT scan report came out fine, providing relief to the family. However, the family’s journey back home appears cumbersome in absence of public transport. “The bike will have to make two trips to take all of us. So I will call another bike. Till it arrives, I will walk,” said Ram. Many patients are even being forced to walk a few miles in the sun if their hospital is in the containment zone. A week ago, Shamsuddin’s wife fell from the roof and fractured her hip. She was rushed to the district hospital from Khairabad, a sealed hotspot, in an ambulance. “I have not been home for eight days. There is nobody else to stay here with her. They are not allowed to leave their area,” he said. The sealing of Khairabad has led to problems for many locals, including Rajendra Kumar, who runs a licensed medical shop in a village 6.5 km away. He is forced to travel 14 km to the district headquarters on a bicycle to get his supplies of medicines. District Hospital Superintendent Ajay Shukla dismissed allegations and complaints by patients that they were being turned away and referred to Lucknow unnecessarily. “We are not rejecting anyone. We only refer those with neurological problems or those who cannot be treated here,” he said. When asked why there was no thermal screening at the hospital, he said only those people who came and reported that they were feverish were being screened. “This can’t be done for everyone. It is for those people who are coming from outside,” he said.
13 May 2020||Wuhan,||Wuhan to test entire population after new virus cluster emerges||Wuhan plans to conduct COVID-19 tests on the Chinese city’s entire population after new cases emerged for the first time in weeks in the cradle of the global pandemic, state media reported on Tuesday. Officials have been ordered to submit plans to administer nucleic acid tests on all residents in the city of 11 million people, according to an official notice carried by news outlets. “Each district should make plans and arrangements to conduct nucleic acid tests on the entire population in its jurisdiction within a 10-day time limit,” the notice said, although it was unclear when testing would begin. The plan come after Wuhan reported the first cluster of new COVID-19 infections since the city re-opened after a 76-day lockdown on April 8. Six new cases were reported on Sunday and Monday from a residential compound in Dongxihu District. But an official from the Dongxihu District epidemic prevention and control commanding office told AFP that they have “not yet received news about this notice”. ‘Not necessary’ Wu Zunyou, chief epidemiologist at the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, told state broadcaster CCTV it was “not necessary” for every person in Wuhan to be tested. “Neighbourhoods without any cases don’t need to screen every person,” Mr. Wu said. China has largely brought the virus under control, but it has been on edge about being hit by a second wave as it has lifted lockdowns and restrictions across the country. Virus clusters have appeared recent weeks in the northeastern provinces of Jilin and Heilongjiang, which border Russia. With the virus taking hold in other nations, China has barred most foreigners from entering the country. Wuhan has reported 3,869 deaths since the outbreak began.
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,||‘A world without global leadership may last for a decade’||The response to the COVID-19 pandemic shows there is no single power that is capable and willing to show global leadership, says Yan Xuetong , one of China’s leading thinkers on foreign affairs, professor at Tsinghua University in Beijing, and author of “Leadership and the Rise of Great Powers”. China faces a great chance to reduce the power gap with the U.S. in 2020, says Mr. Yan, who explains why he is optimistic about the future of relations with India “as long as Donald Trump stays in power”. Edited excerpts:  What has the pandemic revealed to you about the state of leadership among the major powers in the world today? The pandemic shows the lack of global leadership today. A world without global leadership may last for a decade or more. First, there is no any single power that is both capable and willing to undertake global leadership by itself. President Trump has clearly stated that global leadership is a wasteful burden to the U.S. Other major powers, whether motivated or not, do not have the resources for such leadership. Second, the competition between China and the U.S. prevents collective leadership of major powers. Therefore, although there is a vacuum for global leadership, no country seems ready to fulfil it in the near future.  In your writing, you emphasise the importance of a state's moral authority as opposed to only its national power in determining its ability to lead. If we can look at the U.S. first, how do you think the pandemic has affected its global standing?  First, people generally judge a government’s responsibility in fighting against the pandemic according to the efficiency of its anti-pandemic policy, mainly in terms of the casualties. The COVID-19 casualty number in the U.S. is the largest in the world. Second, because the U.S. is the most powerful state in the world, it is the most expected state to undertake leadership in the global fight against COVID-19. Unfortunately, it failed to do so. Third, the international image of America’s response to the COVID-19 crisis depends on the views of the majority of the more than 200 existing political entities in the world. As of now, there are fewer countries holding positive views about the U.S. than those with negative views. China may have emerged faster from the crisis, but it has seen its global image taking a very big hit. Will the damage be long-lasting? According to the same criteria, we can find that China did much better than the U.S. First, the pandemic casualty in China is much smaller than in the U.S. and major European powers. Second, China has provided medical aid to more than 80 countries, much more than what the U.S. did. Third, the list of countries holding positives view of China is much longer than those with negative views. Regarding the issue of the pandemic’s origins, I would suggest my government to raise a proposal to the World Health Organization (WHO) for an inquiry on virus research institutes in all countries heavily infected by COVID-19.  Which country will emerge in a relatively stronger position?  Due to China’s positive attitude and America’s hostility to the WHO, China has gained better reputation and more influence than the U.S. in this international institution. Because China resumed economic activities from the pandemic earlier than other major powers, it has a great chance to reduce the power gap with the U.S. and enlarge the power gap with other major powers in 2020. According to the IMF’s forecast, China’s GDP will grow by 1.2% in 2020, while France, Germany, the U.K., the U.S. and Japan will witness negative growth of -7.2%, -7.0%, -6.5%, -5.9%, -5.2%, respectively.   Looking beyond the U.S. and China, how do you see the role of middle powers changing in a post-COVID-19 world? In the current bipolar configuration, middle powers will be likely to adopt a hedging strategy toward China and the U.S. Hedging strategies were initiated by ASEAN states in 2012. They sided with China on economic issues while with the U.S. on security issues. Recently this strategy becomes popular among middle powers such as Germany, Japan, France, and the UK. After the pandemic, middle powers will become more decisive on hedging because they realise that the bipolar configuration may last for decades.  How do you think this trend of worsening China-U.S. relations, which the pandemic is amplifying, may impact China’s relations with India?  The increase of China-U.S. tensions is likely to drive India to adopt a hedging strategy toward China and the U.S., because of its own interests. Since India is currently closer to the U.S. than China, India’s hedging strategy will mean improving ties with, rather than confronting, China. Trump’s ‘America First’ principle leaves very limited room for India to further improve its strategic cooperation with the U.S. Therefore, I am optimistic about China-India relations as long as Trump stays in power.  China has a chance to reduce the power gap with the U.S. and enlarge the power gap with other major powers in 2020
13 May 2020||Washington,||Trump abruptly ends presser||U.S. President Donald Trump abruptly ended his coronavirus press briefing on Monday after getting into a testy exchange with an Asian-American reporter. CBS News reporter Weijia Jiang asked Mr. Trump why he continued to insist that the U.S. was doing better than other countries when it came to testing for the virus. “Why does that matter?” she asked. “Why is this a global competition when, every day, Americans are still losing their lives?” “They’re losing their lives everywhere in the world,” Mr. Trump replied. “And maybe that’s a question you should ask China. Don’t ask me, ask China that question, OK?” Ms. Jiang, who identifies herself in her Twitter bio as a “Chinese born West Virginian,” pushed back. “Sir, why are you saying that to me specifically?” she said, implying it was due to her race. “I’m saying it to anybody who would ask a nasty question like that,” Mr. Trump said. He then attempted to move on to another reporter. Mr. Trump called on another female reporter but then immediately called on someone else. When the woman tried to ask her question, Mr. Trump abruptly ended the press conference.
13 May 2020||MOSCOW,||Russia climbs to second spot in number of cases||Russia has the world’s second-highest number of COVID-19 cases after reporting another 10,899 new cases on Tuesday, according to an AFP tally. The new cases brought Russia’s total to 2,32,243, surpassing the number of infections in Britain and Spain and now behind only the U.S., which has reported more than 1.3 million of them. Russia has been reporting more than 10,000 new cases per day for over a week. Meanwhile, a fire at a hospital in Saint Petersburg on Tuesday killed five COVID-19 patients who had been attached to ventilators. President Vladimir Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov has also tested positive for coronavirus.
13 May 2020||Beijing,||No new domestic cases in China||China reported no new domestic coronavirus infections on Tuesday, after two consecutive days of double-digit increases fuelled fears of a second wave of infections. On Monday, China's National Health Commission reported 17 new cases. Seven of the new cases were imported.
13 May 2020||Washington,||Biden ramps up digital footprint||Joe Biden is rapidly scaling up his digital campaign as he scrambles to compete with Donald Trump's formidable online operation, but Democrats say the presidential hopeful must move beyond flat speeches delivered from his basement. The Democratic Party's presumptive nominee is doubling the size of his digital team -- currently at a reported 25 people -- and his campaign said Monday it is launching a flood-the-zone approach across multiple online platforms. But with November's election less than six months away and traditional campaigning halted due to the coronavirus pandemic, Biden is in an awkward spot.
13 May 2020||BEIJING,||China waives tariffs on more U.S. imports||China suspended punitive tariffs on more U.S. goods, including radar equipment for aviation, on Tuesday amid pressure from President Donald Trump to buy more imports as part of a truce in their trade war. The Ministry of Finance said tariff increases on 79 types of goods, including radar sets, disinfectant and rare earths minerals, would be suspended for one year starting May 19. Washington agreed in January to cancel additional tariff hikes and Beijing committed to buy more American farm exports. U.S. officials said China agreed to address complaints about its technology policies. Mr. Trump threatened May 3 to terminate the agreement if China fails to buy more American goods. Mr. Trump said earlier that Beijing agreed to buy $200 billion of American farm goods and other exports. China resumed purchases of American soybeans but has yet to confirm the size of its commitment. Mr. Trump’s threat rekindled fears in financial markets of more U.S.-Chinese conflict and potential disruption of global trade even as countries are reeling under the pandemic. Meeting commitments The two sides have raised duties on tens of billions of dollars of each other’s imports in a dispute over China’s technology ambitions and trade surplus. Slumping economic activity due to the virus has prompted suggestions that China might be unable to carry out commitments to boost imports. Tuesday’s announcement was the third Chinese tariff cut since the January deal.
13 May 2020||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong, May 12, 2020 (AFP) -||Hong Kong’s government risks reigniting last year’s unrest by pushing ahead with a controversial Bill outlawing insults to China’s national anthem, opposition lawmakers said. Hong Kong’s leader Carrie Lam on Tuesday said the Bill would be “given priority”.AFP
13 May 2020||Bangkok,||Laos to press ahead with 'destructive' new dam on Mekong||Laos is pressing ahead with plans for another “destructive dam” on the Mekong River. Two dams — the Xayaburi and Don Sahong — have been built in Laos, which wants to construct seven more as it strives to live up to its billing as the “Battery of Asia”.AFP
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Getting cash transfers out of a JAM||For some years now, the so-called JAM trinity (Jan Dhan-Aadhaar-Mobile) has been propounded as a dream cash-transfer infrastructure for India. The term “trinity” itself gives a sense of the faith and fervour this project sought to inspire (why not “trio”?). It was born in chapter 3 of the Economic Survey 2015, titled “Wiping every tear from every eye: The JAM number trinity solution”. This early JAM promo humbly concluded that “nirvana today seems within reach”. JAM’s virtues were praised again in the following year’s Economic Survey. An illusion and its fading What JAM really means, in practical terms, is conveniently vague. The original formulation, in 2015, mentioned two possible incarnations of the trinity: mobile banking and post office payments. The second option never made much headway, perhaps because it did not have enough scope for private profit. So Aadhaar-enabled mobile banking became the supreme goal. In  2017, NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant predicted the imminent demise of all cash-transfer paraphernalia other than mobiles: “... in the next two-and-a-half years, India will make all its debit cards, credit cards, all ATM machines all POS machines totally irrelevant… because every Indian will be doing his transaction just by using his thumb in thirty seconds ...” This utopia was happily embraced by a familiar bandwagon of Aadhaar champions, fintech companies and embedded economists. The intoxication reached new heights as the JAM project latched on to another flourishing narrative — universal basic income (UBI). If you want to make cash transfers to everyone, what better platform can you have than Aadhaar, India’s unique biometric ID, doubling up as a financial address? An illusion emerged that India had developed an ideal infrastructure for UBI, ready to be deployed at any time. It took the novel coronavirus crisis for the bubble to burst. In the early days of the crisis, JAM was often invoked as a possible tool of emergency relief. But when the time actually came to make cash transfers to the poor, JAM turned out to be of little use. For all the excitement it had generated, JAM had not gone beyond some fancy digital-payment systems for the privileged. Poor people, far from using the “thumb in thirty seconds” method to cash in, were still running from pillar to post to collect their meagre benefits from old-fashioned bank accounts (some also use the services of “business correspondents”, but those have little to do with JAM). Sure enough, long bank queues have started emerging, especially in rural areas where the density of banks is relatively low. The crowds are all set to swell further as and when the lockdown is lifted. JAM enthusiasts may respond that the central government’s relief package does rely on Jan Dhan Yojana (JDY) — at least the J in the JAM, if not the entire trinity. Indeed, the lead cash-relief measure in the national relief package consists of monthly transfers of Rs. 500 to women’s JDY accounts. But is that a good idea? One way to think about this is to compare women’s JDY accounts with another possible basis for cash transfers, at least in rural areas: the list of households that have a National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) job card. The numbers of accounts are roughly comparable: about 14 crore for NREGA job cards, and 12 crore or so for women’s JDY accounts in rural and semi-urban areas. For purposes of cash relief, the JDY approach turns out to fare poorly on several counts. Errors galore First, JDY accounts are a mighty mess — the NREGA job-cards list is far more transparent and well-organised. During the frantic initial JDY wave, in 2014-15, banks opened JDY accounts en masse to meet the targets. Banking norms went for a toss: many accounts were opened without informed consent, duplicate accounts flourished, Aadhaar numbers were seeded without any safeguards, and so on. Later on, a large proportion of JDY accounts (40% in March 2017, down to 19% in January 2020) went “dormant” as customers were unable or unwilling to use them. Other accounts were blocked because the account holders were unable to complete timely ex-post biometric authentication (“e-KYC”) of the Aadhaar numbers that had been seeded into their accounts. It is not clear what proportion of JDY accounts are operational today, in the sense that a bank transfer to these accounts will actually reach the recipient in good time. Second, cash transfers to women’s JDY accounts are likely to involve large exclusion errors. According to a recent Yale study, less than half of poor adult women have a JDY account. Consistent with this, a Dalberg study for 10 States finds that the proportion of poor households where at least one adult woman has a JDY account is just 57%. The NREGA job-card list is likely to have much better coverage of poor households. The natural complementarity between NREGA and social security pensions (covering more than four crore persons under the National Social Assistance Programme alone) would further help to reduce exclusion errors. Third, inclusion errors are also likely to be larger in the JDY approach. Job cards are meant for rural workers, JDY accounts are for everyone. National Election Studies 2019 data show that JDY beneficiaries tend to be better-off than NREGA beneficiaries. Earlier survey data, analysed by Manuela Kristin Günther, suggest that the probability of having a JDY account is more or less the same for poor and non-poor households. Some of our middle-class female friends have already received SMS alerts informing them that their JDY account has been credited with Rs. 500 of relief money. Back to cash in hand? What about the respective reliability of NREGA and JDY payments? There have been significant issues (e.g. delayed, rejected, blocked or diverted payments) with NREGA payments, often related to Aadhaar. But then, numerous “direct benefit transfer” schemes (social security pensions, scholarships, maternity benefits, among others) have faced similar problems, also reflected in official transaction data. Both the Aadhaar Payment Bridge System (APBS) and the Aadhaar-Enabled Payment System (AePS) are shot through with technical glitches, possibly exacerbated by the recent surge in transactions, and especially unkind to the powerless. Transfers to women’s JDY accounts are unlikely to be more reliable than transfers to job-card holders. In fact, as far as effective payment is concerned, there is a further argument in favour of the NREGA job-cards list: unlike JDY accounts, it lends itself to the “cash-in-hand” method (on-the-spot payment in cash, instead of bank payments) as a possible fallback. The reason is that the job-cards list is a transparent, recursive household list with village and gram panchayat identifiers. Cash-in-hand may seem like the antithesis of JAM, but this option may become important in the near future if the banking system comes under further stress. There are precedents of effective use of the cash-in-hand method, notably in Odisha for pension payments and in various States for NREGA wage payments. Several States (including Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Tamil Nadu) have already resorted to cash-in-hand for relief payments during the lockdown. In short, there is nothing compelling about the use of women’s JDY accounts for cash relief. In fact, it is a bit of a shot in the dark. The central government would do well to consider other options, including a switch to the NREGA job-cards list in rural areas. As for the JAM trinity, it should come down to earth for a reality check. Jean Drèze is Visiting Professor at the Department of Economics, Ranchi University; Reetika Khera is Associate Professor of Economics at IIM Ahmedabad
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Riding roughshod over State governments||The Central government has so far followed a mostly top-down approach in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic. During lockdowns 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0, the Centre has issued guidelines from time to time, ostensibly under the Disaster Management Act of 2005, containing varying restrictions on public activity and commerce which the States are expected to enforce. The Centre directs the State governments to scrupulously enforce every new set of guidelines, with the States only being allowed to increase and not dilute the restrictions. This centralised approach is counterproductive, has put the federal structure of India under strain, and is in fact beyond the powers of the Central government.  Two examples show why this is counterproductive. One, the Central government, in its latest guidelines, has classified all districts in the country as red, orange or green zones in a bid to lift lockdown restrictions in an area-specific manner. Some States/Union Territories objected to the classification of certain areas/districts as red zones on the ground that these areas are very large. They pointed out that there was no need to keep economic activity on hold in an entire district when cases had been reported only from a small portion of that district. Two, Kerala, probably the best-performing State in terms of its response to COVID-19, was sent a missive by the Central government to refrain from relaxing restrictions in the State. The Kerala government had issued revised guidelines in mid-April following a near-perfect recovery rate and a steep fall in the number of cases. However, the Central government did not trust the wisdom and judgment of the State government in the matter. This centralised approach, apart from leading to undesirable outcomes, may not be strictly legal. A study of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 as well as relevant provisions of the Constitution makes it clear that this practice of issuing guidelines and directions to the States is itself unconstitutional. The federal scheme Under the federal scheme, Parliament can legislate on matters under the Union List (List I), Stage legislatures can legislate on matters under the State List (List II), and both Parliament and State legislatures can legislate on matters under the Concurrent List (List III). The residuary power to legislate on matters that are not mentioned in either List II or List III vests with Parliament under Article 248 of the Constitution read with Entry 97 of List I. Furthermore, the rule of harmonious construction laid down by the Supreme Court in a number of judgments, including in Godfrey Phillips v. State of U.P. & Ors (2005), dictates that the entries in the legislative lists must be interpreted harmoniously, and in the event of any overlap between two or more entries, the specific subject matter contained in a particular entry must be deemed to have been excluded from another entry which may deal with a more general subject matter. Finally, as per Articles 73 and 162, the executive power of the Centre and the States is co-extensive with their respective legislative powers, which means that the Central and State governments can only take executive actions in matters where Parliament and State legislatures, respectively, have powers to legislate. Disaster management as a field of legislation does not find mention in either List II or List III, nor does any particular entry in List I specifically deal with this. Thus, the Disaster Management Act could only have been enacted by Parliament in exercise of its residuary powers of legislation under Article 248 read with Entry 97 of List I. The question is, can the Act be applied at all for dealing with a pandemic. The Disaster Management Act allows the Centre to issue guidelines, directions or orders to the States for mitigating the effects of any disaster. The definition of ‘disaster’ under the Act is quite broad and, literally speaking, would include a pandemic too. Such a reading of the Act would vest the Central government with powers to issue directions and guidelines to State governments for dealing with the pandemic in their States, which is what the Centre has been doing. However, ‘public health and sanitation’ is a specific field of legislation under Entry 6 of List II. This would imply that States have the exclusive right to legislate and act on matters concerning public health. Thus, the Centre’s guidelines and directions to the States for dealing with the pandemic trench upon a field of legislation and executive action that is exclusively assigned to the States — public health. The Supreme Court has held time and again that federalism is a basic feature of the Constitution and although the Union enjoys many more powers than States, the States are sovereign. The Disaster Management Act, having been enacted by Parliament under its residuary powers of legislation, cannot be applied to pandemics in view of the fact that the power to legislate on public health is vested specifically and exclusively with the States. At this juncture, an important caveat must be pointed out. Under Entry 29 of List III, both Parliament and State legislatures are competent to legislate on matters involving inter-State spread of contagious or infectious diseases. Therefore, theoretically speaking, Parliament would be competent to pass a law that allows the Central government to issue directions to the States to prevent inter-State spread of a disease like COVID-19. That law is not the Disaster Management Act which is concerned with disasters in general, and not pandemics in particular. ‘Prevention of inter-State spread of contagious and infectious diseases’ being a specific legislative head provided in List III, the same must be deemed to have been excluded from Parliament’s residuary legislative powers. Therefore, the Disaster Management Act, which has been enacted under Parliament’s residuary legislative powers, cannot be applied to the prevention of inter-State spread of contagious and infectious diseases. Applying another law In fact, a law on this exists — the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, which has the objective of preventing “…the spread of dangerous epidemic diseases.” However, under this Act, it is the State governments which have the prerogative to take appropriate measures for arresting the outbreak or spread of a contagious or infectious disease in their respective States. The Central government’s powers are limited to taking measures for inspecting and detaining persons travelling out of or into the country. Even if that Act were to be amended, it would not empower the Central government to issue directions to the States to contain the pandemic within the State; it can only deal with inter-State spread of the disease. Therefore, instead of resorting to the Epidemic Diseases Act which gives powers to the States, the Centre has applied the Disaster Management Act, which has enabled it to ride roughshod over State governments. This is plainly unconstitutional. The States are not legally bound to observe the directions/guidelines being issued by the Central government and would be well within their rights to challenge them before the apex court. Prashant Bhushan and Shyam Agarwal are advocates practising in the Supreme Court
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Italy, India and a common thread in partnership||May 4 is a date that unites Italy and India in the current COVID-19 scenario. It is the day when both countries courageously decided to strike a fine balance between the need to restore industrial activities and supply chains and the duty to continue protecting their citizens from the spread of the novel coronavirus. Endeavour in a phase What in India is commonly known as Lockdown 3.0 has been defined “Phase 2” in Italy. Regardless of how we call it, the stage that both countries entered that Monday reflects the same endeavour: first, we needed to put our economies and societies on hold to contain the virus; now while still working to strengthen our preparedness and our response to this global challenge, we need to be able to look forward and give our citizens and our businesses a positive outlook in the immediate future. Like India, Italy is also a country whose economy has a solid manufacturing base. That Monday, the new measures adopted by the Italian government allowed 4.5 million people to go back to work: the heart of our economic system started pulsating again. Nearly 50 economic and industrial activities were allowed on a national scale. In parallel, the government adopted new measures to make sure that the nearly three million people employed in the public sector would be able to develop digital processes and streamlined procedures so as to support the prompt resumption of activities by the private sector. It is something that we are also doing here in India, by developing the “Digital Embassy” project that will allow us to create many tools and processes to virtually interact and support our nationals, our businesses and our Indian counterparts. The endgame in Italy is to allow our entire workforce (roughly 24 million people) to recommence their activities. This need not come at the price of safety: the relevant Italian institutions have already defined adequate directives for workplaces and public places. These are based on measures that will resonate with the reader: wearing of face covers; thermal scanning; frequent sanitisation; adequate distancing. About the latter, I avoided the adjective “social” because I believe that it would be more appropriate to talk about physical distancing: sociality will be very much alive, just a little bit different than before. Financial backing The resumption of industrial activities happens in a framework where financial support to businesses and citizens has already been launched both at the national and the European Union (EU) level. In terms of national financial resources, the Italian government has already provided guarantees up to €500 billion to make sure that Italian businesses can have access to the necessary liquidity. It has also adopted measures to support families and small and medium enterprises through grants, loans, debt rescheduling and other form of financial support. Furthermore, the Italian government was the first one to sign a protocol with trade unions for health safety at the workplace. The EU is also doing its part and has reached an agreement on three important safety nets for workers, businesses and sovereigns, amounting to a package worth €540 billion. The establishment of a recovery fund has also been agreed upon. The lockdown adopted by the Italian government is paying out. The numbers related to COVID-19 in Italy still deserve our utmost attention and we will not lower our guard until this threat to public health is removed. And, of course, in case of a resurgence of the contagion, we stand ready to introduce restrictive measures again to counter it effectively. Points of convergence Maybe it is early to draw any lesson from this crisis, but it is already possible to say that the future that we will shape in the post-COVID-19 scenario will have very much to do with our ability to bring public goods and global commons at the centre of the political narrative and agenda. In this mindset, Italy and India will have an extraordinary chance to closely cooperate in the next months, since they will be holding the consecutive Presidencies (Italy in 2021 and India in 2022) of the G20, one of the world’s main fora for global governance. This will prove a unique opportunity to shape the international discourse around priorities that both countries hold dear: from taking advantage of our economic complementarity to strengthening our partnership based on shared values, on our thriving creating industries, scientific knowledge and technological prowess; from the development of a rules-based international system to the promotion of just trade, inclusive growth and the realisation of the 2030 Agenda. In this endeavour we will support an effective multilateral system, which would be the best political accelerator to win our battle against the novel coronavirus and to promote a sustainable, equitable and durable recovery. In this process we will not lose sight of the fight against climate change, since Italy will co-host the 26th session of the Conference of the Parties, COP26, in 2021, together with the United Kingdom, and India is one of the world’s major responsible stakeholders. In a nutshell, at both bilateral and multilateral levels, our dialogue will be based on the main tenets of innovation and sustainability. Innovation because this crisis has transformed the urge to develop new ideas, methods, processes and devices into the “new normal”; sustainability because, paraphrasing a popular saying: “we did not inherit the earth from our ancestors; we borrowed it from our children”. Vincenzo de Luca is the Ambassador of Italy to India
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 and the path ahead||COVID-19 has caused severe disruption across the world. However, there are variations both among and within countries in the number of cases and in case fatality rates. In general, Europe and the U.S. have borne the brunt of the infection, while Asian and African countries have been relatively less affected so far. It is not yet clear why such geographical differences exist; they cannot be explained by healthcare facilities alone. India had reported its first case on January 30, 2020; as of May 12, it has reported over 71,000 cases and more than 2,300 deaths. In comparison, the U.S. and the U.K., which also reported their first cases around the same time, recorded over 13,47,930 cases and over 2,24,330 cases, and over 80,600 deaths and over 32,100 deaths, respectively. The relatively young population of India has been suggested as a possible factor for this stark difference. However, while older people are at highest risk from the more severe consequences of COVID-19, there is no evidence to suggest that younger people are immune to the infection. Differences in case ascertainment may explain some of the patterns: South Korea and Germany tested widely in an effort to identify cases, whereas some countries including India offered testing (at least in the initial stages) to only those with a history of foreign travel or with close contact with a known case. However, this does not explain differences in mortality. Also, case fatality rates may even be an underestimation in India where a number of asymptomatic cases may go undetected. Possible reasons for differences Low temperature and low absolute humidity have been suggested as factors influencing transmission. But this theory needs further proof. Genetic variations may be a possible explanation. During the 2003 SARS epidemic, specific genetic variants that provided resistance or susceptibility to infection were identified in different populations. Population-specific differences such as ACE2 (which permits virus to enter the body) may partly explain the differential infection rates of COVID-19. It is also possible that some Asian and African populations have been exposed to a multitude of coronaviruses previously, which has provided some cross-immunity. The SARS epidemic did not affect South Asian and African countries significantly. Early adoption of countrywide preventive measures may have also played an important role. While European countries reacted with restrictions and closures, it remains a question if these measures were taken too late. India closed its doors to foreign travellers early on in the outbreak and has not seen the surge that could potentially have been expected for a population of 1.3 billion people. Easing of lockdown If the epidemic does spread with generalised community transmission, the healthcare, social and economic implications will be significant.The lockdown in India has played a role in preventing an exponential surge in cases. However, a measured public health approach is critical in controlling this epidemic. Current approaches are largely urban-centric with little focus on rural dynamics. A decentralised approach is required to manage the large rural population, and the success in Kerala may serve as a useful model. Governments may consider mobilising and training a range of healthcare providers (including providers of primary care, and traditional healthcare systems) in responding to this situation. Crucially, the current practice of isolating all cases in hospital settings is not sustainable if cases increase. As it would be impractical to test everyone with symptoms, a case definition based on symptoms and local epidemiological context may be used to diagnose suspected COVID-19 cases. Those with mild symptoms (and their household contacts) should be advised to stay at home. If cases cannot be managed at home, community centres may be deployed for isolation. This approach will ensure that hospitals are available to those who really need them. The lifting of the lockdown needs to be undertaken in a phased manner. One approach would be to ensure that the vulnerable (such as the elderly and the immuno-compromised) are protected beyond initial lockdown periods, while restrictions are lifted for the majority of the healthy population. The disease has generally been mild among most people affected in the subcontinent, and it is possible that herd immunity may develop through gradual exposure among healthy individuals. While lockdown measures are lifted in a controlled manner, government public health agencies need to continue to promote hygiene measures. Physical distancing will need to be continued. Public health messages need to be locally tailored and consistent. They require not only awareness, but also resources as these are largely middle-class concepts and not easy to practice in crowded areas where there is no running water. In conclusion, the approach to the management ofCOVID-19 needs to blend acute disaster management strategies with longer-term public health measures including economic measures. K. Kumaran, G.V. Krishnaveni, Kumar G.S. are public health epidemiologists & Giriraj R. Chandak is a physician scientist
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Reaffirm cooperative federalism||Many exigencies have tested the foundations of our federal democracy, but none as harshly as this pandemic. And when India’s success in defeating COVID-19 actively rests upon Centre-State collaboration, it is indeed its commitment to federalism that is under the most strain.  Federalism, K.C. Wheare notes, traditionally signifies the independence of the Union and State governments of a country, in their own spheres. However, there was nothing traditional about the circumstances in which India’s Constituent Assembly met. Accordingly, even when its members carefully studied the Constitutions of other great federations like the U.S., Canada, Australia and Switzerland, they adopted a ‘pick and choose’ policy to formulate a system suited uniquely to the Republic’s need. As a result, India’s Constituent Assembly became the first-ever constituent body in the world to embrace what A.H. Birch and others have referred to as ‘cooperative federalism’ — essentially defined by administrative cooperation between the Centre and the States, and a partial dependence of the States upon payments from the Centre. Accordingly, Indian constitutional law expert Granville Austin remarks that despite a strong Centre, cooperative federalism doesn’t necessarily result in weaker States; rather, the progress of the Republic rests upon active cooperation between the two. Fissures in cooperation Nevertheless, some recent developments have revealed fissures in Centre-State cooperation. For instance, the zone classifications into ‘red’ and ‘orange’ has evoked sharp criticisms from several States. The States have demanded more autonomy in making such classifications. This is despite the fact that State consultation is a legislative mandate cast upon the Centre under the Disaster Management Act of 2005 (under which binding COVID-19 guidelines are being issued by the Centre to the States). The Act envisages the creation of a ‘National Plan’ under Section 11, as well as issuance of binding guidelines by the Centre to States under Section 6(2), in furtherance of the ‘National Plan’. The ‘National Plan’ then is a broader vision document while the binding guidelines are its enforcement mechanism. Now, Section 11(2) of the Act mandates State consultations before formulating a ‘National Plan’, and to that extent, when the binding guidelines are ultimately issued under it, they are expected to represent the views of the States. However, the Centre has not formulated the ‘National Plan’, and has chosen instead to respond to COVID-19 through ad hoc binding guidelines issued to States, thereby circumventing the legislative mandate of State consultations. In fact, the Home Ministry order ushering in lockdown 3.0 prohibited States from lowering the Centre’s classifications. This selective application of the Act serves to concentrate all decision-making powers with the Centre. Lack of funds The Centre has also declared that corporations donating to PM-CARES can avail CSR exemptions, but those donating towards any Chief Minister’s Relief Fund cannot. This directly disincentivises donations to any Chief Minister’s Relief Fund; diverts crores in potential State revenues to PM-CARES; and makes the States largely dependent upon the Centre. Further, the revenue streams of several States have dried up because of the liquor sale ban; negligible sale of petrol/diesel; no land dealings and registration of agreements. States’ GST collections have also been severely affected with their dues still not disbursed by the Centre. All this has made it difficult for States to defray expenses of salaries, pensions and welfare schemes. As it is the States which act as first responders to the pandemic, supplying them with adequate funds becomes a pre-requisite in effectively tackling the crisis. This requires the Centre to view the States as equals, and strengthen their capabilities, instead of increasing their dependence upon itself. Pranav Verma is a LL.M. candidate at the University of Cambridge and Sughosh Joshi is a 4th year B.A. LL.B. student at NALSAR University of Law, Hyderabad
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Indelicate imbalance||The Supreme Court has failed to discharge a judicial duty it was called upon to perform. Its decision to send the question of restoring 4G connectivity in Jammu and Kashmir for a review to the very authorities who imposed the restriction in the first place is a clear abdication of responsibility. The mandate that the Court enjoys under Article 32 of the Constitution — to enforce fundamental rights — cannot be transferred to the executive. It is quite stark that the three-member Bench has resorted to this measure despite coming to the conclusion that the grievance of the petitioners merits consideration. The judgment is in consonance with a judicial trend that seeks ‘balance’ between rights and ‘national security’. In the J&K context, this approach inevitably results in unquestioning deference to any claim that the executive makes without scrutinising the nature and quality of the claim. The Court has not even pursued the attempt it made in Anuradha Bhasin , to lay down a set of rules by which authorities seeking to impose restrictions on fundamental rights must adhere to the doctrine of proportionality. In that case decided in January, the Court refrained from taking any view on the legality of the government’s imposition of a blanket communication lockdown in J&K in the wake of the abrogation of the special status enjoyed till then by the erstwhile State. However, it held that repeated resort to Section 144 of the CrPC to impose wide restrictions without territorial or temporal limits was unacceptable. It directed the authorities to review each one of them from time to time. In the present case, it has asked two Secretaries in the Union government and the J&K Chief Secretary to consider the case made out by the petitioners for restoring 4G services. The Court acknowledges that it might be better and convenient to have better Internet facilities during a global pandemic and a national lockdown. It also notes that the entire Union Territory has been put under curbs that allow only 2G speed. However, it takes into account two claims by the government: one, that there ought to be limits on data speed to prevent terrorists misusing it to disturb peace and tranquillity; and two, that there has been a spike in incidents of terrorism — 108 incidents, in fact, between August 5, 2019 and April 25, 2020 — in the area. The Court also considered recent incidents including the encounter at Handwara. A question that it failed to ask was how these incidents could be linked to Internet speed when all of them took place while severe restrictions were in place. Without a judicial standard to scrutinise claims made in the name of national security, is it right to use them to dislodge fundamental rights? Further, the institutional discrimination against J&K that this approach causes is not taken into account at all. The delicate balancing the Court attempts is, in fact, no balance at all.
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Perilous state||State finances are in a shambles. Every single State’s, without exception, though the degree may vary. The COVID-19-induced lockdown has dealt State finances a triple whammy. Their own revenue sources — mainly from liquor sales, stamp duty from property transactions and sales tax on petroleum products — that account for half their total revenues, have collapsed. And their expenditure such as on interest payments, social sector schemes and staff salaries remains unchanged. Worse, they are now called upon to spend more on beefing up their health infrastructure and on COVID-19 measures, including testing, treatment and quarantining. So, it is not surprising that all of them, including the gold standard ones such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, are now pleading for funding support from the Centre and relaxation in borrowing rules by the RBI. And the Centre has been watching silently even as some States have gone ahead and cut salaries of their employees and pension benefits to rein in expenses. It could be argued that by seeking consecutive extensions of the lockdown, which imposes tremendous strain on not just their finances but also that of the Centre, the States are wrong in their approach. Are they taking the easy option by seeking extensions and simultaneously demanding financial support from the Centre? Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Maharashtra, in their desperation, commenced liquor sales with outlets flouting all physical distancing norms. The fear is that this could seed fresh infections. The Centre is itself not in a happy place financially. But it at least has the means to replenish its finances through conventional and unconventional means. For instance, it appropriated almost all of the benefit of falling oil prices through increase in duties — Rs. 13 a litre on petrol and Rs. 16 a litre on diesel — in two tranches in March and again, last week. It recently announced an increase in its borrowing by half for this fiscal. The burden is on the Centre to find the resources to immediately release the dues of the States and also reimburse them for their COVID-19-related expenses. It should seriously consider relaxing the fiscal deficit levels of the States from the current 3% level to at least 4.5%, just as it should relax its own level too. The States should at least be able to borrow more. The Centre should also give States the freedom to restart economic activity based on their own assessment. Not all States are in the same virus-spread position and within each State, not all districts are the same. This has to be acknowledged while planning a phased lifting of the lockdown. Greater leeway in restarting economic activity will relieve some of the financial stress, not just on the States but also on the Centre.
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Co-operation in the North-East||The Bill to set up a council for the north-eastern region of India, adopted by the Lok Sabha on Monday [May 11], promises to open a new chapter in the development of that key part of the country. This area has so far been marked by differences between the tribal peoples and the plain-dwellers, and States like Nagaland and Meghalaya have had to be formed out of what was once Assamese territory. The objective behind the regional council is to bring about a co-ordinated approach to the security and development of Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura. To begin with, the council will consist of representatives of these four units and the Tribal Areas Adviser to the Assam Governor. It is hoped Nagaland, which is now keeping out, will also join the council later. The success of this experiment will naturally depend upon how far the participating members are able to pull together in solving regional problems. The available funds will have to be used to the best effect and development plans formulated on a regional rather than on a parochial basis.
13 May 2020||Chennai,||Vettel, Ferrari to part ways at the end of 2020||When Sebastian Vettel joined Ferrari in 2015, the excitement was palpable. Many thought the Italian marque could recreate the success it had had with German great Michael Schumacher in the early 2000s. However, it was announced on Tuesday that Vettel — seen as Schumacher’s successor — would leave the team at the end of 2020, without having won a title so far. What started with great promise, amid a yearning for a return to the glory days, has ended with a whimper — unless Vettel conjures up some magic if a shortened season is held this year. A mess The decision, as seismic as it is, is not entirely surprising, considering the German’s recent career arc. Vettel and Ferrari made a mess of things and cleared Lewis Hamilton’s path in 2017 and 2018, with a mix of reliability concerns and driver errors. In 2017, after having led the standings for a large part of the season, reliability issues in two races and Vettel’s triggering of a multi-car collision in Singapore allowed Hamilton to pick up the pieces and seal the title. There was also the brain-fade moment earlier in Baku when he deliberately drove into Hamilton to make a point and received a big penalty. String of errors In 2018, Vettel’s errors kept piling up: the now-infamous images of him crashing out from the lead in the German GP, the incident in France when he hit Valtteri Bottas, the mistake when battling Hamilton in Italy and the failed move in Baku. All of them proved costly.  Last year was Vettel’s nadir, with new teammate Charles Leclerc getting the better of him. The defining moment came in the Italian GP where Leclerc overcame a raging Hamilton and Bottas to help Ferrari win its first home race in nine years while Vettel spun on his own, rejoined the track dangerously and drove like a rookie. With Leclerc signing up until 2024, the centre of power at Ferrari has shifted decisively. The contrast with Schumacher is striking. After two close title fights in four seasons, Schumacher came back strongly to win five on the bounce (2000-04). Unfortunately for Vettel, it was not to be. The lack of success at Ferrari will reinforce the narrative that he was slightly fortunate to win the four titles he did with Red Bull in dominant cars. It remains to be seen whether the 32-year-old Vettel, a father of three, will even stay in the sport after 2020. There is a possibility that former teammate Mark Webber’s prophecy will come true.  “I think Seb will do everything early in life,” Webber had remarked in 2014. “He's got his titles early, he's going to have a kid early and I think he'll retire early. He'll probably take a blast in the red car (Ferrari), then sayonara.”  In order to get the best possible results in this sport, it’s vital for all parties to work in perfect harmony. The team and I have realised that there is no longer a common desire to stay together beyond the end of this season    Vettel at Ferrari (2015-2019)  Races: 101 Wins: 14 Titles: 0 Poles: 12 Podiums: 54 Fastest laps: 14
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Manmeet Singh passes away||Former men’s National table tennis champion Manmeet Singh, 58, passed away in Montreal on Monday. He is survived by his wife and two daughters. For the past two years, Manmeet was suffering from Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALC), a neurodegenerative disease. He was National junior champion, National men’s doubles champion (with schoolmate and close friend Vinay Chopra), before winning the National singles title beating S. Sriram in Hyderabad in 1989. Manmeet’s senior colleague and former National champion Manjit Dua remembered him as “an extremely competitive and hard-working player”. Kamlesh Mehta, an eight-time National champion, recalled: “Manmeet was the first Indian player to execute the high-toss serve. He learnt it during one of the training stints in Japan. I remember, soon after he returned from Japan, I played him in Mumbai. Trust me, I couldn’t figure out his serves. Later, we all learnt the trick.” Rinku Gupta, the National women’s singles champion when Manmeet won the men’s crown, remembered him for not only his fierce forehand top-spin and timely backhand openings, but also fondly recalled his caring ways. “Manmeet was like an elder brother, always encouraging and motivating me. In Hyderabad, more than me, he believed I could become the National champion,” she said. Condolences The news of Manmeet’s passing away has cast a pall of gloom in the country’s table tennis circles. Table Tennis Federation of India secretary M.P. Singh, advisor Dhanraj Choudhary, among others, expressed shock and grief at the passing away of a “fine champion”. As Kamlesh aptly summed up, “Manmeet was a fighter in the arena, very aggressive, but off the table, he was a great pal. “We were of the same age and shared a lot. It’s hard to believe Manmeet is no more.”
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Time to modernise the lbw law||The 12th century French thinker and theologian Peter Abelard is credited with the saying, “Only god can judge the intentions of an individual.” Human beings can only judge actions. Yet, when the leg before wicket law was codified, in the 18th century, it stated the batsman was out if he “put his leg before the wicket with a design to stop the ball…” Umpires were thus called to judge intention. Law 36 has remained a bugbear, calling for judgement of line, intent, and recently, predictive path decided by a robot. It requires the impact to be between wicket and wicket. The batsman could be out even outside the off stump, according a later refinement, if he made no attempt to play the ball. But a ball pitching outside the leg stump, as every schoolboy knows, cannot get an lbw decision. The Don’s take In the 1930s, Don Bradman wrote to the Marylebone Cricket Club, custodians of the Laws, suggesting that a batsman be given out to a ball pitching outside the off stump if in the opinion of the umpire it would have gone on to hit the stumps (regardless of where it pitched). “Leg guards are designed to prevent injury,” wrote Bradman, “not to enable protection of the stump.” Now Ian Chappell has said much the same thing (“The pads are there to save the batsman from injury not dismissal.”) while advocating that a ball pitched outside the leg stump be treated similarly. In espncricinfo he says the Law should read, “Any delivery that strikes the pad without first hitting the bat and, in the umpire’s opinion, would go on to hit the stumps is out regardless of whether or not a shot is attempted.” So much simpler and logical. Desired effect It echoes a proposal by the County Cricket Council in 1881 which the MCC did not accept. In 1902 it was tried out by the second class counties, and the consensus was that it had the desired effect of stopping men playing with their legs and not the bat. But what is so special about the ball pitched outside the leg stump in the first place? There are two issues, one cultural, and the other physical. The physical was spelt out by Ranji in his Jubilee Book of Cricket thus: “A good length ball pitching on or just outside the leg stump is the most likely of all to light upon the ‘blind spot’.” His friend and equally famous cricketer C B Fry clarified further: “the blind spot is created by the batsman himself when his head is in such a position with regard to the ball that his eyes have no chance.” All sports that involve a moving ball have blind spots for the player, but only a batsman is protected from dismissal by the rules. If it was done to discourage negative bowling, umpires have the power to deal with that now. Gentleman’s game The cultural reason is interesting, and should have no place in today’s cricket. In Victorian times when the game developed, it was considered ill-mannered, uncouth, vulgar even, to play a shot behind the wicket on the leg side. It was about the class system, the amateur spirit, Henry Newbolt and his Play up! Play up and play the game. It was not Christian. Which perhaps explains why, after Ranji invented the leg glance, it was said he never played a Christian stroke in his life! As Fry explained, “ if one hit the ball in an unexpected direction on the on side, one apologized to the bowler… the opposing captain never put the fielder there; he expected you to drive on the off side like a gentleman.” Over the years, batsmen have got away with pad play, kicking away spinners on a wearing pitch, or playing bat and pad close together to confuse the umpire who has to decide which the ball hit first. Increasingly batsmen dominate the modern game, so they can afford to give up some of the protection provided by the Laws. Chappell’s proposal is sound: Forget where the ball pitches and whether it strikes the pad outside the line or not; if it’s going to hit the stumps, it’s out.  Back to basics It will return cricket to its basics: bowlers trying to hit the stumps, and batsmen preventing them from doing so with bat in hand. Pads, gloves, helmets, thigh guards, elbow guards, forearm guards, boxes, rib shields, chest guards are protective equipment meant to give batsmen a sense of physical safety. Like umpires, they should be noticed only when they fail at their jobs. Or, in the case of gloves when the ball nicks them on the way to a fielder, and pads when they get in the way of the stumps regardless of where the ball has previously been. The MCC hasn’t said yes to Bradman’s suggestion yet, so Chappell might have to wait awhile.
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||We have to get local guys to play first: Sunder||It is hard for active sportspersons to stay idle for long. Considering COVID-19’s devastating impact, a lot of caution is required before sports can spring back to life. “Everyone is keen to resume the sport. We have discussed what needs to be done to get players back on tennis courts. There are guidelines from the International Tennis Federation (ITF) and the USTA,” said Sunder Iyer, secretary-general of the Maharashtra Tennis Association and executive member of the All India Tennis Association (AITA). “We have to localise. We may have to keep crowds away. We may have to keep parents away,” Having organised more than 1,500 tournaments at all levels, Sunder is clear about the path ahead. “We have to get the local guys to play first. Starting with restrictions to facilities for people of that area. “Even for the AITA, we have worked out a plan, starting with local level tournaments so that there is not much travel involved,” said Sunder, in an Instagram conversation with coach M. Balachandran. Sunder visualised players travelling by October, and getting into their groove before that with local events. Ideal time He suggested that tennis may have to grow, to be more popular. The fresh start could be the ideal time to tweak the norms. “Most of the corporates are playing golf,” said Sunder, about the need to keep tennis close to the hearts of the decision makers. It is hard on the fans. They cannot bring water or food. No walking, no talking in the stands. People are coming to watch sports to enjoy. As a sport, we may have to grow,” he said.
13 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||We don’t want the rowers to suffer: Rajlaxmi||Rowing Federation of India (RFI) president Rajlaxmi Singh Deo has insisted that rowing activities will continue despite the body being de-recognised by the Union Sports Ministry. “We don’t want the rowers to suffer, especially with the Olympics scheduled next year,” Deo told The Hindu on Tuesday. “Already, all the preparations and efforts for the originally scheduled Tokyo Games have gone down the drain with the postponement. ‘Disappointing’ “The Sports Ministry’s decision means that we will not be funded for our foreign exposure trips, no travel concessions (by train) and participation, and most importantly we will not be allowed to use the ‘India’ tag. This is disappointing. For India, rowers have won 198 international medals, including 23 at the Asian Games (two gold, five silver and 16 bronze), and rowing has ranked as one of the best medal prospects at the Asian level,” she said. “We will continue to hold the camps, the Nationals since the Olympic qualifiers are scheduled in Korea next April. Essentially, the RFI will ensure that the morale of the rowing fraternity is high by continuing the activities which we have been doing even without the support of the government.”  On de-recognition of the RFI and the path ahead, Deo said, “What is most saddening is … [there was] no specific reason assigned for it. Last time they said the elections were not properly held. So, we had the elections again this February in the presence of an IOA observer and other senior officials. We are in a stalemate. We will have to wait and watch how things shape up in the days to come.” Dronacharya awardee and chief national coach Ismail Baig hoped national camps would begin this July after the COVID-19 threat subsides, even though the government has hinted that any sports training will be first resumed at SAI centres. “For rowing, we have SAI centres in Andaman, Jagatpur and Alleppey. So, we will soon come out with an action plan to put the rowers back in the waters and not be too worried about this latest development,” Baig said.  We will continue to hold the camps, the Nationals since the Olympic qualifiers are scheduled in Korea next April. Essentially, RFI will ensure that the morale of the rowing fraternity
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||IPL cancellation will hit BCCI hard||Scrapping the money-spinning Indian Premier League this year because of the coronavirus pandemic would cost more than half a billion dollars, but cutting players’ pay was not yet being considered, a top official has told AFP. “The BCCI is looking at a big revenue loss. In case the IPL does not take place, the loss would be close to Rs. 40 billion rupees ($530 million), or even more,” said Board of Control for Cricket in India treasurer Arun Dhumal. We are not sure whether we will be able to have it this year,” he admitted. “We will only be able to figure out the exact revenue loss once we are sure of how many games we have lost,” said Dhumal. But Dhumal, who joined the BCCI leadership last year alongside president Sourav Ganguly and secretary Jay Shah, said that it was hoped to avoid pay cuts for players.
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Women’s U-17 WC in Feb-Mar 2021||The FIFA U-17 Women’s World Cup, originally scheduled to be held later this year, has now been rescheduled to February 17-March 7, 2021. The new dates were announced by FIFA as part of the decisions confirmed and approved by the Bureau of the FIFA Council after an assessment of the COVID-19 impact. However, the age eligibility for players is the same, making even those turning 18 in this period eligible for participation since the organisers have decided to treat the tournament as the 2020 edition only. The 2020 U-20 Women’s World Cup, in Costa Rica / Panama, has also been rescheduled to January 20-February 6, 2021 while the 2020 Futsal World Cup would be held from September 12-October 3, 2021 in Lithuania. The tournaments, though, remain conditional subject to further monitoring of the pandemic.
13 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Ministry sanctions aid for archer’s treatment||The Union Sports Ministry on Tuesday sanctioned financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakh for the treatment of 16-year-old Pragati. The Delhi-based archer, who competed in the World youth archery championship in Madrid last year, suffered a brain haemorrhage on May 5 and underwent surgery the following day. Since then, she has been on ventilator support. According to sources, the treatment so far has cost around Rs. 16 lakh. Of the total expenses, Rs. 5 lakh has been paid from the Khelo India Games insurance.
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||Balbir Singh Sr. remains critical||Hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr on Tuesday suffered a cardiac arrest and his condition remains critical, his grandson Kabir said in a medical update. The 96-year-old, a triple Olympic gold medallist, was hospitalised in Mohali on May 8. “ Nanaji was admitted on Friday, 8th May in a very serious multi-organ affected state. His condition had improved slightly but was, and is still, critical now. Doctors will be continuously assessing his condition over the next 24-48 hours,” said Kabir.
13 May 2020||CHENNAI,||GI tag for Sohrai Khovar painting, Telia Rumal||Jharkhand’s Sohrai Khovar painting and Telangana’s Telia Rumal were given the Geographical Indication (GI) tag on Tuesday by the Geographical Indications Registry headquartered in Chennai. The application for the painting was made by Sohrai Kala Mahila Vikas Sahyog Samiti Limited while the application for Telia Rumal was made by the Consortium of Puttapaka Handloom Cluster-IHDS. Local traditions “The Sohrai Khovar painting is a traditional and ritualistic mural art being practised by local tribal women during local harvest and marriage seasons using local, naturally available soils of different colours in the area of Hazaribagh district of Jharkhand. Telia Rumal cloth involves intricate handmade work with cotton loom displaying a variety of designs and motifs in three particular colours — red, black and white,” said Chinnaraja G. Naidu, Deputy Registrar of Geographical Indications. He added that the GI tag has been given to both these products after due verification. The Sohrai Khovar painting is primarily being practised only in the district of Hazaribagh. However, in recent years, for promotional purposes, it has been seen in other parts of Jharkhand. Traditionally painted on the walls of mud houses, they are now seen on other surfaces, too. The style features a profusion of lines, dots, animal figures and plants, often representing religious iconography. In recent years, the walls of important public places in Jharkhand, such as the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi, and the Hazaribagh and Tatanagar Railway Stations, among others, have been decorated with Sohrai-Khovar paintings. Historic weave Details provided in the application filed with the Geographical Indications Registry shows that Telia Rumal can only be created using the traditional handloom process and not by any other mechanical means as otherwise, the very quality of the Rumal would be lost. During the Nizam’s dynasty, Puttapaka, a small, backward village of the Telangana region of Andhra Pradesh had about 20 families engaged in handloom weaving, who were patronised by rich Muslim families and the Nizam rulers. The officers working in the court of the Nizam would wear the Chituki Telia Rumal as a symbolic representation of status. Telia Rumals are offered at the dargah of Ajmer Sharif in Rajasthan, with some devotees offering 50 or even 100 cloths. Telia Rumals were worn as a veil by princesses at the erstwhile court of the Nizam of Hyderabad; and as a turban cloth by Arabs in the Middle East.
13 May 2020||May 13 2020 07:19 IST,||Sudoku - May 13, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||Train services resume, but not all happy as many are left stranded||A group of anxious migrant labourers stood outside the New Delhi railway station hoping to hitch a ride back to their home town in one of the passenger trains, as select services resumed on Tuesday. Their anxiety turned into grief when they saw shut ticket counters, and later, informed that the tickets were sold online and the police were letting only those with valid e-tickets to enter the station. And even if they found some means to purchase tickets online, they couldn’t afford the price. Some had walked 85 km, some had spent the entire night on the station premises, some had come with parents and children, some had come from various States, but their hopes were shattered. Like Brajesh Kumar and Ram Paswan, aged 22 and 23 respectively, walked 14 hours, from Shahid Bhagat Singh Chowk in Rewari, Haryana, to reach the station. “We had no money to hire a taxi. Now, we are told that the ticket prices are over Rs. 1,500 per head. How will we get that money,” asked the duo, who were working at a local factory, which shut after the nationwide lockdown “Our only option is to head back to our home town in Bihar’s Gidha is on foot,” said Kumar. In sheer desperation, he is asking people for the road that leads to his district. With the option of returning to Rewari ruled down, they decided to spend the night at a shelter in the station premises. A group of Gorakhpur-bound painters — Prince Raj Prajapati (19), Shahbuddin (20), Dil Sher (20) and Sahil Raja (20) — thought they could manage some discount on the tickets, only to be turned away by the police. “We hoped the police will help us get into a train. But that is not happening. We don’t know what we are going to do now,” said Prajapati. No app, no entry Mohammed Saddam Hussain (30), his wife and their one-and-a-half-year-old baby were calmly waiting for their turn to enter the railway station when someone asked if he had installed Aarogya Setu app on his mobile. The Indian Railways had made it mandatory for passengers travelling in 15 special trains. “We don’t now what it is. We have the online ticket. Is that not enough?” Hussain queried, before he frantically sought help to install the application. Fellow construction worker Mohammad Tanvir, who was to board the train for Katihar in Bihar, too encountered a similar problem. Till 7.30 p.m. on Monday, more than 18,000 tickets were booked online.
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Taking online exams will prove difficult’||Over 74% of Delhi University students, who took part in a survey by the All India Students’ Association (AISA), said they would have trouble taking online examinations, the group said on Tuesday. In a survey of 1,500 students from the university, the AISA asked questions regarding online examinations as well as other issues. The survey gains significance in light of a recent notification from the university’s Dean of Examinations inviting suggestions and comments on holding examinations in the present academic year. With regard to availability of smartphones or computers, up to 62.6% of the students surveyed said that they did, however, nearly 72.2% of these students said that they had connectivity issues as a consequence of which they could not attend online classes. Apart from this, 11.6% said they couldn’t attend classes due to financial incapability and 7.6% said they were facing difficulties due to household chores. Study material Among those surveyed, 44.4% said that the college or department was undertaking online classes while 37.7% said that only some classes were being taken. Most students, however, said that only a few teachers were providing study material with nearly 23.4% saying that they weren’t provided study material in the language of the examination. Only 22.4% of all surveyed reported that they were able to attend all online classes. Apart from this, 68.2% students also said that they were facing difficulties paying rent. In separate surveys carried out by SFI, Ramjas College, over 60% of the students did not have access to continuous high-speed Internet and at LSR college, 40% students did not get continuous supply of electricity, the group said in a statement. Arguing against the online classes to complete the syllabus and conduct examinations, the SFI said, “It is highly worrying to know that a 15-member working group on examinations formed to study all matters related to examinations, review the preparedness to conduct the examinations of 2019-20 session and take appropriate steps in this regard do not have student representation which raises the concern of the students’ plights being neglected.”
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||HC relief for DMC chief in sedition case||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday ordered that no coercive action will be taken against Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) chairperson Zafarul Islam Khan, who is facing a sedition case over a tweet posted last month, until June 22. The court order came on Mr. Khan’s anticipatory bail plea. Mr. Khan, 72, said in his plea filed through advocate Vrinda Grover that he suffered from heart disease and hypertension and was highly susceptible to COVID-19 infection, which can have fatal consequences for a person of his age and health condition. On April 30 last, the police registered a case under Section 124A (sedition) and 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) against Mr. Khan on a complaint received from a Delhi resident, who alleged that the DMC chief has ‘made a social media post on Twitter and Facebook [on April 28] and the contents of the post are provocative, intended to cause disharmony and create rift in society’. Mr. Khan said the FIR against him was “misconceived, being made on a misrepresentation of facts and an erroneous, untenable reading of the law”. Laptop given to police On Monday, the police said Mr. Khan submitted his laptop to a police team probing the case against him for his “controversial” social media post. Mr. Khan was served a notice to give the device that was used to post the message. He provided the laptop and it had been sent to a forensic science laboratory, the police said. Mr. Khan had defended his post, saying it was on the plight of the minority population that had been targeted by certain elements in society, and further acknowledged the role of the international fraternity in raising concerns regarding the well-being of Indian Muslims.
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||Online liquor sale would be fraught with security and safety issues: HC||Expressing concern over the suggestion relating to home delivery of alcohol through food delivery platforms, the Delhi High Court has asked the Centre and the Delhi government, to take a call with regard to sale of alcohol and ensuring there is no crowding outside liquor vends during COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench of Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Justice Sangita Dhingra Sehgal said, “From the news reports of conduct of patrons of alcohol, on reopening of liquor outlets after more than a month, it appears that home delivery of alcohol would be fraught with security and safety issues”. “The possibility of alcohol being snatched during transit cannot be ruled out. The possibility of home delivery of alcohol would also increase the possibilities of adulteration of alcohol, also resulting in loss of life,” it said.
13 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||PCI condemns Delhi Police approach on news report||The Press Club of India (PCI) on Tuesday said that Delhi Police compelling a journalist from The Indian Express to report to the Crime Branch and disclose the basis of a news report is an affront to every canon of independent and responsible journalism. The PCI said that it strongly rejects the approach by the police and criticised the government for letting it pass. “The report that the Delhi Police found ‘inaccurate’ and ‘conjectural’ [reporting] fulfils every criterion of serious, good journalism. The police action, in contrast, suggests a cover-up,” the PCI said in a statement. The PCI said that according to the news report, the Crime Branch had alleged that an audio clip which purported to show Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Khandhlavi asking his members not to follow social distancing norms and prohibitory orders, may be “doctored”. The PCI added that the report was based on a 45-page guideline on the Bureau of Police Research and Development which cited the Crime Branch.
13 May 2020||New Delhi,||Jamia gets ready for online placement drives||The placement cell of Jamia Millia Islamia on Tuesday announced that it will be organising online placement drives to ensure students do lot lose out on internships and job opportunities due to the lockdown. JMI V-C Najma Akhtar said the University Placement Cell has recently adopted an automation platform for training and placement process and is ready with its portal for online placement drives. “The UPC is coordinating with many companies for this purpose. Most of the companies have adopted working-from-home model and they are extending internships and jobs in such cases,” the university said.
13 May 2020||NEW.DELHI,||FIR registered against former MP Pappu Yadav||The Delhi Police have registered an FIR against former MP Pappu Yadav under the Epidemic Act for violating lockdown orders, said a senior police officer on Tuesday. . A group of around 200 migrant workers gathered at Okhla Mandi area demanding to go back to their home villages in Bihar. After sometime, Mr. Yadav arrived at the location and assured that he will request the government and make some arrangement for protesting workers to go back their home at the earliest. After meeting workers, Mr. Yadav left the location, said a police officer.
