13 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bracing for a rapid surge in cases: govt.||With the nationwide death toll from COVID-19 touching 273 and the number of positive cases reaching 8,447 on Sunday, the Union Health Ministry said India is preparing for a possible exponential surge in cases. “We would rather be over-cautious and over-prepared,” a Ministry official said while admitting that the recent resurgence in COVID-19 cases in some countries was a matter of concern. According to data released by the Ministry, the country registered as many as 909 new cases and 34 deaths since Saturday evening. The fatalities included 17 from Maharashtra, five from Delhi and three each from Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. As many as 716 persons have been cured/discharged after treatment. Amid demands for ramping up health surveillance, the Centre said it is expanding the COVID-19 testing capacity in State-run as well as private medical colleges. The Centre’s proposals came even as a Punjab police officer’s hand was chopped off in a brutal attack on a team enforcing lockdown restrictions amid reports that plans were under way to ease some curbs during the likely extension of the lockdown. According to reports from the State Health Departments, the total number of cases stood at 9,205, with 7,880 active ones. The death toll was was 332. Maharahstra recorded 149 deaths, with 1,625 active cases, while Tamil Nadu recorded 1,014 active cases, with 11 deaths. Delhi had 1,104 active cases as the toll in the national capital climbed to 24. Kerala, however, saw 36 more patients cured of the disease, adding only two positive cases. A total of 179 persons have been discharged in the State, with only two deaths reported so far.  More testing facilities Addressing the daily press briefing, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said that with the average rate of over 4% growth in cases recently, the government is expanding testing capacity in State-run as well as private medical institutions. “The government is extra prepared if the number of cases rises exponentially,” the official said. “Fourteen mentor institutes, including the AIIMS and NIMHANS, have been identified to mentor the medical colleges and expand testing capacity,” he added. An Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) official said more than 1,86,906 samples had been tested across the country. “In the past five days, on an average, 15,747 samples were tested per day,” the official added. He said that while 40-plus COVID-19 vaccines were under consideration across the world, none had moved to the testing phase. On the resurgence of cases in countries such as China, Mr. Agarwal said, “This is a new virus and there is much that we are still learning about it. We have taken this new development into account and are taking serious note of it.” Boost to primary care “We are now focussing on increasing the capacity of primary medical infrastructure which includes dedicated hospitals, isolation beds, ICU beds, and quarantine facilities, he said. “Currently the requirement of beds for 8,356 cases is estimated to be 1,671 (20% of confirmed cases with moderate and severe/critical clinical symptoms), the present availability of beds is 1,05,980 in 601 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals across the country. The number of isolation beds in dedicated hospitals across the country is being further augmented,” he added.
13 April 2020||Kolkata,||In lockdown, the big top collapses||Madhusudan Ghosh had built a career around his ability to make audiences laugh in Empire Circus, but when asked if he is coping well in these difficult times, he broke down. “No I am not, none of us are,” the 65-year-old ‘joker’ at one of the oldest circuses in Bengal said. Mr. Ghosh and 41 others have sought refuge in a large rectangular field in Haroa block of North 24 Paraganas, about 50 km from Kolkata. Empire Circus has been running for 40 years but never witnessed a calamity like this, said Mr. Ghosh, on the COVID-19 lockdown. “Our tent was dismantled. We are under the sky and the day before, when the storm hit us, we were scared,” he explained. It has rained frequently in parts of the State, making life more difficult for 42 performers of Empire Circus. The circus was supposed to perform twice a day between February 25 and March 25 and move to the next block, but it all stopped midway. The owner left after paying “some money.” “I cannot send any money home now and the family is in deep trouble,” said Mr. Ghosh, who has three sons doing odd jobs. Helpless women Things are even more difficult for Raj Kumari of Uttar Pradesh. As the manager of a five-member women’s squad who came from Kushinagar, she must care for the entire group. “The girls are desperate to go back as it is painfully difficult to stay in this open area, with no income,” she said. The performers, from Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal earn between Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 20,000, based on their roles. The performers and their manager praised local panchayat chief Farid Jamad and Block Development Officer of Haroa Dipankar Das for arranging food twice daily. Mr. Ghosh has a son working with the troupe. A decision to lift the lockdown for three days could help all return safely. “I appeal to the government,” he said.
13 April 2020||BENGALURU,||17 new COVID-19 cases reported in Karnataka||As many as 17 new cases of COVID-19 were reported in Karnataka on Sunday. This is the highest number of cases reported in the State in one day. These cases were reported from five districts between 5 p.m. on April 11 and 5 p.m. on April 12. With this, the total number of cases in the State stands at 232. Earlier, the State had reported 16 positive cases each on April 4 and April 9, which were the highest number of new cases reported on one day then. Among 17 persons who were tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, the highest number was from Vijayapura, where six people tested positive. Four cases were reported from Belagavi district and three each from Bengaluru and Kalaburagi. One case was reported from Mysuru. The person is the employee of the pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud which reported its first positive case last month. It is one of the largest clusters in the State. Of the 17 cases reported in the State, seven are contacts of positive patients, four are patients who have Severe Acute Respiratory Illness and the district administration is yet to trace how four patients from Vijayapura got the infection. Besides, there are senior citizens and four are below 13 years. Out of the 232 patients, 54 have been discharged and six of them dead. Out of the 172 patients who are in isolation at designated hospitals, four are in intensive care unit. To control fatalities, the elderly, those with co-morbidities and immuno-compromised patients with COVID-19 require advanced healthcare at appropriate time. To tackle this, a critical care support team has been constituted at the State level to provide medical advice to treating physicians of all government hospitals in Karnataka. K.V. Thrilok Chandra has been appointed Special Officer for High Risk COVID-19 cases and he will be heading the team.
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,||One more death, 106 fresh positive cases in Tamil Nadu||One more person lost her life to COVID-19 infection on Sunday, taking the total number of deaths in Tamil Nadu to 11. The number of positive cases recorded on Sunday was 106. The 45-year-old woman, who was admitted to the Government Omandurar Multi-Super Speciality Hospital around 11 a.m. on April 5, developed breathlessness and died at 7 p.m. on Saturday, according to a bulletin. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh told mediapersons that as many as 106 new positive cases were reported in the State, taking the total number of cases to 1,075. While 16 of them had travel history, as many as 90 of them had contracted the infection by coming in contact with them. Of the 49 persons who had shown symptoms of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), two tested positive for COVID-19 infection. Both had been infected after they came into contact with people who tested positive for COVID-19, she said. Two large clusters The new infections were found in two large clusters — one in Chennai and the other in Coimbatore. A cluster of 22 persons, all from Coimbatore, had tested positive. Of these, two were the primary source of infection and 20 others came in contact with them. In Chennai of the 18 new positive infections, four were identified as primary infection and 14 others had been in contact with them.  While two persons tested positive (one primary) in Chengalpattu; four persons who contracted the infection had been identified in Cuddalore. One person who came in contact with an infected person tested positive in Dindigul and four others, including two who contracted the infection and two others who had come in contact with them, tested positive in Erode. Three persons who had been in contact with infected persons tested positive in Karur, whereas four persons, including three of them who had come in contact with an infected person tested positive in Namakkal. Six persons, including two from Ranipet and four from Salem, who come in contact with an infected person had tested positive. One person each from Tenkasi and Tiruvallur reported positive.
13 April 2020||Nellore,||Student from Nellore district shot at in U.S., critical||A youth hailing from Madamanuru village near Manabolu in SPSR Nellore district in was shot at by miscreants at Maryland Heights, St.Louis on April 9, according to information received by his family members here. The student, Dega Dheeraj Reddy who was pursuing MS from Eastern Illinois University, Charleston, was admitted in a critical condition to a hospital in St. Louis, his uncle Anil Kumar Reddy, who received a communication from the External Affairs Ministry, said. Dheeraj had lost early his parents living in Lingampalli village, near Podalakur, then and was raised by his maternal grandparents. He had worked with an IT company in Bengaluru for a short spell before resuming studies in January this year. Meanwhile, his friend Kishore Chittamuru raised funds for his hospitalisation expenses through a crowdfunding platform. “On April 9, 2020, at 11:00 AM, our beloved friend Dheeraj Kumar Reddy Dega suffered a gunshot on his way from the gas station at Maryland Heights, St Louis, MO. His injuries are severe and was admitted in Mercy Hospital, Ballas Rd. The bullet entered from left side of the abdomen and ended up on the right side damaging the intestines and liver, he is currently on ventilator and the condition is critical. He is still to undergo multiple surgeries and the bullet is yet to be removed. On a positive note, his heart rate and blood pressure are better than last night and hoping for recovery,” he said.
13 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pandemic impact: first batch of Rafales likely to fly in late||The arrival of the first batch of Rafale fighter jets for the Indian Air Force is likely to be delayed by around three months due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as France battles rising infections and deaths, and continuing lockdown restrictions, which have also impacted the training schedule, defence sources said. “In mid-March there were 8-9 weeks of training left before the first major group could move to India for starting operations here. Some logistic support equipment and test equipment were also to be flown to Ambala beginning April, which is postponed as of now due to the lockdown and restrictions on flights imposed by India,” a defence source told The Hindu on condition of anonymity. ‘No clear timeframe’ In addition, the lockdown restrictions are expected to continue in France at least till the end of April due to severity of the outbreak. “So, it is only obvious that we expect corresponding delay,” the two sources separately stated. “Taking in the delay due to the lockdown in France, followed by any restrictions on flights and personnel coming from Europe imposed by India, we could be looking at July[for the arrival of the aircraft],” the first source stated, adding that the timeframe was not clear yet. In October 2019, on a visit to France for the second India-France ministerial-level annual defence dialogue, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh took formal delivery of the first Rafale jet built for the IAF at the Dassault Aviation’s facility in Merignac. The jets were scheduled to arrive in India by May 2020.
13 April 2020||Tharun Boda,||Tally reaches 420 as 15 new cases emerge||The State reported 15 fresh cases of coronavirus infection on Sunday, taking the total to 420. Seven of the COVID-19 positive cases were reported from Guntur which has been witnessing a constant increase in the number of cases in the past few days. Nellore reported four new cases and Kurnool, which has the highest number of cases, reported two more cases while Chittoor and Kadapa districts reported one new case each, according to the evening bulletin issued by the Health Department. On the bright side, a 65-year-old patient has recovered and got discharged from the Government General Hospital in Vijayawada. The man with COVID-19 symptoms and with a history of travel to Mecca, tested positive and got admitted to hospital for treatment on March 27. He had come to Vijayawada from Mecca on March 10. He tested negative for the virus thrice and was discharged as per treatment protocol. At present, there are 401 active cases being treated in hospitals across the State. Seven persons have died and 12 persons recovered till date. So far, Kurnool has reported 84 cases followed by Guntur (82), Nellore (52), Prakasam (41), Krishna (35), Kadapa (31), West Godavari (22), Chittoor (21), Visakhapatnam (20), East Godavari (17) and Anantapur (15). Relief in Vizag Notwithstanding the identification of seven red zones in Visakhapatnam district, of which six are in the city, the number of positive cases has been pegged at 20 for the last three days. Of the 20 positive cases, four patients have recovered and discharged from the hospital after treatment. Of the 16 undergoing treatment, the reports of two more are expected soon and in all likelihood, they will be discharged on Monday (April 13). A total of 7,889 samples have been tested in the State till date.
13 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Wine shops in Meghalaya to open for five days from today||Almost a fortnight after withdrawing its order allowing home delivery of alcoholic beverages on health grounds, the Meghalaya government has allowed wine shops and bonded warehouses in the State to sell liquor for seven hours a day from April 13 to 17. An official memorandum from the Commissioner of Excise to all heads of districts on April 11 put a few riders on relaxing the lockdown restrictions on liquor wholesalers and retail outlets. Apart from urging liquor sellers to ensure that customers followed social distancing rules and cough etiquette, the memorandum made it clear that the local authorities should allow only one member of a family to buy. They were also instructed to prohibit the movement of such a member from one locality or village to another in search of liquor. Wine shops were asked to provide hand sanitisers to customers besides guiding them “to other wine shops within the same locality/village” in order to strictly avoid overcrowding. The Meghalaya government had on March 30 issued an order allowing restricted sale of liquor on medical grounds and advising tempered drinking for consumers. The order was withdrawn the next day after an objection from the Indian Medical Association. On April 3, the Wine Dealers and Welfare Association in Shillong had appealed to Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma for granting permission to open the bonded warehouses and retail outlets for “dealing with the stress” caused by the “abnormal situation”. Onus on headmen In an earlier order, the Health and Family Welfare Department had entrusted traditional village chiefs or headmen to keep tabs on people who have recently arrived in their villages and enforce 14-day home quarantine for them. “The Headman/Rangbah Shnong/Nokma should also follow up with the person under home quarantine,” the order by the Department’s Commissioner-Secretary said.
13 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State sees a fall in positive cases||The State on Sunday reported just two positive cases of COVID-19, both of them having returned from abroad. On a happy note, the State also reported that 36 COVID-19 patients who were undergoing treatment in various hospitals in districts had tested negative for the virus. The two new positive cases are located in Kannur and Pathanamthitta. Of the 375 persons who have tested positive so far, only 194 are remaining under treatment now. Till date, a total of 179 patients have recovered from the illness, while two succumbed to the disease. The number of people quarantined for surveillance has now dropped to 1,16,941, of whom 1,16,125 are quarantined in their own homes, while 816 persons with mild respiratory symptoms are isolated in hospitals. The State has so far sent samples from 14,989 persons for testing, out of which 13,802 samples turned out to be negative for COVID-19. Relief for district Kasaragod district, which witnessed the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the State, breathed a sigh a relief after 26 affected patients got discharged after treatment at the Kasaragod General Hospital on Sunday. The number of cases, which had touched 166 in the district, has come down to 105, with 61 patients so far discharged from the hospital, said A.V. Ramdas, District Medical Officer. Meanwhile, no COVID-19 positive cases were reported from the district, on Sunday, he said. Dr. Ramdas said this was the first time that such a large number of patients were cured in a hospital. The recovery rate is 37% here when the same in the U.S. is 5.7% and in India it is 11.4%, he said. On Friday, 22 patients from Kasaragod were discharged from hospitals. The DMO said it was also noteworthy that none of the victims died in the district and he thanked the special officer, district administration, police, doctors, nurses and other health workers for their help in achieving this feat. Meanwhile, in the district, 10,374 people are under observation. They include 10,126 patients in home quarantine and 248 in hospitals.
13 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||11 held for chopping off policeman’s hand||Eleven persons were arrested on Sunday for an attack on a police party by a group of Nihangs, a Sikh warrior sect, at a vegetable market in Punjab’s Patiala. The hand of assistant sub-inspector Harjit Singh was severed with a sword in the attack that followed when the Nihangs were asked for curfew passes, the police said. Defied lockdown The accused, including a woman, were later arrested in an operation led by Inspector General of Police (Patiala Range) Jatinder Aulakh and Patiala’s Senior Superintendent of Police Mandeep Sidhu after they escaped into the Nihang Dera complex in Balbera, which also houses Khichdi Sahib Gurdwara. “The accused included the five persons involved in the attack on the police team posted at the vegetable market in Sanaur early on Sunday morning. They had crashed through a series of barricades and attacked the police personnel who inquired about their curfew passes,” Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said. Baba Balwinder Singh, the Nihang head, who had come to the market in a vehicle with four other persons, was the main perpetrator of the attack, Mr. Gupta said. “The operation followed a stand-off for several hours and many rounds of appeals and negotiations led by the Patiala SSP with Balwinder Singh to surrender with their weapons and swords. But the Nihangs refused to surrender,” he added.
13 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS sees 28 new COVID-19 cases, 2 dead||Even as the relatively lesser COVID-19 positive cases in the past two days brought relief, the situation on Sunday raised concerns again. The number of COVID-19 positive cases in Telangana increased to 531 as 28 new cases were reported, while two persons suffering from the infectious disease died and seven were discharged on Sunday. Of the total cases to date, 412 are active cases, 103 were discharged and 16 died. Director of Public Health and Family Welfare G Srinivasa Rao said blood was being provided to all government blood banks through the IPM to meet emergency requirement. If there is any health emergency, dial 108.
13 April 2020||UDUPI,||Caring for stray animals during lockdown||As many as 230 volunteers and some organisations have been providing food to stray animals which have been affected due to the lockdown in and around Udupi city. These animals were dependent on eateries and markets for their daily fill. But all business establishments have shut down, and most people are staying indoors. With the result, these stray animals have to struggle for food. But a team of volunteers residing in and around Udupi has decided to help. Babita Madhwaraj, trustee of Madhwaraj Animal Care Trust, said that it was essential to feed these animals which were going without food and water. The volunteers were maintaining lockdown discipline and were feeding the stray animals during the relaxation period, she said.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Troubled waters||
13 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||India talking to U.S. over visa sanctions||The government is “engaged” in talks with the U.S. administration to reconsider President Donald Trump’s orders to impose visa sanctions on countries that don’t take back illegal “aliens” in the U.S. within a week. In particular, the order clashed with New Delhi’s decision to restrict all passengers, including Indian citizens from any other country, owing to the coronavirus pandemic. If Washington refuses to relent on its seven-day deadline, or New Delhi refuses to lift the ban on incoming travel within the week, Indians could face a major cut in U.S. visas granted this year. “We have been engaged with the U.S. government on resuming these deportation-related travels at the earliest opportunity,” government sources told The Hindu , when asked about the logjam over the U.S. President’s memorandum. “Like all incoming international travel, the deportation of illegal immigrants to India has also been affected by the lockdown and COVID-19-related travel restrictions,” the sources explained, adding that India had been cooperating with the U.S. to repatriate illegal Indian nationals from the U.S. as it is the government’s policy “not to encourage illegal immigration to any country”. According to the Department of Homeland Security’s 2018 survey, Indians constitute one of the largest groups of illegal aliens in the U.S., numbering an estimated 4,70,000 who had entered by 2015. However, the Trump administration has pushed for India to tighten its controls on emigration, and accept more deportations in the past few years.
13 April 2020||New Delhi,||Moderate earthquake felt in many Delhi areas||An earthquake of moderate intensity rocked many parts of Delhi on Sunday evening. “Earthquake of magnitude 3.5 occurred at a depth of 8 km in the National Capital Territory, Delhi,” a release from the National Centre for Seismology said.
13 April 2020||Jaipur,||Gehlot suggests ‘modified lockdown’||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday suggested that a “modified lockdown” could be enforced beyond April 14, when the present spell of nationwide lockdown comes to an end, to enable the States to utilise their internal resources for bringing the economy back on track.
13 April 2020||New Delhi,||In one day, Delhi records 5 deaths, 85 new cases||The Capital on Sunday recorded 5 deaths and 85 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total number of deaths to 24 and the number of cases to 1,154, the government said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the rise was worrying.
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Film unions mobilise funds to help members||Ever since the Film Employees’ Federation of South India announced a break in film shoots from March 19 as part of its measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19, various film unions have been mobilising funds from the industry to help members, who are dependent on daily wages from the shoots.
13 April 2020||Bengaluru,||CM inspects Bengaluru during lockdown||Ahead of the second phase of lockdown coming into force post April 14, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday evening went around Bengaluru to review the situation and interacted with the public.
13 April 2020||Shivamogga,||Holiday triggers rise in KFD cases among children||The extended holiday for schools owing to the lockdown, enforced to prevent the spread of COVID-19, has resulted in a rise in the number of cases of children infected with the Kyasanur Forest Disease in Karnataka.
13 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Govt. working on lockdown exemptions||Even as detailed guidelines are awaited from the Union government on possible relaxations during the extended lockdown period of two weeks from Tuesday, the State is charting out a plan to provide exemptions to certain sectors to resume activities, government sources said.
13 April 2020||Belagavi,||Belagavi records four new positive cases||With the detection of four new COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, the tally reached 14 in Belagavi district. They include three family members of a patient (P150) from Raibag. These three men are aged 19, 55 and 25, respectively. The other one is from Hire Bagewadi who is a 38-year-old male. He is the family member of patient [P128]. This was announced in the mid-day bulletin by the State Health Department here on Sunday. They are all in the COVID-19 designated hospital on the District Civil Hospital premises in Belagavi. They are all under treatment. None of them have any obvious symptoms. But their throat swab tests have revealed the presence of the virus, officers said.
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,||'Govt. to absorb testing cost in private labs'||The government would coordinate with private laboratories to provide testing for COVID-19 infection and would also absorb the cost of testing in private facilities, said Health Secretary Beela Rajesh.
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennai Corpn. to collect 1,000 samples a day||From Wednesday, the Chennai Corporation will collect 1,000 samples a day for COVID-19 testing from residents. So far, it has only collected data on symptoms of COVID-19 and has been monitoring the residents on a daily basis. As many as 3,036 residents have reported symptoms in the 15 zones of the city so far. As many as 18.63 lakh households have been covered in its door-to-door survey every day.
13 April 2020||TIRUCHI,||Case against patient for throwing mask at doctor||The police have registered a case under various sections of the IPC, including attempt to murder, against a COVID-19 patient undergoing treatment in the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here after he allegedly threw a mask at a doctor in a fit of rage. He was irked over his family members being called for tests.
13 April 2020||Vijayawada,||12brief1||The government has decided to distribute 16 crore masks in the State to prevent the spread of coronavirus. It will also conduct tests on 32,349 people who have been identified by the ASHA workers and ANMs during the third round of door-to-survey.
13 April 2020||New Delhi,||Enough grains for 9 months: Paswan||The Central government has enough stock of grains to feed over 81 crore beneficiaries of the public distribution system (PDS) for nine months, Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan said on Sunday, expressing confidence that its granaries, expecting a boost from a “bumper” wheat crop, will have adequate stock for a much longer period. With the government likely to extend the nation-wide lockdown till the month end, the Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Minister said that the transportation and distribution of foodgrains at an “unprecedented” scale has emerged as a “lifeline” during the crisis, with the poor being assured of their ration supply in time. As of April 10, the government-run godowns have 299.45 lakh tonne rice and 235.33 lakh tonne wheat, totalling 534.78 lakh tonne of the two major grains supplied to the poor, Mr. Paswan said. The per month supply through the PDS amounts to 60 lakh tonne, he said. Coarse grains and pulses are also supplied through the PDS in a limited quantity. “There is no shortage of grains. We now have a bumper rabi harvest and our estimate is that we will have adequate stock for up to two years,” he said. Though the extended lockdown may have sparked a variety of concerns, including about economy, but any shortage of essential grains like wheat and rice is not among them. Mr. Paswan said in a lighter vein that the condition is akin to “the lawyer (Centre) being more keen about the case than the client (States)”, with the Union government constantly asking States to lift their quota of rations in time after it was announced that all PDS beneficiaries will get three months of supply free. What has been seen is “unprecedented and historic”, he said about the mechanism put in for the distribution of grains, with trains playing a key role. Recently, over 20.19 lakh tonnes of grains was moved through trains in one day, a record, he noted. Subsidised grains The government has also made it easier for agencies, public or private, to purchase grains from it at a subsidised rate if they are involved in helping the poor. “If in this lockdown there had been any issue regarding the supply of food grains, then it could have created a havoc. So the biggest satisfaction and relief is that it has all gone well,” Mr. Paswan, a member of the Group of Ministers overseeing the lockdown exercise, said.
13 April 2020||Bhopal,||‘Lockdown delayed to topple M.P. govt.’||Former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath on Sunday said Parliament was allowed to function during the COVID-19 outbreak to ensure that the State Assembly could function too. The BJP’s ultimate aim was to topple my government and the nationwide lockdown was announced only a day after Shivraj Singh Chouhan took oath as Chief Minister, he alleged. “Shivraj Singh Chouhan took oath on March 23 and the lockdown was imposed the next day.” Asked if Parliament was allowed to run to ensure the State government could be toppled, Mr. Nath told reporters via a video conference Parliament functioned even when all countries were expressing concern over the outbreak and the Odisha and the Chhattisgarh Assemblies were adjourned. “Our Assembly Speaker in his wisdom had adjourned the session to March 26 in view of the lockdown but he was mocked at,” he said. The former Congress government had initiated a lockdown by shutting malls and colleges from March 12 itself. “The Centre didn’t take any action as they were waiting to topple the government.” Madhya Pradesh, he said, was perhaps the only State in the world at present which didn’t have a Health or a Home Minister. ‘Crumbling health infra’ Alleging that the health infrastructure is crumbling, he said 90% of the positive patients were being treated in private hospitals. Doctors at the government hospitals including the AIIMS in Bhopal were mainly functioning with paramedics as the former were refusing to attend to patients in the absence of personal protection equipment (PPEs). “Most of the figures are emerging from urban areas. The more you test, the more number of positives there will be and vice versa,” the former Chief Minister said. Mr. Nath, who had also been a Union Commerce Minister, said the country had been hit by an economic crisis and with the Centre’s revenues and collections from the GST falling, India may well have to approach the International Monetary Fund (IMF). “I see a situation where India may have to go back to the IMF as we did it in 1980. When we took an IMF loan at that time there were such conflicting views.” Talking about an economic package, Mr .Nath said the government should have a calibrated plan to restart targeted sectors of the economy with a focused package.
13 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘People with disabilities have special issues during virus outbreak’||People with disabilities need much more support than others in the face of a pandemic. They may not be eating properly and may experience higher stress because they are unable to understand what is happening all around them, says G.V.S. Murthy , Vice-President and Director, Indian Indian Institute of Public Health, Hyderabad.  What are the unique challenges that people with disability face? People with disability have special issues in a situation like the spread of the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2). People with disability are a diverse group, experiencing different hardships in accessing information on prevention and risk of infection. People with visual impairment and blindness depend upon touch for most of their daily activities. They need to hold the hand of an escort to move around; they cannot read the messages that the rest of the population can see; they cannot practise social distancing unless there are innovative approaches like keeping a safe distance using a white cane. For the hearing impaired, especially those who are not literate, they cannot hear the message or read it. Since many depend on lip-reading, they are compromised when the person giving a message is wearing a mask. None of the messages in the media is using sign language interpreters. The physically disabled cannot reach a wash basin or may not be able to wash their hands vigorously. Children and adolescents with conditions like cerebral palsy or Down’s Syndrome need to be assisted in feeding. People with mental health issues cannot comprehend the messages. At the same time, people with disabilities have a higher risk of conditions such as diabetes and hypertension, which are high-risk factors for COVID-19 mortality. Therefore, people with disabilities need much more support than the rest of the population in the face of a pandemic. They may not be eating properly and may experience higher stress because they are unable to understand what is happening all around them, over which they have no control. Women with disability have additional issues. They are vulnerable to exploitation and even more so during a pandemic. Many of them have children without disability and are highly stressed as to how they can care for them and family members because they are not supported to care for them. People with communication disabilities don’t know how to express their problems. Routine health needs that they have are also not provided as health centres or transportation facilities are not accessible. What is the scale of the problem? India is home to nearly 150 million people with some degree of disability. Nearly 25-30 million have severe disability. Most of them live as part of their families and depend on a carer. This adds to another 25-30 million carers. Therefore, we are looking at nearly 50 million people who need special support, which is not routinely forthcoming. How can the public and government help? India has signed up to achieve sustainable development goals, the cornerstone of which is universal access to health and education and equity. The government and the organisations working with people with disabilities have to make efforts to convert prevention and care messages on COVID-19 into an accessible format. Health facilities should prioritise the needs of people with disabilities over the rest of the population. Decreasing waiting time in hospitals for them will reduce contact with other asymptomatic carriers of the novel coronavirus. Their medicine needs have to be provided for. Mobile health teams can provide them services at their homes rather than having them travel to hospitals. A dedicated helpline can be set up for this so that the medical team can reach them. They need to be assured of supplies of soap, sanitisers and tissues. The general public needs to be educated on providing support for people with disabilities. Technology-savvy professionals can help to make information available in an accessible format for people with disabilities. Students with disabilities also need to be provided support so that they can keep up academically. Therefore, online teaching programmes should be made available to them in an accessible format. Civil society should volunteer their time to provide this sort of support. Since many of them will not be able to access professional carers during a lockdown, civil society volunteers should help. Even for supporting cooking and other self-care activities, volunteers should step in. Inclusive society is the need of the hour. We don’t want to face a situation where medical equipment is prioritised based on younger populations being cared for at the cost of the elderly and the people with disability, as happened in countries like Spain where there was a limited number of ventilators and beds, which could not cope with the avalanche of cases that needed critical care. A country’s development is measured by its social support and inclusive policies. We need to set high standards and not succumb to the ‘might is right’ philosophy and abandon people with disability in this crisis. What is the current situation? Nobody is addressing the special needs of people with disabilities and making efforts at reaching out to them. We would fail as a human race if we don’t show a humane response in an equitable manner with affirmative action for people with disabilities.  Health facilities should prioritise the needs of people with disabilities over the rest of the population
13 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Easter prayers with photos in pews||Members of a church in eastern Assam’s Dibrugarh district could not attend the Easter prayer service on Sunday. They sent in their photographs instead. Priests of the Sacred Heart Cathedral Church at the Bishop’s House in district headquarters Dibrugarh said photos sent by believers associated with the church were placed on the pews to mark their symbolic presence during a special Mass. “Last week, the believers in the town were sad that they would not be able to come to church on Easter, but understood the necessity of remaining at home because of the COVID-19 lockdown. One of them came up with the idea of using representational photos,” Bishop Joseph Aind told The Hindu over phone from Dibrugarh. An e-mail was accordingly sent to some 400 Christian families in the town on April 10. Within three-four hours, they sent us family photographs that we downloaded and printed and pasted on the pews ahead of the Sunday Mass. Only three believers attended in person while abiding by the government’s guidelines,” the Bishop said. “I am happy that the believers have performed their duties as citizens by staying and praying at home while being in the church virtually,” he added. Churches in the Christian-majority States of Meghalaya, Mizoram and Nagaland conducted Sunday services through live-streaming via social media platforms. The Nagaland Baptist Church Council carried out the Easter Sunrise Service online.
13 April 2020||Srinagar,||3 killed in Pak. shelling in Kashmir||Three civilians, including an eight-year-old child, were killed as Pakistan’s Army launched an artillery attack to hit deep inside the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir on Sunday. The attack came days after the Indian Army fortified its line of defence, mobilising medium and heavy mortars in the Keran sector in Kupwara district. “An unprovoked ceasefire violation was initiated by Pakistan in the Keran sector around 5 p.m. Pakistan is now targeting the civilian population in Kupwara near the LoC, resulting in the killing of three innocent civilians, including a woman and a child,” Army spokesman Lt. Col. Rajesh Kalia said in Srinagar. The deceased were identified as Zeeshan Bashir, 8, Javaid Ahmad Khan, 17, and Shameema Begum, 36. Local people said several shells landed near their homes and some exploded in the compounds in Chowkibal and Timuna Vilgam villages. Several houses caught fire. “Damage assessment and evacuation were initiated immediately. People were shifted to safer locations,” Kupwara Senior Superintendent of Police Shriram Ambarkar said. An Army spokesman said that Pakistan had intensified ceasefire violations in the Balakote and Mendhar sectors in Poonch, where two civilians were injured.
13 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Australia begins airlift of citizens||Australia, over the weekend, began to airlift its citizens who were stranded in India because of the ongoing lockdown to fight the pandemic. The first flight took off from here in the early hours of Sunday as part of Canberra’s efforts to bring back nationals stuck in various affected parts of the world. “Supported the repatriation of 444 people who just took off on charter flight JT2846 from Delhi for Melbourne. The flight was organised by a group of Australians led by Simon Quinn,” a social media message from the High Commission of Australia informed. A diplomatic source said that apart from 430 Australians, the aircraft carried 14 citizens of New Zealand. New Delhi resident Mr. Quinn had carried out a social media campaign to help the Australian nationals after the lockdown began on March 24. Sunday’s move marks the beginning of a series of charter flights that the government of Australia is expected to operate in the coming days to evacuate a large number of nationals from India. It is known that at least 6,000 Australians have registered with the consular teams of the country seeking food, medicines and transportation during the lockdown. Australia began the phase of airlift five days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a telephonic conversation with Scott Morrison, his counterpart from Canberra when the Indian leader assured Mr. Morrison of “necessary facilitation and support to any Australian citizens stranded in India due to travel restrictions”. Apart from the operation from India, Australia also evacuated 63 citizens from Nepal who were stranded there as the Himalayan country went into a lockdown simultaneously with India to counter the threat of COVID-19. Foreign Minister Marise Payne thanked the governments of Nepal and Canada for assisting with the evacuation attempt.
13 April 2020||Bhopal,||‘Tablighi link to rising M.P. tally inconclusive’||Madhya Pradesh government officials and experts have said it is yet to be conclusively established that returnees from the Tablighi Jamaat event at the Nizamuddin centre were major contributors to the novel coronavirus spread in Bhopal and Indore, the two hotspots in the State. This runs contrary to Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s statement at the Chief Ministers’ videoconference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday. “In Indore and Bhopal, especially those who have returned from Markaz (centre), because of them our problems have increased like the rest of the entire country,” he said. However, the largest chunk of cases in Bhopal, 74 from the State Health Department, did not find a mention. The Bhopal administration has earmarked four verticals from where cases have emerged — the Health Department, the police, the Tablighi Jamaat, and miscellaneous. Efforts at locating the source of outbreak within the department have come to nought. So far, 20 members of the Jamaat had tested positive in Bhopal. On April 7, three members tested positive in Indore, which has recorded 311 cases. As cases spiral in the State’s most populous city, experts are scrambling to locate the source of the outbreak here too, as most patients have no travel or contact history. Asked if members of the Jamaat had been prominent carriers of the disease in Indore, Rahul Rokade of the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College, Indore, said, “We are working on that. We are working with the intelligence wing to see if there is a link. As of now, there is no substantial verification with our data.” Responding to the same query, Sapna M. Lovanshi, Additional Director, Directorate of Health Services, said Bhopal was an exception to such a conclusion: “We can’t say it conclusively yet as the analysis is still going on. In some other districts, the link may hold true.” The government was yet to get results of samples taken from the primary contacts of the Jamaat members who had tested positive in Bhopal, said Upendra Jain, Additional Director General of Police, Bhopal.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||‘India-specific strategy must’||Praveen Chakravarty , political economist and head of the Data and Technology Cell of the Congress, says India should evolve a strategy with the idea that the novel coronavirus infections will last for a long time.  It’s certain now that the lockdown will be extended by another two weeks but the Centre may allow some economic activity. Reports suggest that the government may partially open up the least affected areas. How do you see this move? We have to wait and see what the government is going to do exactly. As of now, there are reports indicating that the current form of extreme lockdown will be extended until April 30. If the government is also simultaneously thinking about a gradual “unlock” process, it is welcome. As the Chief Scientist of the WHO, Dr. Soumya Swaminathan, has said in an interview to The Hindu , the disease is going to be with us for a long time and we need to start planning for life with the virus and cannot be in a lockdown and wait for the virus to be eliminated completely, which will take a long time. You’ve have talked about a ‘targeted lockdown’ instead of a complete nationwide lockdown. But Congress-ruled Punjab was the second State to extend the lockdown on Friday. Is there a divide within the Congress? A lockdown in itself cannot be a strategy. It has to be accompanied by measures such as what Rajasthan undertook in Bhilwara. The Bhilwara model is the model for the nation to emulate. Even after 21 days, the Prime Minister and the Union government have not laid out a strategy for the nation to emerge out of this extreme lockdown. So, in the absence of that, it is only natural and wise that State governments will prefer to extend the lockdown and deal with the crisis locally which they seem to be doing very well now. Are you totally opposed to the current form of lockdown? The current form of extreme lockdown was an immediate response to an unknown crisis and hence understandable. But it is clear now that the cure is worse than the disease. We run the risk of losing as many, if not more, lives due to the lockdown. It is not a “rupees vs lives” but a “lives vs lives” issue. The under-privileged are bearing the brunt of this — ostracism, lack of hospital care, loss of wages, homelessness, hunger etc. This extreme lockdown seems to be a case of the privileged transferring their epidemic risk to the under-privileged The Centre says if there was no nationwide lockdown, by now India would have seen more than 8 lakh cases. So, a complete lockdown acted as a circuit breaker. This is plain rubbish. Anyone who understands basic data and statistics will tell you that it makes no sense to do a linear extrapolation of an early trend to predict a counterfactualBased on trends from global and Indian data on COVID-19, it now seems clear that the virus is very contagious but not as fatal as some of the initial wild estimates of epidemiologists predicted. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi too talked of a ‘nuanced approach’ that takes an India-specific approach. What exactly is it? It is clear that Mr. Gandhi has been studying and researching on COVID-19 a lot. He was among the first to warn the nation about it. He wrote a letter to the PM arguing for a nuanced approach to a lockdown, keeping India’s unique realities in mind. Given India’s vast informal, daily wage labour force, a high density of people living in one room houses, large urban-rural divide and a much younger population than the developed countries, he is arguing for a more balanced and humane approach than the current extreme and absolute lockdown. Both former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram and you have argued for a economic package of Rs. 5-6 lakh crore. With the economy under a total shutdown now, is it even possible for the Centre to generate this kind of additional resources? Of course it is entirely possible. In my piece in The Hindu , I had even detailed where to find the money — from a combination of rationalised expenditure, higher borrowing and printing of more money. It is absolutely imperative that the package consists of a “rescue” for the affected workforce. But it is important to remember this is not a demand crisis but a supply crisis.  We run the risk of losing many lives due to the lockdown
13 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pharma units in limbo amid confusion over HCQ exports||A week after the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) announced that it would “license” the malaria drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and supply it to various countries on a “government to government basis”, the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) maintains that the drug is still prohibited for export, causing some confusion in industry circles. “There is huge capacity in our industry for both HCQ and paracetamol production. But our manufacturers, especially the MSMEs and SMEs are confused about the process, given the DGFTs notification banning exports.” Dinesh Dua, Chairman of the Pharmaceutical Export Promotion Council of India told The Hindu.  Stuck in warehouses “Some small exporters have tonnes of finished goods lying in their FG warehouses and some at ports which is not being exported because of lack of clarity on the procedure,” he added. “We are receiving many queries from various manufacturers due to this discrepancy; there is no transparency in the process at present as nothing is on paper officially,” said an official from another industry group, who asked not to be identified. On Sunday, the government said it had cleared the release of HCQ for 13 countries. “After making an assessment of the domestic requirement and keeping a buffer, which is assessed on a weekly basis by the Empowered Committee, a Group of Ministers had approved the release,” the Press Information Bureau spokesperson said at the daily press briefing on COVID-19 in Delhi. The first shipment of HCQ landed in the U.S.’s Newark airport on Sunday, a week after Mr. Trump had called PM Modi to ask for the release of the drug orders placed by the US. However, a number of industry sources pointed out that the decision to allow the exports has not yet been notified by DGFT, even though it had uploaded its previous two notifications of March 25 (54/2015-2020) and April 4(01/2015-2020) which banned the export of HCQ “without any exceptions”, and kept paracetamol on a restricted list. As a result many manufacturers, especially smaller companies, say customs officials are not clearing their consignments of HCQ and paracetamol. India is the lead producer for HCQ, an anti-malarial drug, while Indian-made paracetamol is used as a fever medication worldwide. The sources pointed to a number of hurdles in exports, at a time when global demand is at its highest. Others said that none of the major markets in Africa, Latin America, and CIS countries had yet been cleared for the export of HCQ, at a time when demand from them is at its peak. More confusion arose after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu thanked Mr. Modi for HCQ supplies, although Israel is not on the list of companies cleared. Global market “The Indian pharmaceutical industry has been painstakingly built over 25 years with a market of $22 billion to 206 countries. It would be a tragedy if we are not allowed to use our strength at this time when the world needs these products, by placing orders and even paying in advance and still unable to get these spareable medicines with huge capacity in India,” Mr. Dua said. He added that several industry groups plan to petition the Commerce Ministry and the Ministry of External Affairs to clarify the rules for export.
13 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Auto sector revival by next year: PwC||Experts expect the Indian automobile sector to start seeing recovery in the fourth quarter of 2020-21 in a “realistic” scenario, while facing challenges such as delayed launches, higher costs, shortage of labour and material, and productivity losses. According to a report ‘Automotive sector: Impact of COVID-19 and navigating the turbulence’ by PwC, in an “optimistic” scenario we could see a recovery by third quarter (October-December) of the current fiscal. In a “realistic” scenario, PwC expects a two quarter slowdown in the economy, along with pay cuts and temporary job losses in the informal sector, with recovery by the fourth quarter of 2020-21. Under a “pessimistic” scenario, it expects the economy to recover by Q4-FY21, pushing the recovery of the sector to April-June 2021 quarter. The analysis, based on the situation as on April 08, 2020, suggested that under a realistic scenario, two-wheeler sales are likely to decline by 18% to 14.2 million from 17.2 million, passenger vehicles sales may fall 12% to 2.43 million (from 2.75 million) and commercial vehicles sales are forecast to decline 21% to 1.06 million from 1.34 million. Another report by Nomura Research Institute (NRI) Consulting & Solutions India pointed that Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi-NCR, which are major automotive demand and supply clusters, are the worst-hit. Ashim Sharma, Partner & Group Head at NRI Consulting & Solutions, said that there is a need to re-start “controlled operation” in factories to mitigate some of the impact.
13 April 2020||Kolkata,||CMERI develops low-cost disinfectant walkways||In an attempt at providing new technologies to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute (CMERI), Durgapur, a laboratory of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), has developed low-cost disinfection walkways. The walkway, which costs about Rs. 1.5 lakh on an average, can be easily installed in critical locations such as isolation/quarantine facilities, mass transit system entry points and medical centres, CMERI Director-General Harish Hirani said. The walkway uses mist type spray ensuring maximum target coverage with minimum shadow area of an individual. Two variants “We started working on these walkways from the third week of March and now we are ready with two variants, Pneumatic Variant Disinfection Walkway and Hydraulic Variant Disinfection Walkway. This is cost-effective and can be easily installed,” Mr. Hirani said. According to the CMERI D-G, the walkways use mist type spray, whose particle size could be as small as 100 to 200 microns. “We have already got orders from the local municipal corporation like Asansol and Durgapur and some schools in the region,” Mr. Hirani said. Depending on how much chemicals are used, the walkways can sanitise a person in 20 to 30 seconds. Both the walkways have been installed on the CEMRI campus in Durgapur. Researchers say that in these disinfectant walkways, the base liquid is sodium hypochlorite along with which soap and ethanol are added. In certain cases, if people are allergic to chlorine, the liquid can be changed to iodine-based solutions. Emphasising that these walkways will become a part of people’s lives post the coronavirus outbreak, Mr. Hirani said the variants made by the CMERI could be easily customised. Recently, during a videoconference with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Nobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee had suggested sanitising the markets. The CMERI-built road sanitisers can be used for this purpose.
13 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Resume industrial activity in 15 sectors’||The Commerce and Industries Ministry has called for far-reaching measures to be taken to mitigate the effects of the lockdown, urging the Home Ministry to allow relaxations of the restrictions on a number of industry sectors. In a letter to Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Saturday, Industries Secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra said “more activities with reasonable safeguards must be allowed” once a final decision was taken on the extension of the lockdown. “These new activities are essential to improve the economic activity and provide liquidity in the hands of the people,” said Dr. Mohapatra who heads the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT). He said all recommendations were based on Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal’s interactions with industry representatives. Dr. Mohapatra recommended that industrial activity be restarted in at least 15 sectors, including heavy electricals, electronics and telecom equipment, automobiles, steel mills, power looms, defence units, cement, rubber, seeds, agro-chemicals and fertilizers. To begin with, manufacturing should be restarted in single shifts of 20-25% capacity, following proper social distancing and sanitation norms. Companies which are allowed to operate should be allowed to insist on workers returning for duty to avail wages, he added.
13 April 2020||New Delhi,||Protect firms from takeover: Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Sunday asked the government to ensure that Indian companies did not face any hostile takeover bid by foreign companies during the COVID-19 pandemic. “The massive economic slowdown has weakened many Indian corporates making them attractive targets for takeovers,” he wrote on Twitter. “The Govt must not allow foreign interests to take control of any Indian corporate at this time of national crisis,” he said. His comments came days after reports suggested that Chinese investors were scouting for shares in distressed European companies. Last week, Italy announced changes to its foreign investment policy and protected its banking, insurance and healthcare sectors from hostile takeover by foreign companies. Spain, too, has made it mandatory for its companies to seek government approval if any foreign company wants to pick up over 10% stake in them.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||30 ‘foreigners’ dead in detention centres||All but four of the 30 “declared foreigners” who had died in Assam’s detention centres till date were Bengali speakers. Of the rest, two each belonged to the Adivasi and Koch-Rajbongshi communities, according to State government records. The official list shows 16 of the dead were Hindus and 14 Muslims. Six detention centres were established in as many central jails in 2009, four years after the contentious Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunal) Act, 1983 was scrapped for suspected foreigners to be tried under the Foreigners’ Act, 1946. “There is no surprise in the fact that they are Bengalis. Most inmates are supposed to be from neighbouring Bangladesh [who migrated after the creation of the country in 1971] and some from Nepal, who find some protection under the India-Nepal Treaty (1950),” Hiren Gohain, scholar and social scientist, told The Hindu . However, the records tabled in the Assam Assembly in November 2019 say only three of the 30 dead had addresses in Bangladesh. Bhulu Sadakar of Taikangi village in southern Assam’s Hailakandi district was the first declared foreigner to die in a detention Centre on March 17, 2016. The second, Dulal Miya, was recorded as a resident of Marak village in “Samarganj” district of Bangladesh. There is no district by that name in the country. Two other fatalities — Nagen Das and Basudev Biswas — were shown to be from Bangladesh’s Paushal in Mymensingh district and Faridpur in Dhaka district respectively. The address column against the name of Abu Shahid, who died at the Goalpara centre on October 22, 2017, was left blank. All the 30 were either unlettered or barely literate and economically weak; most too poor to prove their citizenship at the Foreigners’ Tribunals that declared them non-citizens after cases were made against them. Rabeda Begum, a 60-year-old woman from Krishnanagar in central Assam’s Hojai district, was the person to last to die on April 5 this year. Two other women — Kabutor Basfore of Borbongia in Sonitpur district and Prabha Roy of Kalash Bhanga in Barpeta district — are among the dead. Basfore was an Adivasi, as was Puna Munda, a 65-year-old man of Simlitola Tea Garden in Goalpara who died in June 2019. Naresh Koch, the first to die in 2020, was a Koch-Rajbongshi from Goalpara district.
13 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Government slow to absorb lockdown impact on the poor’||A response filed by activist Harsh Mander to a Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) status report in the Supreme Court accused the Centre of being slow to absorb the impact of the COVID-19 lockdown on the poor. While the MHA report says the Central and State governments were “doing their best strategising human resources and other resources to come out of this unprecedented global crisis”, Mr. Mander and fellow activist Anjali Bhardwaj countered that the statistics from the same report gave a different picture. At the most, the report showed wide regional variations and overall inadequacy in the relief work. For example, Kerala and Maharashtra have 72% of the total number of relief camps in the country. Kerala alone has nearly 60% of the camps, though the tiny State accounts for 2.6% of India’s population. States such as Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand, which have seen the lion’s share of the migrant exodus, have only 12% of relief camps and shelters. Mr. Mander and Ms. Bhardwaj argued in their petition that the declaration of the 21-day lockdown without prior information “precipitated an unprecedented humanitarian crisis” for migrant workers, resulting in their mass exodus to their home towns. Mr. Mander, represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan, said the MHA’s assurance that it would arrange counselling for migrant workers to help them tide over the psychological impact of the pandemic was, indeed, a “welcome measure”. But a more immediate need would be for the government to pay them minimum wages to ensure their survival. “Other than food, migrant workers need to be provided money for addressing their other basic needs like healthcare, education of their children, rent and sustenance of their families. Minimum wages are fixed by governments taking into account the cost of living in each State... The government should provide them minimum wages,” the activists contended. They said the government’s Rs. 1.7 lakh crore package was announced 36 hours after the lockdown started. By then, the panic had set it, resulting in their exodus from the cities. They said government announcements that migrant workers need not pay rent and employers should pay them wages ignored the harsh realities of their lives. For one, they lived in poor settlements where there was no formal rent agreements. Secondly, most of the migrant population were self-employed like rickshaw-pullers. Thirdly, the government had no record of people working in the informal sector.
13 April 2020||Mumbai,||Goa govt. staff to work from April 15||Though the COVID-19 lockdown has been extended till the month end, Goa government employees will resume work on April 15. State government-run Kadamba Transport Corporation (KTC) buses will be used to ferry those staff requiring public transport. The government has also decided to open out-patient departments (OPDs) of government and private hospitals along with allowing intra-State businesses to operate while maintaining social distancing. With just two positive cases, down from seven and just four suspect cases on Sunday, the government is upbeat in its fight against COVID-19. The Goa government had recommended to the Centre that the lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak should continue till April 30. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said the State government would resume certain activities and establishments, including government offices, from Monday. “Fishing has restarted from Saturday. Government offices in Goa will reopen on Monday and they will be fully functional from Wednesday after sanitisation,” he said. Dr. Sawant, who took part in videoconference of Chief Ministers with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, said the Goa government had requested the Centre not to resume rail and air traffic. The government on Saturday constituted the Economic Revival Committee and the Expenditure Committee to plan the way forward in the wake of the pandemic. Dr. Sawant urged people to cooperate with the government and in the three-day door-to-door survey to be undertaken from April 13. “There is no community transmission in Goa till now,” he said.
13 April 2020||Srinagar,||‘78% positive cases in J&K asymptomatic’||Of the 245 coronavirus positive cases in J&K, 78% are asymptomatic, with 21 more positive cases reported on Sunday. A J&K government spokesperson said it has been able to trace 98% of locals with a history of foreign travel, or having attended religious gatherings, and their contacts. “The aggressive testing strategy has been very effective in J&K. Besides, 78% asymptomatic cases have also been tracked,” said the spokesperson. Worried by the growing numbers in the asymptomatic coronavirus positive population, Lieutenant Governor G. C. Murmu’s adviser Baseer Ahmed Khan declared all the areas falling under the jurisdiction of eight Police Stations in Srinagar’s old city as ‘red zones’. “The step has been taken to ensure there is no further spread of COVID-19 in Srinagar’s old city,” said Mr. Khan. Chief Secretary B.V.R. Subrahmanyam also directed Deputy Commissioners to strictly implement restrictions in all 77 ‘red zones’ declared in J&K. “Proper regulation of ‘red zones’ and complete lockdown in the identified areas should be ensured,” he said. 21 new cases Spokesperson for the J&K government Rohit Kansal said 21 new positive cases of coronavirus were reported in J&K on Sunday. Around 51,320 travellers and persons who came into contact with them are under surveillance. Among all the districts, Srinagar has the highest number of 58 positive cases, followed by Bandipora with 42 positive cases and Baramulla with 37 positive cases. A. G. Ahanger, who heads Kashmir’s main tertiary care Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) Hospital, said, “The situation is grim and the next two weeks could provide a clear picture on whether COVID-19 has entered the community transmission phase in J&K.”
13 April 2020||Pune,||Nurse in Pune hospital tests positive||The scourge of COVID-19 hit Pune’s medical fraternity after a 45-year-old nurse associated with the city’s Ruby Hall Clinic tested positive for novel coronavirus, prompting authorities to quarantine more than 25 of her colleagues on Sunday. “The nurse who works in the general ward was on leave till a few days ago. After resuming work, she displayed virus-like symptoms following which we sent her throat swab samples for testing. The tests returned positive and we have shifted her to the hospital’s isolation ward,” said Dr. Sanjay Pathare, Director of Medical Services, Ruby Hall Clinic. Stating that the nurse had contracted a mild form of infection and that her condition was stable, Dr. Pathare stressed that the nurse had had no contact with other patients currently in the hospital’s isolation ward and undergoing treatment for COVID-19. As a precautionary measure, around 25-30 nurses, too, have been placed in quarantine facilities, he said. Panic at Pimpri A week ago, more than 40 doctors and nurses of a medical college and hospital in Pimpri had been quarantined after an autorickshaw driver, who had been under treatment at that hospital for accident injuries, tested positive for COVID-19. Fortunately,all 42 medical personnel had tested negative. Meanwhile, Pune’s death toll as well as the number of fresh cases continued to mount on Sunday, with two more deaths and at least five positive cases being reported in the district. Two women, aged 58 and 56 respectively, with a history of medical ailments and comorbidities like obesity and diabetes, died at Sassoon Hospital.
13 April 2020||PATNA,||Bihar launches app for govt. school students||Following COVID-19 lockdown, the Bihar Education Project Council (BEPC) has launched a mobile application and plans to book a slot with the All India Radio for the audio broadcast of study materials for government school students. However, an independent research by an alumna of the London School of Economics has flagged some fundamental challenges in the process as the State has a huge digital divide and socio-economic inequalities. In Bihar, like other States, schools and colleges are shut due to COVID-19 lockdown. Recently, the BEPC, a wing of the State Education department, launched a mobile application “Unnayan: Mera Mobile, Mera Vidyalaya” for Class VI to XII of over 70,000 government-run schools. The app, said department officials, was jointly developed by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the Bihar government and Eckovation, a social learning platform. “In collaboration with UNICEF, class-wise and subject-wise study materials are being prepared which will be broadcast by AIR as radio has a deep penetration into villages and is much simpler to operate … a basic phone or smartphone will serve the purpose,” said BEPC director Sanjay Singh. “During this long lockdown period, why should government school students suffer?” a BEPC official said. ‘Irrational move’ But, an independent research by an alumna of the London School of Economics (LSE), Anushna Jha, has flagged some “fundamental challenges to viewing technology-enabled education” in a State like Bihar. “There is huge digital divide that exists in Bihar and expecting that the migrant population, whose major cause of concern today is their daily sustenance, would find ways to make their children digitally connect with schools and teachers or participate in online classes would simply be arrogant and irrational,” Ms. Jha told The Hindu over phone.
13 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Distribute rations, masks on Ambedkar Jayanti’||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Sunday urged all party members to distribute ration kits and masks to the poor to mark the birth anniversary of Dalit icon B.R. Ambedkar on April 14. He also asked all Chief Ministers and party State heads to release video messages to the public. Mr. Nadda urged party workers to garland Ambedkar’s photograph at their homes and share it on social media. He said the party members should take a pledge to uphold the ideals and tenets of the Constitution, and obey the advisories and instructions of the government to fight COVID-19. “Distribute ration kits to every home in at least two poor settlements under the ‘Feed the Needy’ programme and face covers under the ‘Wear Face Cover Stay Safe’ programme in each mandal of a State. Ensure public hygiene and social distancing norms,” the BJP president said in the message. Mr. Nadda also asked party leaders and workers to run awareness campaigns in every poor settlement on the good health practices to be followed to keep it free of COVID-19 and to build a healthy society. He said they should write essays on Ambedkar and his ideas on the Constitution, social equality and harmony. They should share and spread on social media the measures and decisions taken by the Union government, party and its leadership for the emancipation of downtrodden communities and for their all-round development, the BJP leader said.  Party members should take a pledge to uphold the ideals and tenets of the Constitution J.P. Nadda BJP president
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||First batch of Rafales likely to fly in late||In addition, the Defence Ministry had stated that during the dialogue the “French side has agreed to consider the Indian request for 8-10 Meteor missiles to be given to India by 2020 with the first four aircraft”. May 2020 deadline In November, Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik said in a written reply to Parliament that three Rafale aircraft have been handed over to the IAF. By May 2020, 24 IAF pilots along with engineers and technicians were scheduled to be trained on the Indian jets in France. Three IAF pilots and two technical officers were trained earlier on French Air Force (FAF) Rafales as per the terms of the contract. France has been badly hit by the COVID-19 pandemic with over 90,000 confirmed cases and over 13,800 deaths as on Saturday. It has been under lockdown since March 17. The French armed forces have also been affected with the French Defence Ministry confirming on Friday that 50 crew members onboard their sole aircraft carrier, the nuclear-powered Charles de Gaulle , have tested positive. Diplomatic sources said a civilian staff of Italian origin and two family members with recent travel history had tested positive for COVID-19 at an FAF base outside Paris and the FAF has imposed a series of measures to prevent further spread, including several precautions, curtailed flying and working in shifts.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Bracing for rapid surge in cases, says govt.||He added that dedicated hospitals for management of COVID-19 patients have increasingly been set up across the country with various private hospitals, Public Sector Units, Military hospitals, Indian Railways also contributing. “The Ordnance Factory Board has manufactured specialized tents to augment medical infrastructure in remote areas,” he added. Government spokesperson K.S. Dhatwalia said the Group of Ministers on COVID-19 has approved the release of hydroxychloroquine to 13 countries after assessing the stocks. MHA joint secretary P.S. Srivastava said that the government is trying to provide door-to-door essential goods in the hotspots in coordination with the civil society. “There is no bar on inter-state or intra-state transportation of goods. Godowns also can store the goods, as they are also exempted. Staff of manufacturing units of essential goods have been given passes for smooth work. Because of the increased web traffic, the Home Ministry’s twitter handle – CyberDost – is now providing information on potential cyber crimes to people,” he said. The MHA was also announced that the Finance Ministry has extended the deadline by three months, till June, on minimum mandatory deposits in PPF and Sukanya accounts.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||11 held for chopping off policeman’s hand||Mr. Gupta said despite repeated announcements from the public address system, the accused refused to surrender. The police party heard loud shouts and noises from inside the gurdwara premises, suggesting that some innocent people and hostages within might have got caught in the trouble. The police team then moved into the premises. “A few shots were fired by the accused at the police personnel before they were nabbed,” said the DGP, adding that entire operation was handled delicately so that the maryada (honour) and sanctity of the gurdwara was not disturbed. A huge cache of weapons including barchhe (lances) and kirpans , and some used cartridges were seized from the accused, in addition to two petrol bombs and LPG cylinders. Five bags of poppy husk (used for opium extraction) mixed with ‘sulpha’, large quantities of other drugs and Rs. 39 lakhs in cash were also found inside the premises, police said. Hand re-attached A statement issued by the Post-graduate Institute in Chandigarh late in the evening said surgery to re-attach Assistant Sub-Inspector Harjit Singh's severed hand was successfully completed. The statement said the technically challenging reimplantation surgery took around 7.5 hours, “Both radial and ulnar artery, the vena commitantes and an extra dorsal vein were anastomosed. All the flexors and extensor tendons were repaired. All the nerves at the wrist repaired Bony fixation done using three K- wires.”
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||India talking to U.S. over visa sanctions threat||In October and November 2019, India brought back 150 citizens who had entered the U.S. illegally, and accepted 311 others deported by Mexico who were trying to enter the U.S. illegally. Officials said the pandemic had created a unique situation, making it difficult for India to accept any passengers currently abroad, for fear that they might carry the virus into the country. At present, the Ministry of External Affairs estimates that there are about 25,000 Indians stranded in different parts of the world who roughly fall into three categories: business travellers, tourists and students whose colleges and schools have been shut down owing to the pandemic. Despite several pleas from the stranded Indians as well as requests from the countries they are in, the government has refused to reconsider the travel ban. However, the U.S. President has also used the COVID-19 situation to justify cracking down on countries that “deny or delay” the acceptance of aliens who are citizens, “if such denial or delay is impeding operations of the Department of Homeland Security necessary to respond to the ongoing pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2.” The Presidential Memorandum, issued on April 10, does include a clause permitting the Secretary of State to make exceptions consistent “with the foreign policy interests of the United States”, a clause New Delhi hopes will be used to tide over the situation.
13 April 2020||Mumbai,||15 new cases in Dharavi||Dharavi in Mumbai reported 15 new cases on Sunday, bringing the total to 43. However, nine of these were already under quarantine for being the high risk contacts of an earlier case. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has screened over 7,000 Dharavi residents so far. After the first cases were reported in Dharavi, as per protocol, the BMC had put their high-risk contacts under quarantine in the Rajiv Gandhi sports complex and were screened for symptoms regularly. Of these, it found nine people showing symptoms and upon testing, they were found to be positive. They are residents of Madina Nagar, Muslim Nagar and Social Nagar. Besides, six new cases were reported on Sunday. These include four from Shastri Nagar slum and two from Janata Society. So far, Dharavi’s Mukund Nagar has reported the highest cases at nine. This brings the total cases in Dharavi so far to 43, including four deaths. The BMC has now started fever screening of Dharavi residents involving 24 private doctors, 35 municipal staffers and 10 police staffers.
13 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Attacks on minorities up in Haryana||Amid surging of COVID-19 cases in Haryana, the State has so far seen 19 incidents of attacks on religious minorities in connection with spreading of coronavirus. Across the State, till April 11, the police have registered 19 cases against 89 people in different incidents of attacks on minorities relating to the epidemic. Police data show that so far 28 accused have been arrested for the attacks. In majority of the incidents, Section 295-A of the Indian Penal Code (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) has been evoked. Panipat district has seen the maximum incidents of attacks on the minority community. Seven incidents have been reported in the district.
13 April 2020||Mumbai,||Chinese bank picks up 1% stake in HDFC||The People’s Bank of China, the Chinese central bank, has picked up over 1% stake in HDFC Ltd., India’s largest mortgage lender. According to the March-end shareholding pattern disclosed by the mortgage lender to the stock exchanges, People’s Bank of China has 1.75 crore shares, or a 1.01% stake, in HDFC. The Chinese bank had some stake in HDFC prior to the January-March quarter, but the disclosure was made since the shareholding crossed 1% during the fourth quarter of 2019-20. Domestic equities came under pressure in March, including that of HDFC, after the COVID-19 pandemic spread. The shares of HDFC are now trading at Rs. 1,701.95.
13 April 2020||New Delhi,||DST moots study on yoga against viruses||The Department of Science and Technology (DST) has invited proposals to study appropriate intervention of yoga and meditation in fighting COVID-19 and similar kinds of viruses. Teams of scientists, clinicians and experienced practitioners of yoga and meditation who have a proven track record are being encouraged to submit concept notes on the proposal. The proposals have been invited under the Science and Technology of Yoga and Meditation (SATYAM) programme of the DST, a department under the Ministry of Science and Technology.
13 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Stimulus must precede lifting of lockdown’||The Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) has said that before the lockdown is lifted, adequate notice should be given and an economic package announced. Reiterating the industry body’s recommendation of “slow and staggered” reopening, CII Director-General Chandrajit Banerjee said on Sunday that it would be desirable to classify the geography into the red, amber and green zones, based on the incidence of COVID-19. “The principle should be that we look at opening up in concentric circles around the red zones. The radiating heat map should turn from red in the inside to green on the outside. In other words, ‘Lock inside out’,” he said. In a statement, the industry body said all facilities that reopen must have health, sanitation and screening systems in place to protect workers. They should also follow thermal checks, physical distancing and factory sanitisation. Any enterprise that fails to adhere to these norms on a self-certification basis should be penalised. “However, prior to the lifting of the lockdown (which should be decided based on the advice of medical experts), there has to be adequate notice given to all, and along with that, there should be the announcement of an economic package,” the statement added.
13 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||Editors Guild criticises U.P. govt. over FIR||The Editors Guild of India has criticised the Uttar Pradesh government for registering an FIR against The Wire ’s  Founding Editor Siddharth Varadarajan. Meanwhile, the police have served a notice to Mr. Varadarajan asking him to appear in Ayodhya on April 14 in connection with the FIR, said Nandini Sundar, noted sociologist and wife of Mr. Varadarajan. Ms. Sundar, who said policemen from Ayodhya drove to Delhi to hand over the notice, pointed out that he was summoned despite the lockdown. “When it comes to the gross abuse of police power by the Adityanath administration in UP and its intolerance of press freedom, it is clear that COVID-19, the lockdown and social distancing make no difference whatsoever,” she tweeted. The police had lodged two FIRs against Mr. Varadarajan earlier this month on charges of allegedly wrongly attributing a quote to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on the Ram Navami festival controversy.
13 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Moderate earthquake felt in Delhi||An earthquake of moderate intensity rocked many parts of Delhi on Sunday evening. “Earthquake of magnitude 3.5 occurred at a depth of 8 km in the National Capital Territory, Delhi,” the National Centre for Seismology said. A senior official of the Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) said the location of the quake, in a populous part, was the reason for it being widely registered. “The depth and magnitude are an initial assessment, and it was of moderate intensity, but many felt it,” Madhavan Rajeevan, Secretary, MoES, told The Hindu .
13 April 2020||Kolkata,||2 more die in West Bengal||The number of patients who contracted COVID-19 and died rose from five to seven in the last 24 hours in West Bengal. The number of active cases remained at 95, the Health department’s bulletin said. The number of suspected cases under hospital isolation went up from 1,964 on Saturday to 2,085 on Sunday. A total lockdown is being observed after mid-day, but in the early hours people thronged the local markets.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Eagle eyes||
13 April 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra COVID-19 tally shoots up to 1,982||Maharashtra continued to reel under the onslaught of the novel coronavirus as more than 22 persons died of the contagion while as many as 221 persons — a record high — tested positive on Sunday as the State’s cumulative tally of Covid-19 positive cases soared to 1,982 and its death toll went up to 149. Of these, 16 deaths were from Mumbai, while Pune reported three, taking its death toll to 30. Solapur district, which had hitherto remained unscathed, reported its first death, causing parts of the district to be sealed off. “Twenty out of these 22 dead (91%) had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. More than 150 of the 221 fresh cases were reported from Mumbai alone, with the metropolis’s tally escalating to 1,298. Of the total of 149 deaths from Maharashtra, 92 have been reported from Mumbai alone, with the city accounting for nearly a third of the total coronavirus deaths in India, and the State accounting for nearly 50% of the country’s death toll. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (excluding Mumbai city) witnessed an alarming surge as well, with Thane reporting 15 new cases, Navi Mumbai reporting nine, Kalyan Dombivli reporting 11, and Mira-Bhayander six. In Pune, the number of positive cases continued to mount steadily with 15 new cases being reported from the district, taking the total tally to 282, and Pune city reporting 240 of these cases. Malegaon in Nashik is emerging as a hotspot in north Maharashtra after some persons believed to have been part of the Tablighi Jamaat conclave tested positive. The Malegaon Municipal Corporation has till now reported 15 cases and two deaths. Health officials said that a thorough search of citizens who had attended the religious gathering at Delhi’s Nizamuddin in early March was underway in all districts and municipal corporations.Till date, 217 patients in the State have been discharged; 5,064 are in institutional quarantine. D
13 April 2020||Imphal,||Coronavirus-hit woman discharged fom Manipur hospital||A 23-year-old woman from Imphal West district, the first coronavirus-affected patient in Manipur, has been discharged from the J.N. Institute of Medical Sciences. The woman, who was studying in London, returned home on March 21 and tested positive on March 24. Institute director T. Bhimo said she would have to be in quarantine for some more days. A local resident who took part in the religious event in Nizamuddin, Delhi too has tested positive.
13 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||48 new cases, three deaths in Gujarat on Sunday||With 48 new cases and three deaths, Gujarat’s COVID-19 cases mounted to 516, with 25 deaths in all. Meanwhile, 44 persons have recovered fully and been discharged from hospitals. On Sunday, two persons died in Ahmedabad and one in Vadodara. Ahmedabad and Vadodara have emerged as the main clusters with 282 and 101 cases respectively. As on Sunday evening, four patients are on ventilator support while 444 are stable.
13 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Wine shops to open in Meghalaya for five days from tomorrow||Almost a fortnight after withdrawing its order allowing home delivery of alcoholic beverages on health grounds, the Meghalaya government has allowed wine shops and warehouses in the State to sell liquor for seven hours a day from April 13 to 17, with a few conditions. Apart from urging sellers to ensure social distancing rules and hygiene standards, the government said only one member of a family would be allowed to buy liquor.
13 April 2020||Chandigarh,||Panel on lockdown exit strategy would submit report soon: Amarinder||Punjab on Sunday reported 12 fresh cases of COVID-19 taking the tally to 170, a government statement said. Seven of the 12 cases were from Jalandhar district, three from Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar and one each from Kapurthala and Faridkot districts. Till now, Punjab has seen 12 deaths; 23 patients have been discharged. On the occasion of Baisakhi, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh urged people to stay home and observe it with prayers.
13 April 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha adds over 50,000 people under food security scheme||The Odisha government has added 51,766 new beneficiaries under the State Food Security Scheme amid the lockdown to prevent spread of coronavirus. “Ration card management, an automated system, is verifying the authenticity of over five lakh beneficiaries who were left out. These beneficiaries belong to weaker sections of society, but for different reasons they were out of the purview of the scheme. Soon after their inclusion in the scheme, we have started providing them advance rations,” Minister for Food Supplies Ranendra Pratap Swain said. As many as 51,766 new beneficiaries, who were members of 19,059 families, had been included in the scheme between March 21 and April 11, Mr. Swain said, adding that urther inclusion of eligible beneficiaries was in progress. The Minister said that out of an allotment of 5.65 lakh tonnes of food grains, including rice and wheat, released by the Food Supplies and Consumer Welfare department, 5.02 lakh tonnes had been so far lifted and delivered at fair price shops for distribution of ration for April, May and June to beneficiaries.
13 April 2020||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||Curfew impact near total in Ariyalur||Ariyalur town and surroundings witnessed near total curfew on Sunday thanks to the strict implementation of colour-coded pass system to the residents for venturing out during the lcokdown period. As per the initiative meant to tighten enforcement of the prohibitory orders, the district and police administrations issued colour-coded passes to all households in Ariyalur and rural areas, thereby allowing the residents to go out for buying essential commodities two days a week. It was mainly aimed at restricting movement of the people who tend to come out of their houses under the pretext of purchasing essential commodities, despite repeated appeals and various restrictions imposed by the Revenue and Police authorities. The passes - in three colours of green, blue and pink – were issued through the local bodies to the residents in respective areas. Those holding green cards can come out of their houses on Mondays and Thursdays and those with blue coloured cards can use them on Tuesdays and Fridays. Pink cards would be valid on Wednesdays and Saturdays. The residents can venture out only between 6 a.m.and 1 p.m. As per the system, no one can venture out on Sundays. The system that came to force restricted the people to go out only on specified days and duration. There were hardly any movement of vehicles on Sunday for the first time since the system came into implementation. Except those on medical emergency and police, no one was seen on roads. “Movement of vehicles was completely stopped on Sunday. All shops including meat stalls were closed. It showed that the people have clearly understood the system,” D. Rathna, Collector told The Hindu. She said that the awareness on do’s and don’ts to combat COVID-19 had gone up among the people. Superintendent of Police V.R. Srinivasan said that the curfew was monitored by drones on Sunday. The aerial pictures taken by them revealed that there was literally no movement of vehicles in any part of the town. Violations were negligible when compared to other days.
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stop direct distribution of relief material: govt.||The Tamil Nadu government on Sunday warned against the distribution of food packets and other essentials by individuals, organisations and political parties to the needy, contending that such acts of defiance of the prohibitory orders amounted to a violation of the lockdown, and could lead to further spread of COVID-19. “If anyone is found engaging in such acts, they could be considered to have violated the orders, and District Collectors and police officers are instructed to initiate appropriate legal action against them,” an official press release said, and further sought cooperation from everyone concerned. “If individuals or organisations or political parties intend to help people in need, they could do so through the authorities concerned,” it said. The State government's statement followed media reports about individuals, organisations and political parties distributing relief material to people in need. “The actions of some individuals, organisations and political parties distributing food packets or other essential supplies directly, defying the prohibitory orders, amount to a violation of the lockdown. These unregulated activities could lead to further spread of the infection,” an official release said. Hence, they were asked to avoid direct distribution of aid to those in need. The prohibitory orders imposed under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) as well as the Disaster Management Act were only meant to ensure that the spread of COVID-19 is contained by preventing people from stepping out, and to avoid crowding and ensure social distancing. However, specific timings have been announced so that people could get their essential supplies, the press release pointed out. It also referred to orders issued earlier, stating that persons or organisations intending to help in the efforts against the spread of COVID-19 could do so by contributing to the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund (CMPRF). In case they intended to contribute in kind, they could do so to the Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation or to the District Collectors concerned, it said. Orders had been issued to use the contributions made in kind to feed the elderly and destitutes through community kitchens and provide dry rations to the poor, it noted. In case of Municipalities, contributions could be made to the Municipal Commissioners concerned, and in case of smaller towns and villages, contributions could be made to the respective local administration authorities.
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Trying times for the bereaved too||The prolonged pandemic lockdown has not turned things upside down, not as much as physical distancing, which is leaving many alone, in their moments of joy and sorrow. It's not just weddings that take place without the usual pomp and fervour; even bereavements remain low key with limited or no attendance. Children and wards who work abroad and elsewhere in the country have had to miss the funeral of their parents, close relatives. They are unable to pay their last respects to their near and dear, even if they have not died of a coronavirus infection. Many others within the country and even State, could not attend the last journey of their loved ones, thanks to the lockdown. Amidst tears, they manage to catch some of the rituals on video calls, beamed to them overseas, with the help of technology. An 87-year-old person, who was a professor in a Tiruchi college, died recently in his residence in Mogappair. His son and daughter were abroad and could not come. His sisters and a couple of others, five to six people together, attended the funeral. A close relative lamented, “The heir of the deceased could not come, and it is not customary for women to perform the last rites. We had to finally ask a male relative from Tambaram by sending him a picture of the dead body so that police could allow him reach here.” Ordeals unlimited Revathi Anandapadmanaban, of Bengaluru, explained her ordeal to reach Chennai to attend her relative’s funeral in Velappanchavadi. Ms. Revathi said, “After obtaining permission from local authorities in Bengaluru, we travelled in a car and had to approach the Krishnagiri Collector’s office after crossing the border. We had to show a picture of the dead body and the message from the family to get a pass. Then we reached the house of the bereaved where only 10 people were present. Some of the relatives had to watch the funeral through a video call.” Syed Mansuruddin, hereditary trustee of Mount Road Dharga said, “Relatives are hesitant to visit the bereaved families as there is restriction on movement. Recently, the 70-year-old mother of my friend died due to ill health. There were only 10 or 15 attendees and the family had to move quickly to the burial ground for the last rites with few people in attendance.” M.Venkatesh, whose 85-year-old father died of ill health in Nanganallur recently, narrated his ordeal. “Only ten people were there — my family, my brother’s family and my in-laws. None of our relatives were able to attend. Even the priests found it difficult to come home and perform the final rituals.” “A 60-year-old woman died of ill health in Virugambakkam recently. She was from an affluent Christian family. Her family was left alone, as many relatives did not turn up. We could not bring the body to the church for special service and instead, the family had to go straight to the cemetery,” said P.B.Martin, parish priest of Infant Jesus church, Chinmaya Nagar. Bereaved families are not able to perform obsequies on the 10th day since they are not able to bring priests or move out from home. Gnanavapi and Mukthi Karmasalas — places for performing rituals after the cremation — are closed. Balasubramanian, a funeral undertaker in Gopalapuram said, “Now people are not hiring a freezer box to keep the body for hours. If somebody dies, he or she will be cremated the next hour.” R.Ganapathy Subramanian, an employee of private bank said, “My father died at the age of 84 after illness at a hospital. We were only four to attend the funeral and perform the last rites. All my relatives are in Coimbatore or Madurai. No one could visit us.” People under home quarantine after returning from foreign countries are facing piquant situations. Ashok Raj, general manager of a private firm, said, “My mother passed away while she was with my sister in Ekkattuthangal. I was not able to see her for the last time as I flew down from Oman on March 17 and was under home quarantine.” “In some cases, we find there aren’t even enough people to place the body on the pyre,” said V.S. Ragavan, a priest, in Mambalam.
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Making movies in a post-pandemic world||As the gates of cinemas remain locked and filming has stopped indefinitely in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the stakeholders of Kollywood — producers, actors, daily-wage labourers and technicians — are wondering what the future holds for their industry and whether there would be a return to normal in a post-COVID-19 world. While various stakeholders are hoping for a quick end to the pandemic so that they could get on with the film business, many feel the industry ought to contemplate several issues — waiver of interest on debt, reduction of film stars’ salaries and the number of productions, and hygiene improvement in cinemas. The producers have appealed to the financiers to waive the interest payable on their loans during the lockdown period. When asked if a waiver of interest for the months of March and April was possible, Tiruppur Subramaniam, a prominent financier and exhibitor in the State, said a decision would be taken only after the cinemas reopen. “This is not the time to talk about this. We have to overcome the coronavirus pandemic, and then sit down and talk [about this issue]. Let the cinemas open first,” Mr. Subramaniam said. Producers say the lack of clarity on interest payments could prove to be a problem once films start hitting the screens by the dozen every weekend. Many say that when normalcy is restored, several films may find themselves stuck in a financial mess. J. Satish Kumar, who has produced national award-winning films like Thanga Meenkal and Kuttram Kadithal, and is leading a team to contest the Tamil Film Producers’ Council elections, expressed confidence that the financiers would relent and waive the interest on loans taken by the producers. Pay cut Mr. Kumar said highly-paid actors, directors and technicians should take a 30% pay cut for the films that are currently stuck in the production stage. “We also want the government to do away with the local body tax, reduce GST rates and roll back the TDS,” he said, adding that “it will take at least a year” for the film industry to return to business as usual. “People may not visit the cinemas as they may be scared. They are also getting used to watching new films on Netflix and Amazon Prime [Video]. We will need big movies with big hype to bring them back to the cinemas. We are also going to see a drastic reduction in the number of Tamil film productions,” he said. Producer G. Dhananjayan felt the number of films produced in Tamil will fall by at least 20%. “The number of films produced in a year will reduce by 20% for sure. People may think that going to the cinema is a risk, notwithstanding any precautionary measures they may take. Cinemas may need to implement very strict safety measures,” said Mr. Dhananjayan, who recently released a video listing the possible steps that cinemas could take, including temperature screening, ensuring social distancing inside the halls and making the wearing of masks mandatory for patrons. He said people will come to cinemas only if they are offered a “theatrical experience”.
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NCLT allows Corporation to take over city hospital||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) Principal Bench, New Delhi (camp at Chennai), has allowed the Tamil Nadu government to temporarily take over Santosh Hospitals in Besant Nagar, which is closed and under liquidation, and utilise its infrastructure for COVID-19 treatment. In an unprecedented sitting on Sunday, the Bench passed on an order on an application filed by the Greater Chennai Corporation. “Though it is Sunday, this Bench has taken up the hearing on an urgent basis, since the COVID-19 pandemic has been rattling lives and the economy of the nation,” said B.S.V. Prakash Kumar, acting president of NCLT. Santhosh Hospitals had filed for voluntary insolvency and is under liquidation now. The possession of the hospital is with Muthoot Fincorp Limited, one of the lenders to the hospital. The other major lender is DCB Bank. In its application, the Chennai Corporation said the Tamil Nadu government had directed it to search for suitable hospitals to conduct tests and treat people diagnosed with COVID-19. It identified Santosh Hospitals for the purpose. The hospital has sufficient beds and infrastructure to conduct tests and offer treatment, it said. “The Greater Chennai Corporation can take over the hospital on an ‘as is where basis’, without any further liability/expenditure on the part of the liquidator, including charges such as electricity, water usage, cleaning, sanitation and repair and maintenance, among others,” the NCLT said. The Corporation cannot claim the expenditure from the liquidator or the lenders and should not allow the promoters or their representatives to enter the premises without the permission of the lenders, it added.  The hospital has sufficient beds and infrastructure to conduct tests and offer treatment Chennai Corporation
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Employers seek relief to tide over crisis||The Employers Federation of Southern India (EFSI) has made a representation to the Tamil Nadu government seeking measures for industries to tide over the crisis on account of lockdown due to COVID19. The federation has requested the State government to extend the time limit for renewal of licences and submission of returns under various labour enactments up to June 30. Permission to operate 12-hour shift for six months to reset the production lines to a higher capacity and exemptions to all factories and establishment with regard to hours of overtime for 6 months are its other requests. Exemption to work compensatory days for the lockdown days and to work beyond ten working days continuously and weekly off have also found a place in the demands. The letter, addressed to the Chief Secretary, mentioned payment of 50% of wages in respect of workers earning more than Rs. 24,000 [ceiling as prescribed under the payment of wages Act, 1936], a month for the lockdown period and wanted revision of dearness allowance (w.e.f 01.04.2020) payable under the Minimum Wages Act also be deferred by six months. “Under the Apprentices Act, stipend for apprentices from the board of apprentices is not reimbursed to employers in a timely manner. The pending claim for reimbursement is done immediately to tide over the financial crisis,” the letter said. Other requests include postponement of licence fees, fine and penal interest, any payable, be waived as special case and all punitive action initiated against employers, such as issuance of show cause notices for deviation, non-compliances, etc., be deferred for six months after obtaining the reply from the employers concerned, except for safety-related issues.  “In order to cover maximum beneficiaries under the building and other construction workers act, the condition with regard to engagement of construction workers for not less than 90 days during the preceding period of 12 months be relaxed. Suitable relaxation is recommended to the Government of India for amendment in the act,” the federation said. The 100-year-old federation represents 750 employers of southern India and 20 other affiliated associations belonging to textile, sugar, cement, plantation, leather and MSME sectors.
13 April 2020||chennai,TAMIL NADU||Directorate of Public Health says ‘no’ to disinfection tunnels||Calling into question the efficacy of sanitisation tunnels, the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) has said no such tunnels should be installed in Tamil Nadu. With disinfection tunnels being set up in public places in some parts of the State, K. Kolandaswamy, Director of Public Health, in a circular issued to all deputy directors of health services on April 11, said disinfection tunnels would create a false sense of security and divert people’s attention from the importance of handwash. Going a step further, the DPH said the spraying of disinfectants on human beings was ineffective and even harmful. People visiting public places walk into the tunnels after washing their hands. The tunnels contain nozzles which spray 1% sodium hypochlorite solution on them. The DPH has been laying stress on hand hygiene and regular disinfection of surfaces as precautionary measures, not only for COVID-19 but also for H1N1 influenza for many years now. In fact, it has shared the World Health Organisation’s myth-buster with its officials: Can spraying alcohol or chlorine all over your body kill the new coronavirus? No. Spraying alcohol or chlorine all over your body will not kill viruses that have already entered your body. Spraying such substances can be harmful to clothes or mucous membranes in the eyes and mouth. Be aware that both alcohol and chlorine can be useful to disinfect surfaces, but they need to be used under appropriate recommendations.
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. will absorb the cost of testing in private laboratories||The government would coordinate with private laboratories to provide testing facilities for COVID-19. It would also absorb the cost of testing in private facilities, Health Secretary Beela Rajesh has said. The Supreme Court had declared that private testing centres must not charge people for carrying out COVID-19 tests, in order to make the tests accessible to all. But the private sector was deeply uncomfortable with the idea. The Tamil Nadu government has now decided to absorb the costs of testing in private laboratories, thereby making testing for COVID-19 completely free in the State. As of now, 14 government laboratories, including the King Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research; the laboratories at the Madras Medical College, Chennai; government medical colleges in Theni, Tirunelveli, Tiruvarur, Salem, Coimbatore, Villupuram, Madurai, Tiruchi; IRT Perundurai and Dharmapuri; the Stanley Medical College; and the ESIC Medical College in Coimbatore are offering tests. Private institutions that have testing facilities include CMC Vellore; Apollo; Neuburg Erlich Laboratory; SRMC, Chennai; Microbiology Laboratory, Coimbatore; YRG Care, Taramani; Hi Tech Diagnostic Centre, Chennai; MIOT Hospital, Chennai; and Madras Medical Mission Clinical Laboratory Services, Chennai. In addition to these facilities, Jipmer’s laboratory had been declared as a ‘mentor facility’ for Tamil Nadu. It would also test samples for the State, Dr. Rajesh added. 8 doctors infected Noting that eight doctors, including four in private sector and two each in government hospitals and government railway hospitals, had been infected so far, she appealed to the people to understand that healthcare workers were putting their lives on the line to treat the sick. According to her, at least five nurses had also been infected by the virus. “I appeal to family members to maintain social distance. Doctors decide on segregating high-risk patients. Even when patients have to share a room, a distance of 10 feet between beds is maintained. We have made a strict rule that family members should not mingle with those who have tested positive,” she said. The government would receive approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research to start plasma therapy in a couple of days, she said.
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic policemen given face shields||The traffic policemen in Chennai were provided with face shields on Sunday so that they do not contract COVID-19 infection while performing duty. Thousands of police personnel in Chennai and across the State have been toiling day and night to ensure that everyone follows the prohibitory orders. Many have also been given the task of ensuring social distancing at ration shops and other places where people gather in large numbers. According to A. Arun, Additional Commissioner, Traffic, the shields have been provided to around 2,000 traffic policemen. “They have to wear the normal mask and cover their nose and mouth. On top of it, they have to wear the shied. This will protect the entire face,” he said. The law and order and other policemen who are on duty will also be provided with similar protection gear in the coming days. Police personnel welcomed the move. “It provides a feeling of safety. We have to go close to motorists while taking their details. If he/she is a carrier, we will be prone to infection,” said a police officer from Ambattur. However, some complained of moisture build up on the shield when they breath through the mask. “It would be better if we just wear the shield alone. But I am not sure if it would be safe enough. The visibility is affected due to the moisture,” added an official.
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin assails govt.’s ‘dictatorial’ order on relief material||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday described as dictatorial the State government’s order that individuals, political parties and private organisations should not distribute food or relief material to people affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. “This is vengeful — the government will not do anything [to help] and will also prevent others from pitching in,” he said in a statement. Mr. Stalin said that while it would be wrong to crowd into a place, this could be regulated by the police. “How can the government mandate that others should not extend help?” he asked. He said no one could prevent kind-hearted people from coming forward to wipe the tears of those in distress. “This is a democratic nation and anyone can help anyone,” he said. MDMK general secretary Vaiko also condemned the State government’s move. “Instead of appreciating the efforts made by political parties, voluntary organisations and individuals, the government has sought to deter them because it is envious of the good name earned by political parties and others,” Mr. Vaiko alleged. Pointing out that the distribution of food and relief material by individuals and political parties had not caused any problem or nuisance, the MDMK leader said on the contrary, people had benefited from the gesture. Echoing his view, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee leader K.S. Alagiri said, “This is an inhumane and autocratic decision. We severely condemn this.”
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||From Wednesday, Chennai Corpn. to collect samples from residents||Starting Wednesday, the Chennai Corporation will be collecting at least 1,000 samples a day for COVID-19 testing from residents. So far, the Corporation has only collected data on symptoms of COVID-19 and has been monitoring the residents on a daily basis. As many as 3,036 residents have reported symptoms in the 15 zones of the city. As many as 18.63 lakh households have been covered in its door-to-door survey every day. Currently, sample collection is being done only for residents of containment zones and hotspot clusters in the city. “We have now set up sample collection centres at 11 locations. We will set up 15 more in two days. Once we are armed with that, we will be going for sampling. The samples will not be collected from all residents. They will be taken as per medical observations, as our resources cannot be wasted,” said Mr. Prakash. “The persons will be taken to our collection centres for sampling. It is not possible for collection of samples en masse. The work will start in three days. It will not be done all at once. Samples of 50 persons will be collected per centre in a day. That’s very doable," said Mr. Prakash. Updating the door-to-door survey for COVID-19 symptoms, he said the penetration was almost 93% in residential localities in the 15 zones. “Till now, 3,036 persons, with all types of symptoms, have been picked up, and 2,261 ruled out. 775 persons are being followed up. But still, all the 3,036 persons are in our radar," said Mr. Prakash. The Corporation on Sunday collected 36 samples from ward 116, of Teynampet zone, on Besant Road. As many as five samples were collected at a centre on Noor Veeraswamy Street, Nungambakkam. Dry ration The Corporation has been distributing dry ration for labourers from other States, working in construction sites here. “The builders have the responsibility of providing food and shelter to the labourers. But many builders have not provided them food. There are more than one lakh labourers in construction sites in the city. The data on such sites will be sent to Labour Department officials,” said an official. Civic officials and flying squads will monitor the distribution of relief materials in the city.
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Film unions extend a helping hand to members||Ever since the Film Employees’ Federation of South India (FEFSI) announced a break in film shoots from March 19 as part of its measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19, it has been mobilising funds from the industry to help members of various unions, who are dependent on daily wages from the shoots. The federation encompasses 23 different unions and has around 25,000 members. Initially, it appealed to the big stars of the industry to come forward and donate to help its members. “Based on the donations received, we have been giving each union a share of the financial aid and rice bags. Unions have been instructed to handle the distribution based on needs of its members,” said R.K. Selvamani, FEFSI president. To enforce physical distancing norms, each union has been asked to carry out the distribution in a phased manner. Only around fifty members have been asked to come to the union offices, every day in the morning, for collecting the aid. Supreme Sundar of the South Indian Cine Stunt Directors’ and Stunt Artistes’ Union said that they had identified members in need and they were given financial assistance as well as essentials. “Besides, our union too has been providing essentials to our members. We are not sure when film shoots will resume and we need to ensure that our members have support,” he said. Actors Rajinikanth, Ajith, Suriya, Karthi, Dhanush, Sivakarthikeyan, Vijay Sethupathi and Nayanthara are among those who have contributed to FEFSI.
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Helpline for the disabled flooded with calls||With 15,328 calls till Saturday night, the helpline for differently-abled persons and the elderly, managed by the Commissionerate for the Welfare of the Differently-abled to cater to their needs during the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown, has been flooded with calls. Department officials said that with the involvement of 42 personnel to manage the helpline and a streamlined process with efficient coordination at district and taluk levels, all requests for essential needs were being catered to. “So far, we have reached out to 66,463 persons, including differently-abled people, senior citizens and their family members,” said Johnny Tom Varghese, director for the welfare of the differently-abled. According to Mr. Varghese, all information received through the calls are converted to a specific format and classified based on priority with the help of software tools. This information is then shared on a WhatsApp group where all district-level and top officials, including the Secretary of the Department, are present. A majority of the requests are about need for food supplies, medicines and medical attention, he said.
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishers getting ready to enter the sea||With District Collectors holding meetings to permit fishers with traditional craft to fish, there is palpable excitement in hamlets along the coast. Many are repairing nets, sprucing up boats and looking for funds to buy diesel. “They are giving a set of guidelines to be followed by fishers, including fishing on alternate days or twice a week. That they will be able to bring back fish is a big relief for many,” said K. Bharathi of South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association. A senior official of the Fisheries Department said that a draft set of guidelines have been given to the District Collectors, including insistence on physical distancing. The restrictions would be in force for at least two weeks after which they would be eased slowly. “Sale of fish would be allowed. But the bigger boats have been deemed to have joined the annual fishing ban,” the official said. However, Durai Mahendran of Pulicat said the district administration needs to ensure availability of transportation for small fish vendors. “Other supporting infrastructure, including ice factories, need to function if we are to go fishing. A section of fishers is also apprehensive that sale of fish would attract crowds and thereby spread the coronavirus. The government should ensure the safety of all stakeholders,” he said. Meanwhile, G. Arasu of the Chennai Chengai Singaravelar Visai Padagu Meenavar Sangam, said the government should ensure some kind of dole for boat owners and labourers who depend on boats for their livelihood.
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Donations pour in for relief fund||Eicher Group, which comprises Royal Enfield and VE Commercial Vehicles (a joint venture between the Volvo Group and Eicher Motors Limited), has announced a contribution of Rs. 1 crore to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s COVID Relief Fund. In addition, the company has pledged Rs. 25 lakh to the Kanchipuram Collector’s Relief fund for COVID-19. Eicher said it is working with more than 10 hospitals in the State to provide personal protection equipment to medical caregivers. The group is also working with four hospitals to establish exclusive COVID-19 specialty wards and isolation centres and over Rs. 7 crore will be provided for this, it said. Eicher has also committed more than Rs. 2 crore for providing groceries and sanitation consumables to more than 9,000 families of migrant labourers and underprivileged local communities across the State. Repco Home Finance Limited has made a contribution of Rs. 25 lakh towards the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. The Association of Minimal Access Surgeons of India (AMASI) has donated a sum of Rs. 20 lakh towards PM Cares Fund. The Institute of Company Secretaries of India has committed Rs. 5.25 crore to PM Cares Fund.
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||8 foreigners arrested||The Madurantakam police have arrested and remanded eight Indonesian nationals, including four women, under the Foreigners Act on charges of violating visa rules. All of them have tested negative for COVID-19. According to police, the eight persons — Nuramin, 38, Sukaliat, 47, Ahmad Haidlorillah Abdul Hahan, 52, Abdul Sahlan, 58, Tumini, 56, Tis Atul Mukarromah, 45, Tika, 44, and Anita Kurniasih, 36, — arrived in Delhi on March 3. Police claim that they attended a conference and left for Chennai. They arrived in Chennai on March 21 and on the same day they reached Madurantakam. “They stayed in a mosque in the town and were involved in religious activities,” said a police officer. On April 5, the district officials came to know about the Indonesians staying there. With the help of a transalator, they questioned them. They were subjected to COVID-19 tests by health officials and placed under home quarantine. After they tested negative for COVID-19, the Madurantakam police arrested them and remanded them in judicial custody. “Despite knowing that Section 144 was in place, they were involved in religious activities,” said an officer.
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DPCs will procure paddy from farmers||The State government was prepared to procure paddy from farmers without any restrictions and sell their produce to Direct Procurement Centres (DPCs), Food Minister R. Kamaraj said on Sunday. He also warned of strong action against middlemen. In a statement, Mr. Kamaraj said a total of 1,508 DPCs had been opened to procure paddy to the tune of 15.7 lakh metric tonnes from farmers till April 10 this year. A total of 725 DPCs, including 346 in the delta districts, have been operating, the Minister said. “As per the instructions of the Chief Minister, the State government is prepared to procure paddy from farmers in all districts without any restrictions,” Mr. Kamaraj added.
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK to hold all-party meeting on April 15||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday said he will convene an all-party meeting on April 15 to discuss and evaluate the approach of the State government and the Centre to combating COVID-19. Mr. Stalin, who has been urging the State government to convene an all-party meeting to discuss the pandemic, said the event would be held at Anna Arivalayam — the DMK’s headquarters.
13 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘No more distribution of food directly’||The district administration, following the orders from the State government, has stopped distribution of food to the needy through Non-Governmental Organisations, other agencies, and individuals. Mr. Rajamani said in a press release that those who want to help can provide the provisions to Coimbatore Corporation or to the respective tahsildars. The government has said that migrant workers from other States and districts should be supported by the employers. In the case of workers from other States who used to go for daily wages or through contractors, about 40,000 people are provided cooked food every day. For those in need, grocery items are provided. Since there are risks of the virus spreading when volunteers reach out to the needy directly and there are challenges in implementing the lockdown, no one should distribute cooked food directly. If anyone is found violating the government norms, action will be taken against them, the Collector said. A senior official said that more than 30 common kitchens were in operation in the city. The distribution will now be taken up directly through the government departments. There are several cases where food is delivered by multiple agencies to the same set of people and to the local residents. The focus is on the migrant workers and ensuring the lockdown is implemented fully. There may be challenges for a day or two in identifying the need and supplying food to them. However, all efforts will be taken to ensure that the needy and the migrant workers get food or provisions regularly during the lockdown period, the official said.
13 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||647 held for violations in Coimbatore||The police have arrested 647 persons on charges of violating the prohibitory order in Coimbatore district on Saturday. The police seized 497 vehicles from them who were released on bail. The police slapped fine to the tune of Rs. 1,05,200 on them. The Ukkadam police booked four persons who distributed pamphlets with a heading in Tamil which can be roughly translated as ‘Delhi calls for your conscience’ on March 20. Those booked have been identified as M.Y. Abbas, Ukkadam area president of Social Democratic Party of India, Hakkim, C.P. Ibrahim and another Ibrahim, members of Popular Front of India. The police said that the four men distributed pamphlets to people in front of a mosque on Vincent Road on March 20. The pamphlets had contents against Hindu leaders and Hindu organisations, said the police.  UDHAGAMANDALAM  In the Nilgiris, the district police have registered 1,905 cases against people found to have been violating prohibitory orders, leading to the arrest of 1,622 persons. The police said that 690 vehicles have been seized from the public since the start of the lockdown.  SALEM  Salem district police have registered 3,047 cases and seized 2,546 two-wheelers and 18 four-wheelers here. In Namakkal, 157 cases have been registered and 168 persons have been arrested. Police also seized 90 vehicles.  ERODE  The district police have as on Sunday registered 6,383 cases against people for violating Section 144. Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan in a press release said that on Sunday, 375 cases were registered against motorists for plying on road and 228 two-wheelers and 88 four-wheelers were impounded. He said that all the vehicles were kept at respective police stations, school grounds, police quarters and armed reserve grounds. He said that so far, a total of 6,383 cases were registered.
13 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||For migrant workers, it is a wait to return home||About 1 km off Tiruchi Road in Coimbatore city, nearly a dozen migrant workers share two rooms at Kallimadai. From Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, they were working at construction sites fixing false ceilings. Among them is 26-year-old Ram Vilas from Bihar, who has spent nearly eight years in Coimbatore. It is more than two weeks since he went for work because of the lockdown. “We buy provisions from a shop nearby and cook one meal a day. We were not paid any advance amount and there is hardly any money left. Someone gave us food for two days. They gave tomato rice. They gave us four or five packets. How will it suffice for all of us ?,” he asks. His immediate need is food and train to go back home. The workers also say that they do not have the money to pay the rent of Rs. 2,000 for their room this month. A few kilometres away at Ganeshapuram, 15 workers from Assam were employed at a forging unit nearly for monthly wages. “We were paid wages only for 20 days. Our owner has not even enquired how we are doing,” says 26-year-old Bubesh. There are more than 60 migrant workers at Ganeshapuram and many of them were going to industries for daily wages. “We received rice nearly a week ago. We are running out of rice. We are seeing the news. When will the train service start ? We want to return home,” says Bubesh. Ram Vilas and Bubesh are among the hundreds of migrant workers here who have no work, no money and not enough food too now. There are three types of migrant workers in Coimbatore : those who are completely taken care of by the employers during the lockdown period, those who are not supported by the employers, and those who went for daily wages or through agents for temporary jobs. It is the second and third categories of workers that mainly need to be supported. Many workers are calling up or sending messages to the help centres in their States and the information is passed on here. The officials are immediately visiting them and providing food. However, it is difficult to trace all these workers even for the enumeration purpose. The contractors, who bring these workers to industries, should also share information, officials here said. S. Krishnamurthy, district secretary, CITU, says all efforts need to be taken to ensure that all the workers get food. They are all waiting to go home and when train services resume, there will be a rush. This can put the health of the workers at risk. Hence, the district administration should draft a system so that the workers are able to return to their home State safely.
13 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Colleges take to online platforms to conduct classes, tests||Colleges in Coimbatore have taken to various online platforms to conduct classes and tests. While a few colleges use proprietary software to help faculty reach out to students during the COVID-19 induced lockdown period, others use open source or free platforms. The objective behind conducting classes is to ensure that academic activity goes on. It is also to enable the faculty use modern technology available to reach out to students and convey to the students in no uncertain terms that the colleges mean business, says the correspondent of an arts and science college near the city. The faculty have started not only using the tools that the colleges ask them to reach out to students but also looking for online content available on the Web. The faculty then share the resource (online content) with the student at least a day before the start of the virtual class so that the student has some idea of what the faculty is going to teach, says the chief executive officer of a college. And, invariably, in cases where the faculty has shared the content in advance, the class begins with a quick online test with objective questions to assess where the students stand, he adds. The faculty and students log in to a common platform and the virtual class begins with the faculty talking to he students about the subject on hand. The technology also enables him to share his screen, in case he is writing down something to explain a concept. The students get to raise doubts and at the end, the faculty conducts a quick test, again. The whole process is monitored and whoever has logged in is marked present, says a college correspondent, saying that the management has said it is taking a serious view of online presence as it amounts to attendance. The correspondent of another college says the interesting aspect of using online tools to conduct tools is that the student are very interested. Be it class or test, he has seen students attendance dropping not below 95%, which is otherwise not the case in his college. Using the online software available, a few of the colleges under the Bharathiar University have also conducted internal (model) tests. A college head says that the objective and descriptive questions are timed, meaning that students will have to answer each question within a specific time. The clock starts ticking once a question is chosen and at the end of the time, the screen freezes, leaving the students with little time to alter or manipulate the answers. At the Bharathiar University, the faculty are engaged in conducting guest lectures for faculty and students by invitation. Using the lockdown period, the University is also engaged in drawing up its plan for the next decade, says Vice Chancellor P. Kaliraj. The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University too has followed suit by starting online classes a couple of days ago. A release from the institution says 344 students of 33 post-graduate programmes and 172 research scholars from 29 disciplines are benefitting from online classes.  Using the online software available, a few of the colleges under Bharathiar University have also conducted internal tests
13 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Private schools introduce virtual classes||With school students staying in their homes amid the COVID-19 lockdown, some private schools in Coimbatore have been employing virtual classes to reach out to students. R. Ramamoorthi, president of Ponni Charitable Trust which runs two schools – Literacy Mission Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Somanur and Literacy Mission International CBSE School in Sulur – said that virtual classes for Class IX have been ongoing in these two schools for the past one week. The classes are live and are held between 9 a.m and 11 a.m on weekdays using Google Hangouts. “Students and teachers can ask questions to each other,” he said. Virtual classes also commenced for Classes VI, VII, VIII and XI, while revision classes will be held for Class X students as they await to write their public examinations that have been postponed. However, the classes are not compulsory for any students, as Mr. Ramamoorthi pointed out that only around 50 out of 270 Class IX students from Literacy Mission Matriculation Higher Secondary School participate in these virtual classes in a day. “These virtual classes will be helpful to the students once the schools are reopened and will also help teachers to finish the portions quicker,” he said. There are also challenges of poor internet connectivity and lack of awareness among students and teachers that prevents an increase in participation, he noted. There are no instructions from Department of School Education regarding compulsory online classes for school students, said R. Visalakshi, president of Tamil Nadu Private Schools’ Association. Only a few private schools in Coimbatore have introduced online classes, she said. “The students have lost only an additional two weeks,” she said, noting that most schools have finished their portion before the lockdown and summer vacations start from April. If the COVID-19 situation does not ease by June when schools reopen, expansion of such e-learning for all classes might be considered, Ms. Visalakshi said. On March 25, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced that students from Class I to Class IX will be promoted without examinations owing to the closure of schools.
13 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Police step up vehicle checks to restrict movement of people||The police have tightened vehicle checks in Coimbatore to restrict movement of people as the district was brought under red zone category, the top order in terms of the severity of COVID-19 spread. On Sunday, Coimbatore city police conducted random checks at certain locations where motorists were stopped for about 30 minutes. The random checks were conducted as the police have seen an increase in the number of people who venture out on the pretext of buying essentials. Such checks were done at a few places including Athupalam, Ukkadam and Nanjundapuram road check-post. While cases were registered against those found to have come out for non-essential services/commodities, others were made to wait on the road for about 30 minutes before allowed to leave. Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan said that police personnel involved in enforcement of prohibitory order were seeing many people who venture out for goods and services, travel for which can be avoided. “Around 80 % of persons stopped by the police on roads during lockdown period did not have a genuine reason or an emergency purpose to cite for the travel. Many people were coming out buy a packet of curd, or a loaf of bread and so on. One person who was stopped by the police on Sunday said that he was going to bank. Our aim is to restrict unnecessary movement of people,” the Commissioner said. Police personnel on duty at the check points will advise people using public addressing system about the importance of lockdown and physical distancing as preventive measures against COVID-19. Ambulances, vehicles transporting patients, Government officials on duty, medical professionals and mediapersons will not be stopped at such vehicle checks. A woman fainted during one such vehicle check at Athupalam on Sunday.
13 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Rice mills face labour shortage||For the rice mills, which have permission to operate because rice is an essential commodity, shortage of labour is a challenge now. According to K.S. Jagadeesan, advisor to the Tamil Nadu State Rice Mills’ Association, the mills face 25 % to 40 % labour shortage. Several workers have gone home because of the lockdown. Most of the mills had a large number of workers from the southern districts of the State or from north Indian States. Many of them have returned home. Another challenge that the mills face is that the units need firewood and it came from places such as Vedaranyam, Cuddalore, and Sivaganga. For almost a week when the lockdown came into force, the mills were unable to get firewood as there were no transportation facilities. Now, that has been sorted out. Mr. Jagadeesan said the Government has supported the sector and ensured that there are no challenges in transportation. There are, however, problems in getting adequate quantity of packing materials and the price of rice brawn, that goes into poultry feed, has dropped. The price used to be Rs. 12 a kg and it has fallen to nearly Rs. 5 a kg, he said. There are, however, no problems in getting paddy from other States, he said.
13 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Ten tractors deployed for spraying disinfectants||The Coimbatore Corporation has deployed 10 tractors for spraying disinfectants to contain the spread of novel corona virus (COVID-19), Collector K. Rajamani said here on Sunday, after inspecting the spraying work at Kotaimedu. Mr. Rajamani said the Corporation had deployed 10 tractors with motors attached at two each a zone for the five zones for spraying disinfectants. This was in addition to the five vehicles that the Corporation had deployed. Each of the five vehicles had 5,000-litre tanks, filled with disinfectants. The Corporation also used 350-plus sprayers to spray disinfectants in narrow lanes. Corporation Deputy Commissioner S. Prasanna Ramasamy, Central Zone Assistant Commissioner Mahesh Kanagaraj and other officials were present when the Collector carried out the inspection.
13 April 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Ban on public giving doles directly to needy||Thanking the public, philanthropists and NGOs for their spontaneous gesture of donating essential commodities to the needy people, Collector M. Vijayalakshmi, however, on Sunday banned them from directly distributing assistance to the beneficiaries. In a statement, she said so far at least 45 people in the district and within the city limits had been tested positive to the virus. Many dwellings and locations had been cordoned and declared as contained zones. The objective is to protect the citizens and save lives. Hence, the public cooperation was essential, she said and added that donations could not be given directly. Interested persons and voluntary outfits may kindly contact designated officials earmarked for the purpose and hand over the goods, which would be distributed with due care. The Collector also said that public can contact the Mahalir Thittam Officer at 9944073736 and hand over essential commodities. The police have so far booked 3,596 cases against people who had violated the curfew and seized 3,935 two-wheelers and 57 four-wheelers. In a press release, Superintendent of Police R. Saktivel said that the public could view for themselves the rules and regulations to be followed during curfew from the SMART COP App, developed by the police. When a team of revenue officials led by Deputy Collector Raj Kiran were checking vehicles at Begumpur, Ram Nagar, Gopal Nagar and other surrounding areas, which were declared as containment zone, many residents attempted to come out for shopping. The officials stopped them and explained the consequences of them mingling with other public and instructed them to go back to their dwellings. In the event of stepping out of the demarcated zones, the police would be forced to arrest and send them to judicial custody, the officials said.
13 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Families given essentials after appeal made in social media||After a family made an appeal on social media seeking essential commodities, revenue officials in Nambiyur block handed over essentials to eight families of Narikuravar community here on Saturday. A woman in Karattupalayam village in Gobichettipalayam Taluk made an appeal on social media that they are daily wagers and had lost their livelihood after the lockdown. The woman said that they had managed to meet their food requirements so far, but were unable to manage now. “We don’t know whether we will die of COVID-19 or not, but we will die without food”, she said in her video message. After the video went viral, officials from Nambiyur Tahsildar office on Saturday handed over rice, groceries and other essential commodities, purchased from the Collector’s fund, to the eight families with which they would be able to manage for 15 days. Likewise, on Sunday, a team led by Kadathur Police Inspector handed over vegetables, 200 kg rice, groceries and other essentials to the same families for 15 days. Officials said that families were given essentials for a month now and Village Administrative Officer was also asked to monitor them and provide essentials if they need more.
13 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Woman, who tested positive, delivers baby||A 32-year-old woman in Erode, who tested positive for COVID-19 and currently in the isolation ward at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital in Perundurai, delivered a baby here on Sunday. After one of her family members, who returned from New Delhi, tested positive, her home was quarantined. On April 9, she tested positive and was shifted to the hospital the next day and kept at the ward. On Sunday, doctors performed caesarean and she delivered a baby boy. Officials said that health condition of both the mother and the baby are stable and are being monitored continuously.
13 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||It’s in the blood of donors to help in times of crisis||About a week ago, 32-year-old S. Bharath, an onion vendor on East Marret Street here, received a phone call. It was a request from a social worker who asked him to donate his blood for a 17-year-old girl suffering from Thalassemia, a blood disorder necessitating regular blood transfusions. At that time, Mr. Bharath was with his wife at the Government Hospital in Aruppukottai in Virudhunagar district, where she had delivered a baby boy. The next day, he left at 6 a.m. on his two-wheeler to reach a private hospital in Madurai. “I wore gloves, a face mask and a helmet. I was prepared to show necessary documents to the police, but luckily I was not questioned. I donated blood and returned home,” he said. When people are apprehensive of donating blood in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, there are many donors like Mr. Bharath who do their bit to save lives. The mother of the 17-year-old recipient said she was anxious for two days searching for a blood donor. “Had the blood transfusion been delayed, the haemoglobin levels of my daughter would have dropped at an alarming level. People donating blood during the lockdown only prove that humanity still exists,” she said. Since the lockdown started, blood donation camps were not held and this has resulted in a shortage at most blood banks, said an employee of the blood bank at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). “The requirement of blood has also dipped as only emergency and pregnancy cases are handled at hospitals. Still, with restrictions in place, we find it difficult to get donors,” she said. Some people are afraid that blood donation during this crisis would make donors susceptible to COVID-19 infection, which was completely unfounded, she said. “Disinfection is in full swing at he blood bank, which is located in a separate building from the COVID-19 isolation ward. Also, the donors are asked whether they had any contact history with COVID-19 positive patients or if they had a foreign travel history. If they fall in these categories, they are temporarily barred from donating blood,” the employee said. “But the donors have to follow safety precautions like wearing face masks, gloves and ensuring personal hygiene while they travel to hospitals,” said P.T. Jegan, who donated blood to a cancer patient during the lockdown. e-pass, donor pass To ensure that donors did not face any hurdles, e-passes were being issued by the district administration and donor passes were provided by the GRH, said S. Ganesh Murugan, founder of Jeeva Nadhi Trust, a voluntary organisation involved in arranging blood donors. Blood donation was a small contribution that one could make to save families, said Mr. Bharath. “In fact, one person donated blood to my pregnant wife and 10 days later she gave birth to a healthy baby,” he added.
13 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Meat, fish stalls see crowds||Despite an order issued by Collector T. G. Vinay, sale of meat and fish was brisk in retail shops on Sunday. The Collector’s order to stop sale of meat on Sundays to prevent mass gathering came after a meeting with Corporation and police officials on March 29. The sale, however, has continued on every Sunday. The vendors claimed that they assumed that the ban was specific only to the Sunday of the following week — April 5. On Saturday, brisk sale of fish began at Mattuthavani vegetable market at 10.30 p.m. According to K. Hakkim, a social worker who was present at the market, several small-scale vendors came to know of the Collector’s order only around 11.30 p.m. On Sunday morning, sale was witnessed in areas such as Therkkuvasal, Karimedu, Tirupparankundram and Bypass Road. Since Sunday was Easter, it was assumed that there would be sale of meat, according to M. Sheik Dawood, who has a family-run fish shop. But he thought it was unfair for wholesalers to bring stock on Saturday night and sell them too. “The district administration should have prevented wholesale transactions too. Considering that the makeshift market at Mattuthavani functions every day, the wholesale vendors should have stopped bringing stock on Saturday. If the ban is applicable to them and retailers, then there will be fairness,” he said. Rahat Ulillah, former Secretary, Madurai Corporation Fish Vendors Association, said that even though Sunday was usually the day of maximum sale, they were willing to forego profits due to COVID-19. “The public too must cooperate when we ask them to stand in line or wear masks. It is essential.” He added that police must allow sale from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. “They usually expect us to complete the sale by 8.30 a.m., which means we lose the last half hour of business.” The Collector said both the Food Safety department and the Corporation had asked retailers to shut shop on Sunday morning to comply with rules. “I sent a voice note to members of associations to prevent sale so as to avoid crowds. As soon as we received information regarding shops being open, officials from the Corporation intervened.”
13 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Prison inmates contribute their mite in fight against COVID-19 pandemic||Seventy fiive inmates of Madurai and Palayamkottai Central Prisons are contributing their might in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic by meeting the urgent need for masks. Ever since the lockdown was announced, prison officials led by Director General of Police/Inspector General of Prisons Sunil Kumar Singh ordered production of masks in the prisons. “The department supplied raw materials. In the last 10 days, 65 men in both the prisons and 10 women in Madurai Central Prison were stitching masks. At least 7,000 masks are stitched by the tailors who otherwise stitch napkins and readymade garments,” said Deputy Inspector General of Prisons D. Pazhani. With the sudden surge in demand, not only the price of masks went up to Rs. 27 per piece, but also they were unavailable in the open market. However, the jail authorities are supplying them to the government departments in the southern districts at Rs. 10 a piece for the three-layer masks. “When the demand was at its peak, we were giving it to the police and health department personnel who were in the high-risk category. But, now that we have enough stock, we are ready to sell it to the public,” Mr. Pazhani said. The masks are sterilised and available in packs of 50s. Meanwhile, following a high-level committee’s recommendation, over 1,000 prisoners in all the jails in Madurai range have been let off on bail as a precautionary measure. Isolation jails After the strength of the various district jails came down, few prisoners from Central Prisons were shifted to the district jails to reduce congestion. Few sub-jails had been earmarked for remanding new prisoners. “The idea is to keep them away from the existing prisoners as a precautionary measure,” he added. Sub-jails in Melur, Sivaganga, Paramakudi, Vedasandur and Palani had been earmarked for lodging new prisoners, and Nilakottai prison for new women prisoners, he added. In case of foreign nationals remanded in judicial custody, they would be sent Puzhal Central Prison in Chennai after getting due clearance from designated testing centres that they were free from novel coronavirus infection.
13 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Girls disinfect narrow lanes||A group of five girls, including two school students, on Sunday went around the narrow streets in Thathaneri to fumigate the streets. Led by a final-year graduate student, S. Manju, the group sprayed disinfectant — mounted on their cycle — in three streets in Bharatiyar Nagar. “This is part of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) initiative to keep our streets free from any virus,” said Ms. Manju, a member. The Corporation took up disinfection work only in main roads and the narrow streets were left out. “When our fellow DYFI members, all males, took up similar work in several parts of the city, we thought that we girls should also join them,” she said. Two other college students, Maheswari and Rajeswari, and two school girls, Jeyasri and Seethalakshmi, joined her. The work started at 11 a.m. and went on till 2 p.m. With masks covering their mouth and nose, they sprayed the disinfectant on the streets, gates of houses, and around public fountains. “Several residents encouraged us to spray the disinfectant at their gates,” she said. The Madurai Urban district DYFI unit bought the sprayer and disinfectant from the market. “We are also getting support from Madurai Corporation officials, who give us the disinfectant, in some areas,” said its district secretary, T. Selva. DFYI had identified interior streets where the Corporation had not sprayed disinfectants. Mostly, volunteers from different areas take up the work in their streets or areas, he added. The DFYI members had volunteer identity cards from Madurai Corporation. They also helped several elderly persons to get medicines from government hospitals during the lockdown period. “We also managed to get cancer drug for two patients in Theni district from Government Rajaji hospital and a private hospital in the city where they were getting regular treatment. We sent the medicines through vans that returned after delivering vegetables,” Mr. Selva added.
13 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Zonal task force to take charge, says Minister||A zonal task force will oversee contact tracing of foreign returnees, COVID-19 testing and containment measures, said Revenue and Disaster Management Minister R. B. Udayakumar. Speaking to the media after a district-level review meeting here on Sunday, he said that with a view to preventing the pandemic, 33,000 health workers had been taking a door-to door survey of 16.60 lakh houses, covering a population of 59 lakh in the containment zones. Madurai district had been allotted Rs. 3 crore for COVID-19 relief. The district administration, corporation, police, revenue and all other departments were working on the front line to ensure lockdown measures were followed. “We appeal to the public to stay at home and ensure physical distancing when venturing outside,” he said.
13 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Street play depicts novel battle||Customers who visited a makeshift vegetable market at Madura College grounds here on Sunday, witnessed a play by artistes of Madurai Govindaraj Folk Arts Development Association to spread awareness of COVID-19 pandemic. D. Govindaraj, founder of the association, said they performed thappattam , marakkal attam and street play to sensitise people on the need to follow personal distancing at public spots. The importance of wearing face masks and frequent handwashing was also elaborated to the public. A play was performed in which an artiste, dressed up as Karuppasamy, a subaltern deity, fought against another artiste, who was dressed with a helmet to symbolise the deadly virus. “We wanted to represent Karuppasamy as the people are in the forefront in the fight against the epidemic- medical personnel, police and government officials,” said Mr. Govindaraj. The artiste dressed up as the virus visited crowded spots in the market to illustrate the danger of people not adhering to personal distancing. The customers were also told to buy vegetables for a week and not visit the market everyday, he added. “We also told the customers that summer is the time that folk artistes earn a decent income and that the current crisis has affected the livelihood of all the artistes. But, we still performed as we wanted people to understand the importance of staying indoors,” Mr. Govindaraj said.
13 April 2020||Mayiladuthurai,TAMIL NADU||Mayiladuthurai-Tranquebar rail link may be restored||Rail passengers in the delta districts see a ray of hope in the judgement delivered earlier this year by the High Court on a public interest litigation filed by Kuthalam P. Kalyanam, former MLA, for restoration of railway link between Mayiladuthurai and Tranquebar that existed during the British period. In “entire agreement” with the proposition of the petitioner (for restoration of the 30-km railway link), the High Court had disposed off the writ petition with a liberty to the respondents - the Central Government, Railway Board, the General Manager of Southern Railway, and the Divisional Railway Manager of Tiruchi Division - to consider the grievance in the background in which it had been raised and take an appropriate decision in the matter. Mr. Kalyanam had, in his petition, informed the court that the link was established in 1926 between Mayiladuthurai and Tranquebar towns via Dharmapuram, Mannampanthal, Sembanarkoil, Akkur, Thirukadaiyur, Thillaiyadi and Poraiyar Railway Stations, and that the rail transport was stopped in 1985 on the ground that the meter gauge railway track has to be converted into broad gauge. The hope of the people that the rail transport between Mayiladuthurai and Tranquebar will be restored after gauge conversion has been belied, he said. The restoration of the 30-km rail link was vital for extending the same to nearby Karaikal railway station which was only 12 km away from Tranquebar. Continuous barren land was available for acquisition. As for the Mayiladuthurai-Tranquebar route, the land is already available for laying the BG line, Mr. Kalyanam said. There would be several advantages if Mayiladuthurai is linked to Karaikal. As there is already a plan to lay a direct line between Chennai and Puducherry, a rail line could be operated parallel to the stretch of East Coast Road from Chennai to Nagapattinam in future, he explained. More importantly, a circular rail route symbolising religious harmony could be created for the convenience of pilgrims of all the three major faiths: Hinduism, Christianity and Islam, visiting Thirukkadaiyur, Thirunallar, Nagore and Velankanni, Mr. Kalyanam, who was the DMK MLA representing Kuthalam constituency from 1996 to 2001, explained.
13 April 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||‘Well-being of residents is being monitored’||The well-being of 60,000 residents in the seven containment zones in Nagapattinam district is being looked after by 600 frontline workers of health department and anganwadi wing. Testing to determine presence of the COVID-19 virus was being undertaken for 100 residents every day, District Collector Praveen P. Nair said. The district has 24 COVID-19 positive cases of whom the travel history of 11 were traced to New Delhi where they had taken part in the Tabliqhi Jamaat conference. The samples of 47 of their contacts were also tested and they were kept under home quarantine. Out of 3,383 persons who had returned from other countries and other States and kept under home quarantine, the mandated duration of confinement is over for 2,015 persons. The public could approach the toll free number 1077 functioning out of the Collectorate round-the-clock for any help, the Collector said.
13 April 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Cooperation sought||To prevent community transmission of COVID-19 virus, Nagapattinam district administration has instructed patients who visited a clinic run by a doctor, who later tested positive, to get themselves tested. Collector Praveen P. Nair said that though the doctor cooperated well in tracing the contact history, the identity of all the patients could not be determined. Hence, the patients should contact Dr. Tirumurugan (9751425002) or Dr. Raghavan (9500493022) and get themselves tested.
13 April 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for spreading rumours in Namakkal||Namakkal police on Sunday arrested a person for spreading rumours on social media. The arrested has been identified as M. Varadharajan. Namakkal police have registered cases under various sections here and are investigating.
13 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Narayanasamy seeks urgent aid||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, has called upon the Centre to urgently provide financial assistance to the Union Territory, which had seen a total collapse of revenue from its mainstay sources of excise, GST and tourism due to the extended lockdown to check spread of COVID-19. Mr. Narayanasamy, who had participated in the video call convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with Chief Ministers on Saturday, told mediapersons that the government had not received GST compensation for the last four months. Pointing out that he had attended the three previous meetings, he said he had also written to the Prime Minister, highlighting the unique position of the Union Territory of Puducherry and Union Territory of Delhi. “Till date, we have not received even a single paisa from the Government of India for Puducherry, but we have given Rs. 2,000 to each family, irrespective of them being an APL family or a BPL family, to help them come out of the crisis. Besides, an aid of Rs. 5,000 had been given to the farmers, and an interest-free loan of Rs. 5000 to self help group women,” the Chief Minister said. Puducherry had primarily two revenue streams — excise and GST— which had totally dried up after the lockdown. “Income generation — for the purpose of paying salary to the employees and to take care of the public welfare schemes — is very difficult for us,” he said. Mr. Narayanasamy also echoed the calls of other chief ministers for a six-month moratorium on remittances to the Centre and called for hassle-free movement of essential commodities from producing states to client states. He also joined some chief ministers in urging the Prime Minister to rein in Governors and Lt. Governors who were ‘playing politics’ during the crisis.
13 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Drones come in handy for surveillance||With having to cover large areas as containment zones and for surveillance of illegal distillation, use of drones have come handy for Salem Rural police here in enforcing the prohibitory orders. 14 cases are undergoing treatment at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here and of them, seven cases are from Salem rural limits. Police have set up containment zones at three places in Mettur, one zone in Tharamangalam, one in Edappadi and Thamammpatti were positive cases have been reported. Containment zones have been set up for five kilometres were positive cases were reported and besides police deployment, drones are also used for surveillance here. According to officials, over 11,000 houses are being monitored in the containment zones here. Superintendent of Police for Salem S.Deepa Ganiger said, “the containment zones include an area of five kilometres and for the first few kilometres, all entry and exit points are sealed, and all shops are closed. Health officials are conducting door -to-door checks. For delivery of essentials, revenue officials and their volunteers are ensuring it.” According to police, nearly 20 personnel are deployed at a zone for surveillance here and Dr.Ganiger said that all of them have been complusorily asked to use masks and sanitisers. Dr.Ganiger said that drones have been very helpful in monitoring the containment zones and surveillance of prohibitory orders. “Drones have been very helpful in enforcing the orders, especially in illegal distillation. They are taken on need basis and used for surveillance at zones and to identify distillation here”, she said. A senior police official said that in rural areas were police aren’t able to reach, drones have been very helpful. Police said that people venturing out unnecessarily get alerted noticing drones and they disperse immediately fearing that their visuals could be used to register cases. Drones have also been helpful for identifying illegal distillation in areas like Yercaud and Kalvaryan Hills here. Since the beginning of lockdown, police have registered 628 cases in relation with illegal distillation and have arrested 656 persons and seized 4 four-wheelers and 27 two-wheelers here. Dr.Ganiger has warned of stern action against them under Bootleggers Act. Dr. Ganiger said that once the lockdown is over, they may consider procuring few drones for the department and registering them.
13 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Railways receive good response for parcel operations||The operation of a time-table based parcel train between Chennai and Coimbatore by the Salem Railway Division has received good response from the public. The special parcel train between Chennai and Coimbatore since Thursday will be operated till April 14. It halts at Katpadi, Jolarpettai, Karuppur, Salem, Erode, Tiruppur and Coimbatore. According to officials, the vegetables from Coimbatore are carried till Delhi through special connection trains from Chennai. E. Harikrishnan, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, informed that the public could contact respective parcel offices for booking parcel.
13 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Nine quintals of medical consignment moved||The Tiruchi Railway Division has been moving medical consignments through Parcel Cargo Express Trains put to operation during the current lockdown period, alongside transporting other essentials by freight trains, to ensure supply chain. Boxes containing medicines have been moved from Tiruchi junction to various destinations within the State by the parcel trains since April 9 when the special services were introduced from Chennai to Nagercoil and back daily. A senior railway official told The Hindu on Sunday that nine quintals of medicines had been moved from Tiruchi, Villupuram and Ariyalur to Chennai, Nagercoil, Tirunelveli, Dindigul and Madurai from April 9 to 11. Of this, a little over four quintals of medicines had been moved from Tiruchi alone. In addition to medicines one poly bundle containing medical overcoat was also moved from Tiruchi to Chennai. Besides outward movement, there was also inward movement of medical consignments booked to Tiruchi from Chennai. Over 21 quintals of medicines had reached Tiruchi by the parcel cargo express trains on April 10 and 11. The special parcel train were being run with one parcel van and a SLR coach. The parcel van had the capacity to carry nearly 23 tonnes. The Southern Railway introduced the operation of daily parcel special trains from Chennai to Nagercoil and back with stoppages at major stations enroute, including Tiruchi and Villupuram for unloading and loading of parcels. These trains were to be operated up to April 14. The railway administration had now decided to extend the operation of the daily parcel special services from Chennai to Nagercoil and back up to April 25. An official communication in this regard has already been sent from the Southern Railway headquarters to Tiruchi and other railway divisions in the zone, Besides Chennai - Nagercoil, the daily parcel special services were also being operated from Chennai Central to Coimbatore and from Chennai to New Delhi daily. The Tiruchi Division had moved over three lakh metric tonnes of commodities such as rice, paddy, cement, coal and lignite by regular freight trains to various destinations since March 24 from different stations in the division.
13 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Women lead the battle against COVID-19||On a warm Friday morning, R. Vasanthi wakes up early to cook lunch for her husband, son and mother-in-law before heading out to work. “Amma, corona will come, do not go out,” her son cries. But for Ms. Vasanthi, duty comes first. Like her, nearly 100 women have volunteered to help the Tiruchi Corporation to carry out door-to-door survey and COVID-19 awareness The civic body roped in women Self-Help Groups and housewives for the job of going to residences across the city and checking if residents have any fever or cold symptoms. For these women, work begins at 9 a.m. every morning and by lunch time they would have finished checking about 50-60 houses. Some of these women had earlier taken part in the door-to-door campaign for dengue awareness, and have the know-how on data collection. “But this is nothing like we have seen before. People are afraid to talk to us, afraid to answer our questions; the word ‘corona virus’ has created so much fear,” says Ms. Vasanthi. When she steps into a house in Amman Nagar, Woraiyur, they ask her what she wants and asks her to remain at a distance before they answer her questions. They quickly respond to Ms. Vasanthi’s questions and rush back inside. Ms. Vasanthi says that she has never seen such fear in people’s eyes before. A notepad with a printed questionnaire has been handed to all the women. They must note the number of people residing at each house, categorise them in three different age groups - newborns, one to five-year-olds and those above 60. More importantly, they must note down the residents’ existing ailments. “People are afraid of telling us even if they have a cold. It is important to take note of respiratory ailments like asthma, but not one person has admitted about the ailment. We can only write what they say,” Ms. Vasanthi says. The women get a stipend for the work and are also provided with lunch, which most take home and share with their families. “We roam the city and are exposed to dust, dirt, and possibly even the virus. My son comes running to me as soon as I get home but I take a bath and only then do I touch him, or eat anything,” Ms. Vasanthi says. “As our husbands are unable to earn now, we are contributing to run the family for a while,” she adds.
13 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Shortage of gunny bags hits rice mills||Though most rice mills in Tiruchi and neighbouring regions have resumed operation after the intervention by the State government, they face severe shortage of gunny bags and also problems in inter-State movement of paddy and rice. There are about 170 rice mills in Tiruchi district. Mannachanallur, Ariyamangalam and Manapparai have high concentration of rice mills in the district. According to a rough estimate, they produce about 1,700 tonnes of rice and send them to different markets in the State daily. The mills, which were closed from March 24 in view of the curfew imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19 virus, have resumed their routine operations such as soaking, boiling, drying and hulling of paddy since the first week of April following the intervention of the State government. Though there is no problem in inter-district movement of transports, they continue to face difficulties in sourcing and sending paddy and rice by road from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana, says mill owners. “Tamil Nadu is not self sufficient in meeting its rice requirements. Southern States are inter linked in fulfilling each other’s demand. Though there is a slight improvement in inter-State movement of paddy and rice after the intervention of the State government, transporters continue to face problems at border check posts,” says M. Sivanandan, secretary, Tamil Nadu Rice Mill Owners Association. Rice mills in the State mainly depend upon the gunny bags being supplied from West Bengal for packing rice. But, it is said that the mills have not received fresh loads of empty bags from West Bengal since the curfew imposed on March 24. The stocks kept by the mills have depleted, thereby causing problems in packing rice. “The inter-State movement of trucks carrying gunny bags is severely affected as the authorities refuse to allow them by stating that it does not come under the purview of essential commodities,” says M. Sivanandan. He said that the Centre and State governments should take steps to include gunny bags under the essential commodities list.
13 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Colour passes given to families of police personnel||Alongside enforcing prohibitory orders issued in the wake of COVID-19 spread and driving home the importance of personal distancing, law enforcing authorities in neighbouring Perambalur district have put in place a system for the families of police personnel staying in quarters by distributing passes of different colours to them specifying the days to venture out to buy essentials. Passes of blue, red and yellow colours each signed by the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Armed Reserve, Perambalur has been distributed to every occupant residing in the police quarters situated within the District Armed Reserve premises in Perambalur. Out of the 303 quarters, 280 of them have been occupied. Families in the possession of blue colour pass would have to venture out to buy essential commodities on Monday and Thursday. Those provided with red colour pass could go out for making purchases on Wednesday and Saturday while for yellow pass holders it was on Tuesday and Friday. Only one person from the police family could use the pass while venturing out. The pass could be used only between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m. The whole idea behind putting in place the pass system among families of police personnel was to ensure personal distancing and keeping in mind the safety of families of police personnel at a time when COVID-19 was on the spread, said a senior police officer in Perambalur. The initiative was carried out on the direction of the higher ups. The passes were distributed to each family residing in the police quarters on Saturday, the officer added. The Tiruchi Rural Police for its part has been distributing vegetables and other essentials at the door step of families of police personnel residing in quarters here. Out of the 381 quarters situated in District Armed Reserve campus and its vicinity, 380 of them have been occupied. Another officer said four police teams have been formed to collect the list containing vegetables and other items required by each family of police personnel residing in quarters every day. The teams would purchase them and bring in police vehicles and supply to the respective family at their doorstep. The initiative had been put in place to ensure the safety of families of police personnel who were deployed at check posts and other places to enforce prohibitory orders, the officer added. Similar initiative was also being followed in Ariyalur district.
13 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Vigil up at elephant rescue centre||The Elephant Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre (ERRC) at M. R. Palayam on the outskirts of Tiruchi, has been quarantined as a precautionary measure to prevent the six elephants accommodated there from contracting COVID-19 virus. Malachi from Madurai was the first elephant to be accommodated at the centre and Jameela  from Tirunelveli was the latest addition. Sandhya, Indhu, Jayanthi and Gomthi are the other elephants. Since the spread of COVID-19, the Forest Department has stepped up checking the elephants for symptoms consistent with COVID- 19 such as nasal discharge, coughing and laboured breathing. V. Thirunavukarasu, Chief Conservator of Forest, Tiruchi, told The Hindu on Saturday that all six elephants had been sheltered separately at a safe distance. No one, except the mahouts and designated elephant staff, was allowed to go near them. The mahouts had been asked to undergo frequent medical check-up. They were asked to wear Personal Protection Equipment (coveralls) and masks. The shelters had been completely disinfected. Clear instruction have been given to them to ensure that food served to the animals was free of contamination. “The mahouts should report immediately if they notice any abnormalities,” Mr. Thirunavukarasu said. He said if samples were collected they would be sent to Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)-approved laboratories in consultation with Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Science University.
13 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Manapparai Police turn saviours for these labourers||The Manapparai Police came to the aid of a group of labourers who were proceeding by foot for the past nine days to reach their native place in Dindigul district from Velankanni owing to the prohibitory orders in place in the wake of COVID-19 spread. The labourers, including four women, were working in a brick kiln at Velankanni when the prohibitory orders were clamped. As the lockdown rendered them jobless and with no movement of buses,the labourers decided to proceed by foot to their native place at Odanchathram in Dindigul district from Velankanni. Police sources said the labourers had been walking for the past nine days when they were spotted by a police team near Manjampatti temporary vegetable market in Manapparai town on Sunday morning. The police inquired the labourers who conveyed their plight. Acting swiftly, the Manapparai Police immediately arranged food for the labourers and a 10-year-old boy who was accompanying them. The police also arranged a lorry used for transport of vegetables from Odanchathram to Manapparai to take them to their native place. The police gave some cash to the labourers before sending them off, the sources said.
13 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Adversity provides a new line of business to this auto driver||An auto driver in the city is selling vegetables during the lockdown as a means to make a living and to help people, especially the elderly access essentials easily. His stall is set up at a parking lot of an apartment in Thillai Nagar, predominantly occupied by senior citizens. On ordinary days, M. Pushparaj's job is to pick up and drop children to and from school. He owns two autos and a van for this purpose. He also drives around senior citizens, a majority of whom reside at an apartment in Thillai Nagar 1st cross. Since the lockdown, however, Mr. Pushparaj was unable to earn a living. On April 1, Mr. Pushparaj approached the secretary of the apartment residents’ association, M. S. Narayanan, along with other office bearers to allow him to set up a vegetable stall in the parking lot. “Many of the residents were struggling to get vegetables and other essentials. To benefit them and also to earn during these difficult times, we decided to set up the stall,” Mr. Pushparaj said. A bay was cleared out in the parking lot and the shop has been functional at the location since. Mr. Pushparaj purchases vegetables early in the morning at the Gandhi Market and sets up shop by 7 a.m.. “We stay until 10 a.m. Following requests from residents, we have also bought some fruits and snacks," he said. There are some residents who are octogenarians and unable to walk. They used to purchase their essentials with the help of a maid. “For them, my son or daughter delivers it at their doorsteps, or they tie a rope to a cloth bag and send it down with cash in it,” said P. Komalavalli, Pushparaj's wife. They say adversity often brings out hidden talents, and Mr. Pushparaj has learnt how to keep the books. “I did not know how to do the finances. That was entirely my wife's department. Now, every day I meticulously write down how much I purchased the vegetables for, their weight and for how much I sold them,” he said.
13 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||One-year-old infant, three others test positive in Tiruchi||Four patients, including a one-year-old infant, tested positive for COVID-19 at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here on Sunday. The infant girl is the daughter of one of the patients who had returned from New Delhi after attending the Tablighi Jamaat conference. The other three, a 10-year-old boy, a 27-year-old boy and a middle aged man are also relatives. The district administration traced 165 individuals who were contacts of the 36 patients who tested positive after travelling to New Delhi. Of them, 103 tested negative on Saturday. Results of 19 tests were received on Sunday, of which four were positive and the rest negative. Test results for 40 more patients are awaited. As on Sunday night, 43 patients belonging to Tiruchi, one each from Ariyalur, Perambalur and Karur are undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi GH. Five patients with severe acute respiratory illness are also being monitored, official sources said. Karur Three patients, all women, tested positive for COVID-19 increasing the total number of positive cases in the district to 25. The patients- women aged 21, 37 and 54 are family members of a person who tested positive earlier this week. The women are undergoing treatment and are responding well. There is nothing to worry, official sources said.
13 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Attempt to murder case filed against COVID-19 patient||The Government Hospital police have registered a case under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including attempt to murder, against a COVID-19 patient undergoing treatment at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, after he allegedly threw a mask at a woman doctor, in a fit of rage. Conference attendee Hospital and police sources said the patient, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi last month, resorted to the act on Friday, as he was irked over his family members being called for tests. Sources said the incident occurred in the morning, when the patient picked up an argument with a couple of doctors. He allegedly threw his mask at a woman doctor. Taken aback, the doctor moved away, police sources said. The doctors then reported the incident to hospital dean K. Vanitha, on whose complaint a case was registered. The Government Hospital police have registered a case against the patient under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 307 (attempt to murder), since the act of throwing the mask was construed as endangering the life of the doctor.  The patient was irked over his family members being called in for tests
13 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Good response for online classes||The initiative of Bharathidasan University to conduct online class using ‘ZOOM Cloud Meeting’ App has evoked what the authorities described as an “overwhelming response.” There was cent percent attendance for the classes conducted for first and fourth year students of the five-year Integrated M.Sc. Bioinformatics Programme. All the students were able to connect through this ‘Zoom Class Trial’ with their own mobile devices and data connectivity. Both video and audio quality for all the students and the three faculty members during the class were satisfactory, Vice-Chancellor P. Manisankar said. The faculties are looking forward to complete the rest of the syllabus for theory exams and preparing record note for the practical exams through the online class, Prof. Manisankar said, adding that all other departments have been asked to follow suit.
13 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 101.46 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 457 cusecs and the discharge was 1,001 cusecs.
13 April 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Residents urged to cooperate with government machinery||The city police here seized two-wheelers and four-wheelers only in public interest and there was no intention to harm or inconvenience motorists, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Saravanan here on Sunday. After flagging off a motor-bike rally by the policemen taken out to create awareness on the COVID-19 across the city, he said that the State government had taken a series of measures to fight the COVID-19. “All that the government has been insisting the residents since March 24 is to stay indoors. Do not step out unnecessarily. We will provide you all the essential commodities at your doorsteps, including medicines for the needy....,” he noted. The objective behind the appeal to stay indoors is to keep distance from the COVID-19 virus as the pandemic threatened mankind. The police were working round-the-clock like other personnel from other departments, Mr. Saravanan said and appealed to the people to cooperate with the government machinery. He told reporter that in the event of the curfew being extended by the government, the police would step up enforcement against the violators. “We will not spare any two-wheeler or four-wheeler... All the violators or those who ignored the laws would be treated equally,” he said. “The police had so far booked 583 cases and seized over 300 motor bikes. Four-wheelers, which were moving without any purpose during the curfew, have also been seized. The public could step out only between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m.” Those residents in the contained zones, where the dwellings of people tested positive to COVID-19 had been identified, shall not step out of the demarcated zone. The district administration had issued three cards of three colours. The card holders shall procure essential goods only on the days mentioned for them by the officials beginning Monday onwards, Mr. Saravanan said.
13 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Vegetables handed over to people residing in containment zone in Khandal||The district administration, with the assistance of the Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK), distributed over 15 tonnes of vegetables to over 3,000 people in the containment zone at Khandal in Udhagamandalam on Sunday. Revenue Divisional Officer, Udhagamandalam, D. Suresh, said that the revenue department and the district administration had already handed over vegetables and produce to around a quarter of the total number of families residing in the area on Friday and Saturday. Khandal has been designated as a containment zone since three of the nine people, who have tested positive for COVID-19, are from the area. On Sunday, the TMMK had volunteered to purchase vegetables which they distributed to over 3,000 people along with revenue department officials. Each bag of produce has around 16 different kinds of vegetables and will last a family of four around five days, officials said. The district administration stated that they would consider handing over more supplies to families residing in Khandal, which is one of the most populated and underdeveloped parts of Udhagamandalam town, with a majority of the people residing there being daily wage workers. Appeal to local residents The district administration once again appealed to residents in the Nilgiris to not gather in large crowds, especially near the open-air markets. The administration urged residents to take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, and use masks when venturing out from their homes. Seven of the nine people, who have tested positive for COVID-19 from the Nilgiris so far are between the ages of 42 and 60, while two patients are 19 and 22-year-old, officials said. All nine persons are residents of Udhagamandalam, Coonoor and Kotagiri.
13 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||MLA’s remark goes viral||A comment by DMK MLA, K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, at his party cadre about not wearing masks has gone viral on social media. However, the former Minister sought to play it down saying that it was not aimed at any community. He said some people were playing up his casual remark to party workers.
13 April 2020||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||DMK MLA’s comments go viral||A casual comment by Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MLA from Aruppukottai K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran at some of his party cadre while scolding them for not wearing face masks has gone viral in social media. However, the former Minister has sought to play it down, saying that it was not aimed at any section of the people, but only at those who were not wearing masks. He said some people were playing up his casual words to caution his party workers.
13 April 2020||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||‘Issue masks, groceries’||The Centre of Indian Trade Unions has demanded distribution of masks and groceries to the conservancy workers of Virudhunagar Municipality. CITU’s Virudhunagar Town secretary R. Vijayapandi said while the district administration distributed grocery kits and masks to those engaged in Tiruchuli, Aruppukottai, Kariyapatti and Narikudi unions a few days back, the kits were yet to be given to 85 conservancy workers of Virudhunagar Municipality and 98 temporary workers. He wanted the district administration to expedite the work of distribution of essential goods to the workers to keep their spirit high during the fight against COVID-19.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 22 more persons test positive||The number of persons who tested positive for the COVID-19 virus in Coimbatore touched 119, with the addition of 22 persons on Sunday. Of the 22 new cases, 17 were from Coimbatore Corporation limits, three from Zamin Uthukuli and two from Anamalai. Those who had tested positive in the city included four of a family in R.S. Puram. A woman and her daughter from the family were passengers in an aircraft that also carried persons who returned after attending the Delhi event. At the time of leaving the airport, they did not show COVID-19 symptoms and therefore were asked to stay indoors, in quarantine. After almost 12 days, after the woman developed fever she went to a private hospital. The doctors there had asked her to go to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital but she returned home. Meanwhile, one of her family members, a 57-year-old man, died on April 8 and the family had cremated the body. Sources said the family had not alerted the authorities to the death of the 57-year-old man, given its quarantine status. And, now the administration had reasons to suspect that he could have died due to COVID-19. During the course of interaction with the family, the sources said that the person who died on April 8 had two days earlier consulted a doctor over phone. While the doctor had asked him to go to the ESI hospital after he had complained of fever, cold and diarrhoea, he did not and died thereafter. The sources said the administration was in the process of identifying the persons who attended the cremation. In all, 12 had attended and now the task was identify all those other than the family. As for the persons who had returned after attending the Delhi event and their family members, the administration said it had tested 194 family members and found 58 persons positive. The 58 included those who were declared positive on Sunday. Now the administration’s task was to look for those who might have come into contact with the family and test them as well, the sources added. The Coimbatore Corporation officials said they had added R.S. Puram to the list of containment zones after a family had tested positive. It had already declared Ukkadam, Kovaipudur, Karumbukkadai, Kavundampalayam, Kuniamuthur and a few other places as containment zones, to restrict the movement of people. In Coimbatore rural, containment zones were declared in parts of Mettupalayam, Anamalai, Pollachi, Annur, Madukarai and Zamin Uthukuli. In a major spike, Tiruppur district saw the confirmation of 35 COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, bringing the total number of active cases to 60. With only 26 cases till Saturday of which one has been discharged, the increase on Sunday propelled the district to the fourth position in the State in terms of number of positive COVID-19 cases. Sources in the Health Department said that all the 35 cases were the contacts of patients who tested positive for COVID-19. A total of 11 cases were from the Tiruppur Corporation limit, 15 from Avinashi Block, seven from Dharapuram and two were from Mangalam Block. All the 35 patients have been admitted at Government Medical College and ESI Hospital in Coimbatore for treatment. The number of containment zones in Tiruppur district remains as 10 as the new cases were not from outside of the existing zones, according to the sources.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corporation procures BHEL equipment for disinfection||As part of disinfection measures, the Salem Corporation has procured four disinfectant equipment designed by Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited for disinfecting public spaces here. Utilising constituency development funds of Salem West cMLA G. Venkatachalam, the Salem Corporation procured four Combat Covid-19 DSFC 2000.009 disinfectant machines from BHEL at cost of Rs. 15 Lakh. Salem Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh, Mr. Venkatachalam and Corporation officials reviewed the functioning of the machines at Reddiyur here on Saturday. According to Corporation officials, the newly-procured machines could spray the disinfectants covering a large area like roads and other government buildings in a short span of time compared to spraying those spaces using hand held machines. Mr. Sadheesh said, “disinfection measures have been intensified in the Corporation limits. The machines would be used to spray disinfectants at places were COVID-19 positive cases have been reported and other places.” According to Corporation officials, disinfectants are sprayed using 68 hand sprayers, 15 mist blowers and four trucks in its limits. Mr. Sadheesh said that special arrangements have been made in containment zones to deliver essential commodities to the residents. “Eight trucks have been separately arranged to deliver vegetables in the cordoned off areas. Contact numbers have been provided to the residents and arrangements have been made for door delivery of groceries. Public should cooperate with government’s efforts and stay indoors”, he said.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||This panchayat chief keeps villagers well-informed, meets their needs||There is a mistaken notion among many people that one infected by COVID-19 will certainly die. To dispel this notion and keep the villagers informed about the viral disease, precautionary measures to be taken and the government’s initiatives to mitigate the sufferings of poor people during the lockdown, a panchayat president in Usilampatti block of Madurai district has taken up the gauntlet to help people in these hard times. As part of these efforts, T. Kosemin, president of Thimmanatham panchayat, along with like-minded villagers, has started a WhatsApp group with 256 members. Besides raising awareness of the novel coronavirus disease, they share information about distribution of essential commodities in Thimmanatham and Appanampatti with a population of around 5,000. Mr. Kosemin says he asks people to report if they had fever or cough and reveal details about trips abroad. “In the wake of COVID-19, people are secretive about their foreign trips, fearing stigmatisation. But in these parts people do not travel much. Most of the people are landless labourers belonging to Schedule Castes,” he says. After the lockdown, rice and other essential commodities have become scarce. Even ration shops have run out of supplies. There are 2,080 ration card holders here. They have received the cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 given by the State Government but this is not enough to feed families, he says. No job, no money Most of the people used to earn a living by working as load men or cleaners at hotels in Usilampatti. Without work after the lockdown, they earn nothing and in dire straits. Since April 9, the panchayat president has distributed 400 packets of vegetables, oil, rice and pulses to the needy. “We have asked revenue officials to maintain the regular supply to ration shops but during exigency such as this we have to help ourselves,” he reasons. He says the villagers diligently cover their mouth and nose with a towel as they do not have masks. “Neighbours do not pick up small children playing on the street to prevent a possible transmission. This is a big attitudinal change,” he says. “Besides, fearing respiratory problems, Thimmanatham people have stopped burning waste and started segregating it. Our villages are also regularly disinfected,” he says. Mr. Kosemin says a majority of them did not light lamps or bang vessels on last Sunday as asked by the Prime Minister, as they are disgruntled about the poor pay of nurses in the village. When contacted, a revenue official said the Civil Supplies Department has been sending adequate commodities in batches but some might have missed their turn. The stock is adequate,” he says.  Thimmanatham people have stopped burning waste and started segregating it T. Kosemin Panchayat president
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Some tips to avoid diabetic amputations during lockdown||We are seeing an increased number of lower limb amputations during the lockdown period among people with diabetes. The reasons given by the people who underwent these amputations were that they were not able to get proper wound care and access to their regular doctors who were attending to their ‘diabetic foot’ infection. In the last one week, we had 5 patients who required a major below or above knee amputation due to diabetic foot infection. Before the lockdown we used to get some 5 patients in 2 months who required a major lower limb amputation. The warning signs that should alert someone with diabetes to seek immediate help and avoid a major amputation are as follows: High fever Redness and warmth in one foot compared to the other foot. A foot ulcer that changes colour and becomes discoloured or appears yellow due to pus formation Pain in the foot Past history of reduced blood flow in the foot (peripheral arterial disease) Swelling in one foot (indicating damage to the joints or bones of the foot) Increased white cell count (WBC) in blood tests People with a foot ulcer whose blood sugar is not getting under control  What should people do to prevent a major lower limb amputation: In people who have loss of sensation in their feet (neuropathy), it is very necessary to take utmost care of their feet Daily foot examination is necessary to detect any minor injury which may go unnoticed Avoid dry feet by applying a moisturiser cream on the feet but avoid in the space between the toes Look for fungal infection in between the toes Do not cut nails with scissors and cause injury, but use a nail filer to file the nails In case someone gets a small cut or injury on the feet, treat it with an antiseptic and contact a doctor if the warning signs mentioned above are present  If the warning signs are present, an immediate consultation with the doctor is required People who have a foot ulcer must examine and dress the wound regularly with the help of a local nurse Use moist wound dressings which are available that will help the patient to avoid daily dressing. It may be possible for a patient with a foot ulcer to do dressing on their own with these modern moist wound dressings which are available Avoid putting pressure on the foot ulcer which will create more damage to the ulcer. Proper offloading with a cast may be recommended for some people Start antibiotics after consulting the doctor if there are signs of infection because this will help to contain the infection and help to avoid spread of the infection upto the knee level Visit the surgeon regularly if there is an active foot infection and take intravenous antibiotics, if necessary Control diabetes well with oral medications and use insulin, if necessary, especially if there is evidence of foot infection Check the blood sugar both before and after meals on a regular basis and keep the fasting blood sugar between 110 and 120 mg% and the after meal blood sugar between 160 and 180 mg%. This will help to prevent a serious foot infection Therefore, proper foot care during this period will help to avoid many lower limb amputations.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Walk-in testing booths being readied in Salem||The district administration and the health officials have started readying walk-in COVID-19 sample collection booths here. Officials here have at present readied a model testing cabin for COVID-19 and are planning to get five more testing cabins in the district. J. Nirmalsen, Deputy Director of Health Services here said, “at present one booth has been readied and we are looking for arranging five more similar booths here. These would work as mobile booths, they would be carried on vehicles to different places here for collection of samples from the public.” Dr. Nirmalsen said that lab technicians have been trained in the district regarding sample collection procedures and samples could also be collected through lab facilities at its block-level primary health centres. As on Saturday, 14 persons are undergoing treatment for COVID-19 disease at Government Mohan Kumaranagalam Medical College Hospital. Officials have set up containment zones at places where the positive cases were identified and their contacts have been quarantined. Dr. Nirmalsen said that they have collected over 500 samples and necessary measures are being taken to prevent the spread of the disease. “Public should avoid venturing out of their houses and even if they do, they should wash their clothes with disinfectants and take a bath on return. Those advised home isolation should stay within their rooms as they would do during chicken pox and avoid contact even with other persons in the house”, he said.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Shops in containment zones to remain closed||The Salem Corporation has ordered closure of all shops within 3 km of cordoned off areas within its limits. The Corporation has warned of stern action against those operating businesses despite closure orders. As on Saturday, 14 persons are undergoing treatment for COVID-19 and across 14 wards within Corporation limits, officials have sealed 70 places where positive cases and their contacts were identified. According to a release, seven places in Sooramangalam zone, 27 in Hasthampatti zone, 19 in Ammapet zone and 17 in Kondalampatti zone have been cordoned off. Entry of outsiders to these areas are restricted and those quarantined have been advised to stay at homes. As part of efforts, the Corporation has asked all shop owners, including those selling essentials to shut shops. A total of 14 vehicles have been arranged to deliver goods to cordoned off places and ration shops operating within the cordoned off areas have been shifted to nearest Corporation buildings. Meat shops sealed The Corporation on Sunday sealed two meat shops near Kondalampatti for operating defying the ban to run meat shops on weekends. The Corporation has banned operation of meat and fish shops on weekends till prohibitory orders are lifted. In Krishnagiri, two meat shops were sealed and meat kept in the shops was seized.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tragedy averted||
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Back in business||
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||No mass gathering||
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||One more death, 106 fresh cases||While two persons tested positive (one primary) in Chengalpattu; four persons who contracted the infection had been identified in Cuddalore. One person who came into contact with an infected person tested positive in Dindigul and four others tested positive in Erode. Three persons who had been in contact with infected persons tested positive in Karur, whereas four persons, including three who had come into contact with an infected person, tested positive in Namakkal. Six persons, including two from Ranipet and four from Salem, who came into contact with an infected person, had tested positive. One each from Tenkasi and Tiruvallur reported positive.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Avoid social gatherings like leaders’ birth anniversaries’||As long as the COVID-19 lockdown is in place, the general public must avoid taking part in social gatherings like the birth anniversaries of B.R. Ambedkar and Dheeran Chinnamalai on April 14 and 17, respectively, the Tamil Nadu government said on Sunday. The Chennai Collector alone will observe the occasions on behalf of the State government. Minister’s advisory According to an official press release, the decision followed an advisory from the Union Home Minister during a video-conference on Saturday, that all social gatherings and public functions that are attended by the general public had to be cancelled. On the occasions of the birth anniversaries of the two leaders, the Chennai Collector alone will pay tribute to their statues on behalf of the State government. “In view of the prohibitory orders, the general public are advised not to take part in these events. Moreover, they are advised to avoid visiting memorials,” the press release said, urging the public to cooperate.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail - April 13, 2020||Since the beginning of lockdown due to COVID-19, usage of polythene bags has become common despite the ban. For buying groceries, vegetables and other commodities, people feel comfortable going back to polythene bags. The sellers also have sufficiently stocked up without caring about the standing orders of ban and restriction. Authorities must look into the matter from the beginning to avoid unnecessary problems in the days ahead.  B. P. Pereira,  Madurai     Medicines for blood pressure, cholesterol and kidney problems are in short supply in Dindigul. One must try several shops before finding these essential pills. ‘Kabasura kudineer,’ a popular Siddha medicine, has become extremely costly due to a sudden spurt in demand in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Dettol, hand gloves and masks too are in short supply. Common people have to run from pillar to post to get these things to ensure their protection. Authorities must address these problems at the earliest.  V.H.K. Hariharan,   Dindigul     This refers to the news report, ‘Amid a pandemic, a salute to selfless service on the streets,’ vide The Hindu dated April 10, 2020. My happiness and gratitude know no bounds while reading the news report and to learn that the top brass of police department has honoured the conservancy workforce of Tirunelveli Corporation in recognition of their selfless service and hard work for the well-being of residents in times of the COVID-19 pandemic. Sanitary workers, milk vendors, newspaper delivery boys are part and parcel of our daily lives. Unmindful of the hazards, they carry out their daily duties, especially the sanitary workers who work hard to keep the city clean. It is gratifying to note that people are recognising their service in many places across the State.  S. Nallasivan, Tirunelveli
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||Farmers have planted banana crop at Sirugambur near Kokakkarai Road, by sourcing water from the Vathalai Canal. But, the concrete lining of the canal has been completed only on one side. The other side breaches whenever there is a rainfall, and inundates the banana crop. Hence, farmers in the area eagerly expect the completion of the concrete lining on the side that has been left out. M. Periyamalaiyan  Karattampatti    Though the nationwide lockdown is in place till April 14 to contain spread of COVID 19 virus, the importance of social distancing has apparently not dawned as yet in rural parts of Tiruchi district. Crowding could be noticed whenever vendors selling fruits or vegetables enter the villages. The painstaking efforts of the government to prevent the virus from spreading will go waste if the villagers fail to follow social distancing norms strictly. The administration could consider involving local body representatives and councillors to create awareness. S. Johnsirani Srinivasa Nagar    The lockdown period has made people realise they can live without visiting temples every day. The people are also observing for themselves that visits to markets or malls without necessity or to cinema theatres just to while away time could be done away with. Our lives will be better if we adopt the current pattern of simple living even after the isolation period is over. In fact, even in the western nations that are now plagued by Covid-19 virus, people do not splurge their money on too many clothes and luxuries. If we switch to a better way of living we will have surplus cash in hand. Like in Scandinavian countries, the government should bring in a strict regimen for better sobriety among those addicted to alcohol. T M Ranganathan Srirangam    While there is ample recognition to the professionals in the medical field, law-enforcement personnel and sanitary workers for their roles to prevent the spread of novel corona virus, the services rendered by the banking professionals at the time of crisis has gone unnoticed. It is time the government and media focussed its attention on the unsung heroes as well whose role is vital to safeguard people from economic hardships. C.S. Ananthakrishnan Srirangam    The efforts for mitigating the impact of corona virus pandemic will bear fruits only if all the people wear masks to prevent infection. All residents including newspaper delivery boys, milkmen, vegetable vendors, workers in grocery outlets, workers delivering cylinders, food suppliers and street vendors ought to wear masks till the lockdown period ends. Grocery shop owners could even think of making wearing of masks by customers and maintaining social distancing as pre-requisites for making purchases. M. Raja Tiruchi    Though there is a strong network of pharmacies, the under-staffed shops are unable to undertake door deliveries during the lockdown period for sick and bed-ridden people. Those in life-threatening conditions find themselves left in the lurch. The administration could think of involving Amma medical shops for undertaking door-delivery of medicines for those in dire need. M. Sainithii Cantonment    The authorities in Tiruchi district deserve praise for the way in which they ensured cure for an Erode-based air traveller. After determining infection on his arrival from Dubai, the 24-year-old traveller was immediately moved to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and kept under isolation. It was heartening to watch the moment when the cured patient expressed his heartfelt thanks as he was being sent to his native district after 21 days of treatment. Saravanan Natesan Puthanampatti    Medical shops ought to make sure they maintain sufficient stock of essential drugs. Physically challenged people and elders with life-threatening conditions must have access to essential medicines at nearby medical outlets. Requests for door delivery of medicines should not be turned down. M. Saikaruna Karur
13 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Officers working on three tasks in Containment Zones||Officials are strictly enforcing the COVID-19 containment protocol in the four Containment Zones in Belagavi district. The 14 positive cases have emerged from four families — the camp area in Belagavi, Bilgundi, Hire Bagewadi and Kudchi in Raibag. The three villages and large parts of the camp have been declared Containment Zones. All movement has been restricted, except for medical emergencies, essential supplies and movement of government vehicles. City corporation and gram panchayat officers have put up barricades across all roads leading to these zones. Similar measures have been taken in villages bordering Maharashtra and Goa. For example, access to villages such as Borgaon, on the border, has been cut off. As per the national protocol, officers are working on three tasks — security and isolation, essential supplies and health surveillance. A team of Health Department officials are moving in groups of four across the zones and collecting health data. They visit each house to first record health parameters such as diabetes, hypertension, heart ailment and other serious conditions. Secondly, officers test every person to see if they have fever, breathing problems or other symptoms indicative of COVID-19. Each family is visited once every week to check for symptoms. In case symptoms are found in any person, he is taken to the local government hospital for a primary check-up and to the district designated hospital for COVID-19 treatment. Municipality or gram panchayat officers take up cleaning, fogging and disinfectant spraying in the zones. “We have released adequate funds to each taluk to buy personal protection equipment, masks and gloves for all health workers and sanitary workers. The local bodies will buy them and supply them to the workers,” said zilla panchayat CEO K.V. Rajendra. Officers of agriculture, horticulture and urban development departments and the panchayats are managing movement of essential supplies. Officers are allowing movement of goods vehicles carrying milk, foodgrains and vegetables. Water and medicine, whereever necessary, are being ordered by the officers and being supplied through officers themselves, he said.
13 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Without food for four days||A team of 16 workers from Jharkhand have been stuck in Kuppatgiri village near Khanapur in Belagavi district for days without food. The Belagavi district administration helped them by providing ration for two weeks after they were alerted to their plight by a resident. Based on some messages on social media, it was learnt that Humanitarian Relief Society was distributing food to the needy in Bidar and Kalaburagi. They requested Regional Commissioner Amlan Aditya Biswas to supply ration to the stranded workers. Later, the Tahsildar’s office personnel reached out to the workers and supplied them with ration for two weeks. Niranjan Singh, one of the workers who got the food packets, told The Hindu that they had come to Khanapur to work on the Goa-Belagavi highway widening project. They were unable to go back after the lockdown. They had gone without food for four days, he said. “We got to eat only three or four times after the lockdown,” he said. Most of them wanted to go back home as soon as possible, he said.
13 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Chicken shortage likely till May’||Over the past month or so, there have barely been many sales at Select Poultry, a chicken outlet at Nandini Layout. Rafiq, who runs the outlet, claimed that many of his regular customers had stopped buying chicken, mostly after the cases COVID-19 positive cases were reported in the city. In another part of the city, at a V.B. Tender Fresh outlet in Horamavu, chicken is being sold at Rs. 210 to Rs. 220 a kg. Sunita V., who runs the outlet, said the supply had reduced quite a bit. She, however, said demand for ready-to-eat varieties was still high. While this is slowly changing among consumers owing to increased awareness on COVID-19, unfounded fear and rumours that novel coronavirus spreads through meat has impacted not just consumption, but also the poultry sector. Supply has reduced by nearly 40%. The shortage is likely to continue till May, according to the Karnataka Poultry Farmers and Breeders’ Association. K.S. Ashok Kumar from the association told The Hindu that problems for the poultry sector started in February. “The situation worsened after the lockdown was announced. Many poultry farmers and breeders have reported a 100% loss in working capital,” he said. The sector has been incurring losses consecutively over the past six weeks. Many farmers and breeders had stopped placing chicks for production. “This means that the available stock will soon run out. The shortage may extend up to the second week of May,” he claimed. e-commerce suppliers are also feeling the shortage. “It’s like a lottery. Sometimes, I get chicken and otherwise it’s out of stock. I keep checking the app almost every two hours,” said Anjana, a resident of Fraser Town. While the price of chicken in the many outlets across the city ranged between Rs. 160 to Rs. 220 a kg, the rates on e-commerce sites were in the range of Rs. 225 to Rs. 280 a kg. Demand slowly rising After the lockdown was announced, there were problems in getting soya meal and maize for making chicken feed. “We approached Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chavan to allow trucks transporting soya and maize. Only after it was allowed, farmers begun operations,” Mr. Kumar said. According to association president Sushanth Rai, demand is slowly picking up. “The demand had reduced what with many hotels, eateries and restaurants closed and restrictions on events. But people are now realising that poultry has nothing to do with the virus and is in fact a cheap source of protein,” he said. Conceding that there was panic selling by farmers and breeders initially, the production has just started to pick up. “The sector has incurred huge losses. We have written to the Union government seeking relief,” he added.
13 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State working on exemptions from lockdown||Even as detailed guidelines are awaited from the Union government on possible relaxations during the extended lockdown period of two weeks from Tuesday, the State is charting out a plan to provide exemptions to certain sectors to resume activities. Large construction sites housing labour colonies, factories that have workers living on their premises, and those willing to provide an undertaking to maintain social distancing and limited transport to ensure the restart of economic activities are being considered, government sources said. For example, the official pointed out that Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), which is in the process of expansion, has about 7,000 labourers on site. “They can be allowed to work practising social distancing, as they do not go out of the site,” the official said. Like the KIA, several big housing complexes and buildings under construction also have on-site labour colonies, and construction activities could be resumed there. “Similarly, many factories have come forward to give an undertaking on ensuring social distancing. Transport facilities keeping social distancing in mind to ferry workers to factories have also been discussed.” Sources also said that discussions were on about bringing 50% of government officials back to office.  On Saturday, after the Chief Minister’s videoconference meeting with the Prime Minister, a high-level meeting to discuss plans to resume economic activities in a limited way was held and the authorities deliberated on various sectors. A top government official said, “We are waiting for the Union government’s guidelines on the extended lockdown period. That will be the basic document on which State government will formulate its policy. We have discussed several sectors and our decision will be based on the Centre's guidelines.” On whether the lockdown could be eased in the more than 10 districts that have not reported COVID-19 cases, the official said the logistics of how these areas could be exempted were yet to be worked out. On movement Another official familiar with developments at the high-level meeting said that while inter-district movement of people, barring essential items, would continue to be banned during the extended period, movement within the districts could be eased. “Bengaluru city, Gouribidnur, Mysuru (Nanjangud), and Bidar could continue under strict lockdown. Malls, cinema theatres and places where centralised air conditioners are used will remain shut across the State. Large gatherings like seminars and religious and social congregations will continue to be barred,” the official said. The official also said that many officials at the meeting expressed unhappiness with the way the lockdown was being violated by members of the public and how passes were being misused. “There has been a demand for as many as 44 lakh passes in Bengaluru, which has a population of about 1.1 crore. Can the lockdown help if passes are issued to these many people?” the official asked, adding that the pass system could be done away with.
13 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM inspects city during lockdown||Ahead of the second phase of lockdown coming into force post April 14, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday evening went around Bengaluru to review the situation and interacted with the general public, police, grocery store keepers, fruits and flower vendors. He urged them to strictly adhere to the guidelines. In several areas including Vijayanagar, Padmanabhanagar, Banashankari, J.P. Nagar and Jayanagar, people, who had been watching his rounds, had lined up on the footpath to see him. In Vijayanagar, hundreds of people gathered near the market when Mr. Yediyurappa walked down to it. The CM had to ask the people to maintain social distance. Interestingly, the CM’s convoy came face to face with the convoy of former CM H.D. Kumaraswamy in one of the lanes at J.P. Nagar where the latter resides. They, however, did not meet. The CM’s convoy for a large part of the city visited internal roads and lanes. Meanwhile, responding to former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda’s letter that highlighted the plight of economically weaker sections after the lockdown was implemented, Mr. Yedyurappa said that he had taken the content of the letter seriously and had directed officials to take adequate measures to mitigate the problems. “Every decision that I have taken so far has not been unilateral. Instead, decisions taken so far have been based on suggestions given by the Opposition leaders, senior officials, doctors and experts,” he said in a letter addressed to Mr. Gowda on Sunday.
13 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC indefinitely stops online ticket booking||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has indefinitely stopped online booking of tickets for its bus services though private operators are allowing bookings until they get clarity from the Centre. On Sunday, the corporation decided to cancel tickets booked for travel after April 14 when the lockdown was originally scheduled to be lifted. A total of 5,200 tickets were cancelled, of which 4,600 tickets had been booked for April 15. An official admitted that allowing ticket booking and now cancelling them will inconvenience people. “Our online booking platform was open for the public to book tickets after April 14. Thousands of people had booked tickets assuming that there would not be any restrictions on travel after April 14. But that has not happened. We are not sure for how long the next phase of lockdown will continue. Once the Central government comes out with guidelines we will take a decision on opening bookings,” the official said. He warned that even after the lockdown is finally lifted, the government may not allow inter-district or inter-State operations. “We are doubtful that the governments will allow intercity operations in the State immediately after lifting the lockdown. On the other hand, operation of inter-State services will depend on the decision of respective States,” the official added. On the other hand, private operators are allowing people to book tickets online for travel from April 15. Online platforms of travel companies that help people to book flight tickets are also allowing people to book tickets for April 15 onwards. An official of a travel company said, “Earlier, the Union government had barred flight operations till April 14 so bookings were allowed after April 15. Now, there are reports of the government contemplating extending the lockdown. The Union government or the DGCA will have to come out with guidelines. Until then, we will allow people to make bookings. The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC ) is also allowing people to reserve tickets on its platform from April 15. “The Railway Board will take a decision on operating trains in the coming days. In case trains are cancelled, the ticket amount will be refunded,” said an official.
13 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah seeks probe into distribution of ration||Seeking an inquiry into a project for the distribution of dry rations and cooked food, taken up by the Labour Department in Bengaluru, Leader of the Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah on Sunday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was using the scheme for political gains, and that the project lacked transparency. He urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to release the list of beneficiaries who have taken the dry rations and the food. BJP councillors have been taking the food from kitchens and distributing it randomly, he alleged, adding that the money came from Construction Workers’ Welfare Board. Similarly, he claimed that BJP leaders were affixing their names and photographs on dry ration hampers and distributing it among their electorates. “Construction works and workers in unorganised sectors who are genuine beneficiaries are being denied dry rations and prepared food,” he said. The former Chief Minister also claimed that BJP leaders brought pressure on the Chief Minister and transferred the project from the Labour Department to the BBMP. “For the past two days, 2 lakh food packets have been distributed from kitchens and 1 lakh dry hampers have been distributed. Nobody has details as to who received them. There are allegations that the religion of the beneficiary is being asked before the food packets are distributed,” he alleged. He further alleged out that of the 30 lakh construction workers in the State, including 15 lakh workers registered in Bengaluru, and nearly 1 crore workers in the unorganised sector are not getting relief from the government.
13 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lockdown could take a toll on several proposed projects||As the State stares at a tight economic condition in the coming months owing to the COVID-19 lockdown, several new works that had been proposed in the new financial year could be axed, even as departments are now busy prioritising works. For example, the Irrigation Department, which sees large works and has a budget provision of nearly Rs. 20,000 crore in addition to Rs. 10,000 crore announced for the Upper Krishna Project work, has been asked by the Finance Department not to take up new works. “While all tender procedures have been postponed for now, the Finance Department has asked us not to take up any work mentioned in the 2020-2021 budget,” a senior official in the department confirmed. “We are expecting another instruction from the Finance department post April 20 as the works that will be taken up is dependent on the financial situation of the State,” the official said. On the special grant of Rs. 10,000 crore for UKP, the official said that they were expecting the budgetary allocation itself to shrink in the coming months with only priority works being taken forward. “Under the current circumstances, I do not think the grant will come,” the official added. Another department executing big projects across the State, the Public Works Department, has been asked not to go ahead with any new works or tenders. An official said, “In fact, we need to have an order to carry forward spill over works from the last financial year to this financial year.” The official, however, said that works being executed under funding through agencies, including NABARD, would continue. The official said that a similar exercise is being taken up, more or less, in all departments, and only after April 20 or even after the lockdown ends will departments know what they can take up and how much allocation will come.
13 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Home delivery helpline to service many areas in south Bengaluru||If all goes as planned, shopping for essential items, including medicines, will be just a phone call away for residents of Jayanagar, Basavanagudi, Padmanabhanagar, and Chickpet. To improve the efficacy of the lockdown and ensure that people are not compelled to step out of their houses to purchase even essential items, a home delivery helpline was launched on Sunday. This is an extension of the Katriguppe pilot project, where essentials are being delivered to the homes of residents. The authorities estimate that 7.5 lakh people and 2.5 lakh households are likely to benefit from this. As many as 1,926 shops have been brought on board, including 958 provision stores, 323 vegetable stores, 479 pharmacies, and 82 meat shops. The home delivery helpline number is 080-61914960. “We have implemented this in the four Assembly constituencies in Bengaluru south. If it is successful, it will be extended throughout the city,” said Revenue Minister R. Ashok. While noting that many people were violating the lockdown, he urged citizens to not venture outdoors in the interest of public health. MP for Bengaluru South Tejaswi Surya said the helpline was launched with two objectives: one, for senior citizens to stay safe at home and second, to avoid people from stepping out unnecessarily. “The four Assembly constituencies come under the DCP (South) jurisdiction. The shops in the select areas have been geotagged. There is no need to download an app. Anybody can just call the helpline or send a message on WhatsApp on the items required. The items will be delivered within 24 hours,” he said, while thanking various organisations that have partnered with the helpline.
13 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Army wives’ association provides food, masks to underprivileged||The Army Wives’ Welfare Association (AWWA) has begun providing cooked food and home-stitched masks to underprivileged families in many parts of Bengaluru in view of the lockdown forced by the COVID-19 pandemic, a Ministry of Defence release has said. For the last few days, 35 families of an Army unit in Bengaluru have been stitching masks at home. The Army unit collects the masks, sterilises and distributes them among the poor and needy people, along with food packets. About 600 needy families will benefit from their service throughout the lockdown period, an official said. “The Army is also interacting with slum dwellers, informing them about the dos and don’ts during the COVID-19 pandemic. It has also been disinfecting their locality,” the release said. Food was distributed in Chowpada, Sarjapur, Vijayanagar, Airport Toll Plaza Junction and Marathahalli in Bengaluru. For this, the Army tied up with NGOs such as Good Neighbours India, Lions Club & Relive Foundation.
13 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hospital admissions fall||In Bengaluru, although there is no decline in gastroenteritis (GE) cases, doctors handling epidemic diseases say admissions are low, with many choosing not to get admitted even when it is warranted. This is because several hospitals have set up isolation wards for COVID-19 patients and there is a fear among people that they might contract the infection if they are admitted in the same hospital. Ansar Ahmed, Medical Superintendent of the State-run Epidemic Diseases Hospital on Old Madras Road, told The Hindu that the number of GE and cholera cases have almost been the same since January. “We had 147 and 171 acute GE cases in January and February, respectively. All our admissions (all ailments, including GE, cholera, measles, mumps, chickenpox and tetanus) during these two months numbered 329 and 346, respectively. However, there was a surge in the number of in-patients and out-patients in March, with 726 in total. Twelve positive cholera cases were detected during March,” he said. In April, although 78 acute GE cases have been detected so far, the number of admissions has come down drastically. “Although we have separate blocks for COVID-19 and other cases and are managing it as per protocol, patients are not willing to get admitted even if it is required,” said Dr. Ahmed, who has been handling epidemic diseases for the past 17 years. On Friday, the hospital saw a confirmed rabies patient — a 74-year-old resident of Gouribidnur. The patient was bitten by a stray dog a month ago and had developed symptoms. He was referred to the Epidemic Diseases Hospital. “Although the patient needed admission, the family refused and took him away, against medical advice,” Dr. Ahmed said.
13 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kumaraswamy urges PM to announce rent rebate||Urging Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce a comprehensive national rent rebate scheme in light of the COVID-19 emergency, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Sunday said that a considerable number of workers and students in metro cities live in rented houses and hostels and require the government’s intervention. In a series of tweets, Mr. Kumaraswamy said that since all the economic activity had come to a grinding halt, it was very difficult to pay rent as usual. “If landlords insist on rent, the tenants cannot even go searching for new accommodation due to the emergency. Hence, the government’s intervention is essential.” In another tweet, he said, “Many countries have already announced rent rebate scheme for tenants. It is surprising that the Indian government has not announced any such relief even to residential tenants. I urge the Prime Minister to immediately come to the rescue of everyone living in rented housing.”
13 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man booked on rape charge||The Nandini Layout police, on Saturday, booked a case against a man for allegedly raping a school student in November and using videos he had made to blackmail her into stealing gold jewellery and cash from her parents over several months. The accused, Abhishek Gowda, 24, a resident of Rajajinagar, befriended the girl on a social networking site. In November 2019, he allegedly took her to a lodge where he raped her and recorded the act. He has been booked under POCSO Act.
13 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Irregular supply of fodder, animal feed worries many||As many stray and rescued cattle rehabilitation centres across the city are running out of fodder, apart from irregular supply of animal feed, representatives from various organisations are worried that the extension of the lockdown would make it more difficult to maintain and run such centres. Sunil Dugar, secretary, Akhila Karnataka Pranidaya Sangha (AKPS), that runs a gaushala in Koramangala, said they had over 1,100 rescued cattle and would soon run out of fodder. He also urged the government to take necessary steps to ensure that the supply chain of fodder and animal feed from villages to cities was not disturbed. Compassion Unlimited Plus Action (CUPA) runs Large Animal Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre (LARRC) near Kengeri that houses over 125 large animals and also faces a similar problem. Sandhya Madappa of CUPA said maintaining cattle in urban areas amid such lockdowns and travel restrictions was a huge issue. Organisations and individuals are facing challenges in sourcing food for stray and rehabilitated dogs. “Our rehab centres stopped getting chicken long ago. We are sourcing the same from across the city and transporting it. Before, we used to directly get it to our centres,” Ms. Madappa said. CUPA is sourcing chicken and rice from across the city and cooking it. “We give to the volunteers and individuals who are feeding it to stray dogs. Over a thousand dogs are being fed in this way,” she said. Animal rights’ activist Arun Prasad said that lack of coordination between different government agencies was the main reason behind irregular fodder and other animal feed supply in the city.
13 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Police tighten vigil in Dharwad district||The police have tightened vigil both in the city limits and elsewhere the district to ensure strict implementation of the lockdown orders. The entry of vehicles was barred on the main roads and interior roads and those violating the lockdown order had to taste police action. The police said that high alert has been declared in the twin cities after another person from Hubballi tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. The government has instructed the department to use force to ensure total lockdown. The police are allowed to exercise their powers against those defying orders. Areas in a three-kilometre radius of Mulla Oni in Hubballi where the second positive case was reported have been barricaded. Apart from imposing total ban on the movement of people and vehicles, the police are maintaining strict vigil. The police have also asked voluntary organisations and others not to distribute food, grocery and other such material without obtaining prior permission from the authorities concerned. The police as a precautionary move have been making public announcements asking people to stay indoors and not come out under any circumstances. However, some youths were found wandering unnecessarily and “we had to use force to send them back home.” “The instructions are clear. Stay home till further orders or come out and face police action,” police officials said. The police have also intensified vigil under the jurisdiction of the district police. Apart from day and night patrolling, the police have so far seized 1,163 vehicles and collected penalty of Rs. 4.74 lakh. Strict vigil is being maintained on the district borders to prevent the entry and exit of vehicles. Simultaneously, the Excise Department officials too have intensified vigil to curb illicit liquor sales.
13 April 2020||Hassan/Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Police book cases, but planters plead innocence as workers leave estates||Following instances of plantation workers leaving estates,violating the lockdown rules, the district administration has been booking cases against planters. Officials have appealed to planters not to force their workers to leave until the lockdown is lifted. Twenty-eight people, including nine children, were rescued by the Chikkamagaluru police on Friday night while they were on the way to Hagari Bommanahalli in Ballari district in a truck. The group was made to sit amid rice bags in the vehicle. The police shifted the workers to a safe place and booked a case against the driver of the truck, and the leader of the workers. The Belur police also booked a case against the estate owner — Mahesh Kumar, a medical officer. The police in both Hassan and Chikkamagaluru districts have registered similar cases against planters who sent their workers to their native places. Hassan Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda said that so far, the district administration has rescued 80 workers and registered three cases. “We appeal to all planters not to send workers away when the lockdown is in forcee. If they have any difficulty in providing the workers food and shelter, they can contact the district administration,” he said. Labour shortage However, the planters argue that they are being blamed for no reason and that workers have been leaving on their own, eager to get back home. U.M. Thirthamallesh, president of Karnataka Growers’ Federation, told The Hindu that planters were looking for workers at the moment as they had a lot of work in the estates. The workers, who work in the estates only during picking season, return to their native place after the work is over. “When the lockdown was declared, hundreds of workers returned to their homes at night. Planters are finding it difficult to retain them here,” he said. He also appealed to the police to discuss the problem in detail with representatives of planters’ associations instead of registering cases and blaming them alone. “This is the time when we prepare the estates for next year’s harvest. Many planters are facing a shortage of workers.”
13 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi records three more COVID-19 positive cases||Kalaburagi registered three more positive cases of COVID-19 (P220, P222 and P227) on Sunday, taking the total number of infected persons in the district to 13, including the two people who died and two people who were discharged upon recovery. As per information provided by Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat, two cases were the primary contact of the 65-year-old man (P177) who recently died of the deadly disease. P220 is the 24-year-old daughter-in-law of the deceased man and P222 is a 38-year-old maid who served the man when he was under treatment at Bahmani Multispecialty Hospital before he was shifted to an isolated ward in the State-run ESIC Medical Complex. The third case is a two-year-old boy from Pilakam locality in Wadi town of Chittapur taluk. He is the son of a man from Madhya Pradesh who was a book seller at Wadi Railway Station. As the case turned out to be screening positive, the Chittapur taluk authorities sealed the entire area restricting the entry and exit of people, assuring the people inside the area of providing all essential goods at their doorstep. Just as the news was out, Chittapur MLA Priyank Kharge conducted a videoconference with the taluk level officers and took stock of the situation. By Sunday evening, the district administration had finished survey of 20,168 houses most of which fell in the five Containment Zones thus for created around the residences of infected persons. The total number of throat swabs and blood samples collected in the district stood at 350, of which 282 were negative for COVID-19. Two of the samples were not tested due to technical reasons and the results of 53 samples are awaited.
13 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Workers get food packets after they complain to visiting judge||Complaints by workers employed on contract basis in MRPL, OMPL and other such units against improper distribution of food packets before Principal District and Sessions Judge Kadloor Satyanarayacharya during his visit to Janata Colony in Kana of Surathkal on Friday led officials to send a team with a new set of food packets on Saturday evening. “As many as eight persons were given the packets. Each packet contained about 3 kg boiled rice, 1 kg salt and 500 grams each of oil, sugar and dal. This is highly inadequate for myself, my husband and three children. This material will be used up in about three days,” said Pankaja, wife of Vijay, who does welding works in MRPL. Pankaja is among the concerned several home-makers in the colony where nearly 400 workers from Bihar, Odisha and North Karnataka, who work in MRPL, OMPL and other units in MSEZ, live. “We have no other option but to manage with the available grocery and wait for fresh supplies next week,” said Vijay, who, like many other workers in the colony, is yet to receive wages for March from his contractor. “The Union government's aid of Rs. 1,000 for each worker is yet to come,” said Sanjay Ram, a native of Mirzapur in Bihar, who works in OMPL. For a week, after lockdown began, lunch and dinner were supplied to workers in the area. Food packets were distributed here on April 4. “Now, we have been left high and dry,” said Manjamma of Ballari district. Living on fish The condition of 30 workers from Bihar living in Kotepura of Ullal, who are deployed to remove sand from the riverbed, is more precarious. “Our savings of about Rs. 400 has been spent now and for the last couple of days we lived by eating fish that we caught, along with a bowl of rice. Thanks to the visit of the judge on Friday, our owner provided rice and other essentials on Saturday,” said Shambuprasad. They have not received any food packets from the government, he added. Similarly, over 100 workers from Bihar and Tamil Nadu are living on the fishing boats anchored at the fish landing point at Kotepura Endpoint. These workers too are solely reliant on the grocery provided by the boat owners. Dakshina Kannada Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel told The Hindu that from the War Room set up by him they are reaching out to workers from outside the State who are in distress. “Workers have been provided food kits. And, efforts are on to reach out to the needy,” he said.  ‘Workers have been provided food kits; and, efforts are on to reach out to the needy’
13 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Traditional fishing begins on the coast||All country boats which are also called traditional fishing boats have been permitted to venture out for fishing in the coastal belt, according to Minister for Fisheries, Ports, Inland Transport and Muzrai Kota Srinivasa Poojary. In a statement here the Minister said that there are about 14,000 traditional fishing boats in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts. Fishermen will have to ensure social distancing, while selling fish to contain the spread of COVID-19, he said. Sources said that fishermen have been asked not to sell fish in the Old Port in Mangaluru. Instead, they have been asked to sell them at other designated places along the coast where crowding will be less. The State government has, however, not given permission for deep sea fishing by mechanised boats.
13 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Boy uses suitcase to sneak his friend in, caught||Bored of spending time in his apartment complex on Arya Samaja Road at Balmatta during the lockdown on account of COVID-19 here, a boy invited his friend over and stashed him in a big suitcase and tried to sneak him in on Sunday. According to the Mangaluru East police, the 16-year-old boy telephoned his friend and asked him to come over. He then stashed the latter inside the suitcase, as the apartment complex had banned the entry of outsiders. As he dragged the suitcase with his friend inside, the security guard, suspecting foul play, called some other residents to the spot. The boy was asked to open the suitcase, and to everyone’s shock, his friend tumbled out of it. Immediately, the residents called the area police, who arrived there only to take the two boys away to Mangaluru East police station. The boys’ parents were summoned and the two were warned and sent back home. Soon after cases began to be reported, all of Dakshina Kannada, like the rest of the country, has been under lockdown.
13 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Arecanut procurement to resume today||In a relief to farmers, Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Cooperative Ltd. (CAMPCO), Mangaluru, will resume procurement of arecanut in Dakshina Kannada on Monday, according to CAMPCO president S.R. Satishchandra. The cooperative stopped arecanut procurement from farmers after the lockdown was announced as its main consumer market [in North India] had closed down. As both private traders and the cooperative sector too stopped purchasing, small and marginal farmers were in trouble with no buyers in the market. Mr. Satishchandra told presspersons that initially it will resume procurement at its nine centres in Dakshina Kannada. The produce will be purchased at Alankar, Belthangady, Uppinangady, Kadaba, Nintikal, Sullia, Vitla, Puttur and Adyanadkka, also major arecanut growing areas. He said that only 20 farmers can sell the produce in a day in a branch. The cooperative will purchase arecanut valued at a maximum of Rs. 25,000 from a member farmer per month. The procurement will be made from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. The grower members will have to telephone their respective branches of purchase and seek an appointment. The restrictions on purchases are due to logistical and liquidity issues due to the extended lockdown. The entire market chain from procurement to consumer market has been hit due to the lockdown, he said. He said that “hosa adike” will be purchased at Rs. 250 per kg and “hale adike” will be bought at Rs. 275 a kg. The cooperative resumed procuring wet cocoa beans from farmers on April 9. There is no restriction on this, he said.
13 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||One more discharged in Dakshina Kannada||One more COVID-19 active patient, a senior citizen, was discharged from a hospital in Dakshina Kannada on Sunday. The patient discharged from a private hospital was from Kozhikode in Kerala. The 70-year-old woman had reached the Kozhikode airport from Saudi Arabia on March 9. She was admitted to the private hospital here on March 19. The woman tested positive on March 24. After treatment, she tested negative on April 7 and April 8. She was among the four persons from Kerala who tested positive and admitted in the city. The other three [from Kerala] have already been discharged. With this, the district has five active patients under treatment now. The district did not report any positive case for the eighth day in a row on Sunday. Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh said in a release on Sunday that 2,103 persons are under home quarantine in the district as [on April 12], while 3,970 persons have completed their 28 days home quarantine. She said that seven persons are under observation. The reports of 32 samples sent for tests are awaited.
13 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Hygiene up, gastro cases down in Mysuru||The lockdown and the consequent drive to step up sanitary measures to curb the spread of COVID-19 in the city and across the region has produced unintended results that have brought some relief to the medical community. It has scotched the outbreak of gastroenteritis, which usually coincides with the onset of summer and adds to the patient load in hospitals. “We have seen a significant decline in gastroenteritis, which is caused by contaminated water and food,” said D.H. Nagaraj, health officer, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC). The lockdown has been in place since March 15, and eateries, restaurants, hotels and bakeries have been shut, as a result of which the possibility of many people being afflicted by food or water contamination has reduced to a minimum, he said. District Health Officer R. Venkatesh concurred that gastroenteritis cases were far and few between because of the limited outdoor activities. Besides, Panchayat Development Officers have been instructed to frequently check the water points for any leakage and repair them, besides monitoring them for quality, he added. In the event of dysentery, people have been recommended the take a home-made oral rehydration solution made by mixing a small portion of salt and sugar with one litre of boiled water, said Dr. Venkatesh. “Almost 90% of the clinics are closed as a precautionary measure against COVID-19, and if there was any outbreak of gastroenteritis, the hospitals which are functioning would have reported it,” Dr. Nagaraj said. The daily reports compiled from various hospitals, including the government-run K.R. Hospital, do not indicate any outbreak of gastroenteritis despite there being a few scattered cases, he added. Personal improvements Another doctor said people have also acquired the habit of frequently washing their hand and using sanitizers, because of the coronavirus fear, and this has helped improve personal hygiene. The MCC, on its part, is disinfecting public spaces such as bus stands, markets and main roads, while also taking up fogging. There is a dedicated squad of pourakarmikas entrusted with the task of spraying disinfectants, and all 65 wards under MCC limits are being covered. In addition to this, all the quarantine homes are regularly fogged and disinfected.
13 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||In a relief, six patients linked to Nanjangud pharma firm discharged||Seven more COVID-19 patients were discharged from hospital here on Sunday. Six of them were patients linked to the Nanjangud-based Jubilant Generics Ltd. while one was a person who returned from abroad. Now, the total number of active cases is 39, bringing some relief to the medical teams in Mysuru striving to stabilise patients. Two patients were discharged a while ago, and one of them was the employee of the pharma company who tested positive first. A 32-year-old contact of P-88 linked to the pharma company tested positive on Sunday. The rising number of cases, particularly those linked to the company, has caused a lot of unease here as Mysuru is second only to Bengaluru in cities with the most cases in Karnataka. Nanjangud is considered one of the COVID-19 clusters and strict lockdown measures have been in place in the town after it was declared a containment zone and hundreds placed in quarantine. Following feedback from the patients discharged on Sunday, a facility for hot water has been arranged at the COVID-19 hospital, according to officials. In view of the discharge of seven patients, Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G. Sankar thanked the entire hospital team, all field teams, including the police, health and local body functionaries, quarantine monitoring team, and surveillance teams for their support and cooperation. Investigation Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police C.B. Ryshyanth said the police were investigating the pharma case from various angles and the origin of the infection was being verified. “A notice was served on the company and the police received certain documents essential to the investigation,” he said, adding that the management was cooperating with the probe. He said the company registers and CCTV footage from its plant have also been collected. The SP also said the company underwent an audit some time ago and a team had been to the plant. “Even this angle is being probed and details collected of the health conditions of those who were part of the auditing,” he said on Saturday. With regard to raw materials shipped from China, the results of samples sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, were awaited, he said.
13 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kodagu eases curbs on bakeries, meat stalls||The Kodagu district administration has eased the curbs on meat stalls and bakeries in the district after the lone COVID-19 positive person was discharged after treatment. The district administration had ordered the closure of stalls selling all types of meat, including mutton, chicken, fish and pork, besides eggs as a precautionary measure after a resident of the district tested positive. Bakeries too were ordered shut. The authorities have now permitted meat stalls to remain open from 6 a.m. to noon three days a week — Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. However, the stall owners have been instructed to not only ensure proper cleanliness and hygiene on their premises, but also maintain social distancing to prevent transmission of the novel coronavirus. The district administration, after holding discussions with the local chamber of commerce, has fixed a maximum price of sales. While the maximum price for mutton has been fixed at Rs. 600 a kg, for chicken it is Rs. 180. The maximum price for fish (freshwater katla) is Rs. 200, while the price of pork has been fixed at a maximum of Rs. 220 a kg. Other precautions Similarly, bakeries in the district have now been allowed to operate with a minimum number of workers. They too will be operational between 6 a.m. and noon on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. Also, the sale of bakery products is permitted only in parcel. The district administration has warned bakers to ensure that consumption of bakery products is not permitted on their unit premises, in violation of social distancing norms. Also, bakers have been asked to keep their premises clean and hygienic. They have also been warned against selling stale products prepared before the closure of the units. The civic authorities have been directed to monitor the operations of bakeries and meat stalls.
13 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||CSIR-CFTRI prepares, distributes sanitisers||CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute (CSIR-CFTRI) has supplied sanitisers for its field workers in Mysuru to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. The institute has prepared sanitisers based on the formulations prescribed by the World Health Organization (WHO). About 200 litres of sanitisers were prepared and packaged.  A total of 2,000 bottles of sanitisers had been handed over to the district administration to distribute among the field staff. V. Baskaran, chief scientist, and colleagues handed over the sanitisers to Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G. Sankar on Sunday. Earlier, CSIR-CFTRI had provided two PCR machines and one RNA extraction unit to the COVID-19 testing unit at K.R. Hospital.
13 April 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Foodgrains kits distributed||Raichur Reporters Guild, Raichur District Working Journalists Association and Raichur District Editors Association distributed foodgrains to reporters and videojournalists in Raichur on Sunday. Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar and Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy handed over foodgrains kits. “It was to help these men who are also facing problems during the lockdown,” Basavaraj Nagadadinni and Channabasavanna, respective presidents of Raichur Reporters Guild and Raichur District Working Journalists Association, said.
13 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: School holiday triggers rise in KFD cases among children in Malnad||The extended holiday for schools owing to the lockdown, enforced to prevent the spread of COVID-19, has resulted in a rise in the number of cases of children infected with the Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD), also known as monkey fever, in Karnataka. A total number of 197 positive cases of KFD were seen in Karnataka since January 1, and around 17 were reported during the lockdown and the affected were below 14 years. Of the total positive cases this year, 8.6% are children. So far, in the years of major outbreaks, the percentage of children in the total number of positive cases used to be around 2%. Holiday blamed The health authorities blame the holiday declared to schools for an extended period of time as the reason for enhancement in the number of cases. In Malnad region, it is common for children to venture into forest during summer to swim in the rivulets there, for collection of fruits and to graze cattle. As the holiday was declared at the period when the outbreak was at its peak this year, the health authorities said that in forests the children came in contact with the ticks that spread the disease from monkeys to humans. Kiran S. K., Director of Viral Diagnostic Laboratory(VDL) in Shivamogga, the main arm of Department of Health and Family Welfare in tackling the KFD, told The Hindu that the parents should prevent the movement of children in forest fringes. He said that the study has revealed that the pace of recovery of infected children is high compared to the adults. Even the children who had high viral load in their blood samples, have staged a speedy recovery. Moreover, no death has been reported in this age group this year, he said. Visiting relatives Mr. Kiran said that there are cases of children contacting the disease by visiting the house of their relatives in affected areas for vacation. A four-year-old boy from Channashettykoppa village in Sagar taluk went to the house of his grandparents in Seegemakki, a KFD-affected hamlet, where he contacted the disease. The boy is being treated at a private hospital in Manipal in Udupi district now. In Malnad, dry leaves, locally called as daragu , are collected from the forest that would be used as manure for arecanut plantations. In many cases, the ticks come near the human habitats through the heap of dry leaves and spread the disease. In Korlakai village in neighbouring Uttara Kannada district, a five-year-old boy, who had come into contact with the ticks while playing near the heap of dry leaves in the arecanut plantation at the backyard of his house, has tested positive for KFD. Following these incidents, the Shivamogga district administration has banned the entry of people to forest in 31 villages affected by KFD for an indefinite period of time.
13 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Five new cases reported in Shivamogga since Saturday||As many as five new cases of Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD), also known as monkey fever, were reported in Shivamogga since Saturday. On Saturday, a four-year-old boy from Channashettykoppa village in Sagar taluk tested positive. In Tirthahalli taluk, three positive cases were reported on Saturday that includes a five-year-old boy from Tanikallu village. On Sunday, the blood samples of a 45-year-old woman from Guddekoppa village in Tirthahalli taluk also tested positive. She is being treated at the Government J.C. Hospital in Tirthahalli town. A total number of 146 positive cases of KFD have been reported in Shivamogga district since January 1 and it includes 117 from Tirthahalli taluk and 29 from Sagar taluk.
13 April 2020||Tumakuru,KARNATAKA||Residents vacate Tumakuru village ‘on deity’s instructions’||Combating superstition while enforcing the nationwide lockdown has become a nightmare for officials in Tumakuru district. To their dismay, around 60 families from Muddenahalli in Koratagere taluk lived in tents outside their village from Friday afternoon, in the belief that if they do this for three days it will protect them from COVID-19. They returned to their homes on Sunday night after completing the rituals. This temporary vacating of their homes began after a woman, who claimed to be speaking for the village deity Maramma, reportedly instructed them to do this, said an official, adding that every time they tried to send the villagers home, they would return. Under the guidance of the village heads, the people left the village on Friday afternoon itself along with their cattle, dogs, hens, cats, vessels, clothes, and other essential items. “They pitched tents outside the village on their fields, coconut farms and government land and are cooking there. Their children and babies too are with them,” said officials. Though the tahsildar of Koratagere taluk, B.M. Govindaraju, along with the police tried to convince the villagers to return home and isolate themselves, their pleas fell on deaf ears for the most part. A villager, Anjanappa said, “After the tahsildar told us to go back to our houses, some people returned home but came back to the tents after the tahsildar and police left the village.” Village elders recalled stories of their grandparents doing something similar during the plague. “Our village deity, Maramma, has told us to vacate the village for three days for our good, and hence we will follow it strictly. My grandfather used to tell me that people vacated the villages during the plague in India,” said Malleshappa. Mr. Govindaraju told The Hindu the villagers were escorted home by an official and policemen.
13 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Corona Warriors reach out to needy persons||A band of 260 volunteers called Corona Warriors trained by the departments of Information and Public Relations and Labour and the Indian Red Cross Society have been helping the needy in Udupi district during the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In an instance, an elderly couple staying in a house at Brahmavar needed bread for breakfast. The man is suffering from diabetes and heart ailment and the shops were closed due to lockdown. Then, his wife contacted the Corona Warriors and a woman volunteer supplied them bread at their house in 20 minutes. A patient required medicine in a rural area in Karkala. But these medicine were available only in Udupi. There was no one in the house to visit Udupi to get the medicine. A youth, a member of the Warriors team, managed to get the medicine from Udupi. These are just two examples of the Warriors helping people. These Warriors have also been educating people about maintaining social distancing while purchasing groceries and vegetables in the district. They have also been quelling fake news circulated on the social media. The 260 Corona Warriors in Udupi district include techies, engineers, students and social workers. These Warriors have their own WhatsApp groups in the seven taluks and are responding to the problems of people in their jurisdiction. The needy may contact Ph: 8310155994 for help.
13 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Area sealed as Vijayapura city reports six COVID-19 cases||Just when the district was about to complete the first phase of the lockdown period in two days, Vijayapura city recorded six COVID-19 positive cases in a single day. According to a health bulletin, five persons of a family and a woman were confirmed for being coronavirus positive on Sunday. Giving this information here, Deputy Commissioner Y.S. Patil said that efforts are under way to trace the contacts of these patients. However, prima facie , he said that a 60-year-old woman was in contact with a person in Maharashtra. “The source of contact of the other five members of the family is being traced,” he said. Mr. Patil said that the police and health officials are investigating the case to track down her source of infection. Among these five, there are three children aged 10, 12 and 13, respectively. A 20-year-old female and a 49-year-old male are also among the confirmed cases. Meanwhile, he said that the aged woman is suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and she is stable in the isolation ward of the designated hospital, along with other COVID-19 positive patients. Following the confirmation, the entire area coming under Gol Gumbaz Police limits has been completely sealed with no person being allowed to move out or move in. Mr. Patil said that the residents have been directed to stay indoors and not venture out for any reason. “The city corporation will take care of their daily needs. The residents will have to call up particular contact numbers for vegetables, ration or health-related issues. The corporation staff will make necessary arrangements,” he said. The numbers are Ph: 9886745505, 8867562516 and 9845768889. The police, to ensure that people stay indoors in the sealed areas, are using drones to monitor the situation.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Baas all over||
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||With the imposition of the lockdown, district officials have the authority to issue special passes to those who need to travel for unavoidable reasons. But now, it has become difficult for officers to handle the barrage of requests for passes. Hassan Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda has introduced an online system to apply for special passes. However, many people stand in queue every day at his office and make personal requests — to bring their children studying/working in different places back to Hassan, to attend weddings, festivals, funerals and the like. The officer has been rejected applications citing these kinds of reasons which are clearly not “emergency” situations. The Deputy Superintendents of Police, Circle Inspectors and Revenue Department officials too have been receiving similar requests. Inundated with requests now, officials have fixed a specific time during working hours to exclusively process pass requests. With no COVID-19 case reported in Hassan district, lack of knowledge about the potential spread of the disease seems to be the reason for this constant urge to travel.    The clamour for Mangaluru’s medical facilities among the residents of Kasaragod district in Kerala, after the inter-State border was sealed (in picture) , brings back memories of the once-strong agitation for the inclusion of Kasaragod in Karnataka. The region was part of erstwhile Canara district under the Madras Presidency, along with the present three coastal districts of Karnataka. A majority of Kasaragod residents are still emotionally, culturally and linguistically bonded to Dakshina Kannada, even after its merger with Kerala. Several personalities in Kasaragod district, including the late Kayyara Kinhanna Rai, had relentlessly fought for Kasaragod’s merger with Karnataka. While the agitation is now history, even today residents of Kasaragod depend heavily on Dakshina Kannada for many needs, right from essential commodities to education and healthcare. This is allegedly because of the neglect of the district by successive governments in Kerala. With Kasaragod registering a high number of COVID-19 cases, this dependence is under strain. It was only after the intervention of the Supreme Court that Karnataka agreed to open the border for emergency medical cases.    Getting a haircut has perhaps never been so hard. Recently, during a daily press briefing on COVID-19 by the Vijayapura Deputy Commissioner, two reporters caught everyone’s attention with their neatly cut hair. Everyone was curious to know how the duo managed to get a haircut when all salons have been ordered shut. After much cajoling, they let out the secret: they personally knew a barber who, on a request, came to their homes and cut their hair. No doubt they paid double the usual fee for the service. Recently, the barbers of Mysuru, distraught over being denied their livelihood, appealed to the district administration that they be allowed to offer “home service” to customers. Officials have so far not heeded their request, on the grounds that there can hardly be any social distancing between a barber and his customer. Mysuru is one of the COVID-19 hotspots in the State.  Sathish G.T.   Anil Kumar Sastry   Firoz Rozindar
13 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||No fresh cases in Alappuzha||Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) sleuths conducted raids in shops that were selling essentials at a higher price. According to Rex Baby Arvin, Dy.SP, VACB, Alappuzha, raids were held at Athikkattukulangara, Charumoodu and Palamoodu on Sunday. “Some of the shops including chicken stalls, grocery and vegetable stores have been found to be selling products at a higher cost. We have recommended action against such shops,” said an official.Meanwhile, no fresh case of COVID-19 was reported in the district on Sunday. The district has so far reported five COVID-19 cases. While three persons remain under treatment, two have made a full recovery. The police registered 272 cases and arrested 288 people and seized 155 vehicles for violating lockdown regulations.
13 April 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki district free of COVID-19 cases, to maintain vigil||With the repeat sample tests of the last three cases also found negative, the district became free of COVID-19 cases on Sunday. The total number of persons found positive including a U.K. citizen who stayed at Tea County in Munnar was 10 and and six were infested with the virus from a Cheruthoni-based politician who travelled widely in the State. His contacts were a teacher, her child; mother, child and wife of another contact who was a party colleague. A Nedumkandam-based person, who had attended the religious meet at Nizamuddin also tested positive for COVID-19, in addition to a Thodupuzha resident. District Medical Officer T.R.Rekha on Sunday said that all the virus infested persons admitted to the COVID-19 hospital were discharged on Sunday after being found negative in the two consecutive tests on Saturday. At present the district is free of COVID-19 cases, she said and added that it did not mean that the district is completely free of it. The Department is checking cases to find anyone infested with the virus. She said that the increased cases in Tamil Nadu is a concern and the border areas were being closely monitored to check cross-border movement of people. The district was also the first one where the district hospital was converted into a COVID-19 hospital. The new hospital building at Thodupuzha lacked power connection and other facilities. They were all arranged in a day and all patients were shifted to the isolation wards there. The last positive cases in the district were reported on April 2, when five contacts of the Cheruthoni-based politician were tested positive. Welcome According to District Collector H.Dinesan, no positive COVID-19 cases is a welcome message, though the work related to it did not end there. The success will be when no future cases are reported and people should be more vigilant in the coming days, he added.
13 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Man held for bid to sexually assault minor||A 31-year-old man was on Sunday arrested on the charge of attempting to sexually assault a differently abled minor tribal girl in Wayanad. The arrested is A. Muneer of Arimunda. The incident occurred on April 10 when the girl’s parents had gone outside for work, District Police Chief R. Ilango told The Hindu . “During interrogation, the accused confessed to the crime,” said Mr. Ilango, adding that the police were awaiting the medical report and further statements of the victim and witnesses.
13 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Robusta coffee turns a cup of woes||The spread of COVID-19 at an alarming rate in Italy, a major importer of Indian Robusta coffee, has cast a shadow over the lives of small-scale coffee growers in Wayanad, a major Robusta coffee producing region. “India has been producing an average of 2.24 lakh tonnes of Robusta coffee every year, of which nearly 1.10 lakh tonnes are consumed domestically. Italy is the largest Robusta coffee buyer from the country and they import around 65,000 tonnes of Indian Robusta variety every year,” Prasanth Rajesh, president, Wayanad Coffee Growers’ Association, said. According to reports, the pandemic has put Italy in a crisis. The price of the produce before the outbreak of the disease was the lowest in the market in the past 10 years and the farmers fear that the crisis would worsen the situation. According to data available with the Coffee Board, Kerala produced 68,225 tonnes of Robusta coffee during 2018-19, of which Wayanad contributed 58,450 tonnes. Robusta coffee is cultivated on 67,366 hectares in Wayanad and 59,621 farmers are dependent on the sector. Moreover, nearly 97 per cent of them are small scale growers, Mr. Rajesh said. “We have been asking the Central government for setting up a price stabilisation fund to meet the unforeseen crisis of farmers. It is yet to materialise,” Mr. Rajesh said. There were weather insurance schemes for the crop till 2016, but coffee was excluded from the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana scheme a few years ago, Mr. Rajesh said.
13 April 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Cancer patient in Kasaragod yet to receive medicines||Despite assurances from the government to endosulfan victims in Kasaragod, P.V. Sajitha, a cancer patient, is yet to receive her life-saving medicines.  The Hindu had on April 3 published a report on the plight of the 37-year-old from Kayyur in the district, who had been receiving medicines from a drugs manufacturing company with the help of an NGO in Mumbai. The lockdown affected the delivery of tablets, putting her life at stake. Ms. Sajitha was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2015. After surgery, the cancer spread to other parts of the body, and she has been surviving on medicines delivered free of cost from Mumbai. District Collector D. Sajith Babu had earlier said no one would go without emergency medicines. He had told The Hindu that there was sufficient stock of medicines in the district, and that he would get Ms. Sajitha the tablets she required. . When contacted, the Collector on Sunday said he would speak to the drug manufacturing company.
13 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Remembering Bristow, a century after his arrival in Kochi||“Newly recovered from a fierce attack of influenza, I sat in my office adjoining the Admiralty Archway... I was wholly concerned with my near future: to go or not to go?” These are not the opening sentences from a novel of magical realism, nor are they from a post-COVID-19 autobiography. The lines are straight out of Cochin Saga (1959), recollections of Robert Bristow, who arrived in the early months of 1920 from Madras on a commission to build a port in Kochi. It is purely a matter of chance that he is being remembered in the midst of a crisis triggered by an unprecedented pandemic. However, unlike Sir Bristow, the world is yet to recover from the flu. When he was posted for harbour duties in Madras presidency in early 1920, there was no hint of what the future held. He says in his recollections that the years 1919-20 “brought quick change in the static calm of Cochin” with the arrival of a new governor, Lord Willingdon, for the presidency. The Governor was keen on pressing forward the industrial importance of the presidency, to improve its ports and roads. At 39, Bristow was an admiralty harbour engineer with qualifications in architecture, surveying and administration. He left Madras on April 12 and arrived in Kochi the next day where he recalled, “It seemed as if all the blue lagoons of the southern seas had come to rest in the wide bosom of Mother India at Cochin.” A prophetic vision The two-decade-long (1920-40) struggle to build the port is the story of Bristow’s vision. When he left in 1941, the port was doing business of one million tonnes. But his vision proved so prophetic as the post-war years saw cargo throughput soar past the million-tonne mark, reaching the two-million tonne mark about 1956-57. The volume hovers around 32 million tonnes a year now, along with a flourishing container transshipment terminal. “Bristow has stunned us with his vision, grasp of technology, and perseverance. The Kochi port is a marvel and it will continue to be one,” says K.J. Sohan, former mayor of Kochi. P.A. Mohammed Haneef, trade union leader, calls Sir Bristow an ever-growing presence. The port determined the course of Kerala’s economic growth. It set the tone for industrialisation ranging from the establishment of the oil refinery as well as the major fertiliser factory in Kochi, he says.
13 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Stressed, but bent on carrying on||Though the Health Department’s role in the fight against COVID-19 has drawn praise worldwide, most of its workforce, including doctors, nurses, health inspectors, ASHA workers, attenders and cleaners in hospitals, are a spent lot. They do not complain and hence the outside world rarely gets to know their sacrifices and difficulties, including lack of facilities, food, and sleep. Since lockdown could be extended, the Health Department personnel are bracing for another two weeks’ toil. A psycho-social intervention helpline of the government which focussed on the Health Department staff found how drained the daunting task has left the team. At the end of a tiring day, when they get a call inquiring about their welfare, and not about some work, many are overwhelmed that there is someone to take care of them too. Many hurdles Psychiatrist Sowmya Raj, nodal officer for the mental health helpline in Ernakulam, told The Hindu that many gave good response and felt assured in spite of anxieties. A follow-up call made them feel even better. The nodal medical officer in Pathanamthitta could see his newborn twins only two days after the delivery. Some houses rented for healthcare personnel are badly in need of repair and their food mostly consists of snacks or a quickly rustled up meal with available grocery in makeshift kitchens. A healthcare worker’s husband too needs mention, as he drops his wife to work, stays in the hospital till her duty is over, and takes her back. Transportation woes Hospitals make transportation available for their staff, but they are forced to stay at the workplace after duty hours too. For example, if the duty hours are from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m., the person can leave only by evening when the vehicle leaves to bring in people for night shift. In Kasaragod, three physicians in the district hospital were working without a break for more than two weeks. They could be taken off duty only when three more doctors were deputed to the hospital. The deputy district medical officer at Kozhikode, deputed in Kasaragod for coordination, is continuing without a break for 18 days. Joseph Chacko, president of the Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association, said there were many such instances since the whole team was working under severe limitations. “But the healthcare team is prepared to face such situations,” he said. Earlier too, the State was acclaimed for its primary healthcare infrastructure. But, COVID-19 aftermath has proved that the State’s tertiary healthcare structure is impressive too, he added.
13 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Facing up to the mask challenge||Used face masks continue to end up in waste baskets, according to sanitation workers, while officials are unsure about how they must be handled. A Kochi Corporation Health official said sanitation workers had been asked to collect masks separately. Once collected and brought to the dumping yard at Brahmapuram, they are disinfected with sodium hypochlorite. Any further action evades them since there is no incinerator at the dumpyard, he added. While the number of people stepping outside and having to use masks has come down considerably during the lockdown period, easing of restrictions could mean a further rise. “If the number increases and masks begin to pile up, we would need an incinerator,” the official said. Individual councillors have asked residents, particularly those in home quarantine, to wrap up masks in covers before disposing them along with plastic waste, said Sheeba Lal, councillor representing Fort Kochi Veli. Fasila Faisal, a sanitation worker who collects waste around the M.G. Road area said masks from households were generally disposed along with plastic waste or sometimes even with wet waste. “We try not to segregate waste ourselves now since it might not be safe,” she added. Mohanan, who collects waste at Kaloor, said after masks were spotted with plastic waste, he had asked residents to find ways to burn masks. Indian Medical Association (IMA) State president Dr. Abraham Varghese said used face masks were classified as biomedical waste and would have to be treated separately from other waste. “They cannot be discarded on the road or dumped along with other municipal waste,” he added. Biomedical waste is managed by the IMA under its IMAGE (IMA Goes Ecofriendly) initiative. Since biomedical waste is collected only from hospitals, dental clinics and other member institutions, and offices, the general public or police personnel who now use masks will have to find ways to drop them off with a member institution, he observed. “If dropping them [masks] off is also not possible, they will have to be burnt,” he said. Kalamassery Municipal Chairperson Rukiya Jamal said the civic body had not been collecting non-biodegradable waste for over a month. Residents have been asked to keep non-biodegradable waste on their premises till restrictions are eased and sanitation workers return to work in full strength. As many as 410 apartments in the district are equipped with incinerators which are used to dispose masks along with other sanitary waste, said Joby Jacob, chief operations manager, CREDAI Clean City Movement.
13 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Let willing students pay fee: CBSE schools||The Council of CBSE Schools Kerala has urged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to permit those parents who are willing to pay the fees to electronically remit it as it will help the managements to pay the salary of the staff. In a letter sent to the Chief Minister, the council pointed out that the earnings of the managements had dried up as they were not allowed to collect the fee during the COVID-19 situation. Over a period of time, it has been the practice of the CBSE schools to collect the remaining dues in fees in March. The fund was used to provide the staff salary for April and May, said Indira Rajan, chief patron of the council. ‘Allow offices to work’ Meanwhile, the Kerala CBSE School Managements Association urged the government to permit the offices of CBSE schools to function at least three days a week. Otherwise the staff might not be able to come to the office to process the necessary papers, including salary bills, T.P.M. Ibrahim Khan, president of the association, said in a release.
13 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Easter celebrated without gaiety||Christians in Kochi joined their counterparts across the world on Sunday as they celebrated Easter without the usual gaiety. Churches remained empty as the church hierarchy, led by bishops and priests, celebrated the Easter Mass and imparted blessings on the occasion recalling the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Cardinal George Alencherry, Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malabar Church, and Archbishop Joseph Kalathiparambil of Varappuzha were among those who celebrated the Mass and imparted Easter blessings. Cardinal Alencherry’s Mass at the St. Mary’s Cathedral Basilica was live-streamed to the faithful. Catholicos Baselios Thomas I of the Jacobite Syrian Church and Joseph Mar Gregorios, metropolitan trustee, had called for scaling down celebrations and gatherings in the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic. Church gates remained locked as the Easter Mass was celebrated. All church denominations had cancelled midnight Mass in view of restrictions imposed by the State government.
13 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam celebrates from home||In view of the nationwide lockdown and maintaining the code of social distancing, Christians in Central Travancore celebrated Easter from the safety of their homes here on Sunday. Breaking with tradition, the churches across the region wore a deserted look as only the priests and their aides were present there to perform the services. Many churches also streamed their services through various social media platforms. The Easter worship services practised by churches in the region, usually is a much awaited event drawing the faithful in huge numbers. Metropolitan Archbishop Mar Joseph Perumthottam led the services held at the Bishop House Chapel in Changanassery in the morning. Archbishop Mar Mathew Moolakkattu led the mass held at the Christhuraja Cathedral, Kottayam, while Bishops Mar Joseph Kallarangattu and Mar Jose Pulikkal led the ceremonies at St Thomas Cathedral, Pala and St Mary’s Church (Pazhaya Palli), Kanjirappally respectively.
13 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Special isolation units in Kottayam||Just over a month after reporting its first Corona Virus case, Kottayam is now all set to enhance its COVID -19 prevention activities to the next level by opening special isolation units and first-line treatment centres for people returning from the virus affected countries. According to officials, the District Health Department has already identified 11 buildings, one in each revenue block for opening the first-line treatment centres. The district administration, on the other hand, has kick-started proceedings to map the buildings to open the isolation units for accommodating those landing from abroad. “The district administration has already been in consultation with the various resorts, hotels and hostels where these isolation units could be opened. These units, to be opened at some training centres and hostels, will replace the existing concept of home-isolation. At the same time, four among the six primary COVID care centres will give way to 11 first –line treatment centres with a total capacity of 414 beds,” said a top official with the Health Department. Special centres Meanwhile, the Government Medical College and the District General Hospital (GH) will continue to serve as special COVID care centres. Confirming the move, District Medical Officer Jacob Varghese termed it the core of the district's load management plan in the post-lockdown scenario. “There could be a huge influx of people returning to the comfort of their homes once the restrictions are withdrawn and plans are afoot to accommodate them at the isolation units. While people who turn symptomatic of the disease will be shifted to the first-line treatment centres, the GMC and GH will continue to serve those who are critically ill,” he explained. The district has effectively prevented the outbreak with no positive cases being reported in the past 20 days. It currently has just four persons under observation at the hospitals here, besides 2,278 people in home quarantine. Despite the relief, the authorities have also expanded the scope of the virus infection tests to people in home quarantine so as to ensure no internal transmission was taking place.
13 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Two Malayalis die abroad||A native of Kangazha in the district, who had tested positive for COVID-19, died in the United Kingdom on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Amiruddin, 73, who had been settled in the U.K. since the 1970s. Amiruddin had contracted the virus three weeks ago, his relatives said. He had worked as a General Practitioner in the National Health Service there and was settled in Woolhampton, near Birmingham. He is survived by his wife Hasina and two sons Nebil and Nadeem. Thalassery youth A native of Thalassery in Kannur district died of the disease in Dubai on Sunday. The 41-year-old had been admitted to a private hospital for a week.
13 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Seven of 13 patients cured of infection in Kozhikode||The number of people recovered from COVID-19 in Kozhikode district has gone up to seven, with one more person cured of the infection on Sunday. Thirteen people from the district have so far tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Apart from this, two persons each from Kannur and Kasaragod too had been under treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital. Both the Kasaragod natives have recovered from the infection and discharged recently. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said in a release that 17,407 people are under observation here, including 34 at hospitals. Three people were discharged on Sunday. Of the 507 samples of suspected patients sent for lab tests, 474 are negative. The results of 16 samples are awaited. Details of pets sought Meanwhile, the Department of Animal Husbandry has sought details of pet birds and animals in the houses of COVID-19 patients or those under observation. Veterinary hospitals have been asked to provide guidelines to avoid transmission of the infection to animals. For details, contact district officer at 9447424619. In Kannur One more person tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur district on Sunday. District Collector T.V. Subhash said a 40-year-old man from Mooriyad has been diagnosed with COVID-19. He arrived home from Dubai on March 17 via the Karipur airport and underwent a swab test on April 10. There are currently 7,836 people under observation in the district. Of them, 7,734 are under home observation, while 52 are at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kannur, nine at General Hospital, Thalassery, 10 at the District Hospital and 31 at the COVID-19 Treatment Centre. In Kochi On Sunday, 24 persons were put in home quarantine in Ernakulam district while 659 people were released from observation, bringing down the number of people in home surveillance to 2,074. Nine persons were put in isolation wards in hospitals on Sunday, three at Government Medical College Hospital and six at private hospitals, taking the total number to 27. In the 36 Covid care centres or short stay homes, 25 persons have been quarantined. There were 25 COVID-19 patients in the district, of which seven are undergoing treatment now in hospital; one had died while the rest were cured and discharged. The district sent 42 samples for testing on Sunday. All the 40 results received on the day were negative, while the results of 146 tests were awaited.
13 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Dr. P.A. Lalitha passes away||P.A. Lalitha, gynaecologist and former managing director of Malabar Hospital and Urology Centre at Eranjippalam here, passed away on Sunday. She was active in the socio-cultural sphere of Kozhikode for long. The 69-year-old had been under treatment for cancer for some time. A native of Cherthala in Alappuzha district, she had made Kozhikode her home. Dr. Lalitha had been the founder chairperson of the women’s wing of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). She was also one of the directors of the now-defunct Indiavision news channel when she was an IMA functionary. Dr. Lalitha had written five books and many articles. She is survived by husband V.N. Mony, medical director, Malabar Hospital and Urology Centre, and daughter Mili Mony, its managing director.
13 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Jala’ for corona fighters in Kozhikode||The Kozhikode Corporation, in association with Kudumbashree CDS, has come up with a project to make drinking water available to those fighting the spread of COVID-19. The ‘Jala’ project is being implemented through the ‘Jala’ mobile application. Mayor Thottathil Raveendran launched the app on Sunday. The project is being implemented in accordance with the WHO’s COVID protocol. The volunteers will collect the empty bottles later and dispose them off in the appropriate manner, he added. The Jala app will be available in Google playstore in a week. Meanwhile, it can be installed from the websitewww.jalawater.in. Phone: 8547287239.
13 April 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Making them realise the gravity of situation||A large LED screen erected at one end of a taxi shed at Malappuram town has dual purpose. The police erected the screen on Sunday with the purpose of entertaining and educating the youngsters who roam around for no pressing reasons during the COVID-19 lockdown. Conceived by District Police Chief U. Abdul Kareem, the idea of screening videos and films showing the gravity of COVID-19 situation has become an instant hit after it was inaugurated on Sunday. While conducting the road checks, the police would cordially invite the lockdown violators to the empty taxi shed and would play them the educative videos. Instead of providing seats, the police would make them stand within specific circles maintaining a healthy distance. They would tell the youth to enjoy the video. When the video screening is over, the police would ask them if they were convinced of the importance of staying at home during the lockdown. When a smile blooms on the face of the youngsters, the police would hand them a slip for paying a fine for violating the law. According to the District Police Chief, the new measure was found effective even when promoting a soft, affable face of the police.
13 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||One more tests positive in Pathanamthitta||One more Non-Resident Keralite (NRK) from Dubai has tested positive for COVID-19 in Pathanamthitta, taking the total number of coronavirus infected persons in the district, including the eight cured ones, to 17 on Sunday. The 46-year-old man hailing from Pambini near Chittar, who came from Dubai on March 19, has been admitted to the isolation ward at Pathanamthitta General Hospital on Saturday. As per a medical bulletin released by District Collector P.B. Noohu, here on Sunday, the NRK had sought Aster Clinic in Dubai on March 18 and 19 and returned to his residence, Akoos Villa in Dubai before boarding a Thiruvananthapuram-bound Air India flight (Flight No. AI 968) at 2.05 am on March 22. He reached Thiruvananthapruam International Airport the same day and proceeded to Chittar from there in a car and reached Chittar police station by 3 p.m. From there, he was sent to home quarantine for the next 28 days on the directions of the Health Department, later. Meanwhile, he was admitted to the isolation ward at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital on Saturday. The Health authorities here received the clinical examination result of his throat swab, confirming him a COVID-19 patient, on Sunday, official sources said. The Collector said those who were present at the places mentioned in the route map of the patient, as specified above, should contact the Health authorities (Phone: 9188297118 or 9188294118). 16 in isolation A total of 16 persons have been admitted to the isolation wards at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital (8), District Hospital in Kozhencherry (6), and at the General Hospital at Adoor (2) as on Sunday evening, official sources said.
13 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Muted Easter fete in Central Travancore||For the first time in the history of Kerala, Easter, a major Christian festive occasion passed without any celebration on Sunday owing to the COVID-induced mobility restrictions on the people. However, different Church denominations conducted special services at various major churches in the district in the wee hours of Sunday. The Church authorities took extra care to ensure participation of only five persons in the Easter services as the lockdown norms prohibited grouping of more than five persons. The Easter service at the St John’s Metropolitan Cathedral in Thiruvalla began around 10.30 p.m. on Saturday and continued till early morning on Sunday. Metropolitan Archbishop Thomas Mar Koorilos, assisted by four other clergy, was the chief celebrant of the Holy Mass. The Catholicos of the East and Malankara Metropolitan, Baelius Mar Thoma Paulose-II, was the chief celebrant at the Easter service held at the St Peter’s and St Paul’s Church at Parumala. Pathanamthitta Bishop Samuel Mar Ireneus led the special service at the chapel at the Bishop’s House in Pathananmthitta. The Mar Thoma Metropolitan, Joseph Mar Thoma, was the chief celebrant at the Ester Holy Communion at the Pulatheen Chapel in Thiruvalla at 9 a.m. Church members across the globe watched the services that were live-streamed over YouTube, Facebook, and various Church websites.
13 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Case against girl in home quarantine||The police have registered a case against the home-quarantined girl at Thannithode for violating the quarantine norms on Sunday, days after the arrest of three Communist Party of India (Marxist) workers for attacking her house on April 7. The case has been registered by the Thannithode police on the basis of a report filed by the Health Department that she got out of her house on Saturday in violation of the quarantine norms. The girl reached her home at Thannithode from Coimbatore on March 19 and has been in quarantine since then. Her house was attacked by a few motorcycle-borne miscreants on April 7 night and the Thannithode police registered a case against six CPI(M) activists in connection with the incident. The CPI(M) suspended all the six from the preliminary membership of the party, pending inquiry. Fast threat Meanwhile, the girl had threatened to stage a fast at her house from Saturday, alleging move to sabotage the case by the police. A Health Department team which reached the house to enquire into the issue reportedly found the girl sitting outside her house on Saturday. However, she went inside on the directions of the Health personnel. The police said the Health Department had filed a report, with a video footage showing the girl outside her house.
13 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Live-streaming of temple rituals opposed||indu religious leaders and Tantric scholars have condemned the statement of Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran that the government will explore the possibility of live-streaming of various temple rituals, including those at Guruvayur Sree Krishna Temple and Sabarimala Ayyappa Temple. Replying to a query raised by Swami Sandeepananda Giri at a television show on Sunday, the Minister said the government would take a decision on live-streaming only after consultations with the respective Devaswom boards. Mr. Surendran said temple rituals, especially during festive occasions, could be live-streamed as in the case of Easter services held in churches. The matter would be discussed with all Devaswom boards, he said. Talking to The Hindu , Sabarimala Tantris Kandararu Rajeevararu and Kandararu Maheswararu Mohanararu said the rituals at Hindu temples, especially those in the State, were unique and hence could not be compared with those of other religious faiths. According to them, taking photographs of the presiding deity is not allowed and hence photography itself has been prohibited at temples, including those controlled by Devaswom boards. Unique traditions Sabarimala Ayyappa Seva Samajom president Akkeeramon Kalidasan Bhattathiripad said the Minister might had made such a statement out of ignorance on the unique tantric and ritualistic traditions and custom at various temples. Mr. Bhattathirippad said the government should not attempt such misadventures. The government should stay away from matters relating to religious faith, ritualistic custom and tradition attached to various places of worship. The Minister should keep in mind that not even electricity was permitted inside the sanctum sanctorum, he said.
13 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cabinet to discuss ways to revitalise economy||A meeting of the State Cabinet on Monday is likely to deliberate on a slew of measures to coax the local economy into surmounting the inertia caused by the COVID-19 lockdown. The government is constrained to walk a tightrope between exempting labour-intensive sectors from the shutdown and ensuring that epidemic containment regulations endure. The Centre had factored in the concerns of various States at a videoconferencing of Chief Ministers chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday. It is expected to issue a set of guidelines to aid States to ease restrictions in a spaced manner in jurisdictions that are not reckoned ‘high-risk.’ A codified set of directions issued by the State government after the conference is a pointer to the path of gradual normalisation Kerala intends to tread warily. The government has prioritised the revival of the pharmaceutical and medical instrument manufacturing sectors. Construction business It has also accorded primacy to agriculture and exempted farm and plantation workers from the shutdown. The government has urged seven public sector units to resume production. Fisheries, cashew, and coir sectors can expect a relaxation soon. A significant challenge for the government will be revitalising the construction business. Builders are, arguably, the largest employers in the State, and a bulk of the estimated 3.85 lakh migrant workers find work at construction sites. The government is hoping that the Centre will give its nod to raise funds from the open market by issuing sovereign bonds. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had also sought an increase in the State’s borrowing limit, its share of the GST revenue, more foodgrains to sustain the PDS network, and a fiscal stimulus package from the Centre to revive the moribund economy. The government is worried about the economic fallout of a possible influx of ‘out of work’ non-resident Keralites, mostly blue-collar workers, from the Gulf. The government is also working on ways to kick-start commerce by encouraging door-to-door delivery of goods and services.  Fisheries, cashew, and coir sectors can expect a relaxation soon Govt. planning to encourage door delivery of goods and services
13 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State must guard against complacency||Kerala is apparently in a happy place wherein the disease transmission has remained low and the number of new COVID-19 cases being detected post lockdown has been steadily declining. However, a month or more into the COVID-19 epidemic, even as the Health officials swear that there has been no evidence of community transmission anywhere in the State, the fact remains that Kerala is yet to put in place a mechanism for the systematic surveillance and testing of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) cases in hospitals, which alone can give early warning signals about possible silent disease transmission in the community. Community transmission should be suspected if and when a case outside the quarantined pool of people turns up, who has no travel history or no known contact with any potential source of infection. “The State is being lulled into complacency or a false sense of security that with new COVID-19 cases on a downward swing and the apparently low rate of disease transmission, everything is back to near-normal. The reduction in new cases was predictable because testing is being done on a finite population which is already quarantined. Soon, the number of tests being done will go down because the indicated population is dwindling. So where does surveillance go from here? If we do not think ahead and a mechanism for systematic surveillance in the community is not put in place at least now, the State would not be able to manage any unexpected events as the COVID-19 situation evolves,” a public health expert pointed out. ICMR directive In fact, the testing of persons hospitalised with SARI for COVID-19 was one of the prime additions in the ICMR’s revised testing strategy for COVID-19, issued on March 21. The ICMR communication to States says that all persons with SARI (defined as fever and cough and/or shortness of breath with hospitalisation) are to be tested for COVID-19. Apart from incorporating this point into the State’s guidelines for testing and quarantining on April 1, the Health Department is yet to do any COVID-19 testing amongst hospitalised patients with SARI. Health officials said that while it had been conveyed to district hospitals and downward about the need to be alert about SARI clustering or influenza-like illness in the community, there were many logistic issues involved in sample collection for COVID-19 testing from smaller hospitals. They also point out that hospitals are often flooded with patients having fever and cough/breathlessness and that it would be difficult to test all of them. Public health scientists point out that random testing is totally different from testing for surveillance, and that the latter is done with an intent for long-time monitoring and requires an organised system to be put in place so that samples from seriously sick patients with SARI from sentinel sites are regularly collected and tested for COVID-19. “It is true that SARI, as defined by ICMR, would mean an unwieldy number of patients. But at least the samples of patients with pneumonia — especially those without a travel history — should be systematically collected and sent for COVID-19 testing. This kind of monitoring alone can alert the State about a possible silent transmission because we are currently not testing anyone unless he has a travel history or he has been in touch with someone with a travel history. The “safe” feeling that is being projected widely, solely on the basis of dwindling case numbers, is very misleading,” epidemiologists said.
13 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ambulance ferrying people to T.N. seized||The nationwide COVID-19 lockdown has imposed strict curbs on inter-State travel. But now it has emerged that ambulances are being misused to sneak passengers through border blockades. The Kerala Police have heightened vigil along the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border after an ambulance with three passengers was stopped at the Amaravila check-post on Saturday night. The Parassala police have registered a case against the driver, Vijeesh, 31, who belongs to Parasuvaickal in Thiruvananthapuram district. The vehicle is also registered under his name, according to the police. The passengers were later released on bail. The ambulance sported the sticker of the VSDP — short for the Vaikunda Swami Dharma Pracharana Sabha. But the organisation has denied ownership, the police said. Fake sticker According to VSDP leaders, the sticker on the Maruti Omni may have been intended to mislead the police. “We do have one ambulance. But that vehicle is currently in Idukki for the use of plantation workers there. We have requested the police to remove the sticker before they release the seized vehicle,” VSDP chairman Vishnupuram Chandrasekharan said. According to the police, this may not be a one-off incident. “The driver claims he was merely giving a lift to the men. But we had received information two days ago that people were being illegally ferried across the border in ambulance for money,” Neyyattinkara Dy.SP Anil Kumar said. Following the arrest on Saturday night, the police have tightened patrols on the border roads, including the lesser-known routes linking Kerala and Tamil Nadu. “Barricades have been placed across major roads. We have also set up aid-posts. The roads have been closed at Oorambu, Kakkavila, and Pozhiyoor-Temple Road,” Mr. Anil Kumar said.  We received information two days ago that people were being illegally ferried across the border for money Anil Kumar Dy.SP, Neyyatinkara
13 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Jeevani vegetable market opened||The first of the vegetable markets under the Agriculture Department’s Jeevani project, to provide solace for farmers who have been reeling under the lockdown with no market for their produce, was opened at Sasthamangalam on Sunday. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran inaugurated the market in the presence of V.K. Prasanth, MLA. Mr. Prasanth said Vishu kits and vegetable seeds to promote farming in households would be available at the market. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac inaugurated the third Janakeeya restaurant at the NS depot at Vallakkadavu on Sunday.
13 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Fisherwomen find the going tough||The fishing community is staring at hard times in the wake of the lockdown. The State government’s decision to ease fishing curbs has brought some relief, but for fisherwomen, many of whom single-handedly put food on the table, there is little solace. Simi (name changed), a fisherwoman who lives at Poonthura and sells fish at the Palayam market, says it has been nearly a month since she has stepped outside to sell fish. “Many women head their households, and without any earnings, it is difficult to make ends meet.” A couple of women in the area have been going to sell fish. Simi feels it is foolhardy and puts all the residents at risk. Agrees Lettie, also a Poonthura resident, “We live in crowded conditions and have small children. We are inviting trouble if we go out.” Only country craft from a few areas are heading out for near-shore fishing. This means the catch is inadequate, and prices are high consequently. Says Shelley who sells fish in a city market: “We cannot afford to pay Rs. 8,000 for a basket of fish. And even if we do, we may not be able to sell it at that price to customers.” It does not help that the markets are closed. “If some mechanism were to be devised to keep the markets open, I could call up customers and tell them to come. But again, people are not spending as much during the lockdown as before,” she says. Jennie, who sells fish at a market, alleges that she is being hounded by the police. “They keep asking me to move. If the government has allowed fish to be caught, I should be able to sell it. I am a widow. Why create trouble for people like me,” she says over phone. Door-to-door sales A few fisherwomen are also making door-to-door sales. Assured of regular customers, they do not mind paying a bit extra when picking up fish. However, there are concerns about crowding at the fish-landing centres. The ration the fishers get from the government is what many of them are making do with. With the likely extension of the lockdown, the women are worried how they will feed their families if they do not go to work. Self Employed Women’s Association (SEWA) Union secretary Sonia George says as the fisherwomen are not able to carry on their livelihood, the government should step in to support them by implementing practices such as rotation for going to sea, thereby preventing crowding. Facilities should also be made to open markets on a rotation basis. A.J. Vijayan, activist, says besides fixing the price for fish, fixing the quota for traders will leave enough fish to go around.
13 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Laboratory technicians silently soldier on||The hours spent inside the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) suffocates Alex (name changed) much lesser than the distance that he is forced to maintain from his family, whenever he manages to go home. A lab technician at the COVID-19 test facility at the Government Medical College in Kozhikode, his daily shift stretches to 12 hours these days, compared to half that in normal times. He is part of the legion of lab technicians and research analysts, who work away from the spotlight, even as the whole State waits with bated breath every evening for their analyses to be announced at the Chief Minister’s daily press conferences. “Once we get inside the PPE, we cannot drink water, eat anything or go to the toilet until we remove it, at least four hours later. We have to be careful even in removing it, as a slight mistake can lead to contamination,” says Alex. From morning Their work begins around 8 a.m., with the unboxing of the triple-layered packing of throat swab samples. Followed by sorting and quality check of the samples, the Ribo Nucleic Acid (RNA) is extracted. Later, research analysts carry out the Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test for DNA amplification to detect the presence of the virus. Amid this, the technicians have to do a lot of clerical work, including the labelling and inventory of samples, and the amount of the costly reagent used. “It is a work which requires utmost precision and concentration over long hours. If the sample quality is not good, it will affect the PCR results,” says Anitha (name changed), a research analyst. They all work with the knowledge that one misstep can lead to them contacting the virus from the samples. Random COVID-19 tests are carried out on one person from the team every week. It is a testimony to the safety standards that none have been tested positive in any of the State’s labs till now. Without leave Most of them have not taken a leave in more than a month, while only a few go home after duty, with the rest staying back at the official accommodation. Even when they go home, they have to keep distance from the family, and sleep alone in a different room, like Alex does. Those who have children or old relatives at home have to take special care. “The ones working in the non-COVID-19 labs also have to handle samples of COVID-19 patients to check their other health parameters. They do not wear PPEs, and make do with masks and gloves. They check the samples of other patients too, and have to be extremely careful. As long as there is no community outbreak, they can continue that way,” says Arun Shankar, advisor of the Clinical Laboratory Professionals Association.  They all work with the knowledge that one misstep can lead to them falling victims to the virus from the samples.
13 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala containment model draws praise||Kerala’s experiment in harnessing the administrative acumen and efficacy of local governments in managing the COVID-19 crisis using social media tools has captured national attention and is set to be emulated by other States. The multi-lingual social media and Internet-based audio and video training sessions created by the Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA) on a range of topics such as formation and management of implementation teams, management of community kitchens and community quarantine centres and protective measures to be taken by COVID response teams have won the acclaim of the Union Panchayati Raj Ministry and uploaded on the platforms of the National Institute of Rural Development. Onerous task When the State government decided to rope in the local governments for arresting the wanton spread of the virus, they were entrusted with the onerous task of monitoring those in quarantine, assisting contact tracing and managing community kitchens and such other tasks. But for the management of community kitchens most of the elected members and officials were at a loss in handling the crisis.  Translations Most of the sessions have been translated into Tamil, Kannada, Bengali, Telugu, Marathi, Assamese and Odiya and are being posted in official platforms of the Panchayati Raj Ministry and other Central agencies. The massive participation of local bodies and their latent capacity in reaching out to the masses have complemented the initiatives of the Health as well as other departments. The sessions were disseminated among the elected members in time and hence they were duly empowered to handle the crisis without much confusion. Portal The portal https://cblsgi.kila.ac.in/ has proved to be useful for Kerala as well as other States and the model is set to be replicated by others too, sources said.
13 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Use face masks with discretion’||Masks are helpful in the prevention of the spread of COVID-19, but they should be used with discretion, according to Amar Fettle, State nodal officer for H1N1 and Corona. “Masks are good in closed spaces or where there are a number of people in a limited space, like in a shop or a lift or a relatively crowded building. But, if you are in a wide open space, there is no general need to wear a mask,” said Dr. Fettle.  A recent article in medical journal The Lancet had called for the rational use of face masks. Surgical masks “Surgical masks are disposable. Wear them only if you are currently ill with COVID-19 or have fever or respiratory symptoms whatsoever, travelling to a hospital for a COVID test, or are caring for someone at home who cannot wear a mask,” Dr. Fettle advised. Advocating the wide use of cloth face masks, which could be made at home from common materials, he said they would lower the risk of people without symptoms transmitting respiratory germs. Dr. Fettle advised against the use of cloth face masks on children under the age of two, people who had trouble breathing, people who were unconscious, or people who were unable to remove the mask on their own. He said the N95 respirator which could also filter out 95% of very small particles, including viruses and bacteria, should be ideally reserved for health-care workers and first responders. General advice on the use of masks, dos and don’ts and FAQs are available on the websites of the Directorate of Health Services, Kerala, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and National Centre for Disease Control.
13 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Move to replenish blood banks during lockdown||The Kerala State AIDS Control Society (KSACS) is organising blood donation camps to ensure adequate stock in blood banks during the lockdown period. “As a domino effect of the lockdown, there is a downfall in blood donation and blood banks are looking for measures to overcome the situation,” R. Ramesh, Project Director, KSACS said here on Sunday. 37 blood banks “We are encouraging donors and charity organisations to donate bid in a bid to maintain adequate stock of blood and related components,” said Dr. Ramesh, who is also the chairman of the Information Education and Communication (IEC) Committee. Instructions had been given to the 37 blood banks under KSACS to increase outreach camps for blood donation. The camps would be conducted by observing COVID-19 protocols like social distancing, he said. Adequate stock Noting that it was difficult to get donors during this lockdown period, Dr. Ramesh said, “Blood requirement is low now due to lack of surgeries and fewer number of patients in hospitals. But we have to maintain the adequate stock of blood.” He also urged all donors and charity organisations to donate blood. “In the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, proper screening of donors will be done at the camps. Donors from abroad and those who turn up after a journey will not be allowed to donate blood,” he added.
13 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||165 people newly put under observation||As many as 165 people were newly put under observation in the district on Sunday as part of the steps to contain the spread of COVID-19. A total of 3,724 people are under observation at homes and 669 people have completed their 28 days of observation. Eight people are now in the isolation ward at the General Hospital, while there are 61 people in the isolation ward at the Government Medical College Hospital. A total of 110 people are under observation at hospitals in the district.  On Sunday, 209 samples were sent for COVID-19 tests. All of the 123 results received on Sunday were negative. Results of 242 samples are awaited. Out of the 16 persons who tested positive for the infection till now in the district, only two are remaining in treatment. Screening tests were conducted on 6,918 people in 4,367 vehicles at various check-posts. At the Collectorate control room, 164 calls were received, while 101 calls were received at the Disha call centre.
13 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Books to be delivered home||The Kerala State Library Council will supply books to readers’ homes during the lockdown. Council office-bearers, in a statement here, said that following the Chief Minister’s exhortation, it was decided that council workers would supply books to the readers during the lockdown. The volunteers of the Kerala State Youth Commission would help in the book distribution. To non-members too The volunteers would reach every house and hand over the phone number of the nearest library. Readers could contact the library to get the books delivered to their houses. Sanitised books would be supplied. Those who were not members of the library too would be given books.
13 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Kanichantha’ lends a helping hand to farmers||The Anad Krishi Bhavan’s Jeevani Sanjeevani ‘kanichantha’ has become a support for farmers. As much 1,500 kg of ‘kani vellarikka’ (golden cucumber) and pumpkins from the farmers of Alappuzha; pineapple from Mudakkal and Anappara area of Thiruvananthapuram district; vegetables from farmers in Anad; and plantains were available at the farmers’ market. District panchayat member Anad Jayan received the golden cucumbers from grama pamnchayat president Anad Suresh to inaugurate the market. The Anad farm market will be held every day with the objective of supporting farmers.
13 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stale fish seized||Food safety officials seized 2,128 kg more of stale and contaminated fish on Sunday, taking the total ‘catch’ in raids over the past eight days to over one lakh kg. Raids were conducted in 117 centres on Easter day as part of Operation Sagar Rani. Notices have been issued to four persons. As much as 2,043 kg of tuna was seized at the Aryankavu check-post in Kollam. Food safety officers also seized 67 kg from Ernakulam and 18 kg from Malappuram.
13 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong. counters Pinarayi’s claim||The Congress on Sunday attempted to punch holes in the stance of the Kerala government that there was no foul play in contracting a U.S.-based private firm, Sprinklr, to store the personal medical information of nearly 1.75 lakh people under surveillance for COVID-19 symptoms. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had misled the public by stating that Sprinklr stored the vital health data in servers in the country. The firm’s website said it saved the information in its digital archives in the U.S. Mr. Chennithala said Mr. Vijayan had allowed field health workers to use a mobile phone application developed by Sprinklr to record the personal health information under surveillance. However, little did they know the information they entered by-passed the State Data Centre and ended up in the servers managed by Sprinklr in the U.S. “Mr. Vijayan's claim that the WHO had contracted Sprinklr for comparable work was false. The WHO did not pass on any field-level information to the firm nor allowed it to access patient data,” he said.
13 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||MP petitions rights panel||India should urgently send medical teams to GCC (Gulf Cooperation Council) countries to support Indians who are struggling to get medical aid there, T.N. Prathapan, MP, has said. In his petition to the National Human Rights Commission, he urged the panel to ask the Union government to send medical teams with immediate effect to GCC countries. Indian embassies and consulates should be given directions to make arrangements for isolation of COVID-19 patients in Indian schools and institutions run by Indian entrepreneurs, he added.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Experience ‘zero shadow’ tomorrow||What does it mean? The sun will be exactly overhead at any place and will cast almost no shadow of objects on the ground, two times a year, between places 23.5 degree latitude on both hemispheres. On this day, in a place, a vertical pole will cast no shadow. When will it occur? At 12.25 p.m on April 14 in Kochi and nearby places and on adjacent days on other parts of Kerala. Watching Zero Shadow Day (ZSD) during the lockdown at the front yard or the terrace of the house will be an interesting activity, and it can trigger discussions on science. How can you observe the phenomenon? One can just stand in the sun and observe his shadow becoming zero or can use a vertical pole fixed to the ground, or keep a hollow tube upright on a clean sheet of glass, which is balanced perfectly horizontal and watch the exact thin circular shadow cast during the zero shadow time. For better viewing, put the glass plate on four inverted paper cups placed at its corners. It is important that the end of the tube that would rest on the glass should be perfectly perpendicular to its axis. Text by Joe Jacob, associate professor of physics, Newman College, Thodupuzha.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Nowhere to go||
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Connectivity matters||
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Hats off to COVID warriors||
13 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s up to the Centre: JC||Former MP and TDP leader J.C. Diwakar Reddy on Sunday refused to comment on the replacement of the State Election Commissioner (SEC). “It is up to the Centre to look into it and act,” he said. About his recent meeting with BJP leader C.M. Ramesh and TDP leader B.Tech Ravi, Mr. Reddy told reporters, “I have an offer from the BJP. But we do not want to switch sides now.”
13 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||A grand farewell for recovered patients in Karnataka||Those who have recovered from COVID-19 are getting a grand farewell from hospital staff at the time of their discharge. In a video doing the rounds on social media, doctors and the nurses at K.C. General Hospital in Bengaluru were seen applauding a patient who had recovered and presenting him with a bouquet of flowers. ‘A tough time’ “We wanted to salute his fighting spirit. It can be a very tough and depressing time in the isolation ward. One has to be strong and take care of their mental health,” said a doctor of the K.C. General Hospital. The patient, who looked visibly relieved, touched the feet of some of the staff. The video was taken by the patient’s father. In another video, four people in Chickballapur who battled COVID-19 were also discharged amid much applause, with the staff presenting them with a sapling and a fruit basket. At the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) Trauma and Emergency Care Centre, five patients have been discharged so far and 34 are still under treatment. One of the patients who was admitted here with his wife said the team was doing a great service by taking care of patients and putting their own lives at risk. He appreciated the efforts of the doctors, nurses and Group D employees and praised one of the doctors for repeatedly asking him for feedback on the food served. In a letter to the Medical Education Department, the patient said he initially thought the doctor’s questions were just a matter of courtesy, but soon realised how sincere the doctor was in making everyone 100% comfortable and meeting their requirements. “However busy she has been with us, she is always back with a message if not a call,” the letter stated. He also added that he was sceptical while entering the government-run hospital but had since changed his perception. C.R. Jayanthi, Dean and Director, BMCRI, stated that the patients were also counselled by a psychiatrist to help them address their fears and anxiety.
13 April 2020||Chennai/Thiruvananthapuram/Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 die of COVID-19 in Telangana||Two deaths and 28 new cases in Telangana, a single-day high of 17 positives in Karnataka, and 15 new cases in Andhra Pradesh since Saturday night marked the course of the pandemic in the southern States. Telangana’s total of active cases stood at 412, while 103 had recovered. Andhra Pradesh reported 15 fresh cases of coronavirus infection on Sunday, taking the total to 420. Seven cases were reported from Guntur. Nellore reported four cases and Kurnool, which has the highest number, reported two more. Chittoor and Kadapa districts reported one new case each, the Health Department bulletin said. On the bright side, a 65-year-old patient was discharged from the Government General Hospital in Vijayawada. The man with a history of travel to Mecca on March 10, tested positive and got admitted to hospital on March 27. He tested negative for the virus thrice and was discharged. There were 401 active cases in hospitals. Seven persons died and 12 recovered. Cumulatively, Kurnool reported 84 cases, Guntur (82), Nellore (52), Prakasam (41), Krishna (35), Kadapa (31), West Godavari (22), Chittoor (21), Visakhapatnam (20), East Godavari (17) and Anantapur (15). There are seven red zones in Visakhapatnam district, six of them in the city, but the number of positive cases was pegged at 20 for the last three days. A total of 7,889 samples have been tested in the State till date. One death in T.N. One more person lost her life to COVID-19 infection on Sunday, taking the total number of deaths in Tamil Nadu to 11. The number of positive cases recorded on Sunday was 106. The 45-year-old woman, who was admitted to the Government Omandurar Multi-Super Speciality Hospital around 11 a.m. on April 5, developed breathlessness and died at 7 p.m. on Saturday, according to a bulletin. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh told mediapersons that as many as 106 new positive cases were reported in the State, taking the total number of cases to 1,075. While 16 of them had travel history, as many as 90 of them had contracted the infection by coming in contact with them. The new infections were found in two large clusters — one in Chennai and the other in Coimbatore. A cluster of 22 persons, all from Coimbatore, had tested positive. Of these, two were the primary source of infection and 20 others came in contact with them. In Chennai of the 18 new positive infections, four were identified as primary infection and 14 others had been in contact with them. 17 cases in Karnataka The new case tally for Karnataka was 17 on Sunday, the highest reported in the State in a single day. These were from five districts, for the 24-hour period till 5 p.m. on April 12. The total number of cases in the State rose to 243. Earlier, the State had reported 16 positive cases each on April 4 and April 9.
13 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||New positive case takes total to 21 in Chittoor district||After a lull of four days, the Chittoor district administration was on toes on Sunday, with the surfacing of a new COVID-19 positive case at Vadamala village of Vadamalapeta mandal in Nagari Assembly constituency. This took the total to 21 positive cases in the district, including six cases in Nagari constituency. So far, one youth, a London returnee at Srikalahasti town, was discharged a few days ago after treatment. According to COVID-19 Task Force officials, the youth of the said village returned from New Delhi by flight in the third week of March. “He was found to have travelled with those who attended the Jamaat meet,” an official said. Based on intelligence reports, the youth was quarantined at Padmavathi Nilayam in Tirupati on April 9, and his sample tested positive on Sunday. Roja visits village APIIC chairperson R.K. Roja and COVID-19 Task Force special officer (Nagari) Dr P. Ravi Raju along with senior district officials rushed to the village and initiated spraying of disinfectants there. The officials had declared the village as a red zone, cordoning off the entry and exit points. After a preliminary inquiry in the neighbourhood, about a dozen residents, including the patient’s family members, were sent for quarantine. Roja, who took part in spraying the disinfectant in the village, urged the residents to strictly follow the lockdown rules, and compulsorily wear face masks and adhere to other key precautions. Norms violated Meanwhile, the social distancing norm was violated at several places in the district, with huge crowds turning up at meat and chicken shops on Sunday. While the police kept guard at the district headquarters, their presence at Madanapalle, Piler, Puttur and Satyavedu remained thin during the relaxation period, allowing heavy movement of public on the roads.
13 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deputy CM apologises to minorities||Deputy CM and Excise Minister K. Narayana Swamy on Sunday apologised to the minorities over his remarks on the Jamaat meeting, in Tirupati on Saturday. Addressing the media at his residence at Puttur, “With all my conscience, I apologise to religious heads, community leaders and brothers of minorities if my words hurt them.”
13 April 2020||Hassan,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrest of Hindutva activist: Probe against policemen||Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda has initiated an inquiry against two police officers of Belur taluk over the arrest of a Hindutva activist who had posted objectionable content on Facebook. The probe decision comes after Minister for Tourism C.T. Ravi supported the activist and urged Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai to act against the police. Belur circle inspector S. Siddarameshwara and Arehalli sub-inspector Balu will face the inquiry. Mr. Balu, on Friday, arrested Thej Kumar Shetty of Bikkodu in Belur taluk on a suo motu complaint. The charge was the content was intended to disturb harmony and hurt the religious feelings of certain sections. Following this, a photograph of the person in police custody had gone viral on social media. Mr. Gowda had also briefed the media on Saturday about the arrest and appealed to the public not to post or share any objectionable content on social media. On Sunday, Mr. Ravi came out in support of the accused. He wanted to know what was wrong in sharing a post on Tablighi Jamaat about the spread of COVID-19. “I request my colleague Basavaraj Bommai, Home Minister, to take action against Arehalli PSI for his action against our worker,” he said in a tweet. Within hours of his tweet, the department ordered an inquiry. Mr. Gowda told The Hindu that the accused was arrested for his Facebook post. “However, there was no need for sharing the photo of his arrest with the media. We are conducting an inquiry against the circle inspector and sub-inspector on the issue,” he added.
13 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ice cream industry to suffer a meltdown||Hyderabad is staring at a summer without ice-cream. “Out of the 2,000-odd outlets of Scoops Ice Cream, about 8 or 9 are functioning as they stock milk and other essentials, The market and the distribution network has been disrupted and it will take time to recover,” says director of one of Hyderabad’s iconic brand Sudhir Shah. A majority of small players in the ice-cream market are likely to go out of business as the lockdown has ‘gutted’ the industry in its most important quarter. “The maximum revenue for the ice-cream sector is in first quarter and this lockdown has badly affected manufacturers and many in the unorganised sector may close down due to the losses,” says Anuvarat Pabrai of the Indian Ice Cream Manufacturers’ Association. The ice-cream shelves in supermarkets have been stripped bare. Even the plain vanilla flavour has disappeared from shop shelves. A few ice-cream parlours are still functioning relying on online orders and takeaways. “Last year, we were impacted by an extended rainy season. This year, the pandemic has taken away the season from us. We will take at least a year to recover,” says Yadish Chander of Cosmos brand. According to industry sources, the first quarter with the summer season is the most important one for the ice-cream sector accounting for 40% of the revenues. The lockdown has affected movement of goods as milk is considered an essential commodity while ice-cream isn’t. “The distribution network within the State will recover faster but inter-state network will take much longer and will be a challenge,” says Mr. Pabrai, founder of the iconic Pabrai’s brand, which he started in 1985 with a small ice-cream shop along with his wife in Kolkata. Even after the lockdown is lifted, it will take a couple of months for the manufacture and distribution to get streamlined. “Most manufacturers have finished ice-cream stocks. However, due to logistic bottlenecks, distribution will be a massive problem post-lockdown. Lack of drivers, vehicles and inter-state barriers will be some of the issues that will need attention. We expect it would take up to two months to recover normalcy,” informs Mr. Pabrai. The impact on the ice-cream industry already has had a cascading affect on dairy industry. “The consumption of liquid milk has fallen by nearly 60-80% and most of the milk is being used for skimmed milk powder (SMP) manufacture. The SMP market will collapse post lockdown. Ironically this will benefit the ice cream industry as prices of SMP had doubled by March compared to last year,” says Mr. Pabrai.
13 April 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana postpones all entrance exams||All Common Entrance Tests (CETs) of Telangana have been postponed owing to the prevailing COVID-19 situation and fresh dates will be intimated on a later date. The Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) took the decision after the government decided to extend the lockdown till April 30, but the decision had been on the cards for some time as the TSCHE was worried over the conduct of exams when the nation was facing a huge crisis. Chairman of TSCHE T. Papi Reddy said the last date for online submission of applications for the CETs without late fee had been extended to May 5. Earlier, the TSCHE scheduled all the exams in the month of May, ensuring that the dates won’t clash with other national entrance exams. Since most of them are now online tests only, officials feel they won’t face much problem with the logistics. However, they have to be conscious of clash of dates with national entrance exams, which too have been postponed, and also entrance exams of other States. Telugu students appear for national entrance exams and also entrance tests of neighbouring States like Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. As per the original schedule, the Engineering Common Entrance Test was scheduled for May 2.
13 April 2020||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Evacuation of Indians from Gulf not feasible||An immediate air mission to evacuate thousands of Indians stranded in the worst-hit COVID-19 countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) is unlikely to happen soon with the Centre sticking to its stringent policy on travel restrictions and diplomatic relationships. Among the GCC nations, both the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Kuwait have agreed to evacuate Indians desperately waiting to return home. But the government did not prefer to operate flights until the existing outbreak of the disease subsides, sources in the Ministry of External Affairs said. Medical team With the 21-day lockdown helping India to slow down the rate of infection of COVID-19 outbreak, the Centre will continue with its efforts such as sending medical personnel and equipment and relief assistance as was being done in Kuwait. The process is less easier said than done as the evacuees have to be either quarantined or hospitalised. No State, as of now, has such resources and all States have their limitations when they are fighting the pandemic. At least 2,000 Indian expatriates in the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar and Sultanate of Oman have either been subjected to quarantine or treated for the virus disease. A total of 13,237 positive cases and 88 deaths were officially recorded in the GCC till Sunday. About 85 lakh Indians reside in the GCC countries and over 30 lakh are in UAE, of which 8.5 lakh are from Kerala alone. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had already addressed Indian Ambassadors and High Commissioners to remain alert to help Indian nationals abroad, Union Minister of State for External Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs V. Muraleedharan told The Hindu . He, however, declined to comment on the evacuation of Non-Resident Indians (NoRKs) as the issue was pending in the court. The court had to be apprised of the policy decision taken on evacuation of Indians and medical advisory on transportation, Mr. Muraleedharan said. After the outbreak of COVID-19, the Indian missions in GCC have been asked to look into the well-being of the diaspora. But India would not meddle to disturb the existing diplomatic relationships with Gulf countries on multiple issues, apart from the strong bilateral economic relationship it maintains with all of these countries. Besides, air traffic would return to normalcy only by mid-May, the sources said. Court directive Based on a petition moved by the Kerala Muslim Cultural Society, the Kerala High Court had sought the Centre to file a report on air-lifting the stranded Indians in the UAE. Similarly, M.K. Raghavan, Kozhikode MP, has also approached the Supreme Court seeking its intervention in bringing back the jobless people, pregnant women and those on visiting visas.
13 April 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Humanity blooms in times of pandemic||An act of humanity and courage showed by a worker at an anganwadi centre helped a pregnant woman deliver a baby safely at Nandyal. The woman, Divya Bharti, a resident of Sharaf Street in Shankulamma Colony, developed labour pains on Friday evening. As her mother, who lives in Kurnool, could not reach her due to the lockdown, Ms. Bharti’s husband went out to seek help from neighbours. As they were reluctant to venture out because of the threat posed by COVID-19 as the town clocked 24 cases so far, he sought the help of the worker at the nearby anganwadi centre Ms. Bharti used to frequent for her daily dose of nutritious food. The worker, Chennamma, who resides on one end of the street, ran to her rescue without giving a second thought and helped the man take his wife to the government hospital in an autorickshaw. Ms. Bharti delivered a healthy baby on Saturday morning. The anganwadi worker continued to tend to the newborn baby and the mother. The doctors appreciated Ms. Chennamma for her timely help in the times of the pandemic. Cash award When ICDS Project Director Bhagyarekha informed district Collector G. Veerapandian about the incident, he immediately issued a certificate of appreciation and also sent her a reward of Rs. 20,000.
13 April 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool reports two new cases||Two new COVID-19 positive cases were reported from the Kurnool district taking the total number to 84. The district administration with a view to ramp up the testing operationalised a laboratory for testing antibodies count in blood samples at the Government General Hospital (GGH) here on on Sunday. District Collector G. Veerapandian said while one of the two new cases was from Kurnool city, the other came from Chagalamarri. The testing machine has a capacity of 100 samples per hour and it was delivered last night from Chennai. Training is being given to medical and paramedical staff on collection of samples and sending them to the laboratory. Once a person is afflicted by COVID-9, the human body will produce antibodies in large numbers like an army to fight the virus, if the antibodies count was high, the throat swab is taken and sent for COVID-19 test at a venereal disease research (VDRL) laboratory for confirmation, Mr. Veerapandian added. “Our target now is to test at least 1,000 samples a day to ensure a large number of primary and secondary contacts of the persons testing positive could be traced, tested in high-risk zones and put in quarantine at the earliest,” he observed. Meanwhile, no positive cases were reported in Anantapur as results of 86 suspects turned negative. So far, 1,221 samples were collected in the district and of them 761 results were received with 15 of them testing positive till Friday morning. Another 460 results were awaited in the district.
13 April 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl remains in shelter home to escape child marriage||“I went to the home (a child care institution - CCI) here to observe the situation during lockdown. The lone girl came out from a room and started weeping inconsolably. After sometime she opened up before the counsellor and narrated her problem, which moved me,” said State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) member V.S.V. Krishna Kumar.  2,944 staying in CCIs He along with District Probation Officer K. Bhaskar Rao visited the home to inspect the COVID-19 protocol and verify the supply of ration, masks, cosmetics and other items. Meanwhile, Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Director Krithika Shukla said 2,944 orphans remained in about 270 homes during the lockdown across the State and the officials concerned have been told to visit the homes and enquire about the facilities and security of the children there. “As per the directions of the Supreme Court, High Court and the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), we are visiting the child care institutions (CCIs) to take stock of the situation during the pandemic,” Mr. Kumar said. “The girl was in a disturbed mood as she had been staying alone for the last 20 days on a huge premises. Out of 90 inmates of the girls’ home, 89 returned to their parents due to coronavirus alert and this girl preferred to stay back to avoid her wedding,” Mr. Bhaskar said. Upon enquiry, it was revealed that the 10th class student had lost her parents and that her grandmother had performed her engagement a few months ago. “My grandmother, in view of her old age (75) and health problems, has decided to perform my marriage as there is none to take care of me after her. Her concerns may be true, but I want to continue my studies and don’t want to go for a child marriage,” the 15-year-old reportedly told the SCPCR member.
13 April 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 more test positive in Nellore district||Four more persons tested positive for coronavirus in SPSR Nellore district on Sunday, taking the tally of infected persons to 52. The condition of a doctor, who was shifted to a hospital in Chennai after he tested positive, continued to be critical, health officials said. After reviewing the health situation, District Collector M.V. Seshagiri Babu stepped up containment action plan in Nellore city. As many as 30 clusters had been identified as red zones in the district. Most of the positive cases had either attended the Tablighi Jammat meeting in New Delhi or are the primary contacts of the infected persons. Mr. Babu directed health workers to collect mouth swabs of all primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons for testing. In Ongole, the health officials implemented the lockdown strictly in 11 clusters identified as red zones as 41 persons had so far contracted the disease. As many as 41,946 persons in the containment zones, including 960 persons who had returned from abroad, were under observation. As many as 18,271 health teams, comprising three members(one village volunteer and two health workers), are formed to reach each and every locality in the containment zones, District Collector P. Bhaskar said.
13 April 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown pushes Prakasam tobacco ryots to the brink||Uncertainty looms large for the farmers in the traditional tobacco growing areas of Andhra Pradesh as the lockdown to fight against novel coronavirus has coincided with the marketing season for their produce. Any delay in marketing of the produce at this crucial juncture would inflict an irreparable loss since the crop quality would deteriorate, felt the farmers who have been suffering successive years of unfavourable weather since 2015. “We have incurred additional costs for producing the rabi crop this year due to unseasonal rains in January affecting crop productivity and quality,” said a group of farmers in Prakasam district, after taking stock of the situation arising out of the suspension of e-auctions by the Tobacco Board. Exports stalled All export shipments have come to a standstill leading to disruption in the supplies to overseas customers. The loss on account of suspension of tobacco exports from the country is estimated at Rs. 350 to Rs. 400 crore, according to the Indian Tobacco Association sources. Moreover, there was a possibility of India losing ground to many African and South American countries competing with it in tobacco exports, they feared. The extreme dry conditions in summer add to their woes as the produce would lose weight, explained former Tobacco Board member P. Bhadri Reddy. Almost the entire produce was still with ryots, most of them small and marginal farmers, said Ongole II Farmers’ Association president V.V.Prasad. The government should come out with an action plan to bail them out, said farmer leader P. Narasimha Rao. Prakasam district accounts for over 90 million of 140 m kg of flue cured virginia (FCV) tobacco produced in the State worth Rs. 1,750 crore, officials said. About 45.7 million people, including 6 million farmers, 4 million grading labour, and 8.5 million processing, manufacturing and export division workers are dependent on FCV tobacco sector, according to ITA sources.
13 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six microsites to promote Kerala||Kerala Tourism has geared up for the post-COVID-19 era by coming up with six theme-based microsites in its official website to promote destination and tourism products and get an upper hand in the virtual marketing among brands. With focus of Kerala turning to wellness tourism and in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, Ayurveda has been given prominence among the microsites added to the official website www. keralatourism.org . New microsites Yoga, Kalaripayattu, an ancient martial art indigenous to the State, Temples of Kerala, Judaism in Kerala and Discovering Malabar are the other new microsites that have been featured. The move to infuse content into the website and give a refreshing look is part of the long-term strategy to overcome the impact of COVID-19 that has taken a heavy toll on the travel and tourism industry that is facing job cuts and low margins. Tourism planners and the industry are expecting an influx of domestic tourists to the State from other parts of the country when the pandemic is finally controlled. The microsites will then come in handy for marketing the destinations. Besides, the aim is to retain an edge in the post COVID-19 era for the official website that has ranked first in the search results since 2004. During hard times Even in hard times, which included two floods, outbreak of avian flu, swine flu, and H1N1, and sudden hartals, the website, launched in 1998, had come in handy to reach out to the world and convey the message that ‘Kerala is safe’. “In the days of the lockdown, with vacationing coming to a standstill globally, we noticed that other tourism brands are doing virtual marketing. In microsites, we have taken care to provide new content and more emphasis on videos of high quality. New models have been roped in,” Kerala Tourism Director P. Bala Kiran told The Hindu . A gallery for royalty-free videos and high resolution photographs too figures in the microsites. Cuisine of Malabar, Jewish diet, popular asanas, cultural and art forms of Malabar, and 100 temples in the State, are featured in them. Official website The official website, available in 21 languages, has recently been updated to give a contemporary feel, complete with rich images. The website is available in six Indian and foreign languages. Invis Multimedia, the capital-based IT Solution Provider for Kerala Tourism, is behind the new microsites.
13 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central govt. delayed funds, says Kerala||Kerala Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has hit out at the Centre for its failure to provide timely financial assistance for States to take up the fight against COVID-19. Talking to the media after a visit to a newly opened Janakeeya fair price hotel launched to provide affordable meals on Sunday, he said the State government was facing a revenue loss of Rs. 15,000 crore this month due to the lockdown. The State governments, he said, were forced to borrow at high rates of interest to finance the drive against the pandemic. “Though the repo rate has been brought down to 4.4%, we have to pay interest at the rate of 9%. The Central government should borrow from the RBI to refinance States,” he said. Mr. Isaac hinted that the government was preparing for a conditional relaxation of the lockdown norms in the State. “Though we have brought the situation under control, there is no room for complacency at this juncture. The restrictions will have to continue till we are sure the disease is eliminated,” he said.
13 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||U.K. citizens to be evacuated on April 15||The citizens of the United Kingdom who got stranded here following a ban on international flights as part of the COVID-19 containment measures will be evacuated on April 15. Though the exact number of U.K. citizens who are to board a chartered flight has not been made available to Kerala Tourism, the government has been informed that the flight will pick the tourists from Thiruvananthapuram and Cochin international airports. Chartered flight British Airways is to operate the chartered flight from Thiruvananthapuram international airport at 7.30 a.m. and will later proceed to Kochi to pick up tourists before flying to London. Around 300 tourist are expected to board the flight from two airports. The State has already granted permission to the two separate teams arriving from the British Deputy High Commission to oversee the special evacuation in Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi. From 83 nations As many as 709 foreign tourists from 83 nations had got stranded in the State. The citizens of Germany and other European Union nations, France, Brazil, Oman and Maldives had already been evacuated by operating chartered flights. Russians form the major chunk of the remaining tourists held up in the State.
13 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to distribute 16 crore masks||The government has decided to distribute 16 crore masks in the State to prevent the spread of coronavirus. It will also conduct tests on 32,349 people who have been identified by the ASHA workers and ANMs during the third round of door-to-survey. Besides, it is gearing up to conduct tests on 45,000 people in the zones where COVID-19 cases are being reported in a big way. Three per person These issues were discussed at meeting chaired by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to review the status of coronavirus in the State on Sunday. Asking the officials to distribute the masks in a big way, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, “As the population of the State stands at 5.3 crore, the government would have to supply 16 crore masks at the rate of three per person.” The officials informed the Chief Minister that at the end of the third round of door-to-door survey, the ANMs and ASHA workers referred 32,349 people for screening. Of them, the doctors confirmed that 9,107 need to undergo the screening tests. The Chief Minister, however, directed the doctors to conduct tests on all the people referred. The officials further told the Chief Minister that they were gearing up to conduct 45,000 tests in zones where cases were being reported in a big way. The aim was to assess the extent of spread, they said. Cases so far He instructed the officials to ensure that social distancing was followed at rythu bazaars in both the urban and rural areas. The officials said that 420 cases were reported so far. While 13 of them were foreign returnees, 12 contracted the disease from them. Similarly, 199 cases pertained to Nizamuddin returnees and 161 contracted with the disease from them. The remaining 32 were people who travelled to other States or contracted it from them.
13 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spitting in public places prohibited||Here is an alert to the public. In order to prevent the spread of COVID-19 government has issued orders prohibiting spitting in public places. Following a letter issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MH&FW), Special Chief Secretary (Health) K.S. Jawahar Reddy issued the orders in this regard. The authorities concerned were instructed to implement the orders strictly. The violators are punishable under the provisions of IPC and the CrPC, the orders said. Under Section 2 of The Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and The Disaster Management Act, 2005, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has appealed to the public to refrain from consuming tobacco or chewing gutkha products and spitting in public places. The dreaded virus has brought to the fore the importance of personal hygiene and maintaining cleanliness at public places during the pandemic. The habit of spitting in open places may cause infections, particularly the spread of coronavirus, the orders said. Officials would be strictly implementing the orders and have already started keeping a vigil. Already, a few States have banned spitting in public places and booked the violators.
13 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bridge construction in Visakha Agency suspended||The State government has decided to halt construction of the high-level bridge proposed across the Jolaput outflow near Jolaput village of Munchingput mandal in Visakhapatnam district. The government had sanctioned Rs. 5 crore for construction of the bridge, connecting Koraput of Odisha and Munchingput in Andhra Pradesh, in April 2015. However, due to discrepancies in drawing and design of the bridge, works were suspended after two months in the same year. Though the revised design was approved in 2016, the construction agency expressed its inability to resume the works and requested for termination of the agreement, which expired in August 2016. Recently, the government accorded permission to the Engineer-in-Chief, Tribal Welfare Department, to close the agreement with the contractor and repay the deposits to the agency. Work will be taken up after completing the due process afresh, the officials said in an order. Accountability matters The Engineer-in-Chief was directed to hold the officers accountable for the lapses in taking up the works without proper verification of the designs for the Jolaput bridge, and why the officers or the consultant failed to issue the revised drawings for the project within the stipulated time. The bridge, constructed some 70 years ago for vehicular traffic during the construction of the Machkund Hydro Electric Project, was washed away when the Jolaput reservoir gates were opened in 2006. The Jolaput bridge, if constructed, will connect more than 50,000 people of nearly 80 border villages in Munchingput and Koraput districts of both Odisha and A.P. Connectivity between the two States in the Agency area was hit after the bridge was washed away 14 years ago.
13 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSRCP throwing all caution to the wind’||The TDP has accused the government of deliberately ignoring the lockdown norms in its haste to anoint former judge V. Kanagaraj as the State Election Commissioner (SEC). Addressing the media here on Sunday, party MLA Nimmala Ramanaidu alleged that the government had been throwing caution to the wind despite lockdown and risking the lives of the people. “Lockdown norms seem to be only for the common man and not to the ruling YSRCP leaders,” he alleged. At 960, Tamil Nadu clocked the highest number of COVID-19 positive cases. In this backdrop and despite lockdown, Mr. Kanagaraj travelled from the neighbouring State to Andhra Pradesh. “How can he be allowed?” the TDP leader asked. “Similarly, Education Minister A. Suresh frequents between Hyderabad and Andhra Pradesh and YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy travels frequently between Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam. Why are the lockdown regulations not applicable to these leaders?” Mr. Ramanaidu questioned. ‘Needless controversy’ Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was unnecessarily targeting former SEC N. Ramesh Kumar, that too at a time when all his energies should have been channelled to tackling the threat posed by coronavirus. “The YSRCP government has acted in an undemocratic and unconstitutional way to remove Mr. Ramesh Kumar before he completed his 5-year term,” he alleged. Dig at Jagan The TDP leader also objected to the Chief Minister’s suggestion to srime minister to limit the lockdown to a few select zones.
13 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coronavirus positive cases shoot up in last few weeks||The State has witnessed a drastic change in the COVID-19 outbreak in the first month since it reported the first-ever case of a foreign returnee on March 12. Though the outbreak was largely remote with only six of the 13 districts reporting at least one case and a total of 11 cases until the first 15 days, that is, as of March 26. The scenario completely changed in the last couple of weeks. Currently, four districts — Kurnool, Guntur, Nellore and Prakasam — together account for about 62% of the total 420 cases as of Saturday and two of them, Kurnool and Guntur, are racing towards the 100 mark with a constant increase in cases by the day. The first positive case was reported in Nellore and during the first two weeks only 11 cases were reported across the State. However, post-March 30 when Telangana revealed that six of the Delhi returnees, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meeting, died due to coronavirus, the State realised the threat as there are hundreds of Delhi returnees in the State. Until then the State was only focussing on foreign returnees and COVID-19 patient contacts showing symptoms and among others. Three persons connected to the Delhi meeting also tested positive in Guntur and Prakasam districts. Extensive testing From March 31, the government began extensive testing of persons who had been to Delhi and their close contacts. The very next day it found 67 positive cases. More than 6,500 samples were tested in the past 12 days and on an average of 31 new cases have been reported every day. Though the State continues to report more and more new cases compared to the highest number (67) of cases reported in a single day (April 1), the rate of new cases has apparently come down considering the increased number of samples being tested. Most of the new cases are coming from Kurnool, Guntur and Nellore which have turned into hotspots. The State has begun rapid sample testing by collecting samples of random persons through mobile sample collection kiosks. The government claims only 81 of the 676 mandals have been affected by the outbreak and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy suggested relaxation of lockdown in those unaffected mandals to Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently. The State has declared 134 red zones. As of Sunday, 12 persons have recovered and seven persons died due to COVID-19. In most cases of death, coronavirus infection was confirmed only after the person died with symptoms.
13 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stranded students home-bound||Thirty-three A.P. students, including five girls, who were returning home from Italy in the wake of COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown but were stopped at Chhattisgarh border and kept in quarantine, are finally returning home. The students are pursuing different courses in Milan and its surrounding areas. With the help of BJP MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, they hired a bus in Delhi and started for home with a police escort. But at Chhattisgarh border, their vehicle was stopped by the local police and the students were shifted to a quarantine centre. ”None of us tested positive, but we were asked to stay there as a precautionary measure,” said Venkata Sai Sanghamitra, a student pursuing Masters in Industrial Automation in University of Pavia. Officials of the State spared no effort in helping them return home. A statement issued by the State Command Control Centre on Sunday said that Chief Secretary Neelam Sawhney took up the issue with Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy. DGP Goutam Sawang and Task Force Committee Chairman M.T. Krishna Babu coordinated with officials of that State, paving the way for their return on Monday.
13 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lending a helping hand to Telugu diaspora||People belonging to various sections have been caught off-guard by the lockdown, and students pursuing courses in a foreign land are among the worst hit. A large number of Telugu-speaking students pursuing Masters in the US were asked to vacate their hostels abruptly amidst the crisis triggered by the coronavirus spread. The members of the Telugu Association of North America (TANA) rose to the occasion and helped hundreds of students by making arrangements for them in motels, some of them owned by the Telugus settled there. “We are doing all we can to help the Telugu diaspora in this hour of crisis,” says executive vice-president of TANA Anjaiah Chowdary Lavu. The association is also helping visiting parents from India stuck in the US due to lockdown, by ensuring that they get timely medicines. The number of ‘positive’ cases and fatalities are on the rise in the US which is fighting hard to contain the pandemic. “Many Telugu doctors are in the forefront, fighting the virus day in and day out,” said Mr. Anjaiah.  Service activities  Besides distributing masks, sanitisers and other protective equipment to prevent the spread of coronavirus in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, the TANA members now are focussed on raising funds for the ‘first responders’, the police, doctors, paramedics and the sanitation staff in the US. A series of awareness programmes like webinars on all aspects related to COVID-19, immigration rules and motivational sessions were aimed at helping people cope with a crisis of this magnitude. Pointing to the fact that massive layoffs were feared in America due to the coronavirus crisis that was hitting businesses around the globe, he said H-1B visas, the most sought after among Indians, would be affected. He said the TANA, among many other organisations, had already petitioned the Trump administration to extend the permission for post-job loss limit to stay in the US from the existing 60 to 180 days. The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows U.S. companies to employ foreign workers in occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. The current federal rules require an H-1B visa holder to leave the U.S. along with their family members within 60 days of losing their job. “TANA is in touch with all the US counsellors and we would extend all possible help to the Telugu people here to overcome their problems,” said Mr. Anjaiah.
13 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-SEC Ramesh Kumar approaches High Court||N. Ramesh Kumar whose five-year tenure as State Election Commissioner (SEC) was cut short by an ordinance brought by the government on Friday night, challenged it in the High Court. He appealed for declaration of ordinance (No.5 of 2020) and the GOs through which Madras High Court retired judge V. Kanagaraj was appointed as his successor, unconstitutional. He argued that the government did not give reasons for its sudden decision and that it abused its power with the sole intention to shunt him out of the top post. He insisted that there was no justifiable ground to issue the ordinance. Moreover, the local body election process initiated by him had not been completed due to the crisis precipitated by COVID-19. The arbitrary manner in which the government reduced the tenure of SEC amounted to encroaching upon the independence of the constitutional body, Mr. Kumar stated. Mr. Ramesh Kumar said going by Justice Kanagaraj’s taking charge as SEC before the matter reached the court exposed the government’s plan to hush up things. The basic objective of his removal was to punish him for taking action on officials who cooperated with ruling party leaders in the commission of various irregularities in the run-up to the civic polls, he alleged, appealing to the court to strike down the controversial ordinance and GOs. It may be noted that Mr. Ramesh Kumar, a 1983-batch IAS officer, had taken charge as State Election Commissioner on April 1, 2016, in the wake of bifurcation of A.P.
13 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Death condoled||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has expressed grief over the death of senior news reader Parvati Prasad. Known for her soft diction, she had worked with All India Radio (AIR) and Doordarshan. The Chief Minister conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family members.
13 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Why was new SEC not sent to quarantine: TDP||Seeking to turn the tables on the YSRCP government, the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) sought to know why the newly-appointed State Election Commissioner (SEC) V. Kanagaraj was not sent to quarantine for 14 days on his arrival from Tamil Nadu to the State. Similarly, many ruling party MLAs and Ministers are freely travelling between the State and Telangana while scores of students and migrant workers were forcefully subjected to quarantine though they have permissions, TDP leader Somireddy Chandramohan Reddy said. The TDP’s poser came in the wake of YSRCP leaders’ comments that Opposition leader and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu should be sent to 14-day quarantine if he returned from Hyderabad. Addressing a press conference on Sunday, Mr. Chandramohan Reddy alleged that there was a constitutional breakdown in the State. As per rules, SEC should either be below 65 years of age or he should be appointed for a term of five years. Mr. Ramesh Kumar was appointed for a five-year term and he cannot be removed midway despite the amendment to the Panchayat Raj Act, he said. The TDP leader objected to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan instantly approving the ordinance without taking legal opinion.
13 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drones deployed to monitor red zones||The State police have have pressed drones into service to monitor the implementation of lockdown in red zone areas in the State. Drones will cover the zones every three hours and capture videos and pictures. Earlier, the Unmanned Aerial Vehicleswere used to monitor Maoist movements, red sanders and ganja smugglers and during elections. “Following the directions of DGP D. Gautam Sawang high resolution drones have been put into operation. The personnel posted at the entrance of the red zones were given body-worn cameras,” said DIG (Technical Services) G. Pala Raju. Drones will cover the streets, main roads, important junctions in red zones.
13 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kanna: enforce lockdown till month-end||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana has requested Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy not to relax the lockdown as such an action will spell disaster. Pointing to the continuation of restrictions by various States till the month-end, he told the Chief Minister that going for selective lockdown, or region and locality-wise easing of restrictions would increase the scope for spread of COVID-19. The death toll in the country had increased. Had lockdown not been imposed, the situation would have been far worse, he said in a letter addressed to the Chief Minister. Mr. Lakshminarayana said complete lockdown was appreciated by the World Health Organization (WHO). “Securing livelihoods and stimulating the economy are important, but protecting lives of people is the need of the hour,” he said. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy should, therefore, continue the lockdown till the end of April as was being done by many States, he said.
13 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stranded pilgrims returning home||About 1,000 pilgrims belonging to Andhra Pradesh (A.P.) and Telangana who were stuck in Varanasi due to the lockdown, have embarked on their return journey in dozens of vehicles. Arrangements for safe journey to their home States were made by BJP MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, who represents Uttar Pradesh in the Upper House. He said in a press release that all the stranded ones were being sent back by road on Sunday night. They went on a pilgrimage before the nationwide lockdown was imposed.
13 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC takes tech route to keep infection count down||At a time when the entire government machinery is on its toes to check the spread of coronavirus, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has taken the technology route to ensure strict monitoring and effective coordination between its various wings when it comes to tracing, isolation and treatment of suspect and positive cases. All wings of the civic body are working with dedication to check the spread of the virus, says Municipal Commissioner G. Srijana. Referring to the Command and Control Centre (CCC), she says the facility has been very useful in monitoring of people’s movement, sharing information with the police, holding online meetings with officials. “Coordination and monitoring are the keys. The CCC is maintaining a database to ensure the accurate identification of the suspected areas. Sanitation and spraying activities are being monitored real-time using time stamping and GPS technology. Besides, handling social media accounts of the administration and announcement of updates through Smart Poles have become easy,” says Ms. Srijana. Sample collection The Rapid Response Teams (RRT) and sample collection have also been made GPS enabled. “Each team has been given a tab installed with a special app. The details of suspect cases are being communicated to the COVID-19 state control room (1902) and vice-versa through the app,” she explains.  Referring to sanitation, the civic body chief says apart from around 7,500 regular sanitation staff, additional 1,000 workers have been hired. “Despite the risk of contracting infection, the sanitation staff are discharging their duties. They have been provided with protective gear. We have tied up with several voluntary organisations to provide them safety gear,” she says. The containment areas and vulnerable localities are being sanitised regularly. Bleaching powder is being sprinkled. Special teams comprising fire tenders and special sprayers, mist sprayers, hand-held sprayers and high-rise sprayers are being used to spray liquid bleach and chloride component chemicals. Special focus is being laid on high population density areas such as rythu bazaars, supermarkets and ATMs, she added. Challenges However, she says that a bigger task is at hand. “Making people abide by the social distancing norms while purchasing essential commodities is a daunting task as it can be achieved only when the citizens will understand the gravity of the situation. “Restricting suspected people to their homes, counselling migrant labourers unwilling to shift to shelter and convincing people not to resort to panic buying are few among the big tasks at hand. We need the citizens’ cooperation,” she adds. Leading from the front Mr. Srijana has set an example by joining her duty just 22 days after her delivery. “My family is taking care of my baby. I felt that if a new Municipal Commissioner was handed over the responsibility in my absence, he or she would have taken time to coordinate with departments. Timely action is the essence at this crucial juncture. So, I decided to re-join duty ,” says Ms. Srijana.
13 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||App comes in handy to keep vigil in containment zones||A few ago, about four persons, who were put under home quarantine in an area declared red zone for COVID-19, and advised to stay indoors, were found roaming freely. Thanks to the app installed on their cellphones, the Command and Control Centre received an alert and passed it on to the nearest patrolling team. The four persons were sent home, after a strong warning. How it works In an attempt to ensure a strict monitoring of the people who have been put under home quarantine across the district, the police have installed an app on the cellphones. The same applies to the people who are under surveillance for the infection. “If the people in question go beyond more than 100 metres from their homes, the CCC will receive an alert and the nearest patrol team will be notified,” says Rural SP Attada Babujee . About a week ago, several people admitted to an isolation facility gave the officials a slip and ventured out. Their movement were detected through the app, which has been synchronised with Google Maps, says City Police Commissioner Rajeev Kumar Meena. “We are passing through a critical phase, and people need to understand it and cooperate,” he says. CCTV surveillance To keep a tab on the people under scanner, especially in the containment zones both in the city and in the district, the police have taken to technology route. Every containment zone spans over 3 km of red zone and 2 km of buffer zone. “We have barricaded all the entry and exit points, just leaving only one point for people to come out to buy essentials. In some areas, door delivery service has been facilitated. To monitor the movement, we have placed CCTVs which have been linked with the CCC,” says Mr. Meena. The police are also issuing passes for people who have been engaged in providing the essential services. Drones The District Police have also engaged drones to monitor the movement of people in containment zones. “Once we come across some unnecessary movement or gathering in the containment zones, our men rush there to see that they are dispersed. All drones have been connected to CCC,” says Mr. Babujee, adding that the police are maintaining log books at the entry and exit points of red zones.
13 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘No positive case in city in last three days’||Notwithstanding the identification of seven containment (red) zones in the district, of which six are in the city, the number of COVID-19 positive cases has been pegged at 20 for the last few days. This speaks volumes of the untiring efforts of the district administration, doctors and frontline workers in controlling the spread of the virus. Of the 20 positive cases, four patients have recovered and were discharged. Of the remaining 16 undergoing treatment, the reports of two more are expected and they will be discharged, in all likelihood, on Monday (April 13). “Around 2,000 persons have been put under home quarantine, 135 in hospital quarantine, besides 30 COVID-19 suspects in the isolation facilities. All the residents in the containment zones are being tested and no new case has been detected so far,” P.V. Sudhakar, principal of Andhra Medical College told The Hindu on Sunday. “Surveillance teams are conducting door-to-door surveys and sending suspected cases to quarantine. They are being tested and kept there under medical supervision for 14 to 28 days. No new positive cases have registered during the last two/three days. A total of 446 suspected cases have been identified,” Collector V. Vinay Chand said. “The containment zones will have only a single entry and exit to restrict the movement of residents into other areas and vice-versa. The restrictions in these zones will be continued till the last positive patient recovers. In any case, the restrictions will continue for a minimum of 28 days,” Collector V. Vinay Chand said.
13 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Annual ban deals double whammy to fishermen||Fishermen in Visakhapatnam are staring at a double whammy as an annual two-month fishing ban is all set to begin from April 15, on the very day that the prevailing nationwide lockdown is scheduled to end. The fishermen, who have been off the seas for weeks, are now pinning hopes on a bailout package to overcome the loss in income. “Vendors who sell fish on the streets and traditional fishermen should get adequate compensation in lieu of the loss of livelihood,” Arjili Dasu, executive director of Fisherfolk Foundation, said. Visakhapatnam, one of the largest fish landing centres in the country, has 53,000 fishermen who eke out a living by either fishing or selling the catch. The district has 700 mechanised boats and 5,300 traditional boats. An enhanced compensation of Rs. 10,000 was given to fishermen working on registered boats last year. “This time, we request the government to extend the benefit to all those whose livelihood has been hit due to the ban and lockdown,” Mr. Dasu told The Hindu . “We also want that soft loans should be given as part of a bailout package to enable educated fishermen youth to buy boats,” he said. The annual ban is aimed at conservation of fish resources to allow breeding for nearly two months along the east coast. The compensation amount, which was Rs. 4,000 earlier, was increased to Rs. 10,000 after the YSR Congress Party came to power.
13 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA opposes plan to make KGH speciality hospital||Taking a strong exception to the proposal of converting the King George Hospital (KGH) into a speciality hospital, Visakhapatnam South MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar has urged to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to drop the plan. “The KGH is located in the heart of the city. More over, it also serves as the biggest referral hospital in the North Andhra Region. Many general patients are undergoing treatment in the various departments of the KGH. Making it a speciality hospital for COVID-19 might make the other patients vulnerable to contracting the infection,” the TDP MLA said in his representation. Despite lockdown, the out-patient count at KGH is about 600, he said. The MLA alleged that the State government was yet to utilise the chest hospital for offering effective treatment to COVID-19 patients. “Converting KGH into a speciality hospital is against the interests of general patients. Several fishermen colonies are also located in the vicinity of the KGH,” he pointed out. ‘Prevent community transmission’ Mr. Ganesh Kumar said COVID-19 hospital should be on the outskirts of the city to prevent the chances of community transmission.
13 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Tribal people being engaged as bonded labourers’||A voluntary organisation has alleged that 13 tribal people inclding women and children are being forced to work as ‘bonded labourers’ in a brick klin in Munagapaka mandal. Rebbapragda Ravi, executive director of Samata, told The Hindu on Sunday that the tribal people from Bolangir district in Odisha were allegedly brought by an agent with the promise of decent wages in the private factory at Arabpalem in Munagapaka mandal a few months ago. “The brick kiln owner has been torturing the poor tribal people physically and mentally. He has been making them work for more than 12 hours a day even during the lockdown,” claimed Mr. Ravi. He further said that even as he had brought the matter to the notice of the officials concerned, the police are trying to hush up the matter. Mr. Ravi demanded that the tribal workers be shifted to Odisha and action be taken against the factory owner.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sealing the hotspot||
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Relief on the way||
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala||
13 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Tipeshwar tigers safe, flourishing||Amid the gloomy COVID-19 situation, Maharashtra State has something to cheer about in the form of successful tiger conservation at the popular Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary located in Pandharkawda taluk of Yavatmal district, about 35 km from Adilabad district headquarters town on the NH 44. A tigress has delivered a litter of three cubs in November last enhancing the already swollen big cat population and authorities having initiated rather foolproof efforts in making the place safer for the wild animals in the wake of reports of tigers getting infected by coronavirus. The safety aspect of tigers in Tipeshwar is all the more important as any infection could prove disastrous owing to the density of their population. The Sanctuary, spread over just 143 sq km of dry deciduous forest, is home to about 20 tigers of different ages and sizes and infection could spread comparatively faster. Tipeshwar is closely linked to tiger conservation in Kawal Tiger Reserve (KTR) in former united Adilabad district in Telangana as the overflowing population in the former crosses over to the latter ambling through the corridor which links the two. A tigress which had crossed Penganga river demarcating the border between the two States and entered Bheempur forests, apparently headed towards KTR a couple of months ago is now back in the sanctuary in Maharashtra, according to sources. “We were alert about the safety of the tigers even before reports of coronavirus infection started appearing in the media. The Sanctuary is in a state of complete lockdown now,” asserted Pandharkawda Divisional Forest Officer, Wildlife, Subhash Puranik. “No outsider is allowed inside to prevent any infections. All the staff and workers required for monitoring the big cat population are also staying inside the Sanctuary,” he explained of the measures being taken under the lockdown. Authorities are patrolling continuously and monitoring the movement of the tigers and other wildlife also with the help of the camera traps, especially those near the water holes. “We take a close look at the images to notice any abnormality in movement or health of the animals,” the DFO revealed of the standard procedure in conservation under such circumstances even as he shared the latest picture of a tigress clicked by him.
13 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Agri varsity turns to e-teaching||The coronavirus epidemic has affected every sphere of life, and institutions such as Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) have taken the situation in their stride to keep pace with their academic, research and extension schedules. The agriculture university, which is required to function round-the-year to be able to issue advisories to the farming community from time to time, to take up farm research in the field including producing of quality seed as also working on finding new high-yielding and pest-resistant varieties of crops besides teaching, has turned to technology to keep all concerned logged in with their tasks. “Unlike other traditional institutions and universities, we have to function 365 days a year as we are expected to give advisories to the farming community in every stage of crop cultivation – from preparatory cultivation to harvesting. So, when the lockdown was announced, we decided not to lag behind in terms of our academic and extension calender and have taken the help of technology to keep ourselves logged in”, says university Vice-Chancellor V. Praveen Rao. The university has nine constituent colleges — six agriculture including three polytechnics, one home-science and two technology (one agricultural engineering and one food science and technology) — and keeping in mind the emerging situation, all examinations including some pending ones were completed by March 19 and all hostels were vacated due to lockdown. However, international students were allowed stay put in their hostel after contacting their respective embassies. “After preparing online teaching modules, our faculty is taking classes online on Zoom and also on the TCS iON platform. The faculty is giving assignments to students and sending notes, including power point presentations, so that evaluation of learning could be done by giving tasks,” the V-C told The Hindu.  The university registered its faculty members, under-graduate, post-graduate and research students on the TCS iON platform last week and online classes are in progress for the past three days. Learning by students would be reviewed after the lockdown. As a safety measure, premises of the university colleges, research stations and extension wings are being sanitised regularly and all the faculty, students and other employees have been asked to follow COVID-19 safety guidelines to keep themselves healthy and safe. All students and faculty members have also been made to register themselves on the Aarogya Setu essential health services app.
13 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM sounds caution as COVID-19 positive cases rise||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has requested the people as well as the administrative machinery to be cautious and take steps to check the spread of the coronavirus (COVID-19) in the backdrop of the virus spreading higher in the country and the State. The State registered 28 new corona positive cases on Sunday with two more casualties taking the total number of deaths to 16. The Chief Minister who reviewed the situation with senior officials for more than six hours on Sunday said the spread of the virus was continuing going by the reports received from medical authorities. The situation was alarming in the States like Maharashtra where there was spike in not only the number of positive cases but also casualties.  People’s cooperation The government had decided to extend the lockdown because of the significant rise in the number of cases and the people should realise the intensity of the virus and cooperate with the government in combating the disease. Personal hygiene was of utmost importance and people should ensure that norms of social distancing were observed when they go out of their houses. Persons suspected of contracting the virus should undergo testing from the authorized agencies and the government on its part would initiate special measures in the areas where the virus was prevalent. “Government’s initiatives alone will not suffice in containing the spread of the virus. People should extend their cooperation in checking the virus,” the Chief Minister said adding the people should take adequate care to ensure that the virus did not spread in their respective areas.  Officials to be alert He directed the official machinery to be on alert and take up check up of people tested positive for the virus. Steps should be taken to verify information like the movements of the people affected with the virus and effort should be initiated to track and test the people whom those who were tested positive of the virus had contacted. The government had initiated steps to conduct tests on the people who participated in the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz, he said adding the people who were yet to undergo testing should volunteer to get themselves checked for the possible scope of contracting COVID-19. “The government is concerned about the wellbeing of the members of the families of those who contacted the virus. Staying at home during the lockdown period is the only way to check the virus,” he said.
13 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Easter festivities a subdued affair||Easter, the second most important festival for Christians across the world, was a subdued affair in Telangana on Sunday owing to the strict implementation of lockdown by the Central and State governments to fight the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Visibly missing was the much awaited Sunrise Service by all mainline churches to celebrate Easter, the resurrection of Jesus Christ on the third day after his death and burial following his crucifixion. The pre-dawn service, which usually begins at 4.30 a.m., was cancelled and instead, churches chose to continue their new practice of reaching their congregations through social media – YouTube and Facebook – by live streaming pre-recorded Easter message.  This is the fourth consecutive Sunday that churches had to conduct the regular service without the presence of their congregations. Church of South India Bishop in Medak Diocese, Reverend A.C. Solomon Raj delivered the Sunrise Service message of God from Medak Cathedral, which was beamed live through all the major pastorates of the Diocese. Likewise, Vicar General of Archdiocese of Hyderabad, Reverend Swarna Bernard addressed the Easter Sunday Mass from St. Mary’s Basilica in Secunderabad. Almost all Catholic, Protestant and independent churches had made arrangements for live streaming of their services on Sunday. Meanwhile, most mainline churches advised their members to go for digital payments for their general thanksgiving offerings and monthly subscriptions in the absence of regular services. Governor, CM greet Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan extended her greetings and best wishes to members of the Christian community. “On this joyous occasion, I call upon the people of the State to remember the true meaning of Easter, and the festival would motivate bringing in a positive difference to the society. Let this special occasion give us the will and vigour to fight COVID-19 and restore our daily activities,” she said. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao conveyed his best wishes to the Christian community on the occasion of Easter. “Remember the noble teachings of Lord Jesus Christ, especially his commitment to empowering the sick, poor and needy. May the resurrection of Jesus give us the strength to successfully overcome COVID-19 and create a healthier Telangana,” Mr. Rao said in his message.
13 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Stranded on-site workers left to fend for themselves||Stranded migrant workers at various construction sites in the city are a hapless lot, depending on their builders even for a square meal. However, not every builder is acting responsibly, despite advisories from the GHMC. Complaints are reaching the corporation and also NGOs working on the ground that builders are not providing the workers with enough rations or wages. A case in point is the ongoing double bedroom housing project at Kollur, Ramachandrapuram, where a total of 17,000 dwelling units are under construction. More than 5,000 migrant workers from states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh were working here before lockdown. “Majority of the workers have now gone home. We are about 1,000 to 1,500 people left on the site. At the beginning of this month, a vehicle distributed rice, dal and onions among us. Now, the ration has come to an end, and we have not got our wages too,” complained Teja Priya, a worker from Madhya Pradesh. Only five kilograms of rice were distributed on an average for three persons, which did not last long, he says. In addition, Rs. 600 was given to each person in cash. However, wages are yet to be paid. The workers did not have direct contact with the builder, and had to depend on the labour contractors, who too were equally clueless. GHMC officials confirmed that they got a couple of complaints from Kollur site. However, upon enquiry, it transpired that they did not need rations, but wished to go home. Upon enquiry, a representative from the DEC Infrastructure and Projects, the agency executing the works at Kollur on behalf of the Telangana government, refuted the allegation, and said sufficient rations and allowances were distributed apart from wages. He, however, said that a major chunk of the work force was shifted to Gachibowli stadium recently, for constructing the COVID-19 quarantine units on war-footing. “They might have missed the rations during the shifting process. We will ensure that everyone gets their ration,” the official assured. Labourers from another private construction site at Shaikpet too complained that the contractor was not providing them food or rations, share officials. Meanwhile, several social activists and NGOs have written to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday, requesting him not to leave it to employers to provide rations to migrant workers. Rather, the promised 12 kg rice and Rs. 500 per worker should be distributed by the government, for on-the-site workers too. The representation urged the government to include thousands of migrant brick kiln workers too, as they are not getting rations or wages.
13 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Now, Deoband returnees a challenge to authorities||Even as the police felt relieved that they could identify all the participants of Tablighi Jamaat Markaz congregation in Nizamuddin and their primary and secondary contacts from the State, police have stumbled upon people attending yet another similar congregation, around the same time in Uttar Pradesh. The congregation at Deoband in that State took place simultaneously with that of Nizamuddin. On Sunday, two out of three returnees of Deoband reported positive for COVID-19 in Nirmal district. Top brass in Telangana police told The Hindu that several people from the State went to Deoband from March 9 to 11 at Mohammadi Masjid, just adjacent to the Darul Uloom Islamic University. Incidentally, the dates were just ahead of the event at Nizamuddin, 150 km away from Deoband. “We have inputs that people from our State, especially from Hyderabad and a few districts in north Telangana have attended the jamaat,” the officer said on condition of anonymity. He said that currently they don’t have information on how many people have attended the jamaat in Deoband, and have to go all over again to identify, trace out and quarantine them. While many went to Nizammudin and then proceeded to Deoband, some followed the path vice versa. Several people returned directly from there, but some others visited the famous Ajmer Dargah in Rajasthan before returning home. “We need to take inputs from the Nirmal victims on how many people have attended the Markaz prayers with them. Now, it will be a difficult task to trace them as the number is very low when compared to Nizamuddin returnees. The job is tough because they are widely dispersed,” he said. Meanwhile, another officer said that the number could be less than 100. On Saturday, CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao said police had traced 1,200 Nizamuddin returnees and quarantined them.
13 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sanitation staff forced to stay at hospital shelter||At least 10 women outsourced staff of Gandhi Hospital are forced to stay at a shelter home there, as residents of their locality at Chengicherla chased them away fearing that they would spread the virus. Nine of them are sweepers and one a patient care provider. The residents asked them to either not attend to their duties or stay away from the locality. The situation went out of hand with the residents wielding sticks and brooms and threatening to destroy their houses. However, the outsourced employees chose to attend to their duties and stay away from their family, worried over losing their jobs. With the men folk out of work, these women take care of their families with a mere Rs. 9,400 monthly salary. The ten workers live in a basti at Chengicherla. Recalling the ‘harsh’ experience, D. Yellamma (43), a sweeper, said that when they returned from work on April 1, the residents gathered at their houses. Yellamma lives with his husband, three daughters and two sons. Both her sons are jobless now due to the lockdown. So, she is the sole breadwinner of the family. The patient care provider from the same locality, G. Sujatha, has a similar story to tell. “I was worried I will lose the job,” she said. They have been staying at Swami Sivananda Shelter Home behind the hospital’s emergency block for the last 10 days. Ten other outsourced employees from other localities stay there with them. They are provided three meals a day. Staying away from the comfort of their homes, and warmth of their families, they keep in touch with their family over the phone. “After a tiring day, we used to cook food using some extra oil, and kaaram podi (red chilli powder).We miss it these days,” Sujatha said. The employees have now requested the authorities concerned to grant them five days’ leave.
13 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. launches supply of fruit baskets on demand||After arranging the organised supply of vegetables through mobile rythu bazaars to help people overcome the scarcity of essential goods with a phone call, the Horticulture and Marketing departments of the State have come together again, this time to supply fruit baskets/ packs. The arrangement being made with the dual purpose of ensuring proper price to farmers for their produce and to provide consumers quality fruits in the backdrop of restrictions on movement due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The decision to supply fruits on demand, after taking the order on 73307-33212, was taken on Sunday on the suggestion of Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy after his visit to sweet lime and acid lime orchards in Nalgonda. Officials said each basket would be charged Rs. 300 and would comprise 1.5kg of mango, 3kg of papaya, 1kg of sapota, 2.5kg of sweet lime, 12 fruits of acid lime and 4kg of watermelon. They would be supplied to residential colonies, apartments and gated communities with a minimum order for 30 baskets. To begin with, it was decided to tie-up supply of 30 tonnes of sweet lime, 10 tonnes of mango, 6 tonnes of sapota, 8 tonnes of watermelon and 2 tonnes of papaya for supply as part of the fruit on demand. The Minister stated that supply of sweet lime and mango to northern parts of the country have not taken place this year due to the lockdown and farmers were finding it difficult to dispose of their produce.
13 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Actor’s tribute to COVID-19 warriors||South Indian actor P. Sai Kumar and his family members created awareness among the public on various preventive measures to combat the spread of coronavirus. In a four-minute video shot along with his son and actor Aadi Sai Kumar and daughter Jyotirmayee, a paediatrician, Mr. Sai Kumar mentioned social distancing norms issued by the government. “We request you to make this contribution reachable to a wider audience through elevant forums. We are with you in the fight against COVID-19,” the trio said. The actor said that his family salutes all those working in the front lines to prevent the deadly virus from spreading.
13 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR to hire 43 doctors, 161 medical staff||The South Central Railway (SCR) is in the process of hiring 43 doctors and 161 medical staff to work at its Central Hospital in Lalaguda, on a temporary basis to handle the COVID-19 crisis. The last date for submission of applications is April 15 and interviews will be conducted through video calls. The details are available on SCR website www. scr. indianrailways.gov.in. An official spokesman said that all the five major hospitals and 44 health units have been readied to render medical assistance in the hour of need with doctors and other paramedical staff briefed and trained about the protocol procedure for treating COVID-19 patients through video conferencing by the Union Ministry of Health in coordination with the Railway Board. Railway institutes, colleges and schools, have been converted into quarantine centres with 862 isolation beds (Secunderabad division - 142 beds, Vijayawada division - 129 beds, Hyderabad division - 147 beds, Guntakal division - 234 beds, Guntur division - 125 beds and Nanded division - 85 beds.) A separate isolation ward was set up with 142 beds at Central Hospital, 100 beds at Railway Hospital, Vijayawada, and 42 beds at Railway Hospital, Guntakal. About 11 doctors and 36 medical staff were engaged at Vijayawada and six doctors and 14 staff under temporary recruitment at Guntakal. All railway hospitals and health units have been extending services to Central Government employees, as advised by Railway Board. GM Gajanan Mallya advised employees to strictly follow precautionary measures
13 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||38 dengue cases reported in Wanaparthy district||Wanaparthy district officials who were on alert to contain coronavirus, are busy with containing the spread of Dengue Virus (DENV) too after 38 cases of dengue were detected in Amarchinta town in past one week. Health officials said that they took up fogging, spraying, to reduce the number of mosquitoes. Dengue is caused by four serotypes of DENV which are transmitted by female mosquitoes of Aedes Aegypti species. When a 14-year-old boy developed fever, a battery of diagnosis tests were performed to know the cause. As fever did not subside, they collected samples which tested positive for DENV. “Fever survey was taken up by accredited social health activists (ASHA), auxilliary nurse midwives (ANM) in 900 houses to find if anybody developed fever. When 13 cases of fever were identified, their samples were sent for tests and six of them tested positive for Dengue,” said Wanaparthy District Medical and Health Officer A. Srinivasulu. Over the days, as the survey was intensified, more cases were confirmed. Dr Srinivasulu said that condition of none of the patients is serious. The 38 patients are undergoing treatment at a government hospital in Wanaparthy. As the mosquitoes breed in fresh water, Health department staff checked if water was stagnating in any containers filled with fresh water. People were suggested not to allow stagnation of water. Dr Srinivasulu said that fogging, pyrethrum spray, is used to control mosquito numbers.
13 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RBI auction of Telangana government securities today||The State government is likely to get a breather on Monday when the auction of its securities worth Rs. 2,000 crore will be taken up by the Reserve Bank of India. Auction of government securities worth Rs. 2,000 crore — Rs. 1,000 crore with a tenure of eight years and another Rs. 1,000 crore with 10-year tenure — on Monday form part of the first of the six tranches in which the government had proposed to raise resources. The result of the auction, to be conducted on the RBI Core Banking Solution (e-Kuber), would be announced on Monday itself while payment by successful bidders would be made during the banking hours on Wednesday at Mumbai and at respective regional office of the RBI. Financial crisis Following the financial crisis faced due to the lockdown imposed across the State to contain the spread of the coronavirus (COVID-19), the government had decided to opt for open market borrowings through the RBI. The financial condition was said to be so acute that in Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s own words the tax and non-tax revenue of the State was just Rs. 100 crore since April 1 this year as against Rs. 4,000 crore average monthly collection. To tide over the crisis, the government has decided to mobilise resources through open market borrowings and according to RBI’s indicative calendar of market borrowings, the State had decided to raise Rs. 9,000 crore in six tranches till the end of the first quarter, June 30. According to RBI website, the State was eligible for open market borrowings of Rs. 15,051 crore for the first nine months of the current financial year. Of this, the government has decided to raise Rs. 9,000 crore over a period of three months. The next tranche of Rs. 1,000 crore would be through auction of securities worth Rs. 1,000 crore to be conducted by the RBI on April 28.
13 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Medical advice just a phone call away||At a time when those suffering from ailments have little access to out-patient facilities in hospitals due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Forum for People’s Health, connected to Forum of IT Professionals, launched an initiative for patients to speak to doctors and seek medical advice. The initiative — a collaboration of NGOs, activists and doctors — is a free medical helpline. Those who require medical advice can call the helpline and can seek counsel of general physicians, general surgeons, diabetologists and gynaecologists. 200 doctors on board “There is a huge need for doctors and those working in the field of healthcare to be available to patients as out-patient sections are closed. While the government is doing whatever it can to stop the pandemic in its tracks, it is important that those suffering from ailments should not be left in the lurch. We have on board nearly 200 doctors from both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh,” said Kiran Chandra, who is associated with the Free Software Movement and the Forum for IT Professionals. 500 calls a day The helpline, which was started over a week ago, has been receiving nearly 500 calls a day, he says. The large number of calls has prompted the team to press into action grassroots level volunteers so that they can liaise with authorities and help patients. “When there is a requirement of blood, or when an attendant or when a generic medicine is needed, our volunteers are stepping in. For instance, there is a case of paralytic attack in Nalgonda today. Our volunteers arranged for an ambulance and took the patient to the ICU of a government hospital,” he said. The helpline can be reached on 040-48214595.  When there is a requirement of blood, or when an attendant or a generic medicine is needed, our volunteers are stepping in. Kiran Chandra, President, Forum for IT Professionals
13 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A.P. woman delivers baby in TS hospital||A pregnant woman from Prakasam district in Andhra Pradesh, suffering from a rare congenital abnormality, delivered a baby in Huzurabad, Telangana, on Sunday. The woman and her family who used to work as daily wage labourers in Jammikunta, Karimnagar, were stuck in Telangana due to the lockdown. Besides, they did not have the Rs. 2 lakh which private hospitals quoted to perform the surgery. Doctors and nurses at Government Area Hospital Huzurabad performed a two-hour-long surgery to save the woman and the newborn. Medical superintendent of the Area Hospital V. Ravi Praveen Reddy said Anusha (19), suffered from ‘Primi with bicornuate uterus with placenta previa and Percreta with anaemia’. She has two uterus instead of one, and suffers from anaemia. The medical superintendent said the uterus in which the foetus was growing ruptured because of pressure from the other uterus, leading to internal bleeding. As her condition worsened, there no time to shift her to a higher government facility hospital in Hanamkonda. State Health Minister Eatala Rajender was informed of the health emergency and he contacted doctors at the Area Hospital in Huzurabad. “Only one out of one crore women have this complication,” Dr Reddy said. The woman and the baby girl are safe and recuperating at the hospital.
13 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||OU teachers asked to prepare online lectures||Osmania University has directed its principals and deans to involve all departments and faculty members to prepare study material, powerpoint presentations, video lessons and links to education content websites and share those with students to keep them engaged academically during the lockdown and teach the syllabus using e-learning methods. OU Registrar Ch. Gopal Reddy said the departmental heads and chairpersons have been asked to form WhatsApp groups and compile a list of all the students. All faculty members have also been directed to generate content and stay in touch with the students and clarify their doubts. In compliance with the directive from the UGC, the university has already dispatched a list of links of educational websites to the principals for onward transmission to the students. Mr. Reddy said the Governor and Chancellor of the University, Tamilisai Soundararajan, through a video conference with senior officials of all the universities in the State had conveyed the urgency to use all resources and make available educational content to students. The initiative of the university was a part of that conference with the Governor, he added.
13 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||All set to credit Rs. 1,500 into accounts of poor||The stage is being readied for crediting Rs. 1,500 each into the accounts of the white ration cardholders to meet their daily expenses during lockdown as promised by the State government. The Civil Supplies Department has received the concurrence of the Finance Department to deposit the amount in the accounts of the cardholders. The Finance Department had recently deposited Rs. 1,314 crore into the account of the Civil Supplies Department which would, in turn, be deposited into the accounts of the cardholders. Senior officials of the Civil Supplies department said the account number of majority of the cardholders have been obtained with the help of bankers who identified them through the Aadhar numbers of individual cardholders. The Centre for Good Governance on its part utilized software developed by it to upload the details of the cardholders along with their account numbers. Though distribution of rice was taken up on April 1 itself, the process for crediting the assured amount into the accounts of the cardholders was delayed because of the procedural aspects which involved a secured way of transferring the amounts into the cardholders’ accounts. “We are in contact with the National Payment Corporation of India, the umbrella organization for all retail payments across the country, to ensure that crediting of the amounts into the cardholders’ accounts can be made hassle free,” a senior official told The Hindu . As almost all the issues had been resolved till date, the department is gearing up to start crediting the amount into the accounts in a day or two.
13 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ISB holds e-graduation ceremony||An online graduation ceremony for over 880 PGP (post graduate programme) students of its Hyderabad and Mohali campuses was organised on Saturday by the Indian School of Business (ISB). Once the situation comes under control, a full-fledged physical graduation ceremony would be organised on both its Hyderabad and Mohali campus, where students of PGP class of 2020 will formally receive their certificates and awards, a release from the institute said. Addressing the students over webinar from Singapore, Chairman of ISB Executive Board Harish Manwani underlined that the need of the hour was to focus on converting the current global crisis into new opportunities. On the occasion, ISB dean Rajendra Srivastava asked students and alumni groups to come forward and help society in whatever ways they can. Senior associate dean, Academic Programmes, Ramabhadran S. Thirumalai informed that over 96% of the students have accepted job offers.  We should now look beyond economics and focus on designing new paradigms and growth trajectories. Rajendra Srivastava, Dean, ISB
13 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two more AI flights evacuate US citizens||Hyderabad International Airport handled two more special passenger charter relief flights of Air India to evacuate 165 US nationals from here on Sunday. The first special flight of Air India, an Airbus A 320 aircraft landed at 2.13 p.m. from Mumbai and departed with 82 US-bound passengers (81 adults and one infant) at 3.15 p.m. to Mumbai. The second special flight of Air India, also an Airbus A 320 aircraft landed at 2.54 p.m. from Mumbai and departed with 83 US-bound passengers (82 adults and one infant) at 3.51 p.m. to Mumbai. Both operated as domestic flights and passengers were serviced from the main terminal building. As per the itinerary, passengers were to be further connected with Delta Airlines from Mumbai to their final destination. The evacuation was done by the US Consulate in coordination with the TS government.
13 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||We don’t interfere with administration, says RSS||In a statement on Sunday, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) said that its workers would not interfere with the administration and proceed with activities after getting permission. RSS State secretary Kacham Ramesh said its workers joined hands with other organisations in villages and localities and government agencies during crises. During the lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic, help to 25,000 in 369 places was provided. He said IDs of people were not checked and permission was taken from authorities. “RSS Swayamsevaks do not interfere with the work of the administration and perform activities only after getting proper and full concurrence from the local administration,” it said. Rachakonda Police Commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat confirmed to The Hindu that RSS karyakartas had approached the police to volunteer. However, they were sent back and no permission was accorded to them to volunteer near Gudur checkpoint on April 9.
13 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Telugu student shot at in USA||A Telugu student in the US was shot at in St. Louis on April 9 and is in a critical condition. The student, Dheeraj Kumar Reddy Dega hailing from Nellore and pursuing his Masters at Eastern Illinois University was allegedly shot at while returning from a gas station. Police suspect that it was armed robbery attempt. The incident came to light after his childhood friend Kishore Chittamuru posted on gofundme.com requesting financial support for his friend. He said Dheeraj went to the USA in January this year to pursue Masters after working in Bangalore as a software engineer. So far, US$ 178,690 has been raised as against the goal of $250,000.
13 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||DRDO hands over face masks, body suits to hospitals||Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) labs in Hyderabad handed over around 8,000 full cover reusable face masks, 70 protective body suits and 50 aerosol boxes to ESIC, Gandhi and other hospitals. Another 1,000 masks were handed over to the DGP. Previously, over 550 litres of sanitisers were distributed to the police and other essential services team members.
13 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CMR group donates Rs 25 lakhs to CMRF||CMR Group of Institutions secretary and correspondent Ch. Gopal Reddy donated Rs. 25 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF). The cheque was handed over to IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao at Pragati Bhavan by Mr. Gopal Reddy on behalf of CMR colleges that offer engineering, management, pharmacy and other professional courses.
13 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SR Educational Academy donates Rs. One crore to CMRF||SR Educational Academy’s Warangal director Anangadula Santosh Reddy donated Rs. 1 crore to the CMRF. The cheque was handed over to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao at Pragati Bhavan. SR Engineering College director Madhukar Reddy donated Rs. 25 lakh to the CMRF and the cheque was given to IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao.
13 April 2020||IDA BOLLARAM (SANGAREDDY),TELANGANA||Migrant labourers left in a state of despondency||Neerudi Sunitha and Neerudi Kruparani hail from a village near Markapuram in Prakasam district of Andhra Pradesh. While Kruparani has a six-month-old baby, Sunitha has a one-and-half-year-old boy. Both the infants are malnourished. Their families migrated here to Kishtareddypet village in Ameenpur mandal to work in the construction of a building about two months ago. A few weeks after their arrival lockdown was announced and they are unable to earn even a penny. “My child needs milk powder as I cannot feed him sufficiently. As there is no work we are not in a position to buy it. The government officials have not come here so far. We do not know what to do,” Kruparani told The Hindu . She dreads the extension of lockdown and wonders when their lives would become normal. No food Aubothorao and Gulab Hussain, who have migrated from Jalpaiguri in West Bengal, had no food on Friday as the rations got over. Dasharath, a watchman and their neighbour, extended them Rs. 500 to buy rice and pulses. The case of Dhiraj Kumar Prasad and Aman Kumar is not much different. They migrated from Bihar and are staying here at IDA Bollaram, a few hundred metres away from the police station. They claimed that more than 300 people from Bihar, Odisha, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh have been residing here in four buildings. “Since the lockdown, no government official has visited here and we do not know the reason. Though it was stated that migrants from other States without ration cards would also be extended assistance, it has not reached us so far. Those having ration cards are being sent away by authorities from Bollaram to Bachupally and vice versa,” said Dhiraj Kumar. What about their families back home? “Too pathetic. We have to earn money and send them. Without that survival is a problem for them. Now we are in a completely helpless condition,” said another elderly person from the group who gathered there.
13 April 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Social distancing goes for a toss||Social distancing norms to check the spread of COVID-19 are going for a toss with people crowding and jostling against each other to get essential commodities distributed by Karimnagar Dairy to the needy in Karimnagar on Sunday. The distribution programme was formally launched by Minister for BC Welfare and Civil Supplies Gangula Kamalakar and TS Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar at Indira Chowk on Sunday. As the news spread, over 3,000 auto drivers gathered at the chowk to collect the packets since morning. None of them maintained social distancing in spite of the huge banners and posters erected there to make them aware of the norm. Policemen were helpless in controlling the crowd. Even the volunteers, who were solely appointed for ensuring social distancing at shopping malls, markets and huge gatherings, failed to do their duty. After seeing the surging crowd, the Minister and TS Planning Board VC left the venue.
13 April 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Youth rapes minor girl||The brutal rape of a nine-year-old girl by an 18-year-old youth at a village near Tirumalayapalem mandal headquarters town on Saturday night triggered outrage among women activists, who demanded speedy trial and harshest punishment to the offender. Sources said that the girl’s parents had gone out to attend the funeral of a close relative leaving her at home in the care of her grandmother when the horrific incident took place. The youth, a labourer, took the girl to the terrace of the house on the pretext of taking pictures on his mobile phone and allegedly raped her. When the frightened girl screamed, the neighbours rushed to the spot and found the girl bleeding profusely. The accused managed to flee under the cover of darkness. The girl was rushed to the District Headquarters Hospital in Khammam the same night. Her condition was stated to be stable. The Tirumalayapalem police registered a case against the youth under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and launched a hunt to nab him. Meanwhile, All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) district secretary M. Bharathi and two other women activists on Sunday visited the victim at the hospital here and inquired about her health condition. In a statement, Ms. Bharathi demanded that exemplary punishment be given to the rape offender for committing the heinous offence. She deplored that the horrific rape incident exposed the “unabated” incidents of crimes against women and girls in various parts of the country even during the nationwide lockdown period.
13 April 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||UAE to allow NRIs to return home||The United Arab Emirates government has made cleared the travel back to home country by non-resident Indians (NRI) working in the UAE. However, the Indian Embassy in the UAE has clarified that no NRI would be able to return in view of the ongoing lockdown in force in the country. Indian Ambassador to the UAE Pavan Kapoor said that Government of India was not ready to invite the expatriates into the country at this time when the lockdown was in force. In view of the health safety of residents of the country and also expatriates this decision was taken and therefore all Indian expatriates should stay back wherever they were now, he said in a statement. Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of the UAE released a Note Verbale on Saturday evening in the name of UAE Ambassador to India Abdul Rahman Ahmed Albanna and immediately after that the Indian Embassy in the UAE issued the note, according to Patkuri Basanth Reddy, president, Gulf Telangana Welfare and Cultural Association (GTWCA). COVID-19 negative In the message Mr. Albanna, said that the UAE has sent such messages to all the embassies. However, only those who tested COVID-19 negative would be allowed to travel to their countries. He also said that in his country excellent testing facilities were available and over 5 lakh people were already tested. Quoting Albanna, Mr. Basanth Reddy said that the UAE was examining the case of migrant workers who were stuck in the Gulf country in the wake of lockdown with a humanitarian view and would make arrangements to send them to their countries. The same message was published in the Gulf newspapers on Sunday, Mr. Reddy said and added that about 4 lakh migrant workers and employees from India were working in the UAE.
13 April 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Birdbaths set up to quench thirst of birds||In order to quench the thirst of the birds during this summer season, the Municipal authorities have started installing water-filled clay pots for the birds all along the dividers, municipal parks and other public places in the textile town on Sunday. Following the instructions of Collector D Krishna Bhaskar, Municipal Commissioner V. Sammaiah had taken up the cause of erecting the clay-pots on the trees grown on the dividers.
13 April 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||WhatsApp group to help migrants||Abhishek Satinder is a native of Gorakhpur in UP. Along with five others, he came here in January to work as a painter while others are doing carpentry and other works, leaving their families at native places. But the Janata Curfew on March 22 and the subsequent lockdown turned their life upside down, literally. They have been paying a rent of Rs. 9,000 for two rooms at Hafeezpet. Presently the cash in hand has literally come down to almost zero and they are lacking rations. This is one of the several cases which was referred to 9985833725, a coronavirus lockdown Telangana helpline initiated by a group of individuals spread across the State on Wednesday For all the 10 erstwhile districts they have formed WhatsApp groups to share information and chip in if required. Those active in the group are also making following up with the officials concerned in getting the rations or addressing other issues. They are also collecting the phone numbers of the needy and sharing it in the group so that any one interested can contact them and help them. Eleven families from Hingoli district in Maharashtra had migrated at Lingupally village in Mirdoddi mandal and got stuck. Some locals pooled money and extended them rations and vegetables. “We have been receiving about 50 calls every day and majority of them are for rations. Many migrants have no ration cards and hence are unable to get the rations. The assistance of Rs. 500 per person along with 12 kg rice is yet to reach many people. We are tracing people lacking rations and trying to address the issues with the help of officials and locals,” B. Kondal Reddy, one of the organisers said. He said they are trying to address the problems of migrants and those without ration cards.
13 April 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||In a move to meet the medical requirements of the needy, the district administration will start a telemedicine facility at the headquarters hospital on Monday. People can call 7093324551 to use the service that will have About 50 doctors. Collector M. Hanumantha Rao said this at a teleconference on Sunday.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Leading from the front in crisis times||Amid growing concerns about the coronavirus epidemic, one officer walked the talk and his work has emerged as a template to other districts in Telangana. Swiftly identifying the fast enveloping coronavirus in the minority-dominated area in Karimnagar town, Collector K. Shashanka, nipped it in the bud. His target approach with identification, classification, testing and quarantine has become a ‘war manual’ in the fight against the COVID-19. This has earned him encomiums from no less a person than Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and other senior bureaucrats in the matrix of power. Mr. Shashanka had shown how every person in the wheel of administration can be galvanised to address the disasters efficiently without losing any time. Right from supervising distribution of vegetables, groceries and other necessities to the households in the containment area, the IAS officer of 2013 batch has ensured that there was no need for the people in the affected area to leave their homes. Public representatives were conspicuous by their absence when the Collector was moving in the designated ‘Red Zone’ leaving the administration unfettered to enforce a lockdown when there was none across the nation. However, Mr. Shashanka modestly acknowledges the right inputs and well-calibrated exhibition by the district administration helped contain the spread of the pandemic.    As a saying in Telugu goes nothing that cannot inspire poetry (‘ kadedi kavitaku anarham ’), some sections in society never miss an opportunity to garner publicity no matter what the situation is. The coronavirus pandemic has every section being put to hardship in some measure or the other. Irrespective of whether one belong to the sections in power or opposition, everybody is showing their largesse and large heartedness by distributing the essentials to the needy sections. Irrespective of whether their gesture is genuine or not, one common feature among all such compassion for the have nots in the present times of crisis is their craving for publicity. Except those engaged in such humane activity for long, all others are flooding the media organisations, particularly the print ones, with their daily routine now (distributing essentials) with a request for allocating some space for their work — publicity!    The Central government drew flak from the state governments and other stakeholders for a recent circular issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. There is a strong reason behind the criticism. The circular said the contributions made to the PM-CARES for the fight against coronavirus came under the ambit of corporate social responsibility (CSR) spending. But the same was not applicable to the contributions made to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund of the States. The Ministry has not explained the reasons as to why the CMRF contributions have not been brought under the CSR spending. The notification comes as a time when the Centre’s relations with some States at least are said to be not well. Hopefully, the Ministries will henceforth give adequate clarifications for their notifications, those pertaining to sensitive issues like relief funds.  (Abhinay Deshpande,   B. Chandrashekhar and   M. Rajeev)
13 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||In a single day, Delhi records 5 deaths, 85 new COVID-19 cases||The Capital on Sunday recorded five deaths and 85 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total number of deaths to 24 and the cumulative cases to 1,154, the government said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the rise in the number of cases here over the past few days was a worrying trend and the government would be launching a “massive” sanitation drive from April 13 across the city’s red and orange zones. The government has declared containment zones as red zones and the high-risk zones as orange zones. 10 high-tech machines Mr. Kejriwal said the sanitation drive will be carried out by 10 high-tech Japanese machines. He added that each machine can sanitise 20,000 sqm in one hour. Along with this, 50 small machines will be procured from the Delhi Jal Board. “We are taking all measures possible to control the crisis and I am sure that our strategy ‘operation shield’will be successful. We implemented this strategy in Dilshad Garden and no new COVID-19 positive cases have been found in that area,” he said, adding that the number of containment zones has grown to 35 — where operation shield will be in place. “I understand that this is causing a hindrance to the people but I want to assure them that we will do whatever we can to ease out their difficulties. We have to take these measures to ensure all our people are safe and secure and protected from the virus. In the U.S., there have been 2,000 deaths in 24 hours, we do not want to face the same situation,” said Mr. Kejriwal. Monetary relief Announcing the details of how the government plans to distribute monetary relief to autorickshaw drivers, gramin and phat-phat sewa and taxi as promised earlier, Mr. Kejriwal said all those who have a valid driver’s license and valid driver’s badge, will start getting relief assistance. “We are providing them relief assistance of Rs. 5,000 each to help their families in these distressing times. Drivers will have to submit their applications on the Transport Department’s websitetransport.gov.inand provide the government with their Aadhaar-linked bank account number and other details,” the Chief Minister said.
13 April 2020||New Delhi,||Women foreign prisoners demand relaxation of parole norms||As many as 54 women foreign nationals lodged in Tihar jail have written to the High Powered Committee (HPC), which was constituted after the Supreme Court’s orders, claiming discrimination against them after the parole and interim bail norms for Indian prisoners were relaxed in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak. “We humbly pray that at this crucial time we should not be discriminated against. The benefit of parole/interim bail/remission may be extended to all of us. We too are humans and are at risk of contracting COVID-19,” stated the representation made to the HPC, chaired by Justice Hima Kohli. The representation, made through advocate Ajay Verma, also highlighted that, “there are many foreign women (lodged inside of the Jail No. 6 of Central Jail Tihar) medically ill, who are most vulnerable and have serious risk of infection of corona”. They urged the HPC to consider relaxing the norms for interim release or emergency parole in view of the risks. No relaxation Recently, the HPC relaxed the criteria for the release of undertrial prisoners on interim bail from Delhi jails. The HPC, however, recommended that the under-trial prisoners, who are foreign nationals, will not be given the relaxation. Recently, the Delhi High Court ordered the city government to release undertrial prisoners (UTPs), who are unable to furnish surety bond, on their furnishing a personal bond to decongest jails during the COVID-19 lockdown. The decision was taken after the Supreme Court took up the issue of overcrowding of prisons, as a matter of serious concern, pursuant to the spread of COVID-19 across the globe and it is declared as a pandemic by the World Health Organization. Mr. Verma, in a letter to the HPC, said that the foreign national women lodged in Central Jail No. 6 after learning that they have been excluded from the easing of the parole and interim bail norms panicked and “...raised the issue with the Superintendant...”. They then decided to make a collective representation before the HPC, he said. After the easing of the norms, the HPC was apprised by D.G (Prisons) that the Jail Population has come down from 17,552 as on March 25 to 16,179 as on April 7. On complete implementation of the new criteria, the number would further come down.  We humbly pray that at this crucial time we should not be discriminated against. The benefit of parole/interim bail/remission may be extended to all of us. We too are humans and are at risk of contracting COVID-19 Letter to HPC reads
13 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Odd-even scheme for shops to fixed timings, Azadpur mandi under watch||In order to maintain social distancing at Delhi’s largest wholesale fruit and vegetable market — Azadpur mandi, the police have deployed drones for surveillance, implemented odd-even rules and also fixed timings for sale of items, said officials on Sunday. DCP (North-West) Vijayanta Arya said, to channelise the movement inside the market, entry is allowed only for traders or bulk buyers. “Shops with odd and even numbers will operate on alternate days. There will also be fixed timings — 6-11 a.m. for the sale of vegetables and 2-6 p.m. for the sale of fruits. We have deployed police personnel on round-the-clock duty and drones will keep a watch on violations, if any,” said Mr. Arya. The police said civil defence volunteers have also been roped in for the task and officials are mulling over staggered timings for traders and buyers to avoid overcrowding. With help from the Delhi government and the civil administration, several measures have been taken to make sure that people practice social distancing in Keshopur, Azadpur, Ghazipur and Mehrauli mandis, said Delhi Police PRO Mandeep Singh Randhawa on Sunday. “We have spoken to officer-bearers of mandis and proper arrangements have been made to ensure social distancing,” he said, adding officials are deployed at all major mandis from early morning till the markets close. In west Delhi’s Keshopur Mandi, suppliers and buyers have been strictly directed to adhere to social distancing guidelines to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the police said. Restrictions imposed Two inspectors with a team of local police and a company of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) are deployed in the market daily, they said. Strong pickets have been erected on the road in front of the mandi to restrict entry of unauthorised persons, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Deepak Purohit. No vehicle is allowed to enter without a valid entry pass and action will be taken against violators, he said, adding ID cards of vendors and buyers are checked at the entrance. “Vendors have set up their fruit and vegetable stalls at proper distance from each other. Authorities have been requested to remove stray animals from mandi,” Mr. Purohit said. Spots have been marked in front of stalls to indicate where buyers should stand, the police said. Banners and posters have been erected at strategic locations across the market to create awareness about social distancing, they added. Officials also said announcements are being made repeatedly to remind visitors of the directions, they added. As many as 20 civil defence volunteers, among others, have been deployed to ensure that people follow the directions, the police said. They said they have asked the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) to consider introducing staggered timings for traders and buyers to decongest the market. While traders can function from 5 a.m. to 12 noon, buyers can visit from 12 p.m. to 7 p.m, they said. The closing of Keshopur mandi for two days to sanitise the premises is also being considered, they added. South Delhi’s Mehrauli Mandi has been relocated to a bus terminal to ensure vendors maintain social distancing, said DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. “Markings have been made and a meeting was held with the mandi’s pradhan to ensure social distancing,” he said.
13 April 2020||New Delhi,||Seven held for setting ablaze 3 night shelters||Seven men have been arrested for allegedly setting ablaze three shelter homes near Kashmiri Gate, the police said on Sunday. The incident took place at 6 p.m. on Saturday following which five fire tenders were rushed to the spot, they said, adding that no one was injured. A case was registered under sections of rioting, assault on public servant and damage to public property, a senior officer said. 14-day custody The arrested men have been sent to a 14-day judicial custody, the officer said, adding the people from the shelter homes are being shifted to other areas. The police said the accused were among the people who created ruckus earlier in the day over the death of a man, who stayed in one of the shelter homes. The man had allegedly jumped into the Yamuna on Friday after hewas asked to maintain social distance while standing in a queue for getting food. A body was recovered from the river on Saturday morning. A day before the fire incident, the residents at the shelter and civil defence volunteers clashed over “food distribution”.
13 April 2020||New Delhi,||Labourers from Bengal demand to be sent home||Migrant labourers from West Bengal, staying in Vishwas Nagar here since the start of the lockdown, on Sunday in a video appealed to authorities to help them return home. ‘No provision made’ “We Bengalis came to Delhi to earn a livelihood but because of this epidemic, we are stuck in this lockdown...,” said Fazlur Rehman, a labourer. Surrounded by 20 other labourers, he added: “The government has not made any provision to get us back home.” Fazlur said the if authorities did not help them reach their homes safely, they will not stay back in the city. “If something happens to us here, who will be responsible for it and who will take care of us,” he said. Medical check-ups The labourers said they are willing to undergo medical check-ups as long as they get the opportunity to meet their families. “We assure you we will take care of ourselves and our families’ safety and take all precautions,” said Fzalur.
13 April 2020||New Delhi,||Five ex-staff of hospital move HC against sacking||A plea has been moved in the Delhi High Court by five former support staff of St. Stephens Hospital Healthcare Facility, challenging the institute’s decision to sack them from its Gurugram branch. The petition contended that the decision was taken without giving any notice or opportunity to hear them. The decision was taken on March 30 by the management of the hospital, which is located at Tis Hazari here, as it was closing its Gurugram branch, the plea said, adding no one else was terminated. The petitioners have contended that the decision was in violation of the advisories issued by the Labour Ministry on March 20 and March 23 which had “specifically directed that persons engaged contractually or casually with either public or private establishments not be terminated during the COVID-19 outbreak”.
13 April 2020||New Delhi,||Eight persons apprehended for religious gathering||Eight persons have been apprehended for allegedly gathering at a gurdwara in violation of the lockdown orders in north Delhi's Kotwali on Sunday, the police said. A police team on patrol duty found that a group of people was performing religious activities at Gurdwara Sisganj at 2.15 am, they said. Tried to flee spot After seeing policemen, the people there tried to flee the spot but they were apprehended, a senior officer said. Following the incident, a case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code were registered against them at Kotwali police station, the officer added. Not wearing masks The eight apprehended were also not wearing masks, the police said.
13 April 2020||New Delhi,||City churches livestream Easter mass||The Sacred Heart Cathedral Church here let people celebrate Easter Vigil on Saturday night under the COVID-19 lockdown by live-telecasting the mass and the rituals as clergymen sent out a message of hope. “Everything was the same, except no one came to the church,” said Father Lawrance, from the church. Over 4,000 people tuned in to watch the telecast. The church has been carrying out masses online every day, he said. Clergymen and Archbishop Anil Cuto sent out a message of resilience and hope, the central idea of Easter, said Father Lawrence. On Sunday too, the mass was held. At Cathedral Church of Redemption, Easter Mass was carried out in Tamil and Hindi.
13 April 2020||New Delhi,||Foreign national stopped by police for not wearing mask||A foreign national was stopped by the police for allegedly not wearing a mask while cycling in Vasant Vihar here, said officials on Sunday. The incident took place at 6.30 p.m. on Saturday at Paschimi Marg, they said. The government has made it compulsory for people to wear masks when they step outside their houses, in a bid to check the spread of COVID-19.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||At a crossroad||
13 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Ban on Meru Jatra festival||Odisha’s Ganjam district administration has banned the Meru Jatra festival and congregations related to it at temples on the occasion of Mahavishub Sankranti on Monday. Meru Jatra marks the end of 21-day-long festival of penance named ‘Danda Nata’. Mahavishub Sankranti is also start of the Odia New Year. On this day, thousands of devotees used to gather at the Tara Tarini hill shrine and other temples. Ganjam District Collector Vijay Amruta Kulange on Sunday directed that no temple will be opened up for Meru Jatra. Only one priest will be allowed to enter each temple to perform the rituals. Earlier, the administrations had banned the famous Chaitra festival at Tara Tarini hill shrine that attracts lakhs of devotees.  ‘Action against violators’ The Collector advised citizens to remain in their homes and use social distancing to break the chain of COVID-19 spread. According to him, strict legal action will be initiated against persons, who break the lockdown rules and restrictions imposed on Meru Jatra on Monday. The administration in March had banned ‘Danda Nata’ as its troupes moving around could have become carriers of COVID-19 infection.
13 April 2020||Bhopal,||‘Remove fear from mind, don’t lose confidence’||After trumping COVID-19, Rajesh Aswara is eager to return to the isolation ward of the M.Y. Hospital. The fear evoked by the disease, he has defeated it with grit. And going back to duty as a male nurse now, he can tell others how he became the first in Indore to do it. “Now that I have overcome corona, I am more confident and want to help others combat it,” said Mr. Aswara, 48. Not that he was spooked tending to swine flu patients earlier, who flooded the chest ward where he has been working for six years. “But I am much more stronger now,” he chuckles. To all nurses across the world, he says: “First of all, remove fear from your minds. Second, treat a patient only with a personal protective equipment(PPE) kit on. Don’t work without it.” Not wearing a kit, while treating a COVID-19 patient, proved him dear. “I wore just a mask and gloves,” he said. The patient was among the first cases to be reported from Indore on March 22. Until 25 March each day, when the patient died, he helped her put on a face mask, checked vitals and fed her. “I am not sure how I got the illness from her. Just by touching an infected person, you could get it. As so many people are dying across the world and there is no treatment discovered yet, just the mention of it spooked me back then,” he said. And on March 26, his worst fear came true. After being told he had tested positive for the illness, his limbs trembled for a good 15 minutes. Passing the first day at the ward was the toughest, as his cough turned a sombre blackish. For several days, he slept for only two hours, walked in an empty ward next door feverishly hours at night. And with two-three patients dying of the disease at the hospital every day, he feared: Kahi agla number mera toh nahi? (Am I going to be the next?) His family back in Rajasthan’s Dungarpur district, insisted they come the moment they heard the news, despite the lockdown, and gave up meals. “They cried, cried a lot,” he recalled. He kept it hidden from them for two days, pretending he was home all the while. “But my relatives staying in the same street here told them,” he said. Even his landlord’s sons and neighbours called, to his surprise, to ask after him.  Motivated by doctors When he began losing hope, doctors motivated him to not give up, nurses prayed for him, he prayed for himself, ate heartily and on time and “just followed properly every instruction of doctors.” Besides, he inhaled steam 10 times a day and drank warm water, and took paracetamol, vitamin tablets to boost immunity and hydroxychloroquine tablets. “All this, and the courage to let go of fear, not give up and be confident in fighting the infection kept me going,” he said.
13 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||12 new cases in Punjab, State tally climbs to 170||Punjab on Sunday reported 12 fresh cases of COVID-19, taking the total tally to 170 in the State, according to a government statement. The State health department said out of the twelve cases reported on April 12, seven cases are from Jalandha district, while three are from Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar. One case each has been reported from Kapurthala and Faridkot districts. Till now, Punjab has seen 12 COVID-19 related deaths, while 23 patients have been cured of the virus. Meanwhile, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder on the eve of Baisakhi festival said it was necessary for all to stay at home and observe the occasion with prayers for the total elimination of the virus from the State. Strict enforcement Pointing to the global crisis, the Chief Minister said the situation was relatively better in Punjab, and in fact across India, due to the early lockdown-curfew and its strict enforcement. Captain Amarinder said all arrangements were in place for wheat harvesting, set to commence on April 15, and promised another season of smooth procurement, in line with his government’s track record, not just now but even in the previous stint.  Economic revival Underlining the need to give serious thought to the way ahead, the Chief Minister said the task force, set up to work out the curfew exit strategy, will submit its report within 10 days, and a high-powered committee, to be headed by a leading finance expert, would work on ways for economic and industrial revival of the State. In the Union Territory of Chandigarh, two fresh cases were reported, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 21, an official statement said.  Task force set up to work out curfew exit strategy will submit its report within 10 days Amarinder SinghPunjab CM
13 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||COVID-19 fear: Man jumps to death in U.P.||A 32-year-old man ended his life by jumping off the seventh floor of Galgotia Engineering College quarantine centre in Gautam Buddh Nagar on Sunday evening, an official release said. A statement issued by the District Magistrate Suhas L.Y. said the person was a resident of Phase 2 Noida and his report of COVID-19 was awaited. “He jumped off the seventh floor of the quarantine centre. A magisterial inquiry has been ordered to investigate the case,” he said. A video of the incident that was circulated on social media showed the health department workers trying to resuscitate the man. According to official sources 346 persons have been quarantined at the centre.
13 April 2020||Guwahati,||1,450 arrested in Assam||Over 1,450 persons have been arrested across the State in the last 19 days for violating the ongoing lockdown to contain COVID-19, the Assam police said on Sunday. A sum of nearly Rs. 40 lakh was collected from the arrested persons as fine for violating the norms of the lockdown, the police said.
13 April 2020||JAIPUR,||‘Modified lockdown’ should be enforced after April 14: Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday suggested that a “modified lockdown” could be enforced beyond April 14, when the present spell of nationwide lockdown comes to an end, to enable the States to utilise their internal resources for bringing the economy back on track. “My thinking is that a modified lockdown should come into force. To what extent it can happen, depends on the Central government,” Mr. Gehlot said at an interaction with journalists through video conferencing at his residence here. Mr. Gehlot said the States could open up some sectors and allow movement of vehicles to restart limited services and agricultural value chain operations, but added that the inter-State transport would be possible only with the Centre's cooperation. He affirmed that the States had weakened under the impact of lockdown. “It is easy to announce a lockdown, which stops everything, but it is a bigger challenge to end the lockdown and bring the life back on rails,” Mr. Gehlot remarked while pointing out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had hinted at extending the lockdown during his meeting with Chief Ministers on Saturday. The Rajasthan government had announced the lockdown on March 21, three days before the nationwide lockdown was brought into force to contain the spread of COVID-19. Two task forces appointed by Mr. Gehlot on April 4 are examining the strategies for a phased withdrawal of the lockdown and for bringing the economy back to normal.  State toll reaches 9 Meanwhile, A 13-year-old girl died of COVID-19 infection in Jaipur on Sunday, taking Rajasthan's toll to nine. Health Department says she had complaints of intestine perforation and septicaemia. The number of positive cases in the State increased to 804 with the detection of 104 new cases.
13 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. will follow Centre’s move on curbs: CM||The Uttar Pradesh government will follow the guidelines of the Centre on further action on the lockdown beyond April 14, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday. Meanwhile, the number of positive cases in UP touched 483 as per the State directorate of health services. Five persons have died in U..P of COVID-19 so far, one each in Basti, Meerut, Varanasi, Agra and Bulandshahr. The State has so far sent 11,855 samples for testing and put 8,836 persons under institutional quarantine. After a meeting with his Ministers, Mr. Adityanath said U.P. will follow the guidelines of the Centre on the lockdown. “ Lockdown ke bare mein agay ki karyawahi kya hoti hai, bharat sarkar ki jo guideline jo ayegi uska anupalan hum log Uttar Pradesh mein karenge (On the further action on the lockdown, in U.P. we will follow the guideline issued by the Centre),” Mr. Adityanath said.
13 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Architects against Delhi master plan revamp||Several architects have objected to the Delhi Development Authority’s proposed amendment to the Master Plan of Delhi-2021 that would enable intensive development along mass rapid transit system (MRTS) corridors in Lutyens’ Delhi, Chanakyapuri, Civil Lines and regulated zones near monuments — all areas that are currently excluded from the “influence zones” of MRTS corridors. The DDA had on February 28 issued a public notice inviting comments on its draft amendment of the master plan, giving 45 days to respond. With that time coming to an end on Sunday, architects raised concerns about the process itself as well as the impact of the amendment on the Capital’s heritage. The master plan says that the Transit Oriented Development (TOD) policy would be used for all development in the influence zones of MRTS corridors, “such that maximum number of people can live, work or find means of recreation within walking or cycling distance of the MRTS corridors or stations”. The current version of the master plan excludes the Lutyens’ Bungalow Zone (LBZ), Chankyapuri, Civil Lines Bungalow Zone and Monument Regulated Zone (as per Archaeological Survey of India guidelines) from the influence zones, however, the amendment proposes deleting the relevant clauses. “The modifications to the TOD policy will have far reaching implications on the urban character of the LBZ. The Indian Institute of Architects, Northern Chapter, has followed a consultative process, among its members, before submitting any comments to the government on such issues. Due to the nationwide lockdown, this has not been possible. We would request the DDA to extend the deadline for submitting suggestions or objections,” IIA Northern Chapter chairman Shamit Manchanda told The Hindu . Anuj Srivastava, an architect who is a part of the LokPATH India collective that started an online campaign to send objections to the DDA, said the draft amendments also removed the reservation for economically weaker section (EWS) residents. He said the TOD policy was meant to create inclusive spaces where people can live and work in the same areas, but this was being negated by the amendments. Instead of EWS housing, expensive studio apartments could come up, he said. As of Sunday evening, over 480 people had used the online platform, LetIndiaBreathe, to send their comments to the DDA. Narayan Moorthy, another architect associated with LokPATH, said the amendment diluted the TOD policy by removing the clause reserving 20% of the land to be redeveloped for public spaces. He added that since the TOD policy of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs was a national policy, the DDA’s amendments could set a precedent for other cities.
13 April 2020||RAGHURAJPUR (ODISHA),||Heritage crafts village in Odisha wears a deserted look||On any given day, residents of this tiny Odisha village would greet tourists with open arms and invite each one of them to pay a quick visit to their house for appreciating intricate paintings done on strips of cotton cloth. But, now arrival of even a casual visitor raises eyebrows here. Tourists, the foundation of livelihood for 140-odd families of Raghurajpur, are no longer welcomed. The heritage crafts village that was often teeming with visitors has fallen silent. COVID-19 pandemic has robbed the livelihood of the artists here. “Perhaps for the first time in the history of our village, we have put a blockade prohibiting entry of tourists. It was a collective decision of villagers to stay safe,” said Prakash Mohapatra, a 33-year-old artist. Making of Pattachitras, traditional paintings in which mythological, religious stories and folk lore are told through intricate canvasing, has been principal vocation of most villagers here. On an average, an artist sells paintings worth Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 20,000 per month – enough to lead a simple life in the village. The paintings’ trade had recently picked up after it was badly impacted by last year’s cyclone Fani that had spoiled many artworks. Following the cyclone, visitors had also stopped visiting the village till normalcy returned. Many argue that the health crisis has provided the much needed break for producing more Pattachitras. But, 64-year-old award winning artist Dinabandhu Mohapatra does not agree. “The silence is killing our creativity as well as the skill. What if the Pattachitras remain unsold, will the government come to our rescue? These questions make us perturbed,” the veteran artist said. Artists claim many villagers are landless. Though the government has provided rice, old age and widow pensions and Rs. 1,000 each, the artists are uncertain about their future. “We can ill-afford to earn less. Villagers want an online platform through which their paintings could be sold and tourists may not come physically to buy products. In this way we can compensate the loss of productive days,” said Seema Behera, who is pursuing her bachelor’s degree and also helping her family in painting.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Harvest time||
13 April 2020||Rome,||Europe toll crosses 75,000 on grim Easter day||Billions around the world celebrated Easter Sunday from lockdown at home as the Pope urged solidarity to fight the COVID-19 pandemic and the European death toll from the virus topped 75,000. Unprecedented scenes of empty churches emerged from Italy to Panama and the Philippines, as religious leaders found creative ways to address parishioners marking the holiday weekend from the confines of their homes. Nore than half the world are in lockdown worldwide as governments scramble to halt the pandemic’s deadly march. The toll from the virus soared past 1,09,000 this weekend, with more than 1.7 million reported infections globally. Europe is by far the hardest-hit continent and on Sunday marked a grave milestone with more than 75,000 dead, according to an AFP tally. The U.S. was quickly emerging as a hotspot as well, and on Saturday marked its own grim landmark: more than 20,000 dead, out of around half a million infected. The U.S. now has the highest death toll and the most cases out of any country in the world. Celebrations indoors In Panama, an Archbishop blessed his nation from a helicopter, while worshippers in Spain blasted music from their balconies and U.S. President Donald Trump said he would be among those following Easter services online. In a church north of the Philippines capital Manila, hundreds of pictures of parishioners were taped to pews as a priest held a Sunday service to a near-empty room. As virus-tinged Easter celebrations were held worldwide, leaders in some hard-hit countries expressed cautious optimism the number of deaths and infections could be starting to peak. Spain saw its daily death toll drop for three days straight — but on Sunday reported a slight spike again with 619 fresh fatalities. And though Italy was nearing the 20,000 dead mark, its daily death toll and rate of new infections has started to level off. In France, newly reported coronavirus deaths fell by one-third from Friday to 635 on Saturday. “A very high plateau for the epidemic appears to have been reached, but the epidemic remains very active,” said French health official Jerome Salomon, urging people to remain vigilant. Ray of hope in U.S. In the United States, New Orleans and hardest-hit New York saw a slowdown in the number of new infections, deaths and hospitalisations, offer a shred of hope. U.S. President Donald Trump said this past week that the disease was near its peak in the U.S. and he was considering ways to re-open the world’s biggest economy as soon as possible. “We look like we’ll be coming in on the very, very low side, below the lowest side of the curve of death,” said Mr. Trump in an interview with Fox News. China, where the virus first emerged at the end of last year in the central city of Wuhan, has seen in increase in imported infections as it starts to ease strict lockdown measures this month.
13 April 2020||London,||Assange’s lawyer speaks up on relationship, children||WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange fathered two children with one of his lawyers while holed up in Ecuador’s Embassy in London for much of the past decade, according to a report on Sunday confirmed by the mother. The 48-year-old Australian is the dad of two boys, aged two and one, with lawyer Stella Morris, to whom he is engaged, she confirmed following a Mail on Sunday report. Mr. Assange is currently being held in London’s high security Belmarsh prison as he fights an extradition request by the United States to stand trial there on espionage charges. ‘We fell in love’ Ms. Morris detailed the revelations shortly after the report emerged, in a video posted on social media by Wikileaks chronicling her five-year relationship with Mr. Assange and the arrival of their two children. “We fell in love,” she said in the nearly 12-minute film, outlining how the romance began in 2015 — three years into his seven-year stay at the Ecuadorian Embassy in central London. “This is the person... I know the most in this world — he’s extraordinary,” the South African-born lawyer said. Ms. Morris said she wanted to speak out now fearing Mr. Assange’s life “might be coming to an end” due to his continued detention and the spread of coronavirus. Jennifer Robinson, one of Mr. Assange’s lawyers in Britain who introduced the pair to each other in 2011, according to Ms. Morris, also confirmed that they were a family. She said a statement by Ms. Morris outlining the situation had been cited as evidence in a failed court bid last month to get Mr. Assange bailed to avoid catching COVID-19. “Despite her statement about their family and the medical evidence about the severe risk to Assange’s health, the judge refused bail and refused to grant her and the children anonymity,” said Ms. Robinson. The British government plans to allow some prisoners temporary release, amid fears COVID-19 could sweep through jails, but a judge rejected the request on March 25, saying there were “no grounds” for his release. Mr. Assange faces charges under the U.S. Espionage Act. A ruling could see him jailed for 175 years. He ensconced himself in the Ecuadoran embassy in 2012 after skipping bail to avoid separate legal proceedings in Sweden, but was finally dragged out last year. He reportedly conceived the first child with Ms. Morris in 2016, according to the Mail on Sunday . Boys born in London Mr. Assange watched the birth of both children in London hospitals via live video-link and met the elder boy, named Gabriel, after he was smuggled into the Embassy, the newspaper said. Both boys are said to be British citizens and have reportedly visited their father in prison. “Forming a family was a deliberate decision to kind of break down those walls around him and imagine a life beyond,” Ms. Morris said. “While for many people it would seem insane to start a family in that context, for us it was the sane thing to do. Mr. Assange’s full extradition hearing is due to resume for three weeks in mid-May, when witnesses will be called and cross-examined, with an eventual ruling expected by August.
13 April 2020||Kabul,||Taliban set to release 20 prisoners||The Taliban said it would on Sunday release the first prisoners in a delayed exchange deal with the Afghan government — a potential breakthrough after the insurgents walked out of talks with Kabul last week. Also read: ‘No foreign-backed terror in Afghanistan’ The announcement comes as fears rose that an avenue for fragile peace talks between the two sides was being undercut by mounting disagreements over the prisoner swap. “Today, 20 prisoners of the Kabul administration will be released,” Taliban spokesman Suhail Shaheen said on Twitter, adding that the group would be handed over to representatives of the Red Cross in Kandahar. The Afghan government has pressed ahead with freeing hundreds of Taliban prisoners over the past week. The peace deal requires the Afghan government — which was not a signatory to the accord — to free up to 5,000 Taliban prisoners, and for the militants to release 1,000 pro-government captives in return. The exchange was supposed to have happened by March 10, allowing peace talks to begin, but has been beset with problems. Kabul has claimed the Taliban want 15 of their “top commanders” to be released, while the insurgents have accused Afghan authorities of needlessly wasting time. The Taliban cautioned that their decision to release a group of prisoners did not mean that the talks with Kabul were being restarted. “No the process is not back on, but this is a good will step by the [the Taliban] to accelerate the prisoners exchange process,” said insurgent spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid.
13 April 2020||London,||Johnson leaves hospital, thanks NHS||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson left hospital on Sunday and thanked the National Health Service (NHS) for saving his life, saying “things could have gone either way” for him as he battled COVID-19. Mr. Johnson, 55, was taken to St Thomas’ Hospital in central London on April 5, suffering from persistent symptoms of the disease. On April 6, he was moved into intensive care, where he remained until April 9. Also read: Coronavirus | Europe toll crosses 75,000 on grim Easter day “I have today left hospital after a week in which the NHS has saved my life, no question,” he said in a five-minute video message posted on Twitter from 10 Downing Street as the official death toll in Britain passed 10,000. He named and thanked the nurses who had cared for him, with a special mention for two of them, Jenny from New Zealand and Luis from Portugal, who he said had stood by his bedside for 48 hours “when things could have gone either way”. “The reason in the end my body did start to get enough oxygen was because for every second of the night they were watching and they were thinking and they were caring and making the intervention s I needed,” he said. Mr. Johnson will continue his recovery at Chequers, the official prime ministerial country residence northwest of London, his office said. “There were times last week that were very dark indeed. My heart goes out to all those in similar situations, worried sick about their loved ones,” his fiancée Carrie Symonds said on Twitter. “Today I’m feeling incredibly lucky.” Mr. Johnson thanked the public for following strict social distancing guidelines in place since March 23 and assured them their efforts were paying off.
13 April 2020||Dhaka,||Mujib assassination convict hanged||Bangladesh on Sunday executed a former military captain for his involvement in the 1975 coup in which the country’s founder Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman was assassinated, nearly four-and-a-half decades after the high profile massacre. Abdul Majed was hanged at 12.01 a.m. (local time), said Law Minister Anisul Huq. Inspector General of Prisons Brigadier General A.K.M. Mostafa Kamal Pasha at a media briefing in front of the jail said that the body would now be handed over to the family members for burial. Majed was arrested in Dhaka on Tuesday after hiding in India for nearly two-and-a-half decades. On Friday, Majed’s wife and four other relatives met him for nearly two hours in the prison. President Abdul Hamid on Thursday rejected his mercy plea, removing the last hurdle for his hanging. ‘Self-confessed killer’ A specialised police unit arrested Majed, one of the fugitive convicted Bangabandhu assassins, as he returned home after hiding for nearly two-and-half decades in India. Home Minister Asaduzzaman Khan Kamal said the “self confessed killer” was not only involved in Bangabandhu’s assassination but also took part in the subsequent killing of four national leaders in high security Dhaka Central Jail on November 3, 1975. He said previous reports indicated Majed was hiding in India but eventually he was arrested from Dhaka as he secretly returned last month. Majed is one of the six absconding ex-Army officers who were handed down capital punishment after trial in absentia . A prosecution lawyer said Majed told the court that he returned to Bangladesh on March 15 or 16. The convict, he said, claimed he managed to live secretly in Kolkata for the past 23 years.
13 April 2020||Colombo,||Sri Lanka Catholic church forgives Easter bombers||Sri Lanka’s Roman Catholic Church said on Sunday it had forgiven the suicide bombers behind the attacks that killed at least 279 people last Easter. Cardinal Malcolm Ranjith told an Easter mass that “we offered love to the enemies who tried to destroy us”. “We forgave them,” he said, adding that instead of retaliating, the nation’s Catholic minority had contemplated Jesus’s message of hope, and reduced tensions. The April 21 Easter Sunday bombers targeted three churches and three luxury hotels, killing at least 279 people and wounding 593. Last year, Cardinal Ranjith called for the government at the time to step down over its alleged failure to investigate an “international conspiracy” behind the attacks. The country’s then-police chief and Secretary to the Ministry of Defence have been charged with murder for allegedly not acting on intelligence about the attacks. Police have arrested 135 people in connection with the bombings, blamed on the National Thowheeth Jama’ath extremist group. They are yet to be charged.
13 April 2020||Colombo,||‘All dying due to virus will be cremated’||Sri Lanka made cremations compulsory for COVID-19 victims on Sunday, ignoring protests from the country’s minority Muslims who say it goes against Islamic tradition. Of the seven deaths from the infectious disease so far in the island nation, three were Muslims. The bodies were cremated by authorities despite protests from relatives. “The corpse of a person who has died or is suspected to have died, of... COVID-19 shall be cremated,” Health Minister Pavithra Wanniarachchi said on Sunday. The World Health Organisation has said victims “can be buried or cremated”.
13 April 2020||Dubai,||Dubai, April 12, 2020 (AFP) -||The United Arab Emirates (UAE) has launched an online marriage service. The Justice Ministry said on Sunday that citizens can set a date for an online wedding ceremony conducted via video link with a cleric after their paperwork is submitted and approved — also online.AFP
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Wanted, a collective national endeavour||The world’s biggest ever lockdown has now been extended. We do not know though if it has been helping us contain the spread of COVID-19. The Central government claims that if we had not locked down, we would have 800,000 infections by April 15, not the 8,000-plus at present. We are not told how these projections have been made; they seem to have been conjured out of thin air to justify the lockdown. We will in the end get the better of the virus. But how and at what cost? There is no toolbox on how to deal with COVID-19. Mistakes will be made but we should be able to admit failure, and change course when we have to. Who must give the cue? One, if there is a time for a national government, it is now. We are all in it together and representatives of all political parties should work together to deal with what we are told is the severest crisis since Independence. This is not the time to seek political gain, but a time when everyone will be more than willing to put aside their differences to tackle the crisis. The initiative has to come from the ruling party. If a national government is not acceptable to the Bharatiya Janata Party, then we should make a collective national effort. We must open our doors as wide as possible to advice from the best minds and most skilled persons, whoever they may be and wherever they might be, in the government and outside, political friends and enemies. Two, the Centre must have the State Governments as equal partners while taking decisions. The past week has seen a bit of a change, but it has taken weeks for the Centre to begin consulting the States. The most productive effort will be an equal partnership between the Centre and the States. Some States began preparation well before the Centre woke up to the seriousness of COVID-19. There is little so far that the States have been able to learn from the Centre, but there is much that the Centre can learn from the States, and the States from each other. The Prime Minister unilaterally decided to impose the three-week lockdown and it is now said that it is the States that wanted an extension. Are the States then to take the blame if the strategy does not succeed? Shun the centralisation Three, centralisation of decision-making in the Prime Minister’s Office is the worst thing in a country-wide crisis. So far everything has been centred around the Prime Minister. The Union Cabinet is only busy tweeting in support of the Prime Minister. The Health Minister is nowhere to be seen. A small group of hand-picked bureaucrats is taking all the major decisions and directing the response. This should not be so. Four, some forethought is advisable even in “big bang” decisions. We should have thought about Jaan bhi , Jahaan bhi (“Life and economy are both important”) before imposing the lockdown, not now three weeks later. We should not have messaged the lockdown as an act done in fear or as a “curfew” but as a difficult decision in which the government would be with the citizen right through. If it was cruel not to first assure the migrants that they would be supported during the lockdown, it has been worse not to have later quickly made amends. Open the fund tap Five, we can surely be more generous with how we can support the millions who have been brutally affected by the stop to most economic activity. Yet, it is amazing how stingy — yes, that is the word – the Centre has been so far with its relief measures. It should also be giving the States more resources for their health services and expanded welfare programmes. But it is unbelievable that even today the Centre is refusing to release the States’ share in Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenues. There have been many suggestions on how to ameliorate the immediate despair, repair the supply lines and fund what needs to be done now and in the future. If only the Centre had an open mind. Six, uncertainty and fear among the people calls for assurance from the highest levels on a regular basis, indeed every day, about what is being done. This would also signal that the Centre is sensitive to the difficulties that citizens are experiencing. The Centre can do this only if it sheds its dislike of the press, and not offer obfuscations by mid-level officials as is now happening. Yet, it went even further and asked the Supreme Court to place restrictions on how the media disseminates information on COVID-19. Compare this attitude with that of the Chief Minister of Kerala. Detailed daily press briefings have built confidence in the State Government’s efforts, so much so that the residents of Kerala have now shed their fear. In the process, a Chief Minister who was earlier seen as a polarising figure has united the State in this crisis, and he has come to be universally admired. Quell social tensions Seven, India must be unique in the world for increasing social tensions in such times. After many members of the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi were found infected, an intense wave of Islamophobia has swept the TV channels and social media. The Muslim community is blamed for waging a “corona jihad”. The result is social ostracism in parts of the country, economic boycotts and an open expression of hate. If the BJP leadership had used its enormous political capital to speak forcefully against this trend, the rabble-rousers would have fallen in line. Its silence should make us afraid of what is to come. Eight, the path we have chosen of lockdowns and containment to slow the transmission of COVID-19 may call for more (even if shorter) lockdowns in the future. An extended lockdown may make sense in an advanced economy where organised activity is the norm, but in India where there is so much of day-to-day survival and so little social security? Can our society cope with such an assault on the fabric of livelihoods? Is it not time to ask if the cure we are administering is going to be worse than the disease? Should we not begin to discuss alternatives? Unite for the reconstruction The economy cannot be operated with an off-on switch. It is going to be a long and hard process to rebuild the economy and rescue the livelihoods of millions of people in rural and urban India that have been weakened, if not destroyed altogether. That is why we need a collective national effort at reconstruction. Or were millions deprived of their daily earnings only so that COVID-19 would not spread to the clangers of pots and pans and lighters of candles, the more privileged among us? There are doctors, paramedics and accredited social health activists, or ASHAs, across the country who are working tirelessly. There are young medical graduates who have asked to work in COVID-19 wards. There are officials in the States who are working day in and day out on prevention and detection. We already have heroines like the nurse in Kerala who cared for an elderly COVID-19 couple, fell ill herself, recovered and now wants to rejoin duty. But there has been a larger failure of humanity in how the rest of us have responded. We can yet recover that humanity if the political leadership shows the way. The propaganda machine tells us that we have been doing well. Let us not be fooled. We are in the middle of a humanitarian disaster that would have been worse but for the efforts of the State governments. If we want to, we can still rise to meet the crisis. For that, we need a largeness of political vision that would enable a true collective effort at all levels of government and by all sections of society. C. Rammanohar Reddy is the Editor of the digital publication, The India Forum
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 and the crumbling world order||COVID-19 will fundamentally transform the world as we know it: the world order, its balance of power, traditional conceptions of national security, and the future of globalisation. The lethal combination of an interconnected world and a deadly virus without a cure is taking humanity into uncharted waters. When we emerge from the lockdown, we must be ready to confront new political and social realities. Crumbling world order The rampant spread of COVID-19 is also a failure of the contemporary world order and its institutions. The contemporary global order, whatever remains of the institutions created by the victors of World War II, was a hegemonic exercise meant to deal with isolated political and military crises and not serve humanity at large. COVID-19 has exposed this as well as the worst nativist tendencies of the global leadership in the face of a major crisis. That the United Nations Security Council took so long to meet (that too inconclusively) to discuss the pandemic is a ringing testimony to the UN’s insignificance. Regional institutions haven’t fared any better. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s SAARC initiative, curiously resurrecting a practically dead institution, was short-lived. The EU, the most progressive post-national regional arrangement, stood clueless when the virus spread like wildfire in Europe. Its member states turned inward for solutions: self-help, not regional coordination, was their first instinct. Brussels is the loser. All this is indicative of a deeper malaise: the global institutional framework is unrepresentative, a pawn in the hands of the great powers, cash-strapped, and its agenda is focused on high-table security issues. The global institutional architecture of the 1940s cannot help humanity face the challenges of the 2020s. Nothing less than a new social contract between states and the international system can save our future. One country that is likely to come out stronger from this crisis is China. Reports indicate that China has now managed the outbreak of COVID-19, and its industrial production is recovering even as that of every other country is taking a hit. The oil price slump will make its recovery even faster. When the greatest military power found itself in denial mode and the members of the EU were looking after their own interests, China appeared to use its manufacturing power to its geopolitical advantage. Beijing has offered medical aid and expertise to those in need; it has increased cooperation with its arch-rival Japan; and President Xi Jinping spoke to the UN Secretary General on how the international community can fight the virus. Its richest man, Jack Ma, has spearheaded the private sector’s fight against COVID-19. The Chinese propaganda machinery will magnify this. Chinese actions are a smart economic investment for geopolitical gains. This will aid Beijing’s claims to global leadership, push Huawei 5G trials as a side bargain, and showcase how the Belt and Road Initiative is the future of global connectivity. COVID-19 will further push the international system into a world with Chinese characteristics.  Neoliberal economic globalisation will have taken a major beating in the wake of the pandemic. Economists are warning of a global recession. Even as the virus is pushing back the ‘successes’ of neoliberal globalisation, globalisation’s political counterpart is found wanting in dealing with the situation. The first instinct of every major economy was to close borders, look inwards and localise. The pre-existing structural weakness of the global order and the COVID-19 shock will further feed states’ protectionist tendencies fueled by hypernationalism. A more inclusive global political and economic order is unlikely any time soon, if ever. Instead, as former National Security Adviser Shivshankar Menon warns, “we are headed for a poorer, meaner, and smaller world.” The ability of big corporations to dictate the production, stocks, supply chains and backup plans will be limited by increased state intervention to avoid unpredictable supply sources, avoid geopolitically sensitive zones, and national demands for emergency reserves. The profits of big corporations will reduce, and the demand for stability will increase. Some would gladly argue all this could potentially mean a retreat from hyperglobalisation and its attendant flaws. However, the assumption that COVID-19 will bring about a more balanced and inclusive form of economic and political globalisation is perhaps misplaced. State intervention in economic matters and protectionism are the easy way out, and that’s precisely what states will do once the crisis is over. It would be return of the ‘Licence Raj’ through the backdoor, not a push for inclusive and responsible globalisation with its associated political benefits. The state has failed in its inability to save us from the pandemic notwithstanding its tall claims about national security preparedness. And yet, the state has returned, with more power, legitimacy and surveillance technologies. In fact, the nervous citizenry will want the state to be omnipresent and omnipotent, no matter the consequences. The state, which was losing its influence to global economic forces, will return as the last refuge of the people in the coming age of mass disruption. With the severe beating that globalisation has taken, state-led models of globalisation and economic development would be preferred over (big) corporates-led globalisation. Will this enable some positive controls over the inherent deficiencies of globalisation? We will have to wait and see. But the more important question is whether the state has any incentive to take on big capital. Given the symbiotic relationship between the state and big capital, states have become used to protecting the interests of their corporations, often at the cost of the general public. Consider, for instance, that the first response of many Western states was to protect their capital markets than be concerned about public health. New-age racism Yet another undesirable outcome of the pandemic would be a spike in various forms of discrimination. Globally, societies could become more self-seeking and inward-looking leading to further pushback against liberal policies regarding migration and refugees. New questions are likely to be asked about the source of goods. More stringent imposition of phytosanitary measures by advanced states on products emanating from the less developed countries might become the new normal. Lockdowns and travel restrictions could potentially legitimise the rhetoric around border walls in more conservative countries. Tragically, therefore, while one answer to global pandemics is political globalisation, COVID-19 might further limit it. Within India too, there could be a trend towards discrimination, with ‘social distancing’ producing undesirable social practices. That a Manipuri woman was spat on in Delhi by a man who called her “coronavirus”, and gated communities have discriminated against those in COVID-19 quarantine, indicate a new age of discrimination. Puritan claims based on birth and class and the associated declarations about hygiene could become sharper. The more the virus persists, the deeper such practices would get. We already know what these practices feel like; it can only get worse from here.  Happymon Jacob teaches national security at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Disingenuous and no antidote||The Central government made a claim, on the eve of April 1, April Fool’s Day, that “fake news” alone is responsible for the untold misery and loss of life of migrant workers after the lockdown. It is important to examine this in the light of what “fake news” actually means, that is, a report, presented as authoritative, of an event which never actually occurred. Fake news is a menace not only because it is usually motivated by an intent to deceive and misinform but also because it may induce people to act on the information. This can have grave consequences, especially where the penetration of mobile telephony and social media exceeds that of education and awareness. For many who engage in political discourse, however, “fake news” is used as an epithet to describe any critical comment or opposing viewpoint. By branding criticism as “fake news”, governments draw on the consensus that fake news is pernicious, obviating the need to respond to the content of the criticism. If it is fake news, after all, it merits no response. Used in this way, the phrase “fake news” is used as an antidote to any opposition or critique. Such usage is disingenuous. News reports facts. “Fake news” is a report of facts that are knowingly false, presented as “news”. By definition, news is not opinion, which can be wrong, but it cannot be “fake”. Therefore, an opinion that you disagree with, cannot be branded as “fake news”, because it is just that, opinion. You cannot, by mischaracterising criticism as “fake news”, escape from having to respond to it. Response needed Contemporary political discourse has taken this dangerous approach a step further. Where governments are criticised for causing suffering among their people, the suffering is instead attributed to the menace of “fake news”. For example, after the precipitous announcement of lockdown, the government has been criticised for failing to anticipate the exodus of migrant workers; failing to make advance provision for food, shelter or salaries; failing to communicate with State governments to formulate a coordinated approach before the lockdown; and failing to communicate with the public regarding what migrant workers should do in view of the lockdown. The government’s response to the mass exodus was, by any yardstick, uncoordinated, where initially there was abject confusion, then the States reportedly provided vehicles to ferry the workers, and, finally, the States were directed to seal their borders. The human loss was incalculable, with hundreds of thousands undertaking Partition-esque journeys across hundreds of kilometres in a desperate bid to return home, leading to the tragic loss of lives and enormous suffering that are yet to be fully documented. The newspapers continue to report that food and shelter are still not reaching many of the migrant workers. These criticisms certainly deserve a response. Instead of responding, the government, on affidavit to the Supreme Court of India in response to petitions that migrant workers need to be provided for during lockdown, says that the only culprit for the loss of life and hardship of migrant workers is, simply, “fake news”. Apparently, the sole reason that migrant workers undertook the punishing journey back home across hundreds of kilometres back home was “fake news” that the lockdown would extend to three months rather than three weeks. The prospect of three weeks without food, shelter or basic amenities was, according to the government, not devastating enough to motivate workers to return home. Fake news is apparently to blame for upsetting the government’s careful calculation that millions of migrant workers would have serenely stayed put and there would have been no hardship whatsoever. This begs a raft of questions: “Fake news” is a statement that is knowingly false — what was the false statement that constituted “fake news” in this case? Was it the announcement of relief measures for three months by the Finance Minister triggering speculation that the 21-day lockdown could be extended to June 30? Isn’t the government extending the lockdown and isn’t its eventual duration still uncertain? Was extending the lockdown a decision that the government could even have taken on March 24, or would it depend on an assessment of the situation closer to April 14? Could any of us, including the government, categorically have said on March 24 that the lockdown would not be extended, depending on the situation prevailing on April 14? Was the government itself the source of what it is now calling “fake news”? The government cannot be permitted, by the artifice of “fake news”, to bypass the criticism that it should have planned better, coordinated between Centre and State governments, and been clear in strategy and communication. These are not hindsight criticisms either. Lessons could and should have been learned from deficiencies in similar announcements made earlier by foreign governments regarding COVID-19 measures. Chanting the mantra of “fake news” cannot wish away these questions. Court’s line The Supreme Court passed an order on March 31 directing the media to carry the official version of events of the pandemic, which the government is to publish on a daily basis. With little to go on other than the government’s fervid assertions that it had taken more than adequate measures in response to COVID-19, the Court perhaps did not want to enter the thicket of whether better government planning and communication could have avoided or reduced the suffering of migrant workers, or whether the source of the so-called “fake news” was the government itself. The Court, fortunately, made clear that it did not intend to stifle discussion of the pandemic, else even this piece could not have been published. If false information circulated on social media is dangerous because it can trigger action, misleading statements or lack of clarity in government messaging is even more dangerous, given the credibility of the source. What “fake news” is not, is a dissenting opinion or a viewpoint the establishment does not like. No government should be permitted to hide behind a vague assertion of “fake news” to abdicate responsibility for its actions. Not even on April Fool’s Day. Amit Sibal is a Senior Advocate practising in the Supreme Court of India
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The infodemic that accompanies the pandemic||At this time of COVID-19-induced physical distancing, it is rather cruel to repeat the refrain of news ombudsmen that ours is a lonely job. I do have a companion weekly column in this newspaper, ‘Notebook’, where journalists share the responsibility of fostering media literacy. Unlike academic disciplines, media literacy does not have a rigid curriculum. It is an evolving discipline and draws its substantial inputs from journalists who are successful in reconciling freedom with responsibility. The ‘Notebook’, “Curating news for children during pandemic”, (April 10) by Krithika Reddy T., reflects on the present lacunae in addressing the needs of students and what can be done during this lockdown. The ban on hydroxychloroquine One of the defining elements of good journalism is to provide space for rigorous examination of issues, based on evidence, research and academic review, in an accessible language. A reader from Pollachi, A. Balagangadharan, was unhappy with The Hindu ’s report, “India lifts ban on export of hydroxychloroquine” (April 8). He felt that while the front-page report emphasised that the ban was lifted after U.S. President Donald Trump’s warning of a “retaliation”, the Ministry of External Affairs’ statement was deliberately pushed to the inside pages. Three more letters suggested that the newspaper should have glossed over the “retaliation” warning and focused instead only on the humanitarian gesture of the Indian state. It is my fervent hope that readers realise the importance of credible information that is not subjected to censorship. Journalism is a presentation of our complex interlocking public. Let us examine how hydroxychloroquine itself represents an interlocking public. First, the newspaper’s position was articulated in its editorial, “In time of need” (April 10), where it said that “irrespective of whether India bowed to U.S. pressure, it is unlikely to run out of the drug.” The editorial also flagged questions about the efficacy of the drug in treating COVID-19 based on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s position of April 7 that “there is no drug available to prevent or treat COVID-19.” On April 7, the online edition of the newspaper carried an important article by the Science Editor, R. Prasad, “Hydroxychloroquine: publisher expresses ‘concerns’ about study”. The article explained that 10 days after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approved the use of hydroxychloroquine for prophylaxis by healthcare workers attending to suspected or confirmed COVID-19 cases and asymptomatic household contacts of confirmed cases, the publisher of an international journal that published a study on the drug’s purported efficacy expressed “concerns” about the paper. The paper was published on March 17 in the International Journal of Antimicrobial Agents . On April 3, the journal’s publisher, the International Society of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy, said: “The ISAC Board believes the article does not meet the Society’s expected standard, especially relating to the lack of better explanations of the inclusion criteria and the triage of patients to ensure patient safety.” The unusual haste with which the paper was published is disturbing. As The Hindu report pointed out, “the paper was published a day after it was submitted to the journal, and one of the authors was Editor-in-Chief of the journal.” Looking at journals cautiously The hydroxychloroquine controversy has forced journalists to even look at journals cautiously. On April 7, the day The Hindu expressed doubts on the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine, The Guardian carried a report, “Hydroxychloroquine: how an unproven drug became Trump’s coronavirus ‘miracle cure’”. It explained how the hydroxychloroquine story “is a distinctly modern tale of misinformation within a global information ecosystem beset by widespread uncertainty, fear, media fragmentation and hyper-partisanship.” In its situation report 13, the World Health Organization said that the “2019-nCoV outbreak and response has been accompanied by a ‘infodemic’” — some accurate and some not. And this does not include the underplaying of threats by various governments from China to the U.S. Along with these global issues, Indian journalists have to confront an additional burden: communalisation. Responsible journalism is to report the facts and not deepen social fissures. It was — and is — a demanding task. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Women’s safety during lockdown||It is well-documented that during a war, a natural disaster or a pandemic, women’s bodies bear the worse brunt of the crisis. Domestic violence against women is already widespread and under-reported in India. Now, at the time of the COVID-19 pandemic, the United Nations recognises domestic violence against women as a “shadow pandemic”. The COVID-19 pandemic has triggered a huge spike in domestic violence against women in China, Australia, France, the U.K., Spain, and Bangladesh, among others. In India, too, the National Commission for Women has reported a large increase in distress calls from victims of domestic violence since the pandemic broke out. Home, not safe for many The national strategy against COVID -19 emphasises that home is the safest place to be. Ironically, for domestic violence victims, home is the most unsafe place to be quarantined as they are forced to live with their abusers. Although asking people to stay at home is an effective and welcome anti-COVID-19 strategy, home is not the safe haven it should be for many women because abusers have increased access to their victims and survivors have decreased or no access to resources. Domestic violence can be verbal, financial, psychological and sexual. It includes the abuser withholding financial or medical assistance. Women are most often the caregivers for those quarantined at home and already infected with the virus, which makes them more vulnerable to contracting the disease. Domestic violence is rooted in the inequities of power and control. The abusers feel an enormous loss of power and control over their own lives due to the pandemic. They vent their frustration on the women in the house. Mental health issues arise out of isolation as well as reactive depression, but instead of recognising these issues and seeking help, people become violent. The victims are not only unable to speak out because they are quarantined at home with the perpetrators, but also because the lockdown prevents them from seeking help outside. In Spain and France, women can go to a pharmacy and request a “Mask 19” — a code word that will alert the pharmacist to contact the authorities. Tragically, traditional forms of support are now not available to domestic violence victims. They don’t go to their parental homes for fear of infecting elderly parents. Shelter homes are crowded and so they are vulnerable to greater infection there. The police force is already overburdened with ensuring that people comply with the lockdown. Hospitals do not have the space or time to look at domestic violence cases. Protecting victims Nevertheless, it is vital for policymakers to address the needs of these women who are playing an indispensable role on the front line in the war against COVID-19 — as health workers, sanitation staff, caregivers, scientists, and as long-suffering housewives. Priority measures to help domestic violence victims, without detracting from the overall anti-COVID-19 strategy of lockdown, should be initiated by the government, and steps to protect victims of domestic violence be made a part of overall anti-COVID-19 action plans. UN Women has said that “helplines, psychosocial support and online counselling should be boosted, using technology-based solutions such as SMS, online tools and networks to expand social support, and to reach women with no access to phones or Internet.” Other priorities include a more responsive police force, and other government agencies who are not dismissive of domestic violence complaints. Social media posts mocking and patronising angry or “suffering” men in isolation who are helping in housework should be reported and acted upon. The electronic media can raise awareness in regional language infomercials, since domestic violence is a crime under the Indian Penal Code. SOS messaging to police already exists in several cities, but this should be enhanced with geolocation facilities. Jayanthi Natarajan is a political activist and a former Union Minister
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Cease fire||The latest exchange of long-range artillery fire between the Indian and Pakistani armies in Poonch and Kupwara’s Rawthpora, Panzgam, Malikpora, Hafrada and Ferkiyan areas is yet another unhappy reminder that both countries have not been able to uphold a ceasefire along the border areas and the Line of Control. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh claimed just two months ago that “all violations of ceasefire are taken up with Pakistan authorities at the appropriate level through the established mechanism of hotlines, flag meetings as well as weekly talks between the Directorate Generals of Military Operations of the two countries”. But here are the figures revealed by him this February: 3,479 violations for 2019, which works out to almost 10 every day. Shripad Naik, Minister of State for Defence, provided the figures from January 1 to February 23; for 54 days, it was 646, which means an average of almost 12. If anything, there has been an upward tick since Article 370 was hollowed out on August 5 last year, and statehood taken away from Jammu and Kashmir. Pakistan also has similar and competing figures for Indian ceasefire violations while prefacing explanations for its own firing with the stock phrases: “retaliatory, effective, befitting”. What utility do these mechanisms have if the violations continue unchecked? Those who bear the brunt — the loss of lives, livelihood, infrastructure, and the displacement — unfortunately live along the LoC on both sides, some 740 km, and the 221 km of the IB in J&K. In the latest instance, scores scrambled out of the range of the heavy artillery guns to seek refuge, not in government quarantine shelters, but with relatives in the district headquarters and elsewhere. Thrown to the wind in the process were protocols to protect against COVID-19. In this instance, the Army blames Pakistan for initiating the shelling in Kupwara’s Keran sector to facilitate infiltration which seems to have picked up pace as have operations against terrorists. Indeed, last week saw a chase through heavy snow drifts, leading to a macabre hand-to-hand combat with terrorists who had infiltrated through the remote, nearly unpopulated, snowed-in mountainous region. That as many as five highly trained para commmandos should have lost their lives in exchange for the lives of five infiltrators is unfortunate and unacceptable. Infiltrations at this time and in such remote areas are regular enough to be predictable. Wherever possible, exercising the option of precise, surgical, preventive action against such infiltration, to minimise collateral damage, through better use of technology, such as drones, might be preferable.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Trade in tatters||The only certainty right now in a pandemic-gripped world is the all-enveloping uncertainty. And the WTO acknowledged as much when it released its outlook for global trade last week. Projecting merchandise trade to plummet by anywhere between 13% and 32% in 2020, it added a categoric caveat: at the moment, it is only able to posit a wide range of possible trajectories for the predicted decline in trade given the unprecedented nature of the health crisis caused by the COVID-19 outbreak and the uncertainty around its precise economic impact. Economists at the WTO, however, appear more certain that the disruption and resultant blow to trade will in all likelihood be far worse than the slump brought on by the global financial crisis of 2008. As IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva observed on April 9, the global economy is set to contract sharply in 2020, with “the lockdown needed to fight” the pandemic affecting billions worldwide. The tight restrictions on movement and social distancing norms across geographies have led to severe curbs on labour supply, transport and travel and the shuttering of whole sectors from hotels and non-essential retail to tourism and significant parts of manufacturing. The WTO expects all regions, save Africa, West Asia and the Commonwealth of Independent States, to suffer double-digit declines in exports and imports this year even under its “optimistic scenario”, which postulates a recovery starting in the second half. The WTO and the IMF chief have pointed to the fact that unlike the recession that accompanied the global financial crisis just over a decade ago, the current downturn is unique. Global supply chains have increased in complexity, especially in industries such as electronics and automotive products, making them particularly vulnerable to the current disruptions, with countries that are a part of these value linkages set to find trade more severely impacted. Also, services trade — in which India has a higher global share as an exporter ($214 billion, or 3.5%, in 2019) than in merchandise exports — may be significantly affected by the transport and travel curbs. A small sliver of silver in this bleak outlook for services trade is the role that the WTO sees for information technology services as companies try to enable employees to work from home and people order essentials and drugs online and socialise remotely. India’s IT exporters have been busy supporting their overseas clients’ business continuity plans in the face of the pandemic and may find this hand-holding at a time of dire need earning them loyalty-linked business when economic activity revives. Still, as the WTO chief, Roberto Azevêdo, crucially observes, a rebound in global economic activity will require trade to flow freely across borders as vitally as any fiscal or monetary stimulus. The world will be best served if nations do not turn insular and erect new barriers to the movement of goods, services and people in the aftermath of the pandemic.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Why an Asian Bank?||In a restricted sense the Asian Development Bank, which held its third annual meeting at Seoul on Friday (April 10), is a counterpart in the East of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the World Bank). Like the World Bank, the A.D.B. raises resources for lending to developing countries from the capital markets of rich countries. In 1968, for instance, it raised 60 million deutsche marks through bonds floated in West Germany. The A.D.B.’s Special Fund is its soft loan window comparable to the International Development Association of the World Bank. The A.D.B.’s assistance to the growing regions is, like the World Bank’s, to be doubled at short intervals of time. The question that naturally arises is why there should be a duplication of such lending institutions. A clear answer to this is provided in the A.D.B’s latest annual report. It says: “The needs, the problems, the objectives — and above all the hopes — of the Asian region may not differ materially in the long run from those elsewhere; but the techniques and processes needed may be quite different from those fashioned for use in other areas. While a knowledge of the skills and techniques developed elsewhere is important and essential, the ‘knowhow’ of regional development must have an indigenous basis”.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Do you know your insurance policy?||While training for insurance, I heard the following story to explain the concept of insurance. Many years ago, there was a human settlement on a hilly region of China. During summer, menfolk would descend the hills, cross the dry river bed and set up tents on the plains. Next, they would start ploughing the land, sow the seeds and wait for rains. Later, they would harvest the crop and start their journey back to their settlement. The dry river bed would now have water flowing forcefully and hence, each man would make a wooden barge, keep his agricultural produce on it and cross the river. Every year, about one in ten men would face the peril of the barge being swept away by the waters. He would then swim across the river, but his entire year’s crop would have gone. There were a few intelligent men in the settlement. They decided that from the subsequent year onwards, once they came near the river, they would form groups, each with ten members. Each team member, like always, will make a wooden barge. However, unlike previous years where every individual kept his produce on his barge alone, going ahead, each team member would distribute his produce across barges of other team members. Thus, the total produce of an individual would be spread across ten wooden barges in a team. If one of the barges was swept away, each would only lose only 10% of his total crop. This ensured that no member of the settlement would lose the entire produce and live in poverty for the rest of the year. Insurance is all about spreading risk and sharing losses. My IPO All of us have heard the term IPO. The performance of that IPO, during the offer period and once it is listed, is unknown. However, there is one IPO over which we all have control. That is ‘My Insurance and Protection Options.’ My IPO for my family ‘My IPO’ is for my family. Once I was asked by a renowned MNC to conduct a workshop on financial planning for employees. Before the workshop, I was casually talking to their senior HR manager. I was inquiring about the kind of medical cover the company gave its employees. She explained in detail. I enquired if the employees were aware of it. Her response was in the affirmative. During the workshop, I asked the participants what kind of health cover the employer provided, how much the cover was, whether the whole family was covered, whether any cashless options were available and so on. Similar to my past experiences with other organisations, only a third of the participants were fully aware of the details. Last year, one of my clients working at a very senior level in a telecom company, suffered a massive heart attack while he was touring on work. He was in the ICU for a few days and later, succumbed. The family had to pay a large amount. Of course, he was covered well by the employer and the full amount was reimbursed. Interestingly, the company had a tie-up with that hospital and if only the details had been given to the hospital, cashless treatment would have been possible. The family would have been saved from the trouble of making online fund transfer. Unfortunately, the family had no clue. ‘My IPO’ is for the benefit of our family. Keep them completely abreast. Introduce them to your insurance agent. Have annual meetings with him. One important activity I suggest to my clients is to request their health and life insurance agent to visit their homes and explain the procedure for filing claims. “I had prepared a complete file of the required papers for claiming health insurance,” said Ms. Rustogi, adding“my claim was processed within a fortnight.” Personally, I recall, a few years ago, when my family had to make a claim for health insurance, I had prepared the file in detail, including indexing it. A few weeks later, when a query came from the insurance company, I gave only a copy of the invoice along with the page numbers, all the originals were with them. Since they had acknowledged the receipt of the file, they processed my claim without any further communication. Our insurance is for ourselves and our family. It is ‘My IPO.’  (The writer is a financial planner and author of the Yogic Wealth)
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||A contract of utmost good faith||The tough thing about insurance is that it is intangible. You can’t see it or size up what it can do for you very easily as a credit card or a home loan. You don’t just pay up and get a product, but have certain responsibilities. Insurance is a contract that operates under certain principles. As an insured, or potential insured, understanding these principles will help you appreciate the product and get the best out of it. Here are some main principles as applied to personal insurances. ‘Utmost good faith’ is one of the first principles of an insurance contract. This means that both the parties have to be transparent with each other and material facts have to be disclosed both before the policy is issued and after. Withholding information by one party works against the interests of the other. When you are buying, say, a health insurance, you should disclose all relevant information about your health, which will impact terms and rates. An adverse health history can mean a higher premium rate matching your risk profile, or even a rejection of your proposal. But non-disclosure will lead to rejection of claims as the contract will be void. Similarly, the insurer has to spell out the terms and conditions of the cover, especially exclusions, as a matter of full disclosure to you. An important basis of insurance is the principle of indemnity, which means compensation, or reimbursement. An insurance claim makes good your financial loss, but is not meant to let you make a profit. When you look closely, you don’t insure your health, you insure the financial cost of regaining lost health. You insure the cost of a property or article lost to fire or theft. What about life insurance? You can’t place a value on human life. What is insured is not life, but the potential future earnings of the insured person. The tie that binds Insurable interest is the basis on which any insurance can be given. You can insure something only if you would face financial loss when the subject of insurance is damaged, destroyed or lost. You have an insurable interest over all your properties and belongings. When your health suffers, you incur expenses. Nobody else can insure your car or your health. You can insure the health of your family members, within definitions, as you will be meeting their expenses should they be hospitalised. When a person dies, their natural or legal financial obligations are at risk. All these indicate insurable interest. If this were not followed, either an insurance policy can be gambling, or worse still, a basis for crime! There are also limits on the extent to which insurable interest can apply. Lenders can insure their customers up to the extent of the loan or people can insure themselves for a factor of their reasonably proven future potential earnings and life expectancy. The principle of loss minimisation means after you take an insurance policy, you should still act as if you are a prudent uninsured. That is, regardless of the fact you bought a policy, you should still park your car in a safe place and lock it. If there is an accident, you should behave in such a manner that the financial cost of the accident is minimised – like ensuring proper medical attention to any injured person and getting your vehicle repaired for a fair rate. In the context of health insurance, you should follow medical advice. These and other principles work in interesting ways to protect you and to keep the relationship of the two parties to the contract on an even keel.  (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history)
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Mirrors of stock weightage||What are index funds? Index funds, as the name suggests, are funds that replicate a certain index. So, if there is a Sensex fund, it will have the same 30 stocks that are there in the Sensex. Further, the weightage of each stocks in the fund would also mirror their respective weightage in the actual index. Globally, there are many index funds that replicate popular benchmarks like S&P 500 and Dow Jones. In the Indian arena, most of the leading mutual fund houses offer index funds based on Sensex or Nifty. Index funds are a form of passive funds since the fund manager does not have to actively do any kind of stock picking. The fund sees a churn in its portfolio only if the actual index sees any inclusion or exclusion. What are the benefits of investing in index funds? Typically, the benchmark index of any exchange would comprise the largest and most liquid companies publicly listed on that bourse. The benchmarks are quite diversified in terms of sector representation as well. So, investing in an index fund allows the investor to have a well-diversified portfolio of the largest companies. An investor can own a basket of stocks at a much lower cost compared to owning each stock individually in a benchmark. Are index funds better than other types of equity funds? Warren Buffet, who is widely considered as one of the most successful investors in the world, recommends index funds. Having said that, it depends on an individual’s investment approach — whether one wants to bet on the benchmark's movement or wants to play on a certain sector, or wants to invest in stocks based on market capitalisation — midcap or smallcap. Index funds, however, allow an investor to bet on the overall market, which is always measured in terms of the benchmark's movement. Do index funds offer cost benefits as well? As mentioned earlier, index funds are a form of passive investment instruments as fund managers do not have any active role in managing such funds on a day to day basis. So, typically, index funds have a lower expense ratio compared to an actively-managed fund where the fund manager does active stock picking. Hence, there is a cost benefit in favour of index funds.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Ask Us||Q.I am a super-senior citizen and also a railway pensioner who is bedridden. I have engaged an attendant for Rs. 20,000 a month. Is this amount admissible for exemption under 88B of the Income Tax Act?  S. Visvanathan A.Medical expenses incurred for yourself up to Rs. 50,000 a year in case there is no medical insurance policy in force can be claimed under Section 80D. Further, a deduction under Section 80DDB can be claimed up to Rs. 1.50 lakh for a senior citizen towards expenses for medical treatment, if he is suffering from certain prescribed diseases such as dementia, Parkinson’s etc. provided he has a certificate from a prescribed medical practitioner. A deduction under 80U can be claimed up to Rs. 1.25 lakh for severe disability due to autism, cerebral palsy, multiple disabilities etc. and if a certificate from the prescribed medical authority is obtained. Section 88B is no longer in the statute. Q.I am 65 years old , retired and my wife is 62. I have a health Insurance policy for Rs. 5 lakh covering my wife and me. I pay an annual premium of Rs. 55,000. How much tax exemption will I get under Section 80D ? N. Balasubramanian A.You will be in a position to claim up to Rs. 50,000 under Section 80D in a year for the premium paid by you for yourself and your wife as you are a senior citizen. Q.My neighbour, aged 75, is a retired Central government employee getting a monthly pension of Rs. 75,000. He needs a clarification with regard to deduction u/s 24 and u/s 80 C. His only source of income is pension. He recently extended his house with two more bedrooms. The house is owned by him. Because of his old age, he could not avail a housing loan. He availed a personal loan to the tune of Rs. 20 lakh against pension from the SBI. The loan carries an interest rate of 12% and repayable in 48 EMIs. The entire loan proceeds are used for the construction only. His queries are: 1) Can he claim deduction u/s 24 for payment of interest to SBI for the personal loan and EMI principal u/s 80 C ? 2) If permitted, does he need to show any evidence to prove the funds were utilised for construction purposes? H. Ramakrishnan A.Deduction under Section 24 can be claimed only when a certificate is obtained from the lender stating the purpose of the loan, interest paid and the principal repaid for that year. In the given case, we are not sure whether the SBI would be able to provide a certificate to this effect. Under housing loan, the lenders, especially the institutions, issue the loan only after ensuring it is used for construction or purchase or renovation of an house and in case of a personal loan, the bank is not obligated to monitor loan usage. Under section 80C, deduction can be availed only for construction or purchase of house property and not for renovation. Q.Recently, I had purchased a house for residential purpose in my wife’s name. She is a homemaker with nil income. I had taken a loan from Bank of Baroda. Can I claim benefits u/s 24 and 80C?  Manish Kumar Singh A.Under sections 24 and 80C, only the owner of the property can claim benefits as provided. In your case, the property is in the name of your wife though the loan is availed by you; hence, you cannot claim benefit.     (The author is partner, GSS Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||
13 April 2020||MUMBAI,||IPL set to be ‘indefinitely postponed’||The writing has been on the wall ever since the nation-wide lockdown was imposed in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak and on Monday, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) is set to “indefinitely postpone” the Indian Premier League’s (IPL) 13th edition. This season’s tournament was scheduled to commence on March 29 but sensing the outbreak was going to disturb life in general, the BCCI on March 13 had suspended the event till April 15. With the pandemic far from being under control, the lockdown is set to be extended at least till April-end. Restricted movement With the restrictions on public gathering and air travel unlikely to be lifted before the arrival of monsoon in June (IPL’s final was scheduled for May 24), the BCCI authorities have been left with no choice but to defer the mega-event. “Life is virtually at a standstill, let alone sport in general or cricket in particular. So there is no other option but to postpone the IPL,” a BCCI insider revealed to The Hindu . “It’s too early to predict as to when the IPL can be staged this year. We have to wait and watch, but at the moment we will have to defer it indefinitely.” The decision is set to be taken on Monday during a conference call between the BCCI office-bearers — president Sourav Ganguly, vice-president Mahim Verma, secretary Jay Shah, treasurer Arun Dhumal and joint-secretary Jayesh George — and the IPL governing council chairman Brijesh Patel. After the meeting, the BCCI is likely to communicate the deferment to the eight franchises. Expected development The franchises, along with the host broadcaster, have been expecting this development for a while. Despite the huge financial ramifications involved in case the IPL cannot be held this year, neither the broadcaster nor the franchises are in a position to discuss it with the BCCI until the pandemic is under control. The possibility of staging the IPL can be determined only after some normalcy returns and a new cricket calendar is chalked out.
13 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jeevan has a vision for Indian tennis||Every crisis can be turned into an opportunity and Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan believes in it. Now staying at his family resort in Puducherry, the 31-year-old, who was ranked a career-best 64 in doubles last year around this time, has been thinking about helping Indian tennis realise its potential. Jeevan firmly believes that the best way forward, once life gets back to normal, would be for leading players to collaborate with the national federation and make concrete contributions for the revival of the game. “I personally don’t see a global tour like the ATP giving a green light for the next many months. I think the players and the All India Tennis Association (AITA) need to work together in times like these,” observes Jeevan, quite clear that rather than finding fault with the system, the players need to be proactive and mobilise support. Jeevan feels it is necessary to get the tennis fraternity into confidence while trying to make a fresh start for the game. “If I am the leader, I would speak to top players across categories and also to the juniors (along with their parents) to figure out what is missing and what is required in Indian tennis, going forward”. Once clarity is achieved about the ideas that need to be implemented, Jeevan suggests that a ‘player council’ can work with the AITA to infuse life into the action-plan. Jeevan is confident that players like Sania Mirza and Rohan Bopanna have the ability to collaborate with the national federation and various stake-holders to take the game forward. “We have to figure out a National tour. “We need to provide clarity for a 15-year-old to progress and become the next Yuki Bhambri or Sumit Nagal,” says Jeevan.
13 April 2020||Chennai,||‘All stakeholders need to come together’||With the Formula One season in limbo with as many as nine races cancelled/suspended so far, the sport is staring at a major crisis. From the huge financial hit due to not racing to sponsorship revenues amid a much wider economic crisis that the world is undergoing, an expensive sport like F1 is facing some tough times. Recently, McLaren boss Zak Brown indicated that as many as four teams were in danger of folding up if there was no sensible budget caps on what teams could spend. India’s former F1 driver Karun Chandhok, in a chat with The Hindu, felt that the sport has a big task on its hands, and all stakeholders need to come together to find a solution. Compressed calendar While the F1 group is trying to hold as many as 15 to 18 races, Karun said 12 to 13 races might be possible if the season starts in August. “It will be a big commitment from everyone involved in the sport as it could mean triple headers or intense two day weekends but it’s all do-able. “I would like to see F1 use the time to experiment with fewer practice sessions and two-day weekends and maybe even trying to do two races on the same weekend.” On the issue of a cost cap and the warnings from Brown, Karun said, “In light of the current scenario, it seems like most teams are now in favour of a lower budget cap from the currently agreed $175 million. Stalemate  “However, the big players at Ferrari and Red Bull Racing seem to be opposing that, which has created a bit of a stalemate. “Where there’s a will there’s a way, but unfortunately, the people associated with F1 are wired in such a way that they often think of themselves before the sport. “But, at this point, F1 needs strong leaders... it needs Chase Carey, Ross Brawn and Jean Todt to come up with a solution.”
13 April 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Indian chess stars’ move pays off||Koneru Humpy took some time to get used to it. One chessboard would pop up on her computer screen, then another, and another. Nineteen of them, in fact. It was the first time she was playing simultaneous chess online. By the time she finished her games late on Saturday night, she was tired. But, she didn't mind. She enjoyed the experience and was happy to contribute for a noble cause. Humpy and five other top Indians — Viswanathan Anand, Vidit Gujrathi, P. Harikrishna, B. Adhiban and D. Harika — took on rivals from around the world in a fund-raising event to help India fight the coronavirus. They were able to generate more than Rs. 4.5 lakh towards the PM-CARES Fund through their simultaneous games on chess.com (the participants were required to donate in order to play the Grandmasters). “It was not easy, but I am glad I could be part of this great event,” Humpy told The Hindu . “My opponents were reasonably strong.” Still, she won all her games except one. “In that game too, I was in a better position before I blundered my queen,” she said. While Humpy had logged in from her home in Vijayawada (she locked herself up in a room so that her little daughter would not disturb her), Anand played from an apartment in Frankfurt. The five-time World champion has been stranded in Germany since the pandemic outbreak. He played 21 games and won 18. Three were drawn. It was a new experience for him, too. In fact, it was the first ever online simultaneous display for all the players. Anand admitted he was feeling exhausted. “Towards the end it was hard to work out the positions,” he said. “I am very happy and grateful to all the participants. I hope they enjoyed it.” Gujrathi, the second strongest in the field, said he had enjoyed playing against 20 players at the same time. “Except in a couple of games, I had to work hard right through,” said World No. 23 who played from his home at Nashik. Harikrishna made his moves from Prague, while Adhiban, the only one to win all games, played from Chennai.
13 April 2020||MUMBAI,||How Kumble helped Saqlain see things clearly!||Saqlain Mushtaq and Anil Kumble were locked in a fierce rivalry on the pitch, but were friends off it. In an Instagram live chat with Sportstar on Sunday, the Pakistan legend revealed how the Indian spin king helped him immensely in his career. “We were in England and I told Anil bhai that there were not many good ophthalmologists back home. I asked him if he could suggest someone and he referred me to Dr. Bharat Rugani. Anil said he and [Sourav] Ganguly consulted him often and shared the doctor’s number. “I visited the doctor in London. He told me I had cataract and gave me new lenses. Thanks to Anil bhai’s help, I recovered. He is a gem of a person,” said Saqlain. The former Pakistan spin ace said tracking the ball had been a problem earlier. “While fielding on the boundary, my anticipation used to be zero and I was slow to react. All that vanished and I became more confident after the visit to the doctor. Elder brother “Our culture has taught us to respect elders and he is like my elder brother. Whenever we meet, we have long chats. “Even during my playing days, I used to walk up to him and seek suggestions. He would help me with the necessary tips and never misguided me. I have a lot of respect for him,” said the 43-year-old, hoping to play with Kumble in the same team some day.
13 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Lockdown effect on economy will affect PBL||Prasad Mangipudi, Executive Director of Sportzlive, which organises the Premier Badminton League (PBL), feels that the lockdown will impact the economy as well as the tournament. “The lockdown because of COVID-19 and its [effect] on the economy will have an impact on the PBL too even though it is still eight months away,” said Prasad. Committed “But, we are committed and hope to carry forward the PBL to the best of our ability,” he said in a chat with The Hindu . “Fortunately, we have been in the process of remodelling the league as the sport itself is growing,” he said. “We are in touch with the stakeholders, and exploring all avenues of generating enough revenue to sustain the PBL,” Prasad said. “We will have to involve more partners in the conduct — especially in marketing — as we need strong awareness and interest in the league across the country,” he said. “We need to renew our broadcaster contract and also redraw plans with regard to marketing rights, as we are keen to expand TV coverage to other countries,” he explained. “We also believe that we haven’t unlocked the full potential of the digital medium. We know digital viewing has become the primary habit for many,” said Prasad. Budget What is the budget for one edition? “The league invests around Rs. 40-45 crore and teams invest another Rs. 40 crore. We are interacting with the owners to find out ways to meet their needs in the changing scenario,” he said. Prasad also felt that with the Tokyo Olympics postponed to 2021 and the BWF schedule going haywire, PBL will become important for many players.
13 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sreeshwan clinches Open title in style||IM M. Sreeshwan won the Open title with 71 points in the Brilliant Trophy online chess tournament on Sunday. Chidvilas Sai and Sreehith Reddy finished second and third with 59 and 55 points respectively. In the junior category, Abhudit Singh emerged winner with 86 points while A. Sravan (85) and Sushanth Shetty (83) were second and third respectively. The tournament, conducted online, featured 120 players from the state, Kerala and also from Qatar. The organisers raised Rs. 25,000, which will be donated to the PM-CARES Fund.  Final placings:   Open: 1. M. Sreeshwan, 2. Chidvilas Sai, 3. Sreehith Reddy, 4. P. Karyasheel, 5. S. Subbaraju, 6. Natura Bethi, 7. V.U. Divakar, 8. L.V. Shiva Kumar, 9. Atharv Bansal, 10. N.V. Venkataramanan.   Juniors: 1. Abhudit Singh, 2. A. Sravan, 3. Sushanth Shetty.   Age-groups: Boys, u-15: 1. P. Nijunj, 2. Vaibhav Praneeth; U-13: 1. Satyaditya Loke.   U-11: 1. Sushant Shetty, 2. T.K. Devdarshan; U-9: A. Sravan, 2. Ehaan.   Girls, u-13: N. Sai Nitesha, 2. N.S. Likitha; U-13: N. Sai Nitesha; U-11: 1. M. Sragvi, 2. Tanu Sree.   U-9: 1. L. Durga Karthika, 2. B. Kirthika; U-7: 1. A. Balanandan, 2. P. Hariram .
13 April 2020||TIRUPUR:,||Good spells by Satheesh and Manikandan||S. Satheesh Ram Kumar took five for 20 as Vel 11 defeated Eleven Star by 16 runs in the DCAT fourth division league. S. Manikandan’s five-wicket haul went in vain for Eleven Star.  The scores:   II div.: Kangayam SA 202/9 in 50 overs (S. Ganesh Kumar 51, R. Balamurugan 34, A. Manikandan 3/25) bt ID SC 84 in 17.4 overs (R. Balamurugan 3/40, M. Saravanan 3/18, N. Vetrivel 4/9).   Sachin 250 in 50 overs (Arun Kumar 40, Gopal 54, Sathish Kumar 32 n.o., Mithun 4/42) bt Sulochana Mills 173 in 41.2 overs (Karthikeyan 60, Ramesh 3/47).   Tirupur Textiles RC-B 260/8 in 50 overs (P. Nanthakumar 43, A. Kennedy Santhiyagu 32, J. Prasanna 62, C. Sridhar Venkatesh 31, G. Kuppuraj 38) lost to Tirupur CF-A 265/4 in 47.4 overs (N.S. Yuvan Shankar 50, K.T.A. Madhava Prasad 33, S. Nithiyananthan 33, Pradosh Ranjan Paul 98 n.o.).   III div.: Tirupur Titan’s 206 in 45.2 overs (Muruganantham 67, Rubesh 31, Rajapandian 33, Dinesh Kumar 3/43, Loganathan 3/11) lost to Ipsum 207/4 in 41.1 overs (P. Thilagaraj 53, Subramani 55).   IV div.: Vel 11 139 in 41.5 overs (P. Thangaraman 35, S. Manikandan 5/23) bt Eleven Star 123 in 36.3 overs (V. Nainar 32, J. Veerapandi 32, S. Satheesh Ram Kumar 5/20) .
13 April 2020||CHENNAI:,||Ace BC’s gesture||Ace Basketball Club has donated Rs. 1 lakh to the PM Cares Relief Fund and Rs. 25,000 to Tamil Nadu CM Relief Fund as its contribution to the COVID-19 pandemic, club president M.S. Venkataraman said.
13 April 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Dhoni looked in fine touch’||M.S. Dhoni’s intensity stood out and he looked in spectacular touch during the IPL camp, vouched his Chennai Super Kings teammates. Three-time winner CSK had commenced its training on March 2 with Dhoni joining from the first day. However, training was suspended on March 14 owing to the coronavirus outbreak. Leg-spinner Piyush Chawla said Dhoni was focused and showed match-like intensity. “Mahi bhai was absolutely focused, training purposefully and was looking really good. “He was showing match-like intensity in the way he was batting and keeping and that was rubbing off on others,” Chawla was quoted on the CSK website.  Dhoni didn’t look rusty, didn’t look one bit like he was away from the game. He was clearly looking forward to the season.— L. Balaji, CSK bowling coach
13 April 2020||London,||Motorsport legend Moss passes away||Motorsport great Stirling Moss has died aged 90 following a long illness, the British driver’s wife announced on Sunday. “It was one lap too many,” said Susie Moss. “He just closed his eyes.” Although Moss never won the F1 title, he finished runner-up four times and third thrice. No corona link British media reported Moss’s passing was the result of a chest infection he caught in Singapore in December 2016 that saw him retire from public life two years later. There is no suggestion his death was linked to the coronavirus. In an era where it was common for drivers to race in different disciplines, a 14-year career that started in 1948 saw Moss win 212 of the 529 races he entered, including the 1955 Mille Miglia, where he set a new course record in the 1,000 mile event. In F1, Moss won 16 GPs, with his first victory coming in the 1955 British GP at Liverpool that saw him become the first British winner of the race. His renowned sportsmanship cost Moss the 1958 title when he defended the conduct of British rival Mike Hawthorn following a spin at the Portuguese GP. Moss’ action helped spare Hawthorn a six-point penalty, with Hawthorn winning the title by a single point.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Marriage mantras||Yasoda did not witness any of Krishna’s marriages. To compensate for this, she was born as Vakulamala, near Thirumala, and looked after Srinivasa, and had the joy of celebrating the Lord’s marriage as Srinivasa. Srinivasa’s bride was Padmavati, the foster daughter of Akasa Raja and his queen Dharani. There is a significance to their names, said V.S. Karunakarachariar, in a discourse. Akasa means sky and Dharani means earth. One of the marriage mantras, which is recited by the groom, says, “I am the sky, and you are the earth.” This is not to indicate the superiority of the husband over the wife. It is to show that each is indispensable to the other. An example will help us understand this better. We may choose any number of ways to water plants — we may use a hose pipe, or a watering can, or use a bucket to water the plants. But no matter which of these methods we resort to, nothing can equal the freshness of plants which have just received a good shower of rain. So, the sky has a relationship with the earth, which is unequalled by any other. That is why Sita says to Kausalya that while a father and mother may dote on their daughter, the greatest joy for her comes from having a loving husband. Another mantra says that relationship between the two is like that between lyric and tune. Rg Veda is nothing but poetry, and Sama Veda is the music for this poetry. Thus, all Vedic mantras show the equality of husband and wife. Kings, before performing yagas, had to plough the land, and it was while doing so that Akasa Raja found Padmavati. In the same manner, Janaka had found Sita. The mantra recited by the kings talks of the furrows left on the ground by the plough. The Sanskrit word for furrow is Sita, and hence Janaka named the girl he found Sita.
13 April 2020||April 13 2020 08:08 IST,||Sudoku - April 13, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
13 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Even essential services on a lifeline...||A factory, the only one in Mayapuri Industrial Area- I which has been running, is of hospital essentials ensuring that the ones fighting at the forefront against the pandemic are well equipped. The factory — SLK Solutions — manufactures garbage bags, needle destroyers, sharp containers and mortuary sheets among other essentials for several hospitals including Apollo, AIIMS, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital, and other private hospitals. Outside the factory, a number of documents have also been put up — including what the factory manufactures, permissions from the District Magistrate’s office and the government’s order mentioning that this factory falls under the category which is allowed to run. The factory’s manager, Vinod, stepped out wearing a mask and head cap while giving instructions to a worker. He said that they had about 15-20 workers before the lockdown reduced the strength to four. In the initial days, reaching the office was hard, he said, sharing an incident in the early days of the lockdown. Two workers, Ravi and Niranjan, were coming to work but were stopped and beaten up by the police. “They told them that they were working in a factory manufacturing essentials but they were roughed up,” he recollected. Vinod said that after the incident, most of the workers left for their villages in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar leaving only four workers here. While the company is learning to work with a skeletal staff, they are staring at another hurdle — procuring raw materials. Another hurdle “The factories manufacturing raw materials for our production is not opening which is becoming a major problem for us. They are not considered essentials because they are manufacturing raw materials and we are manufacturing finished product, therefore, we got permission from the DM [District Magistrate] for the factory to run,” said factory owner Sanjay. But the scarcity of raw materials has made their future production uncertain. “Because we are unable to procure as much raw materials as required, we are not sure how long we’ll be able to run the factory,” he said. Talking about distribution to hospitals, he said that they have one vehicle to move around for distribution and have taken an e-pass for it. “The factory has been running every day without a miss because all the passes and permissions were sought immediately with manageable problems like minor delays,” he said. Even the employees had to procure passes. “They live in the jhuggis close by but still e-passes were applied and were given,” he said. The workers weren’t allowed by the owner to speak to The Hindu as he claimed that the workload on them, in absence of others, is enough and “they can’t be disturbed”. The workers are on a 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. shift, due to the lack of employees, a reason the night shift was dropped. They get Sundays off. “The only day to quarantine for us,” as Vinod joked.  The factories manufacturing raw materials for our production is not opening which is becoming a major problem for us  Sanjay Factory owner
13 April 2020||FARIDABAD,||Junior doctors at ESIC wear black bands||Around 40 junior resident doctors at ESIC Hospital and Medical College at NIT-3 here are working with black bands around their arms for the past couple of days as a mark of protest for not being provided the N-95 masks and personal protective equipment (PPE). The hospital is a designated centre for collection and testing of samples of COVID-19 suspects. Seven patients are under treatment at the hospital. The chief medical officer, ESIC Hospital and Medical College, Komal Kumar, told The Hindu that the doctors did not have N-95 masks and PPE kits and were forced to work putting their lives at risk. Most of these doctors were hired on one-year contract and had two-four months of contract period left. Dr. Kumar said their jobs were not secure and they were not covered under any health scheme. “We will not even get free treatment, if infected,” said Dr. Kumar. He alleged that the senior doctors had either gone on leave or not coming to work adding to their burden. Against the mandated 60 hours a week, they had to work for longer hours, he said. Mr. Kumar said the matter was brought to the notice of the Dean; the Director General, ESIC and the Health Ministry through a letter and several reminders since March 24, but there was no response. Dean, ESIC Hospital and Medical College, Aseem Das, claimed he had a stock of 12,000 N-95 masks, 90,000 three-layer masks and 4,000 PPE. However, as per the Indian Council of Medical Research and AIIMS protocol, he added, the N-95 masks and PPE were only for the doctors working in the COVID-19 ward. “Anyone keeping a distance of six meters from a COVID-19 patient did not need these masks or PPE. So, doctors not working in COVID-19 wards, which is away from the rest of the hospital do not need these,” said Mr. Das. He said the protesting doctors are not put in COVID-19 wards, had ulterior motives and were scared. “They do not even know the protocol,” said Dr. Das.
13 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Scaled-down production, shut unit and skeletal staff||Getwell Pharmaceuticals in Udyog Vihar Phase-V, which manufactures anti-cancer medicine, has been running with one-fourth of its staff since the lockdown and revenues have diminished to one-fifth. Commuting of staff and transportation of goods has been the major challenges. Though categorised under the “essential goods” category, the company has failed to procure curfew passes for its staff commuting from neighbouring Delhi and Gurugram. “We applied for 14 passes in Delhi as per the procedure, but all were turned down,” said the company’s production head, Vaneeta Chaudhary. She claimed that one of her staff, Jitender, was hit by a policeman at a checkpoint a week ago, though he had carried the company’s identity card. Lack of clarity The company’s Chief Executive Officer and Director Manas Tandon rued the lack of clarity among the police, especially the constabulary, on the directions for the movement of staff for essential services even more than two weeks after the lockdown. Though the government says that the company’s identity card would suffice, the policemen insist that they should be duly attested by the authorities, he alleged. To avoid the hassle, the company has directed its senior staff to pick up and drop the workers. “It is quite a task, but that is the best way out. It is anyway easy for the seniors to deal with the policemen manning the barricades,” said Mr. Tandon. Jitender Kumar, who stays at Delhi’s Samalkha, near the Delhi-Gurugram border, said the police stopped him from returning to Delhi two days ago, though he was with senior staff. They did not have curfew passes. “We then returned and took another route a little later to somehow reach home,” he said. Though they have 110 people across all departments — manufacturing, testing, logistics, commercial operations and purchase — the company manages its operations with just 25. The movement of the manufactured good has also been hit since cargo airlines have grounded. Mr. Tandon said only two airlines were operating and charging three to four times higher than the usual freight. Also, the airlines do not fly without complete load, delaying the cargo for days. Travel woes Though the demand for the medicine, used during chemotherapy, remains high as ever, the production has been scaled down due to challenges in the movement of staff and goods. The company shut its Rewari unit due to similar issues. The availability of raw material is another challenge. The running of pharmaceutical manufacturing units is allowed, but the ancillaries are all shut. “We cannot run in isolation,” argued Mr. Tandon. The matter was conveyed to the Home Ministry, but the industry was yet to hear from the government, he claimed. Even if allowed to operate, these ancillary units may face labour crunch with most of the migrant workers having already left for their villages in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. “Around 85% workers at our ancillary unit in Sonipat have left,” said Mr. Tandon. With the raw materials stock dwindling, they might be forced to shut down entirely. Mr. Tandon said the biggest of the pharma companies usually had buffer stock for one-two months. If the situation persists, it could result in medicine shortage, feared Mr. Tandon. The company has paid the wages to the staff for March, but it may not be feasible if the lockdown continues. “The larger perception is that the pharmas are minting money in these times of crisis, but the reality is grim,” said Mr. Tandon, smirking.
13 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Provide special allowance to those treating COVID-19 patients’||The Delhi Congress on Sunday wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal highlighting the problems being faced by doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, sanitation staff and COVID-19 patients and demanded that a special allowance be provided to them. Delhi Congress chief Chaudhary Anil Kumar, in his letter, said that the Delhi Congress has received complaints that medical and non-medical staff engaged in the treatment of COVID 19 patients are facing problems when it comes to accommodation, personal protective equipment and other things. “At Lok Nayak Hospital, nurses who were asked to quarantine themselves after treating COVID-19 patients have been provided accommodation in the building which houses infected patients as well as those displaying symptoms. Instead of offering single rooms with attached bathrooms to the nurses, who have all been in close contact with COVID-19 patients, the hospital has asked two nurses to share one room,” he said, demanding proper accommodation for them. “Nurses should be provided good-quality accommodation in hotels close to their places of work with food and adequate security as has been provided to doctors,” Mr. Kumar said. The Delhi Congress also demanded counseling services for COVID-19 patients and those who have been asked to quarantine themselves.
13 April 2020||New Delhi,||Masks for the masses||Wearing masks can be claustrophobic, but there’s no doing without them now given the growing COVID-19 threat in our country. Several designers have studied surgical masks such as N95 and come up with their own “more breathable” prototypes using cotton. These masks give partial protection provided they are regularly washed. The designers plan to distribute them among the masses either for free or at a nominal price through various networks. Designer Rahul Mishra has come up with a version using a double layer of cotton that adheres to recommendations of the U.S. health protection agency Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. “So far, I have made a thousand for my workers and their families. These are washable masks and need to be dried in the sun. Each artisan has been assigned three masks which they have to change after three hours,” said Mr. Mishra, resident of a Noida apartment identified as a COVID-19 hotspot. “My workers live around the area that has been sealed by the Noida authorities. I don’t want them to be robbed of their livelihood even if they observe social distancing,” he said. Mr. Mishra now plans to make 1,00,000 masks for the public once the lockdown restrictions are eased. His rationale: “Even after the lockdown, everyone will have to wear a mask just like they wear a vest.” The average cost of the mask would be less than Rs. 10. Two variants Similarly, Aneeth Arora, a textile revivalist who like Mr.  Mishra studied at National Institute of Design, Ahmedabad, has designed a three-layered cotton mask. The designer, whose factory at Patparganj Industrial Area is currently closed because the area has been identified as another ‘containment zone’, has come up with two variants — one pleated and the other open. The cost of each mask, made from off-white fabric, would be Rs. 100. “Making masks is the need of the hour. The FDCI [Fashion Design Council of India] will figure out how many masks we have to be make,” she said. “These masks will be delivered free of cost and distribution will be entirely left to the Delhi police,” said Sunil Sethi, FDCI president. Suket Dhir is using hand-spun, hand-woven cotton from West Bengal to make masks that are breathable and can be easily washed and reused. “These masks made of two-or three-layered cotton are of strong quality,” he said. Mr. Dhir started production from April 10. “Since my artisans have gone away, I am making use of women volunteers from Neb Sarai near Sainik Farm who were trained in a programme of the Skill India campaign,” he said. His masks will be distributed free of cost through an NGO.
13 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||‘Lower-middle class has tough time sustaining themselves’||Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch, a civil society group, which has been distributing cooked food and ration kits to around 20,000 people daily, said there is a spike in distress calls for food over the past 24 hours. It said that a new disturbing trend was emerging wherein the lower-middle class families, with a monthly income of Rs. 15,000-20,000, too have been facing difficulty in sustaining themselves. Independent filmmaker and member of the manch, Rahul Roy, said the group had been catering mostly to daily-wagers and migrant workers, but their information team had been receiving distress calls from lower-middle class families as well over the past 24 hours. Mr. Roy said the situation was grim and Universal Public Distribution System could be the only solution. “It is not sustainable to provide cooked food to such a large population every day. It needs huge logistics. The weather is also getting hotter and the food may go bad within hours,” said Mr. Roy. He said the group distributed around 20,000 packets of cooked food every day at fixed places. Of these, 5,000 packets were contributed by I Pack and Swiggy. Mr. Roy said a kitchen had been set up at The Shri Ram School, Moulsari campus in DLF Phase-III for this purpose. He suggested that cooked food could be the right way of catering to people in camps, but since the people were inside their homes they should be provided ration to cook on their own. Mr. Roy said the manch collected funds through crowd-funding and the MMT Foundation had also offered to run the kitchen for ten days. Besides, the manch has adopted a village behind the Marble Market and distributed 600 ration packets. Each ration kit, comprising wheat, flour, rice, pulses and mustard oil, among others, was enough for a family of four people to sustain themselves for 10 days. “We have distributed around 6,500 ration kits so far. Around 300-400 kits are being distributed every day. We gave away 300 such kits at Bhatti Mines on Saturday,” said Mr. Roy. The filmmaker said a team was set up before the lockdown to gather information about SOS demands through WhatsApp groups, trade unions and other sources. The information is verified, a chart is prepared every evening and ration supplied the next day. The ration packets are storted at Udyog Vihar and around 200 people work as volunteers.
13 April 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- Hindu Rao||A passageway meant to disinfect people or vehicles entering Hindu Rao Hospital here was inaugurated by the North Delhi Mayor, Avtar Singh, on Sunday. People entering the hospital or vehicles carrying goods or patients entering through the tunnel-like structure will be sprayed with disinfectant, the local civic body said in a statement. Nobody can escape this sanitisation, given its coverage, the statement noted.
