13 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police link Yechury, Yadav to Delhi riots||A supplementary chargesheet in the communal riots issue filed by the Delhi police Crime Branch has named Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, along with Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav and some other prominent individuals. The document in First Information Report number 50, which is part of an alleged disclosure statement, states that Gulfisha Fathima alias Gul, one of those accused, had in her statement said leaders like Mr. Yechury and Mr. Yadav had come to provoke and mobilise the crowd. The chargesheet, containing garbled language, quoted Ms. Fathima’s alleged statement as follows: “Speeches were made at the picket sites by presenting Devangana and Natasha Narwal as JNU Scholars, and telling me the local educated so that less educated people could be tricked, and our talk would have more effect, which we misconstrued CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act). People started explaining to them that they felt that this law was anti-Muslim. The crowd had started growing and according to the plan, big leaders and lawyers started coming in to provoke and mobilize this crowd including Omar Khalid, Chander Shekhar Ravan, Yogender Yadav, Sitaram Yechury and lawyer Mahmood Pracha said that the sitting-in demonstration is your democratic right, and the rest of the leaders filled the feeling of discontent in the community by calling CAA/NRC anti-Muslim.” The supplementary chargesheet has been filed against Gulfisha Fathima, Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal. The police stated that all three belong to “high class educated society”. In Ms. Kalita’s alleged statement, police quoted her and mentioned former MLA Mateen Ahmed and MLA Amanatullah Khan. Police quoted her as saying in her statement, that they used their education to influence people. “Some leaders of Muslim Community are also visited there including Ex. MLA Mateen Ahmed, Anas, Sadaf and MLA Amanatullah Khan. We used our educational qualification to misguide the common Muslim people that we have knowledge about the CAA/NRC and it is against the Muslim,” the document quoted Ms. Kalita’s alleged statement. Refusal to sign Both the statements contained handwritten text, stating that the individuals refused to sign them. The alleged statements of Ms. Natasha Narwal and Ms. Kalita also mention economist Jayati Ghosh, Delhi University professor Apoorvanand, and documentary filmmaker Rahul Roy. “Accused Devangana Kalita has disclosed that in the month of December after passing CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) Jaidi Ghosh, Professor Apurva Nand, Rahul Roy had explained that we have to protest against CAA/ NRC for which we can go any extreme due to which we can through the Govt and Umar Khalid [the former JNU student leader and activist] had also given some tips for doing protest against CAA/NRC ”. Identical text has been attributed to Ms. Narwal in the document. Mr. Yechury responded to the police claim on Twitter. “Delhi Police is under the Centre and Home Ministry. Its illegitimate, illegal actions are a direct outcome of the politics of BJP’s top leadership. They are scared of legitimate peaceful protests by mainstream political parties & are misusing state power to target the Opposition”. Mr. Yadav tweeted, “Supplementary chargesheet does NOT mention me as co-conspirator, or even as accused. One passing reference to me and Yechury, in an unauthenticated police statement (not admissible in court) by one accused.”
13 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Oxford vaccine trials to resume in U.K.||Oxford University in a statement on Saturday said it is resuming the ‘paused’ vaccine trial of the ChAdOx1 COVID vaccine in clinical trial sites in the United Kingdom. The vaccine candidate developed by researchers at the University and in partnership with the U.K. biopharma company AstraZeneca was paused earlier this week after reports emerged of a “serious adverse event” in a volunteer in the U.K. The trial is being conducted in the United States, Brazil and South Africa. The Serum Institute of India, which has partnered with AstraZeneca, had begun a trial in India that was also paused. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday cautioned the people against lowering their guard till an effective anti-coronavirus medicine is developed. With a slogan to to drive home his point, Mr. Modi said, “ Jab tak dawai nahi, tab tak dhilai nahi (No carelessness till a medicine is found).” Adequate review “On Sunday [06/09/2020], our standard review process triggered a study pause to vaccination across all of our global trials to allow the review of safety data by an independent safety review committee, and the national regulators. All routine follow-up appointments continued as normal during this period. The independent review process has concluded, and following the recommendations of both the independent safety review committee and the U.K. regulator, the MHRA (Medical and Healthcare Products Regulator Agency), the trials will recommence in the U.K.,” the Oxford vaccine group said in a statement. “Globally some 18,000 individuals have received study vaccines as part of the trial. In large trials such as this, it is expected that some participants will become unwell and every case must be carefully evaluated to ensure careful assessment of safety,” the statement said. Responding to the resumption, CEO of Serum Institute Adar Poonawala tweeted: “As I’d mentioned earlier, we should not jump to conclusions until the trials are fully concluded. The recent chain of events are a clear example why we should not bias the process and should respect the process till the end. Good news, @UniofOxford.” There was no information on resumption of the India trials. The Oxford vaccine group said it could not disclose details about the illness because of “participant confidentiality.”
13 September 2020||Kolkata,||India-China standoff casts a shadow on Nathu La border trade||Tenzing Tsephel Bhutia, a second-generation trader at Nathu La in Sikkim, has been doing business with Chinese traders for the past few years. The Gangtok resident got into the business in 2015 after his uncle Gnawang Norbhu, who started trading at Nathu La when border trade reopened in 2006, hung up his boots. This summer, however, there has been no trade because of the COVID-19 outbreak. And as they watch the trading season draw to a close without any earnings, the 200 traders from Sikkim, like Mr. Bhutia, now fear the tension between India and China at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh may affect their business next year too. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Bhutia said though trade at Nathu La, at an elevation of 14,140 feet, is tough as it involves long, arduous journeys and crossing custom checkpoints between the countries, it is good. “I used to export foodgrains, particularly rice, maida (flour) and biscuits, and in return, we bought clothes, shoes and handicraft. My annual turnover of export and import was well over Rs. 50 lakh,” said Mr. Bhutia, who is also the general secretary of the Indo-China Border Traders’ Welfare Association. Sikkim’s Minister for Industries and Commerce B.S. Pant also expressed concerns over the future of the trade through Nathu La. “There was no trade even for a single day this year. About next year, we do not really know, considering the relations between India and China,” said Mr. Pant. According to the Minister, the decision to suspend trade was taken in March. “Since the Centre has a major role in facilitation of trade, we urged it to suspend the exercise this year, fearing the outbreak of COVID-19,” he said. The Kailash Mansarovar Yatra, which started via Sikkim a few years ago, was also suspended this year. The border trade via the Old Silk Route at Nathu La reopened on July 6, 2006, amid expectations of improving relations between the India and China. Trading activity takes place for six months from May to November, four days a week — Monday to Thursday — and only registered traders are allowed to buy and sell. In 2006, the border trade started with exports worth Rs. 27.87 lakh and imports of Rs. 6.88 lakh. By 2016, the volume of the trade had multiplied 200 times. According to the figures provided by the Department of Commerce and Industries, Government of Sikkim, the value of exports from India to China at Nathu La in 2016 was Rs. 63.38 crore, and imports were valued at Rs. 19.3 crore. Doklam effect However, the long-drawn standoff at Doklam between the Indian and Chinese forces in 2017 had an adverse impact, and trade dropped by almost 90%. Exports from India plunged to Rs. 7.83 crore while imports from China receded to Rs. 1.02 crore. According to Customs officials guarding the Serathang checkpost on the Indian side, trade was suspended in 2017 as the Doklam standoff — June to August — coincided with the trading season. Doklam is about 56 km from Nathu La. But trade picked up again in 2018, and exports increased to Rs. 52 crore and imports to Rs. 3.23 crore. “In 2019, the trade declined because of the poor condition of the roads. Certain stretches had turned very steep and prone to accidents,” said Tashi Thendup, another trader.
13 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||PLA hands over 5 Arunachal youth||The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China on Saturday handed over five Arunachal Pradesh youth to the Indian Army, more than 800 km east of where they strayed beyond the McMahon Line separating the two countries. The five will be handed over to their families in Nacho area of Upper Subansiri district after they spend 14 days in quarantine as per the COVID-19 protocol, Army officials said. “Our personnel received the five youth at Kibithu after completing all formalities. They will be quarantined for the specified period,” said Lt. Col. P. Khongsai, the Guwahati-based defence spokesperson. The five teenagers had gone hunting at the Tungdara Mountain, or Sera-7, close to the McMahon Line. They strayed into the Chinese side on September 2, and were reportedly captured by the PLA. The Indian Army communicated with the PLA on their hotline for tracing and returning them. Army officials said the PLA responded on September 8 to confirm that the missing individuals had been traced. Family members of the youth — mostly teenagers — said some of them were working as porters for the Army along the LAC. “Now that they are back in the country, it doesn’t matter how they went to the other side. We are grateful to the Indian Army for helping bring them back, but the government should focus on developing our backward area so that people do not have to risk their lives for sustenance,” said Prakash Ringling, the brother of Prasad Ringking, one of the boys who had gone missing. The others who were returned were identified as Toch Singkam, Dongtu Ebiya, Tanu Baker and Ngari Diri. There have been several instances in the past of people “abducted” or captured by the Chinese soldiers from the LAC. In March, 21-year-old Togley Sinkam was taken away at gunpoint from the Asapila sector of the district while two of his friends managed to escape. The Chinese Army released him after 19 days in captivity.
13 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||VROs to be given option to join other departments||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has said that the State government will give the option to work in other departments for Village Revenue Officers (VROs), whose posts were abolished by the new Revenue Act on Friday. He also promised government jobs for the children of Village Revenue Assistants (VRAs) who were in advanced age as most of them were from the poorer sections. The government has decided to extend pay scales to VRAs on humanitarian grounds though it cost the exchequer Rs. 260 crore annually, Mr. Rao told a 60-member delegation of Telangana Revenue Employees Services Association (TRESA) which called on him to thank for the enactment of the new revenue law. Mr. Rao said the government always took people-centric decisions, and, in this backdrop, the new law was enacted. The Act did not go against anybody, he said and praised the revenue staff for discharging 54 responsibilities as part of their job chart alongside elections and meeting challenges of natural calamities. He asked Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, who was also present, to clear promotions for all levels of officers in Revenue department and release car allowance to tahsildars regularly. He announced sanction of Rs. 60 crore for creation of facilities in tahsildar offices. Appealing to the revenue staff and officers to work with commitment in implementing the legislation strictly as it was aimed for the benefit of all sections of people of the State, he said a visible change was required in the revenue administration from now onwards. He wished that the staff should work for the development of SCs, STs, BCs and the poor among other castes. Just as a change was visible in the functioning of the police due to awareness among the people, the same should be the case with revenue administration. The revenue staff should be polite with people who visit their offices for settlement of grievances. The culture that existed in villages in the past, when people looked up with respect at officers who worked well, should be restored. Reminding the staff that people were always watchful about how the former dealt with them, Mr. Rao asked them to keep this in mind and resolve their issues positively. The TRESA leaders thanked Mr. Rao for entrusting the responsibility of registration to tahsildars.
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Stalin, 17 DMK MLAs move HC against fresh privilege notices||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president M.K. Stalin and 17 other MLAs of his party have moved the Madras High Court challenging fresh breach of privilege notices to them on September 7 for having displayed Gutkha (chewing tobacco) sachets in the Assembly on July 19, 2017 to prove that the banned substance was available across the State. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy had on August 25 this year held that the notices issued to the MLAs on August 28, 2017 suffered from a foundational error of assuming that their conduct was prohibited as per a May 23, 2017 government notification through which only manufacture, transportation, storage, distribution and sale of Gutkha had been banned. Disposing of their writ petitions pending since 2017, the first Division Bench, however, left it open to the Committee of Privileges to deliberate upon the matter and proceed accordingly if it was still of the opinion that a breach of the privileges of the House had indeed been committed by the 21 MLAs who had displayed the sachets in the Assembly without the Speaker's approval. Though as many as 21 DMK MLAs, including the Leader of the Opposition Mr. Stalin, had challenged the beach of privilege notices issued to them in 2017, two had died by the time their cases was taken up for final hearing last month and one more Ku. Ka. Selvam was expelled from the party. However, since the latter engaged a separate lawyer to conduct his case, that writ petition was also clubbed with the common judgment passed on the batch of cases. Now, in his latest affidavit, Mr. Stalin said the Committee of Privileges had met on August 25, the same day when the High Court had ruled that the earlier notices suffered from foundational errors, and decided to issue fresh notices. Accordingly, the Secretary of the Legislative Assembly issued notices to him and 18 other MLAs on September 7 seeking explanation as to why they should not be punished for breach of the privileges of the House. In the new notices, the Committee of Privileges had cited grounds such as alleged disturbance caused to the Assembly proceedings on July 19, 2017; setting a bad precedent and causing disorder and bringing disrepute to the proceedings of the Assembly as reasons for deciding to proceed against the MLAs. The notices issued on September 7 had called upon the 19 MLAs to submit their explanation by September 14 when the Assembly was scheduled to convene. Stating that the date fixed for submitting the reply was not coincidental or innocuous, the Leader of the Opposition said the malafide intention was writ large on the face of the notice as it's primary objective was to prevent him and other MLAs from attending the upcoming Assembly session. He claimed that the present notices also suffer from the same foundational errors pointed out by the court. It was further brought to the notice of the court that both the notices arose out of the suo motu reference made by the Speaker to the Privileges Committee on July 19, 2017. Though as many as 21 DMK MLAs, including the Leader of the Opposition Mr. Stalin, had challenged the beach of privilege notices issued to them in 2017, two had died by the time their cases was taken up for final hearing last month and one more Ku. Ka. Selvam was expelled from the party. However, since the latter engaged a separate lawyer to conduct his case, that writ petition was also clubbed with the common judgment passed on the batch of cases. Now, in his latest affidavit, Mr. Stalin said the Committee of Privileges had met on August 25, the same day when the High Court had ruled that the earlier notices suffered from foundational errors, and decided to issue fresh notices. Accordingly, the Secretary of the Legislative Assembly issued notices to him and 18 other MLAs on September 7 seeking explanation as to why they should not be punished for breach of the privileges of the House. In the new notices, the Committee of Privileges had cited grounds such as alleged disturbance caused to the Assembly proceedings on July 19, 2017; setting a bad precedent and causing disorder and bringing disrepute to the proceedings of the Assembly as reasons for deciding to proceed against the MLAs. The notices issued on September 7 had called upon the 19 MLAs to submit their explanation by September 14 when the Assembly was scheduled to convene. Stating that the date fixed for submitting the reply was not coincidental or innocuous, the Leader of the Opposition said the malafide intention was writ large on the face of the notice as it's primary objective was to prevent him and other MLAs from attending the upcoming Assembly session. He claimed that the present notices also suffer from the same foundational errors pointed out by the court. It was further brought to the notice of the court that both the notices arose out of the suo motu reference made by the Speaker to the Privileges Committee on July 19, 2017.
13 September 2020||GUNTUR,||Govt. seeks CBI probe into ‘irregularities’ in APSFL||The State government has asked the CBI to inquire into the alleged irregularities in the functioning of the AP State Fibernet Limited during the period from 2014 to 2019. This follows the findings of the Cabinet Sub-Committee that Rs. 2,000 crore was allegedly siphoned off by way of awarding contracts for execution of various works in the name of procurements etc. The committee constituted to probe the alleged irregularities also submitted the findings before the High Court. According to highly placed sources in the government, earlier, the committee had come out with findings allegedly linking former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and former IT Minister N. Lokesh in the signing of an MoU between the Department of Telecommunications, Bharat Broadband Network Limited and the APSFL, for implementing Bharatnet Phase-II at a cost of Rs. 907.94 crore by allegedly inflating the component cost. The committee also nailed the role of Vemuru Hari Krishna Prasad, the then technical adviser to the government. The evidence gathered allegedly indicated that he, as a member of the committees that processed the tenders, had “illegally” facilitated the award of most of the high value tenders to M/s Tera Software and that he and his family members were closely associated with the sister concerns of M/s Tera Software.
13 September 2020||GUNTUR,||Govt. seeks CBI probe into ‘irregularities’ in APSFL||The government has asked the CBI to inquire into the alleged irregularities in the functioning of the AP State Fibernet Limited during 2014 to 2019. This follows the findings of the Cabinet Sub-Committee that Rs. 2,000 crore was allegedly siphoned off by way of awarding contracts for execution of various works. The committee constituted to probe the alleged irregularities also submitted the findings before the High Court. According to highly placed sources, earlier, the committee had come out with findings allegedly linking former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and former IT Minister N. Lokesh in the signing of an MoU between the DoT, Bharat Broadband Network Limited and the APSFL, for implementing Bharathnet Phase-II at a cost of Rs. 907.94 crore by allegedly inflating the component cost. The committee also nailed the role of Vemuru Hari Krishna Prasad, the then technical adviser. The evidence allegedly indicated that he, as a member of the committees that processed the tenders, had “illegally” facilitated the award of tenders to M/s Tera Software and that he and his family members were closely associated with the sister concerns of M/s Tera Software.
13 September 2020||Kolkata,||State reports 3,161 fresh COVID-19 cases||West Bengal on Saturday recorded 3,161 new COVID-19 cases, taking its total tally to 1, 99,493. With 59 more deaths in the past 24 hours, the death toll has risen to 3,887. Of the latest deaths, 12 were reported from Kolkata and 16 from North 24 Parganas. The toll in Kolkata has risen to 1,461 and in North 24 Parganas to 876. Howrah, where four persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours, has recorded 449 deaths so far. These three districts account for over 70% fatalities in the State. Kolkata city reported 547 new cases, taking its tally to 46,047.
13 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Regulate online class timings: panel||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights said here on Saturday that CBSE and ICSE schools should regulate the timings for online classes as per guidelines issued by the Union government. Schools should end the practice of taking continuous classes and give breaks of 10-15 minutes between sessions. Schools were also insisting that webcams should be on and the students should always be available online. All this had an impact on their mental health and privacy. Steps should also be taken to ensure that all houses have Internet and electricity connections.
13 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indian taken hostage in ’18 returns from Afghanistan||The start of intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha, which was contingent on the release of the last batch of Taliban prisoners, meant good news for the family of an Indian hostage being held in Afghanistan. Officials in Delhi and Kabul confirmed to The Hindu that Mantu Singh, the last of a group of seven employees of an Indian engineering company who were kidnapped in 2018, had returned to India on Saturday, after being released by the Taliban group holding him. The other six employees had been released in small batches over the last two years, including two men last month, in exchange for nine Taliban prisoners. Mr. Singh had been held back as the Taliban insisted on the release of other prisoners, a process which was finally completed this week. According to sources, he returned to Delhi by an Air India flight on Saturday, and will travel home to his family, including his wife and two children in Bihar’s Madhepura district. On Saturday, India participated in the inaugural ceremony of the dialogue between representatives of the Afghan government, civil society and the Taliban, with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar addressing the delegates.
13 September 2020||Visakhapatnam,||Case against Nutan Naidu||Two persons lodged a complaint with Maharanipeta police that Nutan Naidu, a TV serial actor, had cheated them after promising to provide jobs in the State Bank of India (SBI), here on Friday.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Getting ready||
13 September 2020||New Delhi,||Fresh COVID-19 cases touch new high in city||The national capital on Saturday witnessed the biggest single-day spike in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases, with 4,321 people testing positive in the past 24 hours, said a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Also, 60,076 COVID-19 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, the second highest number of tests done in a day. The highest number of tests so far was recorded on Friday at 60,580. The total number of cases has reached 2,14,069, of which 1,81,295 people have already recovered.
13 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Move to allot land on BU campus opposed||Environmentalists have opposed Bangalore University’s move to allot land on its campus for the CBSE’s southern centre and for a yoga university.
13 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bhushan seeks right to appeal against conviction||Civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan has moved the Supreme Court for a declaration upholding the right of appeal of a person found guilty of contempt. Mr. Bhushan was recently punished for contempt of court with a nominal fine of Rs. 1. He was found guilty of scandalising the Supreme Court with his tweets.
13 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: Assembly panel summons FB official||The Delhi Assembly Committee on Peace and Harmony, under the chairmanship of AAP MLA Raghav Chadha, has called for the appearance of vice-president and managing director of Facebook India, Ajit Mohan, on Tuesday for recording his statement before the committee, according to a notice issued by the Assembly.
13 September 2020||New Delhi,||Sonia, Rahul to skip Parliament session||Many MPs, including Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi, are expected to skip the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament. Ms. Gandhi, according to sources, is travelling abroad for her check-up and Mr. Gandhi is expected to accompany her.
13 September 2020||Mumbai,||State tally crosses 10.37 lakh with 22,084 cases||Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 22,084 new COVID-19 cases, taking its total tally to 10,37,765. The State also recorded 391 more fatalities, pushing its death toll to 29,115. A total of 13,489 patients were discharged on Saturday, raising the number of recoveries to 7,28,512. Mumbai reported a massive spike of 2,350 cases, and 42 more fatalities. The State’s recovery rate now stands at 70.2%, and its case fatality rate has reduced to 2.81%.
13 September 2020||HUBBALLI,||Many students opting for govt. schools: Karjol||“Following various improvement measures, nearly 34,000 students from private educational institutions are shifting to government schools, which is a welcome development,” Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Social Welfare Govind Karjol has said.
13 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Accused named in FIR arrested after high drama||The CCB on Saturday arrested Vibhav Jain, an alleged drug peddler who was organising drug parties. He was named as accused no.5 among the 12 named in the FIR .
13 September 2020||Chennai,||Plan to hire 800 doctors for COVID-19 duty||Steps are being taken to recruit nearly 800 doctors through the Medical Services Recruitment Board for COVID-19 management.
13 September 2020||Chennai,||5,495 persons test positive for COVID-19||A total of 5,495 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, taking the State’s tally closer to 5 lakh. Seventy-six patients died, taking the toll to 8,307.
13 September 2020||Patna,||Nadda, Nitish discuss seat-sharing plan||Amid talks of seat sharing between NDA alliance partners in Bihar, BJP national president J.P. Nadda on Saturday met Chief Minister (CM) and JD(U) president Nitish Kumar at his official residence. Mr. Nadda also launched the party’s poll campaign “Atmanirbhar Bihar (self-reliant Bihar)” before leaving for Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga districts to meet people and local leaders. Elections for the 243-member Bihar Assembly are due in October-November. Significantly, soon after the two leaders met in Patna, Chirag Paswan, president of NDA’s third alliance partner, the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), said in Delhi that he had no complaints or grudges against Mr. Kumar. He added that as a public representative from the State it was his duty to raise public issues before the Chief Minister. He added that “his party will go with whatever decision the BJP takes regarding the Bihar elections”. Relations between the JD(U) and LJP had soured after Mr. Chirag Paswan’s attacks on several issues. JD(U) leaders had said “their party’s alliance has been with the BJP and not the LJP”. Senior State level BJP leaders, including Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, party in-charge Bhupendra Yadav and State party president Sanjay Jaiswal accompanied Mr. Nadda at the meeting. Party sources told The Hindu that seat sharing was the focus of the discussion. “Both the principal alliance partners BJP and JD(U) may contest equal number of seats while the LJP may get around 20-22 and HAM(S) 4-5 seats to contest”, said a senior JD(U) leader. Earlier on Friday, former Maharashtra chief minister and newly appointed Bihar in-charge of the party Devendra Fadnavis too was in Patna and inaugurated the party’s media center. “Only a government which can work along with PM Modi government at the Center can take Bihar forward…” said Mr. Fadnavis.
13 September 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Cong. flags Gujarat death toll variation||The remarkable consistency in the daily COVID-19 fatalities recorded over the last two weeks in Gujarat — ranging between 12 and 16 — has raised eyebrows among public health experts, medical fraternity and the Opposition in the State. With a surge in cases in rural areas of the State, local doctors in districts allege that the numbers shared by the Health Department are massive underreporting and far from the actual number of deaths due to the virus. Highlighting the discrepancy in reporting, senior Congress legislator Vikram Madam from Jamnagar, on Saturday said: “In Jamnagar district, as per the government data, total 26 deaths have occurred due to COVID-19. But I have list of 182 dead bodies which were disposed off as per the COVID-19 guidelines in just one crematorium in Jamnagar city.” Speaking to media persons at the crematorium, Mr Madam shared the names of the 182 persons who had reportedly died of coronavirus infection and been cremated according to government protocols. “I challenge the government to dispute the figures I am disclosing here. Why is the BJP government playing with the public health? Why are real figures not being disclosed to public at large,” Mr. Madamasked. Jamnagar is not an isolated example of the wide variation in numbers shared by the Health Department and numbers sourced from civic bodies, crematoria and burial grounds. According to a leading doctor in Junagadh, around 7-8 deaths have occurred due to the COVID-19 every day for the last one month but these are not reflected in the consolidated official numbers. In Rajkot, according to reports in a prominent local daily, while 25 persons died due to COVID-19 on Friday, the government press release listed only one death. “In Rajkot, over 900 dead bodies have been cremated/buried according to the COVID-19 guidelines. But the government figure [for fatalities] is little over 100,” a prominent doctor from the city told The Hindu, requesting anonymity. After local media reports on the large number of deaths due to the virus, the authorities tightened norms, restraining local hospitals from releasing figures, and curtailed media access to hospitals. “There is a death audit committee in every COVID-19 hospital which determines the cause of the death and normally, co-morbid patients who died after they got infected are not included in the COVID-19 deaths,” a doctor and member of the audit committee from Rajkot said. “In August, 334 bodies were handed over as per the COVID-19 protocol in Rajkot civil and private hospitals,” a senior government official said. Under-reporting has been noted in Ahmedabad and Surat also. Gujarat Congress spokesman Manish Doshi obtained data under RTI which contradicts the official figures.
13 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Karnataka continues to register over 9,000 cases||Andhra Pradesh crossed the 5.5-lakh mark for COVID-19 cases on Saturday with 9,901 new infections and Karnataka added 9,140 cases. The number of people testing positive was 2,885 in Kerala, and 2,278 in Telangana on Friday. Kerala’s case total stood at 1,05,139. COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment in hospitals totalled 28,802. The State’s death toll was 425, with the Health Department adding 15 deaths which occurred between August 22 and September 8 to the provisional death list. Six deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, three from Kozhikode, two each from Thrissur and Palakkad and one each from Malappuram and Ernakulam. On Saturday, nearly 94% new cases were locally acquired infections, with no link to the source of infection in 287 cases. This included infections reported among 55 healthcare workers. Thiruvananthapuram had the maximum cases at 566 on Saturday. There was a rise in the number of active cases in all districts. Except for Idukki and Wayanad which has less than 500 cases occupying hospital beds, in all other districts, active cases had crossed four figures. In seven districts, over 2,000 patients were hospitalised. Samples tested in 24 hours stood at 43,954. Andhra Pradesh tested 75,465 samples in a day, the highest so far. There were 67 deaths in the past day, the Health Department said. The test positivity rate stood at 12.32% and tests per million at 84,786. With 1,398 new infections East Godavari was at a single-day peak for infections and as with two other districts, reported over 1,000 new cases: Prakasam (1,146), West Godavari (1,069), Chittoor (932), Kadapa (792), Nellore (711), Anantapur (680), Visakhapatnam (584), Vizianagaram (583), Srikakulam (555), Kurnool (505), Guntur (479) and Krishna (467). Telangana tested 62,234 samples on September 11, and results of 2,027 samples were awaited. The death toll was revised to 950 with 10 more patients succumbing to the infection. The 2,278 new cases included 331 from Greater Hyderabad, 184 from Rangareddy, 150 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 126 from Nalgonda and 121 from Karimnagar. Of the total cases detected till September 12, a total of 32,005 were active. In Tamil Nadu, 5,495 persons tested positive on Saturday, taking the State’s overall tally closer to the five lakh-mark. The State’s toll climbedto 8,307 with the deaths of 76 patients being recorded. With the fresh cases, the State’s overall tally climbed to 4,97,066. As many as 6,227 persons were discharged following treatment, taking the total number of persons discharged till date to 4,41,649.   (With inputs from Chennai, Vijayawada, and Hyderabad bureaus)
13 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||More logistics pacts on the cards||After concluding a logistics support agreement with Japan early this week, India is now working on three such agreements with Russia, the U.K. and Vietnam, two official sources said. The agreement with Russia is expected to be signed in October. Following the agreement with Japan early this week, India now has military logistics agreements with all Quad countries, Australia, Japan and the U.S., significantly improving interoperability as they also operate several common military platforms. The agreements with the U.K. and Vietnam are under discussion, one of the sources said. The agreement with Russia, the Reciprocal Logistics Support (ARLS), is expected to be signed during the bilateral summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin in mid-October, Roman Babushkin, Deputy Chief of Mission at the Russian Embassy in India, said early this week. The agreement gives India access to Russian facilities in the Arctic region which is seeing increased global activity as new shipping routes open up and resources become available, officials said earlier. India had recently announced investments in the Russian Far East. Malabar exercise The utility of the agreements will be visible at the next edition of the Malabar trilateral naval exercise scheduled to be held in November, the first source said. As reported by The Hindu earlier, an informal consensus has been developed to invite Australia to join the Malabar exercise, but a formal invitation has not been extended yet. It is not yet clear if Canberra would be invited for this year’s edition. In June, India and Australia signed the long pending Mutual Logistics Support (MLSA), elevated their partnership to Comprehensive Strategic partnership, and also announced a joint declaration on a shared vision for maritime cooperation in the Indo-Pacific. The logistics pact with Japan, Reciprocal Provision of Supplies and Services between armed forces, was signed early this week. India and Japan have already signed an implementing arrangement for deeper cooperation between the Navy and the Japan Maritime Self-Defence Force (JMSDF). India has signed several logistics agreements in recent years, beginning with the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Understanding (LEMOA) with the U.S. in 2016, and the Navy has been the biggest beneficiary of them. There has been a sharp increase in India’s maritime interactions with the Quad countries on a bilateral basis centred around information sharing for improved Maritime Domain Awareness (MDA) in the Indian Ocean Region and Indo-Pacific. After India signed the foundational agreement Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA) with the U.S., it got access to encrypted communication systems for seamless communication. As part of this, in March 2019 the Navy and U.S. Navy signed a loan agreement and installed two Pacific fleet provided CENTRIXS (Combined Enterprise Regional Information Exchange System) kits at the Indian Navy headquarters. Discussions are on for more such systems, though officials have not given a specific number.
13 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Preserve progress, says Jaishankar||For the first time, an Indian Minister has addressed a gathering that includes the Taliban, which India still does not recognise. The government also sent a senior official, MEA point-person for Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran J.P. Singh and a delegation to the inaugural ceremony which was attended by U.S. Secretary of State Michael Pompeo, Afghanistan’s High Council for National Reconciliation Abdullah Abdullah, a 21-member Taliban delegation and Foreign Ministers of several countries. While Indian officials had witnessed the signing of the U.S.-Taliban agreement on February 29 this year, also in Doha, this is the first time an Indian Minister has addressed a gathering that includes the Taliban. Calling for the Intra-Afghanistan negotiations to “preserve” the progress made in the past two decades in post-Taliban Afghanistan, Mr. Jaishankar did not, however, mention the Taliban in his speech and said India’s policy on Afghanistan remains consistent. “India believes any peace process must be Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled, has to respect the national sovereignty and territorial integrity of Afghanistan and preserve the progress made in the establishment of a democratic Islamic Republic in Afghanistan,” said Mr. Jaishankar over a video link, according to a statement issued by the MEA. “The interests of minorities, women and vulnerable sections of society must be preserved and the issue of violence across the country and its neighbourhood has to be effectively addressed,” he said, highlighting India’s role as a “major development partner”. “[Mr. Jaishankar] wished for the success of the Intra-Afghan negotiations in delivering to the people of Afghanistan what they have longed for — a peaceful and prosperous future in an independent and sovereign nation,” the MEA statement also said. The Intra-Afghan negotiations were a key part of the U.S.-Taliban and U.S.-Afghanistan accords signed earlier this year as part of the Trump administration’s plans for pulling troops out of Afghanistan. According to the agreement, the U.S. would facilitate the talks which were due to begin on March 10, and that the Afghan government would release 5,000 Taliban prisoners while the Taliban would release 1,000 captives the militant group was holding. However, the process was delayed repeatedly, as both sides delayed the release of prisoners, which also meant that three of the Indian engineering team were not released. On August 4, after considerable negotiations by Afghan officials, and the Id ceasefire called by both sides, Prasadi Mahto and Hulas Mahto from Jharkhand were released and returned to India. In a statement at the time, the MEA had thanked the Afghanistan government for its “constant and unwavering support in securing the release of the Indians”. With Mantu Singh’s return, the Afghanistan government has completed its commitment to bring back all the Indians who had been working on a power project in Afghanistan’s Baglan province, when they were taken at gunpoint by a group of militants in May 2018.  (With inputs from Amarnath Tewary in Patna)
13 September 2020||New Delhi,||Airlines face ban over photography||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Saturday warned airlines that failure to implement rules banning on photography on flights and at airports would result in a ban on the airline operating in the same sector for two weeks. The regulator’s action comes days after videos of chaotic scenes on board a Chandigarh-Mumbai Indigo flight carrying actor Kangana Ranaut went viral on the social media. Television news crews, who were covering the actor’s return to Mumbai, were seen violating aircraft safety norms as well as COVID-19 protocols. As per the new order if any air passenger is found taking photographs, the said airline would face a ban until the errant flyer is punished. Though the rules existed from before Independence, it was often violated and photography as well as videography have become normal at airports in the age of smartphones and social media. In the order issued to all scheduled airlines, Airports Authority of India and all other airport operators, the DGCA said, “As you are aware that as per Rule 13 of the Aircraft Rules 1937, no person can take, at government aerodrome or from an aircraft in flight, any photograph except in accordance with and subject to terms and conditions of a permission in writing... This permission is, however, not applicable when such aircraft is landing, taking off or on ground at a defence aerodrome.” “In spite of these regulations, it has been noted that at times, the airlines have failed to follow these stipulations primarily because of lack of diligence on their part. Needless to say that such deviations result in compromise in maintaining the highest standards of safety and therefore, it is not allowed,” the order said. “Keeping this in mind, it has been decided that from now on, in case of such violation occurs on any schedule passenger aircraft, the schedule of flight for that particular route shall be suspended for a period of two weeks from the next day [of the incident] and shall be restored only after the airline has taken all the necessary punitive action against those responsible for the violation,” the circular added. The DGCA is also learnt to have suspended one Indigo flight in the Chandigarh-Mumbai sector in which the chaotic media incident was reported.
13 September 2020||Bengaluru,||After high drama, alleged drug peddler held in Karnataka||The Central Crime Branch (CCB), on Saturday, arrested Vibhav Jain, an alleged drug peddler who was organising drug parties for his clients to sell contraband. Vibhav was named as accused no. 5 among the 12 named in the FIR. According to the police, Vibhav, a resident of Malleswaram, tried to dodge the arrest stating that he is COVID-19 positive and home quarantined. The officials returned after asking him to appear before them for questioning after recovery. Meanwhile, Vibhav approached the court seeking anticipatory bail. When the CCB officials came to know about Vibhav’s move, they went to his house and arrested him. Vibhav allegedly supplied drugs to Ravi Shankar, a second division assistant, and actor Ragini Dwivedi through Prateek Shetty, who was arrested by the CCB. The police are now questioning Vibhav to ascertain his clients list and his drug business details. Prateek is related to Ravi and was linked to Vibhav and peddled drugs to parties attended by the accused, the police said. Prateek was arrested by the CCB police earlier in 2018 in an NDPS case along with two Nigerian nationals. Meanwhile, the CCB continued to question actors Ragini and Sanjjanaa Galrani and other accused to corroborate with the technical evidence they have. Prashant Sambargi questioned The CCB also questioned film producer Prashant Sambargi seeking an explanation to substantiate his claims about the link absconding suspect Syed Faazil has with Chamarajapet MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan. A team comprising of Anti Narcotics Cell officials questioned Prashant for over two hours seeking evidence about his claims. After a detailed questioning, the CCB refused to accept the evidence he submitted stating that there is nothing new and it is all available on social media. The officials asked him to get concrete information on the alleged links. Prashant earlier claimed that Faazil runs drugs and gambling parties at casinos in Sri Lanka, which were allegedly attended by Mr. Zameer Khan. CCB sources said Prashant did not provide any concrete evidence. Meanwhile, Mr. Zameer Khan, responding to the allegation, said that had gone to the Colombo along with many MLAs and visited the casino, which is legal. He further challenged Prashant to prove his link with the drug racket following which he would bequeath all his property to the government. On the other hand, extensive raids were conducted across the west division on paan shops to check for sale of contraband materials.
13 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Demand for K.T. Jaleel’s resignation grows shriller||The demand for the resignation of Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel appeared to grow shriller for the second day on Saturday. Several persons were injured when Congress, Bharatiya Janata Party and Indian Union Muslim League workers clashed with the police in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Thrissur, Kozhikode and Malappuram districts. In some places, Youth Congress and Muslim Youth League workers also joined the protest. The demonstrators said Dr. Jaleel had lost the moral right to continue in office after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) questioned him on Friday on suspicion of obtaining "foreign aid and gifts" from the UAE illegally. They burned the Minister in effigy at protest locations. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the government should resign. Overlapping investigations by three Central law enforcement agencies had reached the doorstep of the ruling front. Dr. Jaleel; Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan; and former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister M. Sivasankar were under a cloud of suspicion. The Left Democratic Front has brought notoriety on itself and the State. FCRA violation BJP State president K. Surendran alleged that Mr. Vijayan and Dr. Jaleel were accomplices in several underhand dealings involving foreign potentates and their representatives. Mr. Vijayan could ill afford to forsake Dr. Jaleel. He said the Minister had violated the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) by accepting illegal contributions from abroad. He also accused him of helping the accused in the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case. ‘No foreign aid accepted’ Meanwhile, persons close to Dr. Jaleel's office said the Minister had reportedly told the ED that he had not accepted any foreign aid. He had interacted with the UAE consulate and its officials in his capacity as Minister for Minority Welfare and Waqf. He had received parcels of the Koran and food packets to distribute to needy families during Ramzan. The Koran packets remained undistributed and intact. He had no illegitimate wealth, nor had he broken protocol. He had not broken any law.
13 September 2020||New Delhi,||Sonia, Rahul among MPs to skip Parliament session||Many MPs, including Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi, are expected to skip the upcoming monsoon session, which is the first time Parliament is meeting during the pandemic. Ms. Gandhi, according to sources, is travelling abroad for her annual check-up and will be away for at least two weeks. Mr. Gandhi is expected to accompany her. “Congress president Smt. Sonia Gandhi is travelling today onwards for a routine follow up & medical check up, which was deferred due to the pandemic. She is accompanied by Sh. Rahul Gandhi,” chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted. The absence of both the senior leaders is significant since it comes just days after the party saw a reshuffle to rejuvenate the cadre. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is also not expected to be present on all days. The Trinamool Congress earlier had issued directions to its MPs who are above 65 years of age to skip the session for health reasons. Three Trinamool MPs in the Lok Sabha and four in the Rajya Sabha will skip. Sources said Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu have received many leave applications. The Opposition benches are expected to have far thinner attendance since many MPs from Kerala and Tamil Nadu have expressed their inability to attend the session.
13 September 2020||Bhopal,||Dhrupad Sansthan to reconsider ICC composition||The Dhrupad Sansthan, an international residential music school here, is reconsidering the composition of its internal complaints committee (ICC) formed recently to inquire into allegations of sexual harassment by former students against teacher Akhilesh Gundecha after a section of students claimed its members were connected to the Gundecha family. “There was less representation of students in the four-member committee,” Umakant Gundecha, chairman of the organisation which promotes the ancient style of Hindustani classical music, told The Hindu . “So, we are planning to reconstitute a new one with members picked in consultation with students.” Former IAS officer Anshu Vaish recused herself from the ICC, whose composition the organisation declared on September 5, after arts writer Devina Dutt in a Facebook post said she (Ms. Vaish) was reportedly close to the Gundecha family along with other members. “The remaining three may remain, but more will be added. But if students want, the committee can be dissolved too,” said Mr. Umakant, whose other brother, late Ramakant Gundecha was also accused of sexual harassment in a Facebook post on September 2, which shared an allegation from an anonymous source that was first reportedly made on a WhatsApp group. A statement issued by 22 former and current resident students of the sansthan (institute) demanded an apology from the family for not acting earlier. The sansthan functioned like a small family-owned business, having no external faculty members, no governing body nor an external oversight committee, said a resident student, requesting anonymity. “The ICC is in a complete mess, and no student is aware of its functioning. It should have been set up long ago in accordance with the law. You are not supposed to constitute it only after an incident takes place,” the student said. Pointing out there had been a “complete communication breakdown” between students standing with survivors and the organisation, the student said, “Some women, all foreign nationals, were brave enough to come out publicly, but Indian students fear retribution.” The statement further claimed Mr. Akhilesh did not step down voluntarily, as stated by the organisation, but under pressure from students, and mounting evidence. “Many resident students raised the allegations against Mr. Akhilesh to his face during a meeting on September 2, which forced him to recuse himself,” claimed the student. However, Mr. Umakant maintained Mr. Akhilesh, a pakhawaj player, had stepped down of his own accord. “After the discussion with students, he recused himself,” he said. Asserting the sansthan had been in touch with students since the allegations came up, Mr. Umakant said, “We will take the next step based on the committee’s recommendations.” Women in distress can dial 011-24373736/24373737 for support.
13 September 2020||Chennai,||Train18 architect not in promotion list||The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) has approved a proposal of the Ministry of Railways to empanel 25 seniors officers for appointment to the post of General Manager or equivalent in the Zonal Railways. The name of Shubranshu, the architect of India’s first semi-high speed train – Vande Bharat Express — has been dropped. Mr. Shubhranshu, as the Principal Chief Mechanical Engineer, Integral Coach Factory, Chennai, led a team of officials to roll out the indigenously designed and developed Train18 in a record 18-month period in 2018. Though his name figured in the panel of officers approved by the ACC for posting as General Manager in 2019-20, it was removed from the fresh panel without any reason cited in the order. The officer, belonging to the 1985-batch of the Indian Railway Service of Mechanical Engineers (IRSME), is among those against whom vigilance enquiries were initiated after the Train18 project ran into a controversy. He was transferred and posted as Chief Administrative Officer, Rail Wheel Factory, Bela. The self-propelled train was later flagged off as Vande Bharat Express between Delhi and Varanasi by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in February 2019. While another rake of Train18 was also rolled out last year and introduced on the Delhi-Katra-Delhi route and both the Vande Bharat Express trains were running without any issues, allegations surfaced that officials made compromises on certain safety aspects and one company was favoured in the procurement of components. A turf war between the Mechanical and Electrical departments over claiming ownership of the game-changer train is said to be the reason behind a series of issues that finally derailed the project. Even as Mr. Modi announced that more Vande Bharat Expresses would be launched across the country, the making of the trains came to a halt at the ICF. But despite a new design approved by the Research Designs and Standards Organisation and fresh tenders floated last year for making 44 rakes, the project remained shelved. After the second tender was scrapped recently, Railway Board Chairman V.K. Yadav said that fresh tenders would be called as per the Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) guidelines. Mr. Shubhranshu could not be reached for comment. However, senior Railway officials told The Hindu that mere initiation of a vigilance enquiry was not enough reason for denying promotion.
13 September 2020||New Delhi,||Assembly panel summons FB India chief||The Delhi Assembly Committee on Peace and Harmony under the Chairmanship of Raghav Chadha has called for the appearance of Facebook India Vice-President and Managing Director Ajit Mohan on Tuesday for recording his statement. On August 31, the committee said that prima facie it seemed that Facebook had a role in the Delhi riots earlier this year, and Facebook India officials will be issued notices to appear at the next meeting of the committee. The committee is looking into alleged “deliberate and intentional” inaction by Facebook to contain “hateful content”. “The committee, under the Chairmanship of Hon’be MLA Sh. Raghav Chadha, calls you, the addressee, as a witness for testifying on oath and for rendering your assistance by providing the relevant information and explanations in order to smoothly expedite the determination of the veracity of allegations levelled against Facebook in the complaints and depositions made before the committee,” the notice dated September 10 read.
13 September 2020||KASARAGOD,||Periye murder: victims’ kin to file caveat in Supreme Court||Parents of the Periye twin murder victims would file a caveat petition in the Supreme Court in view of the State government moving the apex court challenging the decision of the Kerala High Court for a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the case. Speaking to The Hindu on Saturday, Sathyanarayan, father of one of the victims Sarathlal, said he would do everything possible to ensure that the case was probed by the CBI to bring to book those involved in the murder. “It is unfortunate that the government has stooped so low to help the predators rather than stand by the victims,” he said. Mr. Sathyanarayanan said the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] feared that many party leaders in Kasaragod district would be named if the CBI probed the case. The government was adamant to safeguard the actual culprits and the decision to approach the apex court was proof of it. The crime could not be carried out without the knowledge of CPI(M) leaders. Krishnan, father of the other victim Kripesh, said the government changed the investigating officers when the probe turned towards the top party leadership. “We would go to any extent to get justice,” he said. Despite the High Court decision in favour of them, the government did not hand over the case to the CBI. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who said that the party had no role, was now moving the Supreme Court to protect the culprits. “Is this the justice that the Chief Minister promised us,” asked Mr. Krishnan. He said the police had shown complete non-cooperation with the CBI. Though the CBI had written four times to the State Police Chief and the Crime Branch chief to hand over the case details, the police did not provide the case diary or other documents. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran said the government's decision was extremely inhumane.
13 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka’s startup initiative gains Centre’s accolades||An initiative of the Centre to encourage competition between States has seen Karnataka come up trumps. It has been identified as one of the top performers in 2019, alongside Kerala, as per the latest States Startup Ranking Framework, set up by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. According to a statement issued by the State government, Karnataka was adjudged ‘top performer’ for the second time in succession mostly in recognition of the State’s development initiatives such as futuristic policies to support new and disruptive technologies, the regulatory committee for reviewing the challenges faced by startups working in emerging technologies, ELEVATE, a concept providing comprehensive entrepreneurship platform for startups. The State has also been recognised as an institutional leader, a procurement leader, a champion of regulatory change, and as a progressive player in innovation and incubation. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said, “Karnataka has one of the most mature startup ecosystems and that is why Bengaluruis known as the startup capital of India.”
13 September 2020||Bengaluru,||NIMHANS develops new Indian Brain Templates||Soon, neurologists, neurosurgeons and psychiatrists in India can map the brain structure of their patients and make an accurate assessment using Indian Brain Templates (IBT) and a brain atlas developed by a team of neuroscientists from NIMHANS. The neuroscientists studied over 500 brain scans of Indian patients to develop five sets of templates and a brain atlas for five age groups covering late childhood to late adulthood (six to 60 years). “The Montreal Neurological Index (MNI) template that we currently use is based on Caucasian brains. The MNI template was made by averaging 152 healthy brain scans from just a small slice of the city’s population in North America. But Caucasian brains are different from Asian brains. While some countries have their own scale to measure the brain, we are still dependent on the Caucasian brain template. What we have developed now is a scale that will measure an Indian brain,” said Dr. Vivek Benegal, professor of psychiatry, Centre for Addiction Medicine, one in the team of researchers. The research by a team of doctors led by Bharath Holla, professor of psychiatry, Department of Integrative Medicine; Rose Dawn Bharath, professor and head of the Department of Neuro-Imaging and Interventional Radiology; and Dr. Benegal was published in the journal Human Brain Mapping on August 26. “The templates and atlas will provide more precise reference maps for areas of interest in individual patients with neurological disorders like strokes, brain tumours, and dementia. These templates and atlas will also help pool information more usefully in group studies of the human brain and psychological functions, aiding our understanding of psychiatric illnesses like Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, autism, substance dependence, schizophrenia and mood disorders,” Dr. Benegal explained. Asserting the significance of the Indian templates, Dr. Holla said, “When most brain scans (MRI) are taken, they need to be compared to a standard brain template — a model or standard for making comparisons from a group of individual brain scans. This helps researchers identify parts of the brain.A challenge for researchers is that brain size and shape differ across ages, and across regions and ethnicities, and even greatly within any population.” “While the vast majority of these differences are structural and are not associated with intelligence or behaviour, they do present a practical challenge of matching up similar regions across people, which is necessary for accurate measurements. These new population- and age-specific Indian brain templates will allow more reliable tracking of brain development and ageing, similar to how paediatricians monitor a child’s height or weight, for example, using a growth chart,” he explained. Dr. Rose Dawn Bharath said that although there have been similar attempts previously in India, they were typically focused on young adults and had a significantly smaller number of subjects. “Validation experiments and comparisons with existing international templates found that using the NIMHANS IBTs for Indian brains significantly improved the accuracy of alignment and thereby noticeably reducing distortions, errors or biases in final reports of brain structure and function,” she said. The complete product is freely available for clinicians and researchers across India and the world. The datasets can be freely downloaded fromhttps://hollabharath.github. io/IndiaBrain Templates. “It now requires to be incorporated in normal protocols of brain imaging in India,” added Dr. Benegal.
13 September 2020||LUCKNOW,||Suspended IPS officer charged with murder||Days after being suspended as police chief of Mahoba district on charges of corruption and extortion, Mani Lal Patidar, an Uttar Pradesh IPS officer has been charged with allegedly conspiring to murder a businessman. A case under attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy and various charges was lodged against Mr. Patidar on Friday on a complaint by the brother of businessman Indrakant Tripathi, after the latter was found on Wednesday in his car with gunshot wounds. Earlier, Mr. Indrakant had alleged that the officer threatened to kill him after he refused to pay him Rs. 6 lakh per month. In his complaint, Mr. Indrakant’s brother, Ravikant, alleged that the suspended SP was irked by his brother’s refusal to bow down to his extortion demand. Mr. Ravikant said his brother was on ventilator support and his condition was deteriorating. However, he said he was satisfied with government action so far and said he would wait for the investigation before demanding a higher-level probe. The Mahoba police tweeted that the matter was being probed.
13 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Judges are becoming victims of gossip’||Supreme Court judge, Justice N.V. Ramana, said judges are becoming victims of juicy gossip and slanderous social media posts. “As judges are self-restrained from speaking out in their own defence, they are now being construed as soft targets for criticism. This issue is further complicated by the proliferation of social media and technology, wherein judges are becoming victims of juicy gossip and slanderous social media posts,” Justice Ramana, who is the judge number two in the Supreme Court and in line to be the next Chief Justice as per the seniority criterion, said. Justice Ramana was speaking at the virtual launch of a book “Judiciary, Judges and the Administration of Justice” authored by former Supreme Court judge Justice R. Banumathi on Saturday. The book encapsulates Justice Banumathi’s experience of over three decades in the judiciary and her remarkable journey from the subordinate judicial services in Tamil Nadu to the Supreme Court. ‘No bed of roses’ Referring to how Justice Banumathi worked tirelessly as a judge, Justice Ramana pointed out that there is a misunderstanding that judges enjoy a luxurious lifestyle in ivory towers. “The life of a judge is no bed of roses... The best judge of the same are the family members, who are usually torn between restraints and relationships. Judges have to balance their social life in order to be independent,” Justice Ramana said in his key note speech. The judge quoted the words of Justice Aharon Barak, former Chief Justice of Supreme Court of Israel, who observed that a “crucial condition for judicial independence is the personal independence of the judge”. In his presidential address at the function, Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde announced an initiative by the Supreme Court to address mental health issues caused by the pandemic. He said provisions have been made and will be announced shortly by the Secretary General, to provide professional mental health advice.  In his speech, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud referred to a portion of Justice Banumathi’s book which said judges need to be judges 24X7 and 365 days. “Judges also remain judges even after they retire. Justice Banumathi has shown great dignity after retirement,” he said.
13 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka High Court pulls up trial court||The High Court of Karnataka has pulled up a trial court for “carelessness and negligence” in not completing within a year the trial of a criminal case against persons accused of leaking question papers of the second-year pre-university final exam of April 2016. Justice B.A. Patil passed the order while dismissing a petition for release on bail filed by Kumaraswamy, who has been termed kingpin of the question paper leak episode and a habitual offender in such cases by the police. He had sought release on account of delay in completion of trial. “Though the High Court on September 9, 2019 had directed the trial court to expedite the trial and complete it within an outer limit of one year from receipt of copy of the order, the trial court has not bothered to expedite the trial,” Justice Patil said, directing the registry to seek an explanation from the trial court. It was pointed out to the High Court on behalf of the accused as well as the prosecution that the trial had not seen progress because of the non-availability of some of the accused persons, who have either absconded or are not attending trial, after release on bail. However, the High Court said that the trial court had not only failed to adopt the guideline issued by the apex court for securing the accused person for trial when they fail to cooperate, but had also not even bothered to send a request to it seeking extension of time to complete the trial.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||LAC standoff dampens Nathu La border trade||The data for 2019 from the Customs put the exports at Rs. 40.31 crore and imports at Rs. 3.20 crore. An official of the Industries and Commerce Department explained that exports were higher because 36 articles were allowed to be exported but only 20 articles were approved for import. In 2006, the trade was restricted to 29 items from Sikkim and the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) of China. Indian traders were allowed to carry goods valued at Rs. 2 lakh and Chinese traders were allowed to bring goods of same value in Yuan, he added. While the volume of the trade may not be huge and only 200 traders are involved in the exercise, political observers believe that the trade at Nathu La has a unique symbolism and underlines the idea of Sikkim — which shares borders with China, Nepal and Bhutan — being a peaceful and tranquil State. The trade, more than anything, ensures a direct people-to-people link as Indian traders go almost 20 km inside Chinese territory to Rinchengang, while Chinese traders come to Serathang, about 7 km inside Indian territory at Nathu La. Now, neither the officials in Gangtok nor the traders at Nathu La are sure about what the future holds. “As a businessman I would certainly want the trade to resume next year. But if the government decides against it, as a citizen of the country I will accept it,” said Mr. Bhutia.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Oxford vaccine trials to resume in U.K.||Responding to the resumption, CEO of Serum Institute Adar Poonawala tweeted: “As I’d mentioned earlier, we should not jump to conclusions until the trials are fully concluded. The recent chain of events are a clear example why we should not bias the process and should respect the process till the end. Good news, @UniofOxford.” There was no information on resumption of the India trials. The Oxford vaccine group said it could not disclose details about the illness because of “participant confidentiality”. AstraZeneca CEO, Pascal Soriot had said the afflicted volunteer had experienced neurological symptoms akin to a serious spinal inflammatory disorder called transverse myelitis. However, post the Oxford group announcement it was unclear if the participant had actually got the vaccine and whether it was indeed the vaccine that triggered the adverse event. On July 12, another volunteer in the trial had reportedly contracted transverse myelitis. However, it is not known if this triggered a pause; trial recruitment was on until the pause this week.
13 September 2020||Bengaluru,||NLAT: many aspirants complain of glitches||Many candidates who had registered for the National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT) 2020, for admission to the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) programmes, on Saturday complained that the home-based online test was marred by technical glitches, with some not being able to take it. The NLSIU, meanwhile, said that 94% of the total 24,603 candidates who registered for UG NLAT appeared for the test, while 97% of the 2,935 registered candidates appeared for PG NLAT. This, the varsity said, was an increase compared to 2019 where the attendance for UG CLAT was 90.92% and for PG CLAT it was 85.23%. Some candidates told The Hindu that calls to the technical assistance team did not help and later they were asked to contact the NLSIU helpline. Students alleged the lines were constantly bus. A candidate, who was allotted the 12.30 p.m. slot, told The Hindu that although her verification was completed before the test started, an error popped up. “I called the technical support team but got no help. I took a gap year only so that I can get into the NLSIU, but now I have not even been able to take the test,” she said. She has emailed the university requesting for another slot, but did not receive any response. Many candidates also clicked pictures of the online test and the images were being circulated. NLSIU said that such actions were logged on the system. “In cases where candidates have violated the proctoring guidelines, even if they have not been logged out, their exam will be disqualified based on a scrutiny of the audit logs after the exam,” the university said. NLSIU has said that candidates who faced technical glitches in NLAT may login toadmissions.nls.ac.inand raise a query by noon on September 13. “A thorough technical review will be carried out and candidates will receive a response,” the university said in a press release. Responding to allegations that some students indulged in malpractice, the university said, “We reassure all candidates and their parents that the technological systems and proctoring processes of NLAT 2020 were fully operational during the examination. Comprehensive digital records and technological parameters will be rigorously assessed for examination malpractice before any admission list is prepared. We are confident that the combination of human and Al proctoring will ensure that the exam integrity will be maintained. No candidate indulging in examination malpractice will secure admission to the university.” According to the university authorities, 27,500 persons were eligible to appear for the test. The Supreme Court on Friday said that the NLAT can be conducted but ordered NLSIU to neither declare the results nor proceed with the admission process till the court took a final decision on the validity of NLAT. This year, NLSIU decided to opt out of the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) which was a single test for admission to all 22 national law schools (NLS).
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Police link Yechury, Yadav to Delhi riots||The supplementary chargesheet has been filed against Gulfisha Fathima, Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal. The police stated that all three belong to “high class educated society”. In Ms. Kalita’s alleged statement, police quoted her and mentioned former MLA Mateen Ahmed and MLA Amanatullah Khan. Police quoted her as saying in her statement, that they used their education to influence people. “Some leaders of Muslim Community also visited there including Ex. MLA Mateen Ahmed, Anas, Sadaf and MLA Amanatullah Khan. We used our educational qualification to misguide the common Muslim people that we have knowledge about the CAA/NRC and it is against the Muslim,” the document quoted Ms. Kalita’s alleged statement. Both the statements contained handwritten text, stating that the individuals refused to sign them. The alleged statements of Ms. Natasha Narwal and Ms. Kalita also mention economist Jayati Ghosh, Delhi University professor Apoorvanand, and documentary filmmaker Rahul Roy. “Accused Devangana Kalita has disclosed that in the month of December after passing CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) Jaidi Ghosh, Professor Apurva Nand, Rahul Roy had explained that we have to protest against CAA/ NRC for which we can go any extreme due to which we can through the Govt and Umar Khalid [the former JNU student leader and activist] had also given some tips for doing protest against CAA/NRC ”. Mr. Yechury responded to the police claim on Twitter. “Delhi Police is under the Centre and Home Ministry. Its illegitimate, illegal actions are a direct outcome of the politics of BJP’s top leadership. They are scared of legitimate peaceful protests by mainstream political parties & are misusing state power to target the Opposition”. Mr. Yadav tweeted, “Supplementary chargesheet does NOT mention me as co-conspirator, or even as accused. One passing reference to me and Yechury, in an unauthenticated police statement (not admissible in court) by one accused.” A Delhi Police spokesperson said, “The disclosure statement has been truthfully recorded as narrated by the accused person. A person is not arraigned as an accused only on the basis of disclosure statement.”
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||PLA hands over five Arunachal youth to India||“Now that they are back in the country, it doesn’t matter how they went to the other side. We are grateful to the Indian Army for helping bring them back, but the government should focus on developing our backward area so that people do not have to risk their lives for sustenance,” said Prakash Ringling, the brother of Prasad Ringking, one of the boys who had gone missing. The others who were returned were identified as Toch Singkam, Dongtu Ebiya, Tanu Baker and Ngari Diri. There have been several instances in the past of people “abducted” or captured by the Chinese soldiers from the LAC. In March, 21-year-old Togley Sinkam was taken away at gunpoint from the Asapila sector of the district while two of his friends managed to escape. The Chinese Army released him after 19 days in captivity.
13 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Film producer Prashant Sambargi questioned||The CCB questioned film producer Prashant Sambargi, seeking an explanation to substantiate his claims about the link Syed Faazil, a suspect who is absconding, has with Chamarajapet MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan in the Karnataka drug case. A team, comprising Anti Narcotics Cell officials, questioned Mr. Sambargi for over two hours, seeking evidence with regard to his claims. After detailed questioning, the CCB refused to accept the evidence he submitted, stating that there was nothing new and it was all available on social media. The officials asked him to get concrete information on the alleged links. Mr. Sambargi earlier claimed that Faazil conducted drug and gambling parties at casinos in Sri Lanka, which were allegedly attended by Mr. Zameer Khan. CCB sources said Mr. Sambargi did not provide any concrete evidence. Meanwhile, Mr. Zameer Khan, responding to the allegations, said he had gone to Colombo along with many MLAs and visited the casino, which is legal. He further challenged Mr. Sambargi to prove his link with the drug racket, following which he would bequeath all his property to the government.
13 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Any non-political body can get FCRA exemption’||The Home Ministry has clarified that it has the power to exempt in the public interest “any person or association or organisation” not being a political party or a candidate for election from the provisions of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010. The clarification came in response to a report in these columns on Saturday headlined “Questions over FCRA nod for PM CARES”. According to the Ministry, Parliament had given powers to exempt any association or organisation, not being a political party, from provisions on receiving contributions under the FCRA. Using these powers, the Centre had issued an order in June 2011 under which the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) was exempted from all FCRA provisions. Similarly, the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund) was granted exemption through a Central government order dated March 28, 2020. Six other organisations, including the Overseas India Development Foundation and Bharat Ke Veer, have been extended similar FCRA exemptions. “Vide gazette notification dated 1st July, 2011, the Central government has also exempted all such entities which were created by a Central Act or a State Act and also compulsorily audited by CAG [Comptroller &Auditor General] from all provisions of the FCRA,” the clarification said. This exemption category was “further expanded” by a January 30, 2020, gazette notification that exempted entities created by Central or State government orders or any entity “fully controlled and owned” by the Central or State governments from FCRA requirements and audit by the CAG. The clarification said under the July 1, 2011, and January 30, 2020, notifications “no separate exemption orders are issued by the Central government”.
13 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea to uphold right of appeal in contempt case||Civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan has moved the Supreme Court for a declaration upholding the right of appeal of a person found guilty of contempt. Mr. Bhushan was recently punished for contempt with a nominal fine of Rs. 1. He was found guilty of scandalising the Supreme Court with his tweets. In his writ petition, Mr. Bhushan, represented by senior lawyer Kamini Jaiswal, said a person found guilty of contempt by the Supreme Court cannot file an appeal. He has to accept the verdict unquestioningly. “As a judge the power of the Supreme Court to convict and sentence the accused is unlimited and arbitrary... No one can be at once a suitor and a judge. Thus, there is a need for an intra-court appeal,” Mr. Bhushan contended. In the alternative, the review proceedings on a finding of guilt in a contempt case should be heard by a different Bench in open court. “The fact that there is inherent unavoidable conflict of interest involved, and the fact that liberty of the alleged contemnor is at stake, it is of utmost importance that certain basic safeguards are designed which would reduce [though not obviate] chances of arbitrary, vengeful and high-handed decisions,” the petition said.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Foreign funds & NGOs||The story so far: The licences of 13 non-governmental organisations (NGOs) have been suspended under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA), 2010, this year. Their FCRA certificates were suspended and bank accounts frozen. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said it had received “serious adverse inputs” regarding the working of several NGOs which come under the ambit of the FCRA in tribal areas. The licences of at least two NGOs working in Jharkhand have been suspended. What is the FCRA? The FCRA regulates foreign donations and ensures that such contributions do not adversely affect internal security. First enacted in 1976, it was amended in 2010 when a slew of new measures were adopted to regulate foreign donations. The FCRA is applicable to all associations, groups and NGOs which intend to receive foreign donations. It is mandatory for all such NGOs to register themselves under the FCRA. The registration is initially valid for five years and it can be renewed subsequently if they comply with all norms. Registered associations can receive foreign contribution for social, educational, religious, economic and cultural purposes. Filing of annual returns, on the lines of Income Tax, is compulsory. In 2015, the MHA notified new rules, which required NGOs to give an undertaking that the acceptance of foreign funds is not likely to prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India or impact friendly relations with any foreign state and does not disrupt communal harmony. It also said all such NGOs would have to operate accounts in either nationalised or private banks which have core banking facilities to allow security agencies access on a real time basis. Who cannot receive foreign donations? Members of the legislature and political parties, government officials, judges and media persons are prohibited from receiving any foreign contribution. However, in 2017 the MHA, through the Finance Bill route, amended the 1976-repealed FCRA law paving the way for political parties to receive funds from the Indian subsidiary of a foreign company or a foreign company in which an Indian holds 50% or more shares. The amendment, according to legal experts, followed accusations that the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress had been receiving foreign funds for political activities from the U.K.-based Vedanta Group from 2004 to 2012. The Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), a public advocacy group, had filed a public interest litigation petition at the Delhi High Court in 2013 against both parties for violating FCRA norms by accepting foreign funds. Both parties challenged a High Court order, which had termed the donations illegal in 2014, and moved the Supreme Court. They withdrew the petitions after the FCRA was amended retrospectively. How else can one receive foreign funding? The other way to receive foreign contributions is by applying for prior permission. It is granted for receipt of a specific amount from a specific donor for carrying out specific activities or projects. But the association should be registered under statutes such as the Societies Registration Act, 1860, the Indian Trusts Act, 1882, or Section 25 of the Companies Act, 1956. A letter of commitment from the foreign donor specifying the amount and purpose is also required. In 2017, the MHA suspended the FCRA of the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), one of India’s largest public health advocacy groups, on grounds of using “foreign funds” to lobby with parliamentarians on tobacco control activities. After several representations by the PHFI to the government, it was placed in the ‘prior permission’ category. When is a registration suspended or cancelled? The MHA on inspection of accounts and on receiving any adverse input against the functioning of an association can suspend the FCRA registration initially for 180 days. Until a decision is taken, the association cannot receive any fresh donation and cannot utilise more than 25% of the amount available in the designated bank account without permission of the MHA. The MHA can cancel the registration of an organisation which will not be eligible for registration or grant of ‘prior permission’ for three years from the date of cancellation. Have there been suspensions in the past? According to MHA data, since 2011, the registration of 20,664 associations was cancelled for violations such as misutilisation of foreign contribution, non-submission of mandatory annual returns and diversion of foreign funds for other purposes. As on September 11, there are 49,843 FCRA-registered associations. What about international donors? The government has also cracked down on foreign donors such as the U.S.-based Compassion International, Ford Foundation, World Movement for Democracy, Open Society Foundations and the National Endowment for Democracy. The donors have been placed on a ‘watch list’ or in the ‘prior permission’ category, barring them from sending money to associations without the MHA’s clearance.  The amended FCRA law allows political parties to receive funds from the Indian subsidiary of a foreign company or a foreign company where an Indian holds 50% or more shares   The amended FCRA law allows political parties to receive funds from the Indian subsidiary of a foreign company or a foreign company where an Indian holds 50% or more shares
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Case against BSY quashed||The High Court of Karnataka has quashed a criminal case registered against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for allegedly violating the Model Code of Conduct during the campaign for the byelection to Gokak assembly constituency in November last year. Justice Suraj Govindaraj passed the order on Friday while allowing a petition filed by Mr. Yediyurappa questioning the June 20 order passed by the Principal JMFC, Gokak, taking cognizance of the offence by rejecting the B-report submitted by the police. The court found that the complaint itself ex-facie did not make out an offence and hence, there was no prima facie material to take cognizance of offence. It also observed that the magistrate court had rejected the police B-report without issuing notice to the complainant. It was alleged that Mr. Yediyurappa, while campaigning for BJP candidate Ramesh Jarkiholi, had influenced the voters of the Veerashaiava Lingayat community.
13 September 2020||Bengaluru,||The Hindu’s photographer passes away||V. Sreenivasa Murthy, Senior Special News Photographer with The Hindu in Bengaluru, passed away on Saturday. He was 50. He is survived by wife and two daughters. He joined The Hindu in 2000, after a brief stint with The Asian Age. He was an alumnus of Chamarajendra Govt. College of Visual Arts in Mysuru. With The Hindu, he covered all areas of news, ranging from politics to sports and lifestyle.
13 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajnath calls up former Navy officer||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday called up retired Navy officer Madan Sharma, who was attacked allegedly by Shiv Sena workers, to enquire about his health. Mr. singh said attacks on ex-servicemen were “unacceptable and deplorable”. Tweeting from his account, Mr. Singh said he had called up Mr. Sharma to wish him a speedy recovery. Mr. Sharma confirmed that the Defence Minister spoke to him and asked for details about the incident. The controversy raging in Mumbai is over the attack allegedly by Shiv Sena workers, including party’s shakha pramukh for Kandivali, Kamlesh Kadam. Mr. Sharma, 65, was attacked on Friday for sharing over WhatsApp a cartoon of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray bowing before Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar. Mr. Kadam and one of his associates were later arrested after an FIR was lodged by Mr. Sharma. Mr. Sharma served as chief petty officer in the Navy and lives in Kandivali East. The Bharatiya Janata Party in Mumbai has strongly condemned the attack, with former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis calling it “extremely sad and shocking”, and others in the party saying that Mr. Thackeray was “running a dictatorship.”
13 September 2020||Srinagar,||Two girls, soldier held in Srinagar||One Army soldier and two girls — one a minor — were arrested from Srinagar airport on Saturday. The police stationed at the airport stopped and arrested a soldier of the Army’s 13 Rashtriya Rifles (RR) when he was scheduled to board a Delhi-bound flight. Police sources said the two girls were residents of Bandipora’s Ajas area. Police suspect it is a case of flesh trade. “An investigation is on. The soldier will be handed over to the Army for inquest proceedings,” an official said. The police and the Army have not commented on the incident.
13 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Experts back combined vaccine trials||Experts have proposed a plan to accelerate the rollout of a potential COVID-19 vaccine in India by combining multiple phases of the vaccine development process. The proposal has been published as a commentary in the latest issue of the Indian Journal of Medical Research , the peer-reviewed in-house journal of the Indian Council of Medical Research. Regulators are authorising drugs for emergency use in COVID cases. These are drugs or repurposed medicines that haven’t been indubitably proved as effective. Amit Dinda of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi; Santanu Tripathi of the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine, West Bengal, and Bobby John of Aequitas Consulting Pvt Ltd., in their article, propose a similar scheme for the vaccines. While potential vaccines must still be tested for safety at each stage, the Phase 3 and 4 stages could be combined, they say.
13 September 2020||New Delhi,||Modi govt. is anti-farmer, says Congress||Ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament, where three agricultural ordinances, including the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 will come up, the Congress said that these three are part of a calculated design by the government to help crony capitalists at the cost of farmers . “The Modi Government has dealt a deadly blow to the agriculture sector through these three ordinances. These black laws are the document of a conspiracy to ring a deathknell to agriculture and crores of farmers, agriculture labourers and commission agents ( aarhtis ). This is a well-calculated evil design to mortgage agriculture and farming in the hands of crony capitalists,” Randeep Singh Surjewala, chief Congress spokesperson said on Thursday afternoon at a virtual press conference. Equating the Narendra Modi government with the British East India Company, Mr. Surjewala accused the government of being anti-farmer. Mr. Surjewala said that destroying the Agricultural Produce Market Committees would mean that farmers will not get a minimum support price.
13 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Docs beat odds to perform liver transplant on teenager||Liver transplantation was performed on a 19-year-old girl from Warangal, by taking a slice of liver from a donor whose blood group did not match with that of the recipient. The transplantation was performed on August 11 and the patient has since recovered fully. When the girl was brought to the Apollo Hospitals here, she was found to be suffering from severe symptomatic hepatic hydrothorax, a condition, which led to excessive accumulation of fluid in the lungs and abdomen and swelling in the body resulting in breathing difficulty. On investigation, it was found that she had liver cirrhosis due to Budd-Chiari Syndrome. She needed repeated withdrawal of fluid from the lungs by needle puncture, once in 10 days. The hospital suggested liver transplantation. New transplant method As none of her family members had a matching blood group to donate a slice of their liver, three months passed by in waiting for a cadaveric organ for the transplant. As her condition was deteriorating rapidly, she was advised by the liver transplant team at Apollo Hospitals to undergo an ABO Incompatible Living Donor Liver Transplantation. “Body’s immune system is averse to accepting organ of a different blood group and rejects such alien tissue. Therefore, same blood group donors are preferred for organ transplantation. However, ABOi Living Donor Liver Transplantation procedure enables to seek a piece of liver from the available donor irrespective of the blood group,” stated a press release. Around 60% of liver was taken from the patient’s mother.
13 September 2020||New Delhi,||LJP MPs to meet in Delhi||Lok Janshakti Party MPs will meet on Wednesday here to discuss the Bihar Assembly election and to assess the party’s stand within the NDA. According to sources, the meeting has been called to brief the MPs about the decisions taken by the Bihar State Parliamentary Board.
13 September 2020||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||‘Education should be made a State subject’||Education should be made a State subject by de-linking it from the concurrent list, said DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin here on Saturday. After consoling family members of Jothi Sri Durga, a NEET aspirant, who committed suicide, he handed over Rs. 5 lakh to her parents. “NEET creates inequality as poor students cannot afford costly coaching,” he said. “Ministers were meeting the PM only to save their government and not to stop NEET,” he said.
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nokia’s defunct Sriperumbudur plant to reopen under Salcomp||Salcomp, a major supplier of chargers to Apple for its iPhones, will soon commence production at Nokia’s Sriperumbudur plant, which it acquired last year. Nokia’s Chennai plant has been closed since 2014 due to a tax dispute. When Microsoft took over the Nokia handset business, the plant was excluded from the deal. In 2018, the tax disputes were settled and Nokia indicated that the plant was ready for sale, which led to its acquisition by Salcomp in 2019. ‘Permissions obtained’ “Everything there [the plant] is almost ready. All permissions have been obtained... a few tests are on, post which we will commence production,” said Sasikumar Gendham, managing director, Salcomp India. The Finnish firm will be manufacturing several components that go into phones from this particular premises. “Apart from chargers, this plant will make several other minute components that will go into chargers and phones,” he said. The manufacturer recently inked an MoU worth Rs. 1,300 crore with the Tamil Nadu government and in 2019, during the second edition of the Global Investors Meet (GIM) 2019, it had given an investment commitment of Rs. 500 crore. Salcomp will be utilising the majority of these funds for purchasing new plants and machinery. “We will also be ramping up production lines. The Nokia purchase happened with this investment,” Mr. Gendham pointed out. Workforce addition Interestingly, the firm has added 1,000 workers to its rolls after the lockdown was lifted. The firm now has 8,000 workers, of which over 85% are women. By the end of 2021, Salcomp will be adding 5,000 people to its workforce and intends to add another 5,000 after 2021. The company did not retrench any employee during the COVID-19 pandemic. Like with every other organisation, the pandemic has hampered production at Salcomp’s Chennai plant too. “Production volumes have dropped since we had to slightly realign our lines because of social distancing and we have to disinfect our premises after every shift, which is time consuming. We have lost 15% of production,” Mr. Gendham said. He added, “Costs have increased post COVID-19 as more money is going towards the transportation of workers. We have put up plastic curtains between two operators on the shop floor.” Salcomp has been present at the Nokia SEZ near Chennai since 2007. The firm was initially supplying parts for Nokia phones.
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 5,495 fresh infections||A total of 5,495 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, taking the State’s tally closer to the 5-lakh mark. The toll climbed to 8,307 with the death of 76 more patients. With the new cases, the State’s tally rose to 4,97,066. Of this, 47,110 persons are still under treatment. As many as 6,227 persons were discharged from hospitals following treatment, taking the number of persons discharged so far to 4,41,649. Chennai continued to report 900-plus cases. With 978 new cases, the city’s tally increased to 1,47,591 (10,645 active cases, 1,33,987 discharged and 2,959 deaths). While 428 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore, cases surged in Tiruppur with 256 persons testing positive for the infection. There were 299 cases in Tiruvallur, 289 in Salem, 267 in Chengalpattu and 253 in Cuddalore. In Villupuram, 175 persons tested positive, while Nagapattinam recorded 153 cases and Krishnagiri 148. Among other districts, Tiruvarur saw 147 cases and Thanjavur 145. Of the 76 deaths, 39 were recorded in government hospitals and 37 in private facilities. Seventeen of them died in Chennai, while eight died in Salem and seven in Kancheepuram. A majority of them — 22 persons — were in their 50s. A 27-year-old man from Chengalpattu, who had no co-morbidities, died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on September 8. He died due to COVID-19 pneumonia, respiratory failure, left gangliocapsular intracranial haemorrhage, aspiration pneumonitis, hypertension and cerebrovascular accident. Testing ramped up A total of 88,562 samples were tested in the last 24 hours in the State. With this, 58,03,778 samples have been tested in Tamil Nadu. Two more private laboratories — Proscan Diagnostics Pvt Ltd and Radolabs Pvt Ltd, both in Chennai — were approved for COVID-19 testing. There are a total of 102 private laboratories and 65 government testing facilities in the State.
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||58 private teacher education colleges lose recognition||Tamil Nadu Teachers Education University has issued a circular that colleges whose recognition has been revoked by the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) and institutions that have not sought affiliation shall not admit students in the academic year 2020-21. The circular has listed the colleges whose recognition has been withdrawn by the Southern Regional Committee of the NCTE. Fifty-eight colleges have lost their recognition, whereas 13 colleges, found to be functioning with many defects, have decided not to admit any student this academic year. At its meeting in August, the Southern Regional Committee of the NCTE provided a list of colleges that did not fulfil the basic requirements, including of staff strength and infrastructure. However, a member of the association for self-financing teacher education colleges said most of the complaints against the colleges were insignificant. Some of the complaints listed in the minutes of the meeting were about illegible writing and failure to provide translation of documents or details of land. In some cases, the colleges had not responded to the show-cause notice or “institution has failed in submission of written representation along with all required documents in response to Final Show Cause Notice,” the minutes read. Some institutions required to submit certified copies of land documents issued by the Tehsildar/Revenue Officer concerned did not submit the notorized copies of the English version of the land documents, besides building completion certificates, the member said. The minutes of the meeting cited deficiencies in five of the government-run colleges. In Chennai, the N.K.T. National College of Education for Women and the Institute of Advanced Study in Education, known popularly as Teachers’ College at Saidapet, are among the colleges with deficiencies. The Government College, Vellore, the College of Education for Women, Coimbatore, and the college at Orathanadu are also on the list. No government college has lost recognition. According to V. Balakrishnan, Registrar, Tamil Nadu Teachers Education University, the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic had prevented the government from appointing faculty members in these colleges. The government was taking steps to rectify the problems. The Directorate of Collegiate Education was now acting on the complaints. Qualified candidates from arts and science colleges were being transferred to the teacher education colleges, he said.
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||JEE Main State toppers keep their options open||Gaurav R. Kochar (score 99.995) and S. Nirupama (score 99.922) are State toppers in the Joint Entrance Examination (Main), the results of which were declared in the early hours of Saturday. Mr. Kochar took the test in January and opted not to take the September edition of the test as only the best of the two exams are taken into account. “It didn’t affect my percentile but maybe the rank could have changed,” he said. He is preparing for JEE (Advanced). “I haven’t planned on the institution but I want to get into Computer Science or Artificial Intelligence. I have applied for IIIT and BITS and will be taking the SAT next week,” he said. S. Nirupama, who is ranked 969, is the topper among girls in the State. She hopes to get admission to the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras. She took up the FIITJEE integrated course five years ago and started preparing for JEE two years ago. “I have been looking forward to working in Artificial Intelligence. Something related to that will be Electrical or Computer Science engineering,” she said. M.G. Shyamsundar, a resident of Puducherry, opted for coaching in Class IX and X to strengthen his foundation in chemistry. A student of the State Board, he scored 585/600 and has scored 99.133 in JEE (Mains). His family moved to an apartment just across the school to enable him to focus on studies, he said. His preparation for JEE helped him ace the Class XII boards. He topped in the science group in Puducherry and is a school topper. He is now preparing for JEE (Advanced) but has kept his options open. He hopes to get admission to the National Institute of Technology.
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Awareness drive on women and child safety under way in Tiruvallur district||The District Child Protection Unit, Tiruvallur, along with the Wing for Crime Against Women and Children (CAWC), Tiruvallur, have been putting up awareness posters about the POCSO Act in places where people gather in large numbers. This initiative was started by the Social Defence Department and the police. The posters carry a warning message about the punishment for offences coming under the act. “Apart from creating awareness among children and parents, we wanted to warn the offenders too. Hence, we have put such posters in police stations, barber shops and tea shops, among other places where people gather,” said D. Senthil, District Children Protection Officer, Tiruvallur. He said the posters had also been put up in a few schools. “We started the work two days ago. We have also planned street plays to create awareness. Panchayat presidents in the district have been asked to organise a door-to-door campaign at the village level,” he added. In a move to create awareness about the POSCO Act, child marriage and other issues pertaining to the safety of women and children, the CAWC wing, Tiruvallur, has started awareness camps in factories and Irula settlements in the district. A total of 30 POCSO cases were registered in Tiruvallur this year, and on an average, 10 to 15 child marriages were being stopped every month. In factories and schools “We found it important to create awareness among parents. Initially, we started creating awareness in companies that have women workers. We will hold similar awareness meetings for men as they should also interact with children,” said M. Meenakshi, ADSP, Special Wing for Crime Against Women and Children, Tiruvallur. During the programme, police officers asked working parents to speak with their children before and after returning from work to understand their problems. “Parents should spend more time with their children. We also asked them to keep an eye on their social media usage and friends,” she added. Apart from companies, the police also conducted similar programmes in Irula hamlets in Tiruvallur, Tiruttani and Periyapalayam. “Once schools reopen, we will hold similar programmes in schools and educate children about the POCSO Act and whom to approach in case they face any form of harassment,” Ms. Meenakshi added.  (Childline operates a helpline — 1098 — for children in distress across the country)   Panchayat presidents in the district have been asked to organise a door-to-door campaign at the village level D. Senthil District Children Protection Officer, Tiruvallur
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Approval process suspended for PM Kisan Scheme||The approval process has been suspended in the State for applications submitted by prospective beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM Kisan) scheme, an income support programme envisaging an annual payment of Rs. 6,000 in three instalments to farmers. This is a sequel to the Rs. 110 crore scam surrounding the scheme, which came to the fore a month ago. Terming the suspension a “temporary” move, an official of the Agriculture Department said the decision followed the proposal to change the approval process. Enrolment of applicants is on and this has not been stopped, the official clarified. Instead of clearance of applications at the block level, the nod would now be issued at the State level after carrying out verification at the field level, getting a recommendation from the Collector concerned and carrying out the final check online. “At present, this remains a proposal. Once the government gives its consent, the Department will implement the decision,” the official added. The change in the process had been mooted in the light of complaints at the block level that ineligible farmers were enrolled “indiscriminately” and the security system for online authentication was compromised.
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNRERA grants compensation to home buyers||The Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA), Chennai, has directed Phoenix Serene Spaces Private Limited to pay compensation of Rs. 1 lakh each to home buyers and refund the amount paid along with interest for non-delivery of flats. In her petition, Bhuvanadevi Jayakumar said she had booked residential row houses in the builder’s project ‘The Commune in The Village’ at Kalavakkam village near Old Mahabalipuram Road and had paid about Rs. 1.03 crore of the total Rs. 1.20 crore. Since she was working in the United Arab Emirates, the advance was paid in 2015, and the construction and sale agreement was signed in 2016. The builder was supposed to deliver the villa houses by January 2018 but put it off to 2019 citing the detection of structural defects which needed to be rectified. After the delay, Ms. Bhuvanadevi sought to withdraw her purchase. SC verdict The TNRERA noted that as per a Supreme Court verdict, if a builder does not hand over possession of the flat within the time stipulated in the agreement or within a reasonable time thereafter, the buyer could not be compelled to take possession of the flat. In the present case, the builder had promised to deliver the row houses within 18 months, plus the grace period of six months from the date of agreement, which was not fulfilled, it noted and ruled that the buyer was eligible for a refund in the present case. Second complaint In a separate complaint, Col. K.M.G Panicker, Radhika Panicker and Deepak Panicker said they had booked an apartment in the project in 2015 and made payments of Rs. 48.6 lakh out of the total Rs. 51.10 lakh. They sought a refund as the apartment was yet to be handed over to them. Interest to be paid TNRERA granted compensation of Rs. 1 lakh to all home buyers and told the builder to refund the amount paid along with interest of 10.05% per annum. TNRERA also told the builder to refund about Rs. 3.6 lakh spent by Ms. Bhuvanadevi for registration and interior decoration, in addition to the litigation cost of Rs. 25,000.
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nearly 800 doctors to be recruited for COVID-19 work||Steps are being taken to recruit nearly 800 doctors through the Medical Services Recruitment Board (MRB) to augment human resources at government hospitals in the State, according to officials of the Health Department. Officials of the Department said that initially, 800 MBBS graduates would be recruited for COVID-19 management. The Department has already written to the MRB to take the required measures. “We need more doctors, especially young persons. We had posted 200 medical officers on deputation from the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine to the Greater Chennai Corporation. We are recruiting additionally to replace these 200 doctors,” an official said. In a communication to the MRB, the Health Department highlighted the need to urgently fill vacancies in human resources, especially doctors, nurses and paramedical staff. Augmentation of personnel was necessary to maintain the level of care at government facilities, especially in view of an unexpected surge in COVID-19 cases, it said. According to official COVID-19 data on human resources, as on March 1, the Directorate of Medical Education (DME) had 6,871 doctors, 8,158 nurses, 1,404 laboratory technicians and 15,433 multi-purpose workers. With personnel being recruited, including on contract basis, for COVID-19, the DME brought in 1,430 doctors, 3,504 nurses, 203 lab technicians and 859 multi-purpose health workers. As of September 4, the DME had 8,301 doctors and 11,662 nurses. In the future, the Health Department plans to recruit another 1,500-odd doctors and 1,300 nurses as well as laboratory technicians and multi-purpose health workers. Similarly, the DPH has around 300 vacant posts of assistant surgeons (regular), and requires nearly 1,000 assistant surgeons on outsourcing basis, as per official data.
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Devotees want trustees appointed to temples||Devotees have urged the government to take steps to appoint trustees for temple boards in the State. The ‘Arankavalar kuzhu’ or board of trustees is a must in temples to govern them in a democratic manner, said a former Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) Department official. Kalidas, a priest of the Kalikambal temple, said that election for trustees of the temple was yet to be ratified by the Department. “Five trustees need to be appointed. It has been six months since the election was held based on court orders but the Department is yet to pass orders on that,” he said. A.K. Ramajayam, Sri Jagathguru Sevas, an organisation that does service in temples, said only persons connected to temples including ‘bhattachariars’, ‘bhajana ghoshtis’, ‘odhuvars’, ‘pujaris’ and those performing ‘uzhavaarapani’ (service) must be made members of trust boards. No political appointees R. Subramanian, Loka Dharma Seva Foundation Trust, said only those who know the customs and traditions of the temples and are closely involved with the place of worship should be appointed. These should not be political appointees, he said. Trustees are yet to be appointed in several temples, including Kapaleeswarar temple and Kandakottam Murugan temple. Some temples have ‘fit persons’ or ‘thakkars’, sources said. HR and CE officials said that trustees have been appointed in several temples, and the appointment was an ongoing process.
13 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||20 ex-VCs write to PM seeking withdrawal of NEP||As many as 20 former Vice-Chancellors of State universities in Tamil Nadu have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to withdraw the National Education Policy (NEP 2020) contending that it perpetuates inequality. “We strongly believe that NEP has a hidden agenda. It perpetuates inequality and justifies injustice meted out to the underprivileged. It is disruptive to the unity of the nation. It is psychologically flawed and pedagogically unsound. It is retrograde in the sense that it proposes to take the nation back to the Aryan Vedic state,” the memorandum said. Instead the academics wanted a new committee comprising of only educationists to draft a new education policy that will be “democratic, secular, modern, scientific and technological in its character.” Among the signatories to the memorandum were Prof A. Ramasamy, former V-C, Alagappa University and S. Sathik and Father S. Ignacimuthu, both former V-Cs of University of Madras. The academics, who examined the NEP and the earlier Draft NEP, pointed out several shortcomings in proposed changes in the school and higher education sector. Pointing out that advanced countries such as the US, UK, China and Japan admit children in schools only after the age of five, the NEP proposed Early Childhood Care and Education from age three. “Merging pre-primary and primary Grade 1 and 2 and prescribing a formal syllabus for pre-primary will not allow the child to enjoy the childhood,” the academics felt. The memorandum rejected the proposed 5+3+3+2 structure for school education contending it would encourage drop outs at the fifth year of schooling. Objecting to the suggestion of a national syllabus up to class 5, the academics said in a federal set up, the framing of syllabus should be left to the States. The thrust on vocational education would take India back to pre-feudal age, they said. The proposal to conduct national level entrance test for college admissions “will facilitate mushrooming of commercial coaching centres,” and bring hardship to rural students and seal their future for higher studies, the academics warned. Besides, the proposal to empower colleges to issue degree certificates would make it difficult for employers to verify their genuineness. The memorandum opposed the multiple exit options at college level saying it would only increase the drop outs. The suggestion to create multi-disciplinary universities should be dropped. The academics charge that the NEP attempted to centralise the whole system of education in India by proposing a National education Commission subsuming various education regulatory bodies.  NEP has a hidden agenda. It perpetuates inequality and justifies injustice meted out to the underprivileged
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 1 lakh cancer patients treated since March: Minister||A total of 1,31,352 persons have received cancer-related treatment at outpatient departments in government hospitals and government medical college hospitals in the State since March, according to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. Of these patients, 48,647 were admitted for treatment. In a press release, the Minister said that steps were being taken to provide uninterrupted medical care for cancer patients during the pandemic. A total of 2,191 patients underwent surgery, including for breast cancer and head and neck cancers. A total of 27,721 persons underwent chemotherapy and 11,678 underwent radiation therapy, while 6,664 persons received treatment through pain and palliative units. As many as 250 cancer patients who tested positive for COVID-19 were also treated, the Minister said. Transport ensured To ensure that treatment continued uninterrupted for patients during the lockdown, the State government’s 102 vehicle service was put to use. Patients were taken from their homes to hospitals and dropped back after treatment. As many as 1,396 patients have benefited from the service since March, the Minister added.
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Institutional mechanisms to help children need of the hour’||With four medical aspirants ending their lives this past week in Tamil Nadu, psychologists and activists working with children are stressing the need for institutional mechanisms and ecosystems to reach out to those in need of emotional support. The National Crime Records Bureau’s report on suicides for 2019 shows that 2,744 children ended their lives citing failure in exams, of which 215 (roughly 8%) were from Tamil Nadu. Highlighting that these suicides were preventable, Anjali Singla, consultant and psychologist at The Banyan Academy of Leadership in Mental Health and principal-coordinator for the Movement for Global Mental Health, said having helplines alone was not the solution. “We must move towards having mechanisms in place that will prevent children from even reaching the stage of having to access a helpline,” she said. Pointing out that there was an acute lack of trained professionals who understand stress among children and recognise it at an early stage, she said that having a counsellor, who predominantly works part-time, for 200 to 300 children, would not have any impact. “Tamil Nadu has one of the highest suicide rates in the country. The Mental Healthcare Act of 2017 demands the development of a suicide-prevention plan by all States. But how many have done it?” she asked. A. Devaneyan, a child rights’ activist from the organisation Thozhamai, said there was an utter lack of life skills training in schools. “We always react after a suicide happens and then the discussion dies soon,” he said. Blaming schools, teachers and parents for focusing on scoring good marks as the only measure of success, he said it was high time that teachers were trained to change their focus and double up as counsellors. He said that apart from NEET, children’s issues never got the necessary political attention. S. Selvamani, project director, Happy Schooling Project, which is being executed in collaboration with the M.S. Chellamuthu Trust, HCL Foundation and Madurai Corporation in 24 Corporation-run schools, said experience in the field had made them realise that suicides could be brought down if students are engaged in the right manner. Pointing out that the project also aimed at identifying teachers who have an inclination towards providing psychological support to children and training them, he said that similar models must be replicated across the State.
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fuel outlets to function till 10 p.m.||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday extended the working hours of petrol pumps in the State till 10 p.m. The timings were earlier restricted from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. in view of the COVID-19 lockdown. An order issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam said the decision followed a request from the Co-operation, Food and Consumer Protection Department. The Department had sought more time to avoid crowding at outlets since retail fuel stations had to be shut by 8 p.m.
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM cautions students against taking the extreme step||Leaders of various political parties in the State offered their condolences to the family of NEET-aspirant M. Jothi Sri Durga from Madurai, who died by suicide on Saturday. Reacting to her death, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday said he was deeply pained, and added that the trend of students taking their lives was worrisome. “While there are numerous ways to win in life, students should develop confidence and work hard for it,” he said. DMK president M.K. Stalin said that all students who were not able to join medical courses because of NEET would be given an opportunity to study medicine once the DMK was elected to power. “The DMK, following the footsteps of our leader Kalaignar, will come to power in eight months, and we will cancel NEET. It will make arrangements for students, who could not join medical colleges because of NEET, to study medicine. They will be given seats based on the marks scored by them in Plus Two examinations,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. He said this would be achieved either by increasing seats in existing medical colleges or by opening new ones. “One can see how NEET has demoralised students, from Anitha to Jothi Sri Durga. Suicide is not a solution,” he said. He called upon students not to take any extreme steps and wait for eight months. ‘Creating stress’ Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi president Thol. Thirumavalavan urged students to resist taking such extreme steps in the face of adversity. “We urge the Central government to cancel NEET all over India. The idea of an all-India exam for medical admissions is creating a lot of mental stress and these deaths are testimony to it,” he said. PMK founder S. Ramadoss said: “NEET was supposed to create doctors to save lives, but instead, it has destabilised the future pillars of society.” Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan said: “What are we going to do to ensure that Jothi Sri Durga is the last victim of NEET? The Central and the State governments must think carefully and come up with an alternative way.” Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran said NEET had taken yet another life. “I am unable to say words of comfort to the family of Jothi Sri Durga. For how long will this continue?” he asked.
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMAY: 9 panchayat secretaries suspended||As many as nine panchayat secretaries have been suspended in Tiruvannamalai district following allegations of irregularities in the implementation of the Prime Minister Awas Yojana (housing scheme). Alleging a major scam, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee working president and Arani MP M.K. Vishnu Prasad on Saturday said he had filed a case against the project director of Tiruvannamalai district in the Lok Ayukta but there was no proper response for his petition. Tiruvannamalai Collector K. S. Kandasamy, when contacted, told The Hindu , “We have suspended nine panchayat secretaries in connection with this allegation.” However, he added that while the total allotment of houses under the scheme in the district was 33,000, issues pertaining to (wrongful) beneficiaries have cropped up in a very few cases.” A total of 20,000 houses were completed under the PMAY and Green House scheme in the last three years, he said. Mr. Vishnu Prasad told The Hindu that in February, he submitted a memorandum to Tiruvannamalai Collector, alleging that several crore rupees were being siphoned off through malpractices. “Without verifying the data, he said that the beneficiaries are being allotted as per the Socio Economic Caste Census data. I urged him to check the records completely,” said Mr. Prasad. He alleged that there were several hundred cases where the money meant for actual beneficiaries was being diverted to those with similar names. “For example, in Ozhappakkam, Kosappattu village, instead of V. Amsa, wife of Veliyappan, the house was built for A. Amsa under the PMAY. Similarly, in Vandavasi block, Kilnarma panchayat, the data says that K. Govindan and T. Ranganayaki had benefited from the scheme but yet no houses were built and these two people were not found at all. In Kayalkottai panchayat in Jawadhu Hills, Settai Rajan is the actual beneficiary but the PMAY house is built for Settai Govindhan. There are about 350 such cases in Jawadhu Hills block itself,” he alleged. He provided details of at least 68 such instances in several panchayats in the Jawadhu Hills. Mr. Prasad said since the names need not match in the bank account and there is no requirement of geo-tagging, anyone can take a photo standing in front of a house and upload it as proof. “This flaw is being used widely and in one union in Jawadhu Hills, there are such mismatches in around 800 houses,” he said. TTV seeks probe AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Saturday called upon the Central and State governments to take immediate action on reports of alleged irregularities in the implementation of PMAY. In a series of tweets, he stated that a proper probe should be carried out against those who had acted without being conscientious in a scheme meant for the welfare of the poor.
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Varsity to hold semester exams from Sept. 22||Anna University will conduct the project viva-voce examination for students in both undergraduate and postgraduate programmes on September 22 and follow it up with theory examinations from September 24. Terminal-semester exams for both UG and PG students in non-autonomous affiliated colleges will be conducted online, the Controller of Examinations said. Candidates who have not exhausted the maximum period of study as per their regulations, with arrears in theory courses of the terminal semester, are eligible to appear for the online exam. Candidates who have not registered for the exam will be allowed to register from 10.30 a.m. on September 15 till 6 p.m. on September 17. The timetable and other details will be notified on the university website.  Fee panel’s report Former Madras High Court judge K. Chandru, Chairperson of the fee-fixation committee for agricultural colleges, on Saturday submitted the report of the committee for affiliated colleges of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University to Agriculture Minister R. Duraikannu. The committee recommended the tuition fee for academic year 2020-2021, an official release said. Agriculture Production Commissioner and Secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi, Director of Agriculture V. Dakshinamurthi and Horticulture Director N Subbaian were present.
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ED seizes property of DMK MP Jagathrakshakan||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued an order for seizure of properties worth Rs. 89.19 crore belonging to former Union Minister and DMK MP S. Jagathrakshakan and his family members. The agency had undertaken detailed investigation based on information that Mr. Jagathrakshakan had acquired “foreign security” by violating the provisions of Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). In a release, the agency said that during the course of investigation it was found that Mr. Jagathrakshakan and his son Sundeep Aanand had subscribed to 70,00,000 shares and 20,00,000 shares respectively (valued at Singapore $1/ per share) of Silver Park International Pte. Ltd., Singapore, without obtaining the approval of the Reserve Bank of India. Further, these unauthorised shares were transferred by Mr. Jagathrakshakan to his family members in contravention of Section 4 of the FEMA read with regulation 3 of the Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Foreign Security) Regulations, 2004. As per the provisions of Section 37A of FEMA, if any foreign exchange, foreign security or any immovable property, situated outside India, is suspected to have been held in contravention of Section 4 of FEMA, the ED is empowered to seize value equivalent, situated within India, of such foreign exchange, foreign security or immovable property. Accordingly, immovable properties in the form of agricultural lands, plots and houses in Tamil Nadu and movable properties in the form of balances in bank accounts and shares totalling to Rs. 89.19 crore held by Mr. Jagathrakshakan, and his family members were seized by the directorate under the provisions of Section 37A of FEMA. Further investigation in the case is in progress.
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Temples robbed in Red Hills||Unidentified persons on Friday attacked a guard at the Kamakshiamman temple in Red Hills, near the Chennai-Kolkata National Highway, and made away with valuables. When Murugan, 66, was guarding the temple at night, three men, who came on a bike, attacked him with weapons and knocked him out. The trio then broke into the main shrine and stole a gold ‘thali’ and some utensils before fleeing. The Red Hills police are investigating. In another case, a patrol team of the Sholavaram police spotted a broken hundial at the Chellathaman temple in Alinjivakkam and are investigating.
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Journalist Sudhangan passes away||Senior journalist and writer Sudhangan died in Chennai on Saturday after a brief illness. He was 63 and is survived by his son. He started his career in the magazine Thisaigal and later joined Kumudham . Though his original name was Rangarajan, he had to change it to Sudhangan as Kumudham already had senior journalist Ra.Ki. Rangarajan. He later joined the Vikatan group and Dinamani . He became the editor of Tamilan Express and also produced and presented programmes for television.
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City suburbs will get more water ATMs||Residents of some areas in the city fringes will get better access to safe drinking water soon as more water ATMs are set to be installed in various localities. Project Sewah (Sustainable Enterprises for Water and Health) is aimed at supporting urban local bodies to provide clean drinking water to the community. It is being undertaken by a joint alliance of the U.S. Agency of International Development along with the Safe Water Network India, a voluntary organisation, and other outfits, including Waterlife India, in various cities, including Chennai. The first community drinking water system with an automatic vending machine was set up recently at Sengundram village in Maraimalai Nagar in the presence of officials of the municipality. A contactless sanitation station has also been installed at the site. Mukula Joglekar of Waterlife India said the water ATMs would have a capacity to treat 1,000 litres per hour and could operate for eight to 10 hours a day. A resident can collect about 20 litres of water for Rs. 7 through pre-paid cards. While Rs. 1 from every pot of water collected would be provided to the local body, the rest would be used for the maintenance of the plants. According to the Safe Water Network, more such water ATMs will be installed in other wards of Maraimalai Nagar and localities such as Avadi, Tambaram, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram. Poonam Sewak, vice-president, Safe Water Network, said the localities were chosen based on various factors, including the quality of water available and the size of the community. These water ATMs would cater to 2,500-3,500 families. There are plans to develop water knowledge resource centres, wherein outreach activities will be conducted, she said. Residents would be sensitised on the significance of safe water for health, water conservation and importance of handwash, she added.
13 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sudhangan passes away||Senior journalist and writer Sudhangan died in Chennai on Saturday after a brief illness. He was 63 and is survived by his son. He started his career in the magazine Thisaigal and later joined Kumudham . Though his original name was Rangarajan, he had to change it to Sudhangan as Kumudham already had senior journalist Ra.Ki. Rangarajan. He later joined the Vikatan group and Dinamani. He became the editor of Tamilan Express and also produced and presented programmes for television.
13 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Land acquisition, a major hurdle in highway projects||Be it road widening, construction of flyover, or strengthening an existing road, a host of issues seem to threaten timely execution of the projects and demand focus on better co-ordination among departments. According to officials in the Highways Department, the main challenge they face is land acquisition. “It is difficult to take up a project with nil land acquisition. What we try to do now is minimise the acquisition requirement,” says an official. Highways Secretary held a meeting recently and spoke to the DROs requesting them to expedite land acquisition. “We hope things to move fast now,” said another. Only after land acquisition is completed can the utility lines be shifted. Though the process is quicker now, sometimes shifting of electricity poles takes even a year, said one of the officials. Steps are taken to ensure that works are not stopped because of any of these challenges. But, there are projects that wait for completion for years. The officials need to have better co-ordination with each other to ensure that the works go on smoothly, the sources said. Each department focuses on its priority. Even fixing price for land acquisition takes time. The system needs to be modified so that all the co-ordination works are completed at the earliest and the works can take off and proceed without any hitch. It is the public who are affected and leads to agitations, says K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause. The public are concerned because they do not know how long they need to wait to get compensation for the land acquired and how much they will get. The officials concerned should understand the predicament of the people who are affected by a project. Even if the government releases funds, there is a delay in disbursing it to the affected people. The inconvenience should be minimised, there should be a guaranteed time line for completing land acquisition. Revisiting the entire procedure for a project to take off and co-ordination among departments are a must. Otherwise, projects remain on paper and even if executed, the public are unable to enjoy the full benefits of the work, he said.
13 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||PM Kisan scheme: recovery of money in Coimbatore almost complete, says Collector||The district administration in Coimbatore has managed to recover almost all the money that were transferred to ineligible persons under the PM Kisan scheme (Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi) in Coimbatore. Collector K. Rajamani told The Hindu that since the start of the financial year, the administration had facilitated the transfer of money – in two instalments of Rs. 2,000 each – to 2,105 persons, under the scheme. The administration found that 543 of these beneficiaries were ineligible, but had already facilitated the transfer of Rs. 22 lakh into their accounts. But, after finding them ineligible, the administration, with support from the banks concerned, had managed to recover Rs. 21 lakh. The balance amount would be recovered soon. With support from their Revenue Department counterparts, Agriculture Department officials tracked the ineligible persons, based on the documents the beneficiaries had submitted. During the course of the probe, the administration found that 247 persons who were not residents of the district and had bank accounts outside had received the financial assistance. Steps were being taken to recover the money from them, Mr. Rajamani said. Persons from whom the money was recovered were found ineligible for the scheme as they came under the following categories: Income Tax assessee, government employee, pensioner, professional and local body or public representative.
13 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Birders in Valparai welcome Grey wagtail with posters||The hill town of Valparai, on the Anamalai mountain ranges of the Western Ghats near Coimbatore, was agog with posters welcoming a unique visitor last week. Tourists and local residents were amazed to see the posters sporting the photograph of a slender bird with a slate-grey upper body and yellow underbody. They read, “A warm welcome to our beloved Grey wagtail. Thanks for travelling all the way from the Himalayas to our Valparai to feed on insects and to protect our ecosystem.” Though the Grey wagtail ( Motacilla cinerea ) makes a pan-India presence from September as it descends from the upper Himalayas post breeding, the arrival or return of the bird barely catches the attention of people, except for birders and nature enthusiasts. K. Selvaganesh, an English teacher, and a group of his present and former students from the hill station are exceptions as they avidly await the distinctive call of the bird every September. “We have been welcoming the arrival of the Grey wagtail since 2015. As we could not conduct any event due to the COVID-19 pandemic this year, the students formed a group ‘Young Birders, Valparai’ and pasted posters across the town with the permission of the Municipal Commissioner of Valparai,” said Mr. Selvaganesh, who works at the Government High School, Cinchona. M. Surya, a former student of the school and currently pursuing mechanical engineering, said that people were eager to know why they were pasting posters for a bird. “Though people are familiar with the bird, many did not know its name and its importance in ecology. We were happy to tell them more about the bird,” said B. Byju, another young birder. Scanning of a QR code on the posters — printed in both Tamil and English — will take one to an informative video on the Grey wagtail posted on the Instagram page of Young Birders, Valparai. The wagtails, which are insectivorous birds, get their binomial name for frequently wagging their long tails. “A single wagtail feeds on hundreds of insects a day, playing a vital role in the ecosystem. Even a common man can recognise the bird with its wagging tail. It is called Sambal vaalatti in Tamil,” said P. Jeganathan, a scientist with the Rainforest Research Station of the Nature Conservation Foundation in Valparai. According to Rajah Jayapal, senior principal scientist at the Coimbatore-based Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History, Grey wagtails breed near streams on the mountain ranges of the Himalayas, mostly on altitudes above 3,000 m. “The Grey wagtail is a prominent bird in places like Ladakh. They move down by September and return for breeding in April-May. The birds are known for clockwork precision and site fidelity as they seem to visit the same location at the same time every year, during their lifespan of about 10 years,” he said.  A single wagtail feeds on hundreds of insects a day, playing a vital role in the ecosystem. A common man can recognise the bird with its wagging tail. It is calledSambal vaalatti P. Jeganathan, Scientist
13 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Technical advisory committee constituted for rescue and treatment of elephants||The Forest Department has constituted a technical advisory committee consisting of experienced veterinary science professionals to guide the forest veterinary team of Coimbatore Circle in dealing with elephant rescue operations and treating of ailing elephants. Technical advice was sought from the members of the committee for the treatment of an ailing male elephant that has been roaming the Mettupalayam forest range. A. Sukumar, Forest Veterinary Officer of Coimbatore Circle, is the convenor of the committee that has 14 veterinary science professionals of various ranks and specialisations as members. R. Thirumurugan, director (Veterinary), Vinpearl Safari and Conservation Park, Phu Quoc Island, Vietnam, is the only member of the committee from abroad. “The status of elephant is the best indicator of the conservation status of forests. Coimbatore Division of Coimbatore Circle is notified as Coimbatore elephant reserve under Project Elephant. The technical advisory committee is formed in order to support, assist and advise the forest veterinary team of Coimbatore circle to deal with emerging wildlife health issues and wild animals in physical distress,” said the order issued by I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle, regarding the constitution of the committee. As per the order, the committee will guide authorities of Coimbatore Forest Division regarding procurement of essential and emergency equipment, medical aids, medicines, etc., which are to be kept ready for immediate action. The District Forest Officer, Coimbatore Division, or the Forest Veterinary Officer can seek the members of the committee to participate in rescue missions in person. The term of the committee is one year.
13 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Awareness programme on blood cancer treatment||The Rotary Club of Coimbatore Green City is conducting a virtual fitness event in collaboration with Datri Blood Stem Cell Donor Registry throughout September to create awareness on blood cancer treatment. Titled ‘Get Sporty, Gift a Life’, the not-for-profit organisation Datri will collaborate with Rotary Club of Coimbatore Green City and a private business process outsourcing (BPO) company Personiv for this event, a release said. The fitness event involves engaging the participants in any activity of their choice such as walking, running and cycling and tracking their progress using a mobile application. The release said that the proceeds from this event would be utilised for identifying and testing blood stem cell donors and incorporating the information into Datri’s registry. The database thus created can be accessed by patients in need of a blood stem cell transplant.
13 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Differently abled private candidates may contact CEO for COVID-19 test||The district administration said that the differently abled private candidates, who had opted for a scribe for the coming supplementary examinations may contact the Chief Educational Office to arrange for COVID-19 tests. According to a release, all the differently abled private candidates who had opted for a scribe to write the examination must carry a medical certificate that they have tested negative for COVID-19 to the examination centre. If they have any difficulty in arranging for a COVID-19 test, they shall contact the Chief Educational Office at 0422-2351849 or 0422-2391062 before September 15. On September 3, the HC directed the School Education Department to ensure that all those with disabilities wanting to write the supplementary exam as private candidates are subjected to COVID-19 tests at least two days before the examination.
13 September 2020||COIMBATORE /SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Arrangements in place for NEET today||Medical aspirants, ranging between 10,000 and 11,000, have been allotted centres to write the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduate admissions in Coimbatore district on Sunday. One centre located in Tiruppur district is also included among the 16 centres that come under Coimbatore district.  P.S. Martin, Principal of Nava Bharath National School on Sathyamangalam Road and coordinator for NEET in Coimbatore, said that extensive arrangements had been made at all the centres for the conduct of the test in the time of COVID-19 pandemic. “The aspirants are asked to come to the centre at specific timings given in the admit card, starting from 11 a.m. All the candidates will be screened by maintaining physical distancing. Those found with high temperature will be given a separate room to write the test where an invigilator wearing PPE will be present,” he said. Candidates have been asked to come to centres wearing mask and gloves. Along with the question booklet, each candidate will be given a mask provided by the National Testing Agency which they need to replace with the one they wear. The test starts at 2 p.m. and ends at 5 p.m. Twelve students will be admitted into a hall where two invigilators will be present. Those coming early to the centres from distant locations will be given refreshments, according to organisers. In Salem, over 15,000 candidates will take the test at nearly 30 centres. Official sources said safety protocols would be followed, and the centres had been disinfected as part of COVID-19 prevention measures. The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation would operate special buses to neighbouring districts for candidates to reach the centres. Town buses would be operated to centres within Salem. In Namakkal, the test examinations would be held in nine centres and close to 5,000 candidates were expected.
13 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Residents demand action against officials||The residents of Muthampalayam Housing Unit here submitted a petition to the Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai on Saturday demanding action against the Corporation officials who allegedly removed an idol of Lord Vinayaka installed under a tree on the premises. The petition said that the civic body officials removed the idol without prior information on September 9. The Deputy Superintendent of Police, who arrived at the spot, threatened the residents, the petition alleged. The residents sought action against the corporation officials and the DSP and demanded reinstatement of the idol at the same place.
13 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plea to operate long-distance trains||Former member of the Zonal Railway Users’ Consultative Committee K.N. Basha has urged the Southern Railway to operate Yercaud Super Fast Express and Nagercoil Express for the benefit of passengers in the western districts. In a letter to the General Manager of the Southern Railways, he said that Train No 22650 Yercaud Express from Erode Junction to Dr. M.G. Ramachandran Central Railway Station (Chennai Central) was the only train that originates from Erode. The train halts at 17 stations between Erode and Chennai. Hence, steps should be taken to operate the train service at the earliest. Likewise, Train No. 22668 Coimbatore Nagercoil Express and Train No 22670 Coimbatore Thoothukudi Link Express that connects Coimbatore with Nagercoil and Thoothukudi benefits devotees in the region to reach temples in Tiruchendur. Hence, steps should be taken to operate the train, the letter said.
13 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on September 15 in the following areas under Periyandipalayam sub-station  - Uthukuli Road, Melapalayam, P.K. Pudur, Paniyampalli, Thottampatti, Vaipadi Pudur, Kavundampalayam, Madukattipalayam, Elayampalayam, Thulukampalayam and Palani Andavar Steels area, and Perundurai Sipcot II sub-station - Sipcot premises (South areas only), Kambiliyampatti, Saralai, Varapalayam, Puliyampalayam and Kasipillampalayam.
13 September 2020||Kodaikanal,TAMIL NADU||19 injured in accident||Nineteen persons including seven men, eight women and four children suffered injuries when a goods vehicle in which they were travelling toppled near Thannipaarai on Friday. A group from Mannavanoor went to a temple at Kookaal. While returning, they hitched a ride on a goods vehicle. Driver Kannan (25) of Mannavanoor is said to have lost control as he was negotiating a bend and the vehicle toppled. The injured were rushed to Kodaikanal Government Hospital. As 11 among them required immediate attention, they were shifted to Theni GH. Kodaikanal police have registered a case.
13 September 2020||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||Milk producers’ society inaugurated||A milk producers’ society, formed by a group of 30 transgenders, was inaugurated by Minister for Information and Publicity Kadambur S. Raju at Manthithoppu near here on Saturday. He said coordinated efforts by officials had given shape to the project, a first-of-its kind in the country. Collector Sandeep Nanduri said that with 30 milch animals, the society would supply 300 litres of milk to the Aavin every day. The transgenders had been given free house site pattas. Houses had been constructed under the Chief Minister’s Green House initiative. The campus had good roads and cattle sheds and was powered by solar energy. The cost of the project was Rs. 1.77 crore, funded by donors, trade bodies and corporates under CSR initiative. The District Rural Development Agency had executed the project. Transgender representative and team leader Grace Banu said they were happy to be associated with the project.
13 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai sees more discharges than new cases on a single day||A total of 78 people tested positive for COVID-19, here on Saturday, taking the total tally of cases to 15,238. All of the positive cases were indigenous according to the State Health bulletin. The district recorded 109 discharges from various COVID-19 treatment facilities, taking the total number of discharges to 13,959. One person succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 371. The total number of active cases as on date are 908. Virudhunagar district recorded 39 positive cases and it took the total number of positive cases to 13,647. Meanwhile, 95 patients got discharged from various hospitals, following which the total number of discharged patients went past 13,000 and stood at 13,028. With this, the number of active cases stood at 417. Tirunelveli saw 107 new cases with the total tally moving to 11,017. There were 130 patients discharged from the hospital on a single day. In Thoothukudi, 84 fresh cases were reported and the total number of positive cases moved to 12,251. There were 99 discharges from hospitals. Kanniyakumari saw 109 new cases and the tally moved to 10,847. The hospitals discharged 149 patients. Tenkasi reported 82 new cases with which the tally moved to 6,224. The hospitals had discharged 136 patients. Theni reported 80 fresh cases and the tally stood at 13,685. There were 86 patients who were discharged from the hospitals. Dindigul saw 68 new cases and the tally moved to 7,796 as on date. There were 135 discharges from hospitals and covid care centres. Ramanathapuram reported 23 new cases and the tally moved to 5,165 in the district. There were 103 discharges from hospitals. Sivaganga had 51 new cases and the total number of cases moved to 4,475. The district saw 34 patients being discharged from hospitals.
13 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Paddy farmers begin preparing nursery||Following release of water from Vaigai dam, nursery preparation for cultivating paddy is in full swing in the double-crop areas of the district. Water was released from Vaigai dam on August 31 to irrigate 45,041 acres of ayacut in the double crop areas between Peranai in Dindigul district to Kallandhiri in Madurai district. In Madurai district, majority of the double crop areas fall within Vadipatti, Alanganallur, Madurai East and Madurai West blocks. Since, water was released nearly three months behind schedule to raise the first crop in the double crop area, this year there will only be a single crop, said P. Subburaj, Deputy Director of Agriculture (state schemes). “So, this year there will be only 'Samba’ paddy cultivation in the double crop areas,” he said. The target cultivation area of paddy under the samba season is 49,900 hectares in the district, he added. Most farmers in the double-crop areas, who have raised nurseries now, will begin transplantation in the first week of October, said G. Murugan, a farmer from Mannadi Mangalam village of Vadipatti block. Some farmers have also raised nurseries through System of Rice Intensification (SRI). One such farmer is S. Dharmaraj from Karuppayurani. He said that in the previous years paddy cultivation through SRI resulted in higher yields. “Pest attack is also relatively low,” he added. Concurring with this viewpoint, the Joint Director of Agriculture, T. Vivekanandan, said that the Agricultural department also extensively promoted the farmers to opt for SRI. Since there was a delay in release of water, the farmers have been asked to cultivate medium and long term paddy varieties, to avoid harvesting during the rainy season, he added. “But, they must ensure that water is released for 150 days to cultivate long duration paddy”, said M. Thirupathi, a farmer from Kulamangalam. Mr. Murugan said that despite repeated petitioning, the district administration was yet to organise a meeting with farmers. “The meeting is essential to understand the needs and issues of the farmers,” he added.
13 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||14 teachers honoured||Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju presented the Dr. Radhakrishnan Award for 14 teachers from the district in recognition of their efforts, at a school here on Saturday. Earlier, Revenue Minister R. B. Udhayakumar visited the school and wished the teachers. Fourteen teachers from the district who received the Dr. Radhakrishnan award were - R.R. Aiyammal, a teacher from Government High School, Vannivelampatti; G. Chandrakumar, Headmaster, Government Higher Secondary School, Melakkottai; A. J. Charles Immanuel, a teacher from Government High School, Vandiyur; M. Kopperundevi, headmistress of Sriram Nallamani Yadava Girls Higher Secondary School, Tiruppalai; Naganathan, a teacher at Nadar Higher Secondary School, South Gate; M. Rajeswari, Headmistress, Government High School, K. Meenatchipatti; Gandhibhai Swamiyadiyal, Headmistress, Nadar Vidyasalai Middle School, South Gate; C. Suganthi, Headmistress, Corporation Middle School, Pykara; K. Roja, Headmistress, Panchayat Union Primary School, Polnayakanpatti; Amali Anita Regina, a teacher from Subburayalu Memorial Middle School, Alwarpuram; A.R. Valarmathi, Headmistress, PKN Primary School, Tirumangalam; Sulaika Banu, a teacher at Rajam Vidyalayam Middle School, Arasaradi; Vijaya Sundar, Principal of Mahatma Montessori Higher Secondary School, KK Nagar and M. Aruna Kumari, Principal of The TVS School, TVS Nagar. Two teachers- K. Saravanan, headmaster of Thirugnanam Primary School and M. Muthuselvam, a teacher from MLWA Higher Secondary School- were awarded for being among the top 10 e-content contributors for Tamil Nadu Teachers Platform for the academic year 2019-2020. Collector T.G. Vinay, Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan, Chief Educational Officer R. Swaminathan and elected representatives participated in the function.
13 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Thank U Foods’ goes online||Until COVID-19 hit India, the differently abled members of ‘Thank U Foods,’ a livelihood initiative of the Indian Association for the Blind (IAB), were in major cafeterias of corporate companies across the country, getting orders for their baked goods and savouries. M. Abdul Raheem, vice-president, Indian Association for the Blind and Founder, Chief Executive Officer, Thank U Foods, said that the organisation never anticipated the crisis that their newly launched 40-member crew of differently abled people would face. “When COVID-19 lockdown began, our operations shut for a while. For five months, our employees who had gotten used to a rhythm and finally had a sustainable measure of livelihood, could not engage in manufacturing. We kept brainstorming about our future and finally decided to go online,” he said. After taking into account packaging, shipping and logistics, IAB finally kicked off its online operations two months ago and has already received close to 700 orders over a span of 60 days. Although the team has shrunk from 40 to 12 members at the moment, sales executive of Thank U Foods, P. Vijayan, says that it is only about time that they begin rebuilding their team again. “When we were running our operations in cafeterias, we got to meet our customers and received feedback. Now, everything has shifted online and we are placing emphasis on improving better looking and safer packaging. We undertake customisation and have got fantastic feedback online,” he says. Co-Founder and Chief Operating Officer A. Jaseela says that the journey has been arduous but rewarding. Apart from selling online on their website, she says that they will be listing on major e-commerce sites like Amazon and will also be taking the retail route by collaborating with major retail chains. “Our employees have already fixed appointments with major retail chains,” she says. Mr. Vijayan who has been with the organisation since its inception, says that the original 40 employees of the organisation continue to be supported by the Indian Association for the Blind as they are either provided a minimum salary or given groceries. “With more people ordering in, we hope to begin full-scale operations with our original crew of 40 and also employ at least 60 more differently abled people who have lost their livelihood during the pandemic,” he says. Currently, a majority of their orders are concentrated in metro cities but Ms. Jaseela says that they were also expanding in tier two and tier three cities. “Our Instagram page has tonnes of client feedback and is a testimony of our products,” she says.
13 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court dismisses policeman’s plea||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed the petition filed by a policeman from Madurai who had sought the departmental punishment awarded to him on charges that included unauthorised absence and dereliction of duty be set aside. Justice R. Suresh Kumar observed that the code of conduct imposed on an employee, especially on the members of the disciplined force was for strict adherence and to maintain utmost integrity, honesty and purity in discharging duty. Therefore, not only on legal basis but also on moral foundation, a member of the disciplined force was expected to lead his life with high esteem of moral character in the eye of the society. Otherwise society will lose faith in the system, the court said. The court was hearing the petition filed by head constable A. Paulraj Pandian against whom a disciplinary proceedings was initiated in 2014. The head constable was punished with compulsory retirement from service for unauthorised absence, dereliction of duty and other charges. However, on appeal the head constable’s punishment was reduced to withholding of increment for two years. Dismissing the petition, the court said that the modified punishment was a meagre one that did not require any interference.
13 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Dak Adalat on September 24||The Department of Posts will conduct a divisional-level Dak Adalat at the office of the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Virudhunagar division, at 11.30 a.m. on September 24. Customers must send their complaints on or before September 22. The purpose of the meeting was to settle all types of grievances related to postal services. Suggestions to improve services are also invited. The customers can attend the adalat in person, said a press statement.
13 September 2020||Madurai/Dharmapuri/Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Three medical aspirants end lives fearing failure in NEET||Three medical aspirants allegedly died by suicide in Madurai, Dharmapuri and Namakkal within a span of a few hours on Saturday, fearing failure in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), which is slated for Sunday. In Madurai, M. Jothi Sri Durga, 19, left a note in which she said, “I have prepared well for the examination, but still I fear … what if I do not get [a medical] seat.” She also recorded an audio message for her family. The girl, whose father Murugasundaram is a sub-inspector of police, was residing at the Tamil Nadu Special Police VI Battalion quarters and was undergoing coaching for her second attempt to clear NEET. A close family member said she completed schooling in 2019, appeared for NEET last year and scored 110 marks. This did not fetch her a medical seat. Her body was taken to the Government Rajaji Hospital for post-mortem. Later, it was cremated at the Corporation crematorium at Thathaneri. Several political leaders, including Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar, met her family and consoled them. DMK youth-wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin handed over a cheque for Rs. 5 lakh to them on behalf of his party. In Dharmapuri, medical aspirant Adithya, 20, ended his life at his house in Senthil Nagar on Saturday evening, when his parents Manivannan and Jayachitra were away. He was going to attempt NEET for the third time. Superintendent of Police Pravesh Kumar, who inspected the house, said no suicide note had been found. On Saturday night, M. Motilal, 21, who was also preparing to attempt NEET for the third time, allegedly ended his life at his house in Tiruchengode, Namakkal district. His father Murugesan runs an electrical shop. Motilal had passed Class XII in 2017, scoring 1,081 marks. Namakkal Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan said no suicide note had been found and the reason for the boy’s death was being ascertained. Earlier, DMK Tirupparankundram MLA P. Saravanan, who offered condolences to Durga’s family, said that depression and fear of NEET had claimed yet another life in Tamil Nadu. He contended that in the absence of a uniform school syllabus across the country, a nationwide common entrance test for medical admissions was illogical. Protest in Madurai “None of the 19,000 students who were offered free NEET coaching through the 412 government-run coaching centres could clear the entrance last year,” he said. Cadre of various political parties and student organisations staged a demonstration in Madurai against the conduct of NEET. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 - 24640050.)  None of the 19,000 students who were offered free NEET coaching through the 412 government-run coaching centres could clear the entrance last year P. Saravanan Tirupparankundram MLA
13 September 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Fossilised wood’ found||Locals at Karambiam village in Kunnam taluk have found what is believed to be fossilised wood in an inlet channel of a tank on Saturday. While workers were cleaning the inlet channel north of Ponneri tank, they discovered the fossil. Soon, a group of local activists, including one Ramesh Karuppiah, were called to assist in excavating the area. Mr. Karuppiah and a team of youth cleaned the area, including plucking weeds and plants after which the fossil was dusted and exposed. “As the rock had eroded over time, it has exposed the fossil wood. It is two metres long and is only around 10 km away from the National Fossil Wood Park, Sathanur, which is an area rich in fossils,” Mr. Karuppiah said. Villagerd decided to preserve the fossil in its original location and conserve it, Mr. Karuppiah said.
13 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Signs of COVID-19 cases stabilising in Puducherry, says Collector||There are signs of COVID-19 cases stabilising in the Union Territory after the isolation of more patients was made possible due to the increase in testing, District Collector- cum-Secretary of Health T. Arun has said. “The positivity rate was around 35% some time in the third week of August but in the last few days, we were able to bring it down to around 20%. This was made possible by to the increase in testing and other interventions in containment zones. But it is too early to conclude that the spread of coronavirus has been contained in the Union Territory,” Mr. Arun told The Hindu . Testing of people, which had crossed 2,000 per day on September 8, had touched almost 3,800 now. Data released by the Health Department on Saturday showed that as many as 3,792 people had been tested in the last 24 hours. Of those tested on Saturday, 419 were positive. Testing for COVID-19 In the last six days alone, around 16,000 people had been tested for COVID-19 in the Union Territory. So far, the Health Department had tested 95,919 people in the Union Territory, he added. “Our aim is to cross 5,000 tests per day in a week so that more people can be isolated and thereby, we can contain the spread. The Government of India guideline prescribes 140 tests per million and we are far ahead of this in testing. Enough manpower has been recruited last week and testing kits procured,” Mr. Arun said. The Health Department would be soon placing orders for 50,000 more Rapid Antigen Testing kits, and would form 15 more mobile teams so as to scale up testing in more areas, the Collector said.
13 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. govt. warns medical shops on sale of drugs||The U.T. government would be compelled to take stern action against chemists found selling prescription drugs over the counter, said Relief and Rehabilitation Commissioner A. Anbarasu. Addressing a press conference along with District Collector-cum-Health Secretary T. Arun on Saturday, Mr. Anbarasu said the government had received several complaints about people going in for self-medication. This was one of the reasons for COVID-19 patients getting delayed treatment, and had resulted in several deaths.  Mr. Arun said the district administration had declared 11 more streets at Reddiyarpalayam, Katterikuppam, Bahour, Mettupalayam, Abhisegapakkam, Kosapalayam and Lawspet as containment zones because of the surge in the number of COVID-19 cases. Only vegetable and grocery shops would be opened from 6 a.m to noon, and movement of people and vehicles would be restricted.
13 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Narayanasamy slams Centre||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Saturday criticised the Centre for its decision to go ahead with National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) despite objection from some State governments. Addressing a press conference through live streaming, he said the conduct of the exam would deprive students from poor families of a chance to pursue a career in medicine. A majority of the students in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry were following the State board syllabus and the curriculum for NEET suited CBSE students better. Students of State board schools were scared of taking the test, he said.
13 September 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||In Pudukottai, if you don’t wear a mask, you get tested||Health officials and police personnel in Pudukottai district have started intercepting people not wearing masks and subjecting them to COVID-19 tests. Officials say the initiative is meant to raise awareness on the importance of wearing masks. The programme was introduced in Alangudi block as many people were seen going about their routine without wearing face masks. “We started stopping them and lifting their throat swabs for COVID-19 testing. While the swab is lifted, the person is also informed of the ill-effects of not wearing a mask and how they are putting themselves and their families at risk,” said B. Kalaivani, Deputy Director of Health Services. Many started wearing masks soon after. The initiative has now been extended across the district, she added. The main aim of the programme is to drive home the importance of wearing masks as a tool to fight COVID-19, Collector P. Uma Maheswari told The Hindu .  Awareness drive “When people see policemen and health officials catching people not wearing masks, they scurry to cover their faces. Many are afraid of the infection but say masks are uncomfortable. But when you tell them why it is important to wear them, they adhere to the norms,” she said. It also helps remove the fear of undergoing real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, she said. The police also distribute masks as part of the drive, Ms. Maheshwari said. A total of 1,300 samples are lifted every day for testing in the district. Of this, only around 100 are from such offenders, she added. The government order on revised fines for violating COVID-19 norms will come into effect in the district from Monday, she said. Around 70 medical camps are held daily across the district, the Collector said.
13 September 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Man hacked to death near Rajapalayam||Former Virudhunagar district secretary of Puthiya Tamilagam, K. Rajalingam (53) was hacked to death at Mudugudi near here on Saturday. Police said that an armed gang attacked him with lethal weapons while he was going to his farm. After giving him first-aid at the Government Hospital here, Rajalingam was rushed to the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. However, he died on the way. Meanwhile, his supporters blocked Rajapalayam-Sankarankoil highway seeking arrest of assailants. Superintendent of Police, P. Perumal pacified the agitators. The police arrested three (Chandrasekar, Balamurugan and Muthuselvam) out of the 11 accused named in the first information report. Rajalingam was an accused in the murder of a local man, Thangavel, a few months back. Supporters of Rajalingam refused to take the body even after post-mortem was completed.
13 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||SSI appreciated for timely action||A special sub-inspector at the Kitchipalayam police station, here, is winning praise on social media platforms for his timely action to avert accidents. The SSI, M. Munavar Sheriff, swept off crushed stones found on a stretch of the national highway near Erumapalayam as it could pose risk to motorists. Passers-by shot a video of the SSI sweeping the road and posted it on social media platforms. Netizens showered praise on the officer. City Police Commissioner T. Senthil Kumar appreciated the officer.
13 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||HR&CE official suspended in Namakkal||N. Sudhakar, a level III executive officer at Arpanishwarar Temple in Namakkal, was placed under suspension for misappropriation of temple funds, misuse of official powers and forging official documents. An order issued by the Joint Commissioner of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR& CE) department has advised Mr. Sudhakar not to leave Kolli Hills without permission.
13 September 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Inner Wheel Forest’ launched||The Inner Wheel Club of Thanjavur launched a project christened, ‘Inner Wheel Forest,’ here on Saturday. Under the project, the club will raise saplings of plants and trees of different varieties on 11,000 square feet land earmarked by the district administration on the outskirts of the city and donate the saplings to people who seek them, according to Nirmala Venkatesan, president of the club. The project was inaugurated virtually by Vasudha Chandrachud, President of Inner Wheel Clubs of India. Govinda Rao, Collector, in his felicitation, called upon voluntary organisations to conserve waterbodies. Janaki Ravindran, Commissioner, Thanjavur Corporation, Sivakamisundari Kandhaswamy, District Chairman of Inner Wheel Club, Usha Nandhini, Past District Chairman, and Shanmugavadivu, secretary of the club, spoke.
13 September 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK, Congress playing politics with NEET’||Both the DMK and the Congress were playing politics with National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET), said AIADMK leader and Information and Publicity Minister Kadambur S Raju. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, he said that in the wake of stiff opposition by all political parties in Tamil Nadu against the NEET, the Centre was about to exempt it in the State for a year. But Congress leader P. Chidambaram’s wife and advocate Nalini Chidambaram moved the Supreme Court and obtained a stay directing the Centre not to exempt Tamil Nadu from the ambit of the NEET. “If she had not moved the court, we might have got the exemption,’ he said. People should know the double standards of the Congress. Was its ally DMK unaware of this? Even recently, the Chief Minister wrote to the Prime Minister for NEET exemption, citing COVID-19 pandemic. But the State government did not fail in its duty as coaching classes were arranged for NEET aspirants, he said. The Minister was in Kovilpatti to inaugurate a milk producers’ society.
13 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Prices of onions shoot up in Tiruchi||Prices of both big and small varieties of onions are on the upswing at the wholesale market in Tiruchi over the past few days. While the price of small onions is said to be on the rise due to poor arrivals, the rise in price of the Bellary onions is attributed to the reported damage to the crops by rains in Karnataka and Andra Pradesh and traders in Maharashtra allegedly hoarding stocks. On Saturday, a kilo of top quality Bellary onions was being sold at Rs. 30, up by Rs. 10 a kg over the past 10 days, at the market. For nearly three months, the price of the Bellary onions had ruled steady at Rs. 20 a kg, A. Thangaraj, general secretary, Tiruchi Onion Commission Mandi Traders’ Association, said. Mr.Thangaraj attributed the rise to the rains in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, damaging part of the Bellary onions crops in the two States. “Realising this, traders in Maharashtra have begun stocking up, offering higher rates than us. Hence, we have to restrict our purchase from there,” Mr.Thangaraj said. Wholesale traders at the Tiruchi All Perishables Commission Mandis Commercial Complex at Ariyamangalam have restricted their purchase from Maharashtra to about 50 tonnes a day. Currently, the market gets about 200 tonnes of Bellary onions from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra against the normal average of about 300 tonnes a day. However, the traders say that the rain-hit crop from Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh have to be sold immediately and hence are available at around Rs. 10 to 20 a kg, depending on quality.
13 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Positivity rate among flight passengers remains steady||Positivity rate of COVID-19 infection among overseas returnees, particularly those arriving from Singapore and Malaysia in Tiruchi, has remained steady at around 1% during the last few months. As many as 174 international flights have landed at the Tiruchi International Airport up to August 31 since the imposition of lockdown in March. Most of them were operated under the Vande Bharat Mission to bring stranded Indians who wanted to return to their natives in the wake of the spread of the virus. They were operated from various countries, including Singapore, Malaysia and Dubai. Of the 28,621 overseas passengers who have landed in Tiruchi, 371 have tested positive for the virus so, accounting for a positivity rate of 1.35 %. The positivity rate was very low among the passengers from South East Asian nations. Of the 7,877 passengers who arrived through 45 flights from Singapore and Malaysia, just six have tested positive, making for a positivity rate of just 0.08%. On the other hand, of the 17,834 passengers from middle east countries, 344 have tested positive for COVID-19. In terms of positivity rate it was 1.93. The positivity rate among passengers arriving from Maldives stood at 1.58%. There were hardly any passengers from Singapore and Malaysia, who tested positive for the virus, for the last few weeks. “The positive rate among overseas returnees is under control. In the initial stages of COVID-19 virus, the positivity rate was a bit high among them. But, it continues to be on decline,” says S. Sivarasu, Tiruchi Collector. He said that the positivity rate had been showing encouraging signs of a downtrend among the domestic travellers too. A total of 19,917 passengers had arrived in Tiruchi from different destinations through 341 flights. The positivity rate was 1.05 % among them. Mr. Sivarasu said that a foolproof arrangement was put in place at the Tiruchi airport to collect swab specimens of the passengers upon arrival and screen them. The passengers, who had fever, cough and cold, were directly taken to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. The system would continue for a few more months.
13 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||675 fresh COVID-19 cases||The central districts on Saturday recorded 675 fresh cases of COVID-19, a slight increase over Friday's tally of 654 cases. However, there was a significant drop in deaths with only two reported in the region- one each in Nagapattinam and Tiruchi districts. A 54-year-old woman with comorbidity of diabetes from Nagapattinam and a 43-year-old man with no pre-existing conditions from Tiruchi succumbed to the infection. Meanwhile, Nagapattinam recorded the highest number of cases with 153 patients testing positive for the novel coronavirus. Of the 153 were 90 index cases with no history of travel or contacts, two front line workers, primary contacts and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses. In Tiruvarur, 147 patients testing positive for the viral infection. Among the 147 were local index cases and primary contacts, official sources said. Tiruvarur, on Sunday, crossed the 8000 cases mark with 8123 patients testing positive for the infection so far. Thanjavur recorded 145 cases and among them were a staff nurse of the Government Raja Mirasudar Hospital, seven antenatal mothers, a policeman, a staff nurse at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, an accounts officer in the labour department, three workers at a private hospital, and two employees of a private bank in Kumbakonam. Meanwhile, a total of 104 patients who had been undergoing treatment in the district were discharged after recovering from the infection on Sunday. In Tiruchi, 79 people reported positive for the viral infection. They included primary contacts and local cases of patients who tested positive earlier. A total of 28 patients from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and eight patients from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai were discharged after recovering from the viral infection on Sunday. Pudukottai recorded 77 new cases of the viral infection, many of who were local index cases with no contact history and people who were primary contacts of a patient who tested positive earlier. In Karur, 43 fresh cases were recorded. Among the patients who tested positive were residents of Kulithalai, Vengamedu, Chinnandan Kovil, among other localities. Meanwhile, interdistrict travellers who had visited the district from Tiruchi too tested positive. Perambalur recorded 17 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. Of the 17 were primary contacts, inter-district travellers and local cases. Fourteen people tested positive for the infection in Ariyalur. Five of them hailed from Ariyalur urban and Ariyalur blocks, while one each hailed from Thirumanur, Sendurai, T. Palur while two hailed from Andimadam and four from Jayankondam blocks. Meanwhile, 295 throat swabs were lifted from patients from containment zones, people with contact or travel history and from patients with symptoms of the infection.
13 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||TAVI performed||A successful Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI) procedure was performed on a septuagenarian by a team of doctors at Apollo Hospitals here. The patient, who hails from Thuraiyur in Tiruchi had been suffering from aortic stenosis which limited his day-to-day functioning. Aortic stenosis is the critical narrowing of the valve guarding the main outflow chamber of the heart, a condition which can occur in ageing patients. It results in breathlessness, fatigue and treatment is usually a high-risk surgery. “When the patient arrived at the hospital, he had been suffering from severe breathlessness for at least six months and other hospitals he had consulted had led him to believe that it was COVID-19. However, we detected the block and performed the procedure to remove it,” R. Ravindran, Consultant Interventional Cardiologist, Apollo Hospitals, said.
13 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Last date for submission of applications||The last date for submission of applications for admissions to the courses offered by the The National Skill Training Institute for Women (NSTI) functioning at Government Industrial Training Institute campus at Tiruverumbur is September 16. The NSTI functioning under the Union Ministry of Skill development and Entrepreneurship offers one year programmes on Fashion Design and Technology, IOT Technician (Smart City) and Secretarial Practice, a two-year course on Electronic Mechanic and a six months course on Smart Phone Technician, according to a press release from the Principal. Applications should be submitted online atwww.nimionlineadmission.inbefore 5 p.m.
13 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||SI succumbs to COVID-19||Murugan, 58, a Sub-Inspector of police attached to Thachanallur police station died of COVId-19 infection on Saturday. The officer was on COVID-19 duty at Thalayoothu check-post.When he was admitted to Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital with viral fever, he was tested negative for COVID-19. A scan revealed that he had infection and treatment was under way at the isolation ward. However, he succumbed to the viral infection, doctors said. The body was buried with a 21-gun salute honour.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||428 test positive in Coimbatore district||As many as 428 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday. The Health Department on Saturday announced the death of six more patients in the district. As of Saturday, the total number of persons tested positive stood at 21,665. The official death toll touched 349. Two courts at the combined court complex were closed after a judge, his wife and two office assistants tested positive on Friday. With 256 fresh cases, Tiruppur district reported its highest single-day increase that took its overall tally to 4,446 cases. Health Department sources said that the spike was caused due to the declaration of test results, which were pending at a private laboratory in Coimbatore for three days. However, the 256 results came as positive out of over 5,800 samples that were tested. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said that the district’s positivity rate is around 4%, while the death rate is 1.84%. Following the relaxations in the lockdown, the Health Department ramped up testing with 2,000 samples being tested per day. “As mobility increased, we were forced to test more and test quickly,” he told The Hindu . The recent increase in the number of cases per day is also due to the increase in testing, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said. Tiruppur district reported one death on Thursday. As many as 289 cases were reported in Salem. Tiruchengode MLA Pon. Saraswathi has tested positive for the disease. Nine affected persons died in Salem and Namakkal. While six died in Salem, Namakkal reported three deaths. In Namakkal, 95 cases were reported. Erode district reported 136 new cases, taking the tally to 4,409. Two persons died at the hospital.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Dharmapuri Collector caught in a row over withdrawal of Rs. 1 crore from MPLADS funds||Dharmapuri Collector S. Malarvizhi is caught in a row over withdrawing Rs. 1 crore from the Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) funds without consent from DMK MP P. Senthil Kumar, for 2019-20. On March 24, the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation had issued a circular allowing MPs to contribute from the MPLADS 2020-21 account exclusively for interventions to government hospitals to combat COVID-19. Following this, Dr. Kumar wrote to the Collector on March 26 authorising Rs. 1 crore for the purchase of medical equipment for Dharmapuri Government Medical College Hospital and Rs. 20 lakh for Mettur Government Hospital. However, on April 8, the Central Government announced freezing of the MPLAD funds for 2020-21, and 2021-22. Consequently, the administrative sanction for MPLADS funds in their respective constituencies stood cancelled. Hence, Dr. Kumar, on April 12 wrote to the Collector, seeking cancellation of administrative sanction of funds for the two hospitals. While the Collector thereafter issued a cancellation letter for the Rs. 20 lakh sanctioned for Mettur hospital, she did not do so in respect of the Rs. 1 crore for Dharmapuri Hospital. In another letter dated April 29, Dr. Kumar had reminded the Collector about the cancellation of sanction for funds. “How were the funds (Rs. 1 crore) used? No other MP has faced this problem except here. All the collectors had cancelled administrative sanction, except this collector, who chose to use funds without my approval from the previous year,” charged Dr. Kumar. The MP, who inspected the Dharmapuri hospital, said, “The Dean and the Joint Director (Health) do not know of any funds. So, where did my funds go? If any purchases were made, they should put it up stating that they were made from the MPLAD funds.” Responding to the allegations of unauthorised use of the MPLADS funds, Collector Malarvizhi, through a press release from the Collectorate, claimed the MP’s approval letter for Rs. 1 crore did not specify the year of the MPLADS funds. However, the letter itself had cited the Ministry’s circular that had highlighted the year as 2020-21 and not 2019-20 for COVID combat. Defending the use of the funds after the approval was rescinded and from the account of a year for which there was no approval from the MP, Ms Malarvizhi cited guidelines from the MPLADS guidebook. It said: “Work site shall not be changed without the concurrence of the MP, however no change shall be allowed once work had commenced and expenditure liability incurred.” However in this case, in less than 10 days of the approval, the Central government had frozen the accounts from which the funds were to be used. Hence it remains unclear as to how the funds were withdrawn and used.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,000 ineligible beneficiaries identified in Tiruppur district||The Department of Agriculture has identified around 1,040 ineligible beneficiaries in Tiruppur district under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme. Sources in Tiruppur District Administration said on Saturday that the ineligible beneficiaries consisted of those paying income tax and those who had more than one beneficiary in the family. Apart from this, around 1,500 ineligible beneficiaries from other districts who had registered in Tiruppur district have also been identified, sources said. As of Saturday, around Rs. 40 lakh of the cash transferred to ineligible beneficiaries under the PM-KISAN scheme has been recovered, and further recoveries are under way in the district. Upon recovery of the total cash from the respective bank accounts, the reconciliation process to check the total number of ineligible beneficiaries from within and outside the district will be carried out. The whole process is expected to take two more weeks, according to the sources. An estimated Rs. 110 crore was fraudulently credited to the bank accounts of 5.5 lakh ineligible people in 13 districts of Tamil Nadu under the PM-Kisan scheme during the past few months, Agriculture Secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi said, earlier this week.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TNAU to conduct online training in organic farming||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University will conduct an one-day online training programme in organic agriculture on September 29. A release from the institution said the Department of Sustainable Organic Agriculture would hold the programme from 9.30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. on Zoom platform. The trainers would touch upon organic nutrient management, organic weed management, composting technique and organic input preparations, organic pest and disease management and organic certification and participatory guarantee system. The university had asked those interested to transfer Rs. 590 as fee on or before September 25 to account 37015410509 with IFSC code SBIN0002274 and send the payment information to 94437-78628 ororganic@tnau.ac.infor registration.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stalin, 17 DMK MLAs move HC against fresh privilege notices||Though as many as 21 DMK MLAs, including the Leader of the Opposition Mr. Stalin, had challenged the beach of privilege notices issued to them in 2017, two had died by the time their cases was taken up for final hearing last month and one more Ku. Ka. Selvam was expelled from the party. However, since the latter engaged a separate lawyer to conduct his case, that writ petition was also clubbed with the common judgment passed on the batch of cases. Now, in his latest affidavit, Mr. Stalin said the Committee of Privileges had met on August 25, the same day when the High Court had ruled that the earlier notices suffered from foundational errors, and decided to issue fresh notices. Accordingly, the Secretary of the Legislative Assembly issued notices to him and 18 other MLAs on September 7 seeking explanation as to why they should not be punished for breach of the privileges of the House. In the new notices, the Committee of Privileges had cited grounds such as alleged disturbance caused to the Assembly proceedings on July 19, 2017; setting a bad precedent and causing disorder and bringing disrepute to the proceedings of the Assembly as reasons for deciding to proceed against the MLAs. The notices issued on September 7 had called upon the 19 MLAs to submit their explanation by September 14 when the Assembly was scheduled to convene. Stating that the date fixed for submitting the reply was not coincidental or innocuous, the Leader of the Opposition said the malafide intention was writ large on the face of the notice as it's primary objective was to prevent him and other MLAs from attending the upcoming Assembly session. He claimed that the present notices also suffer from the same foundational errors pointed out by the court. It was further brought to the notice of the court that both the notices arose out of the suo motu reference made by the Speaker to the Privileges Committee on July 19, 2017.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Forest Martyrs’ Day observed||Officials from the Forest Department observed the National Forest Martyrs’ Day at the Martyrs’ Memorial on the premises of Tamil Nadu Forest Academy on Friday. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Head of Forest Force) P. Durairasu interacted with the family members of forest guard K. Mahendran and forest watcher C. Santhru through video conference, a release said. Officials including Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Research and Education) Kayarat Mohandas and I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore circle and TNFA Director, paid floral tributes.
13 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Move to allot land on BU campus for CBSE centre, yoga varsity opposed||Environmentalists have opposed Bangalore University’s move to allot land on its green Jnana Bharathi campus for the CBSE’s southern centre and for a yoga university. They have termed it a “destructive move that will result in the axing of more than 9,000 well-grown trees.” These trees, they said, were planted more than two decades ago in what is considered a biodiversity park. Environmentalist A.N. Yellappa Reddy said the move to hand over land on the campus is “mindless”. “Thousands of students and citizens created the park; no money from the university or the government was used for it. After 20 to 25 years of effort, the campus has green cover that is much larger than that of Cubbon Park and Lal Bagh. It is the biggest oxygen bank in the city and more than 5,000 people go for a walk there. A majority of the grown-up trees are indigenous species that were planted two decades ago systematically. People who are allotting the land to other institutions must realise that the park is a catchment area for the Vrishabhavati valley. By allotting land, they are converting the area into a concrete jungle,” he said. The former coordinator for the biodiversity park T.J. Renuka Prasad said the park is home to endangered tree species, and researchers had recorded 148 species of butterflies and 149 species of birds in the area. He also said that there are more than 200 peacocks in the area. “In 2017, the Sports Authority of India had sought additional land on the campus. That time, the government had clearly told the university not to allot land to any agency as the area had developed as a biodiversity park and it had to be preserved. Now, it appears that the government is going back from its own words,” he said. However, BU Vice-Chancellor K.R. Venugopal told The Hindu that two acres of land had been sought for the CBSE, but what was agreed upon was one acre on lease for 30 years, but it is yet to be registered. Another 15 acres of land will be allotted for the proposed University of Yogic Sciences, which is a Central government project. “The UGC had written to the Chief Secretary to allot 25 acres of land. We have said that 12.5 acres or 15 acres of land will be allotted. We want this to be an education hub, and I am sure they would like to maintain the greenery for the yoga university,” he said. Responding to concerns raised over the felling of trees, the Vice-Chancellor said the Forest Department would look into the issue of tree loss.
13 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State Cong. leaders may get key posts||In a move to strengthen the party organisation, the Congress high command has proposed to rope in more leaders from Karnataka to the mainstream of the party affairs. Sources in the party said veteran leader and former Union Minister Mallikarjun Kharge is likely to replace another veteran leader Ghulam Nabi Azad as the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha. Mr. Kharge has been dropped from the post of the party general secretary in-charge of Maharashtra with an intention of giving him the post of the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, sources said. He has been unanimously elected to Rajya Sabha from Karnataka. The high command is also expected to appoint Rajya Sabha members G.C. Chandrashekar, Syed Naseer Hussain, MLA Arshad Rizwan, and party leader Nivedita Alva as AICC secretaries, sources said. Mr. Alva, son of Congress leader Margaret Alva, who had been denied ticket in the elections to the Legislative Council, was likely to be placated by roping him to party organisation.  Major rejig In a major rejig to the party organisation on Friday, former Minister and MLA Dinesh Gundu Rao has been appointed as general secretary in-charge of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Goa, while former Minister and MLA H.K. Patil has been given the charge of Maharashtra. Mr. Patil replaced Mr. Kharge. Mr. Kharge has been made member of the Congress Working Committee (CWC). Mr. Gundu Rao has been given the charge of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry since he speaks fluent Tamil. Randeep Surjewala, one of the closest aides of former party president Rahul Gandhi, has been appointed as general secretary of Karnataka. He replaced K.C. Venugopal, who is now general secretary, organisation. MP Jairam Ramesh, former MP K.H. Muniyappa, Mr. Gundu Rao, and Mr. Patil are also permanent invitees to the CWC. MLA Krishna Byre Gowda has been named as a member of the Central Election Authority of the party.
13 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 9,000 new cases recorded again||Continuing the trend of recording over 9,000 COVID-19 cases daily, the State on Saturday saw 9,140 new cases taking the total to 4,49,551. The number of deaths reduced marginally on Saturday and the State added another 94 deaths taking the toll to 7,161. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. After seeing a record 12,545 discharges on Friday, the State saw 9,557 more on Saturday. With this the total number of recoveries has touched 3,44,556. The number of active cases further reduced to 97,815. Active cases that had touched 1,01,537 on Thursday reduced to 98,326 on Friday. As many as 795 patients are being monitored in the ICUs of various hospitals. Bengaluru Urban has reported 3,552 cases taking the total number in this district to 1,67,183. With 21 new deaths, the toll here touched 2,391. A total of 63,583 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours and this includes 24,784 rapid antigen tests.
13 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC orders probe against KSOU Registrar Lingaraja Gandhi||The Karnataka High Court has ordered an enquiry against Lingaraja Gandhi, Registrar of the Karnataka State Open University (KSOU), for making “false and misleading” remark against a professor while forwarding the latter’s application for the posts of Vice-Chancellors of two separate universities. The court also directed the State government and the two search committees, constituted for shortlisting persons to the posts, to reconsider the candidature of A. Rangaswamy, chairman and professor, Department of Studies and Research in Kannada, KSOU, “on merit without being influenced by the remarks made by Mr. Gandhi”. Justice John Michael Cunha passed the order while allowing a petition filed by Mr. Rangaswamy. The enquiry will have to be conducted by the appointing/disciplinary authority for taking appropriate action against Mr. Gandhi as per the rules governing his appointment. The court said that Mr. Gandhi’s remark, indicating that “a committee to hold disciplinary enquiry against Mr. Rangaswamy has been constituted and the said enquiry is pending,” is “unauthorised, mala fide, and obliquely motivated.” From the records, the court found that there was no order passed by the Vice-Chancellor of KSOU in February 2020 constituting an enquiry committee against Mr. Rangaswamy as claimed by Mr. Gandhi as showcause notice, issued to Mr. Rangaswamy on June 24, 2020, states that it was issued on the Vice-Chancellor’s June 20 order. If showcause notice itself was issued to Mr. Rangaswamy in June 2020, then how could an enquiry officer been appointed in February and why the officer had not proceeded with enquiry so long as no documents of enquiry proceedings has been forthcoming, the court pointed out, while agreeing with the petitioner’s claim that “the order appointing enquiry officer was antedated only with a view to justify the illegal acts of Mr. Gandhi” to falsely show that an enquiry was pending against the petitioner. When Mr. Gandhi himself is a contender to the posts of V-Cs, “there is something more than that meets the eye,” the court said, while pointing out that these aspects manifestly establish that Mr. Gandhi, with the malafide intention, had inserted a false and baseless remark. “All these circumstances, therefore, go to show that a deliberate attempt has been made by Mr. Gandhi to mislead the search committee, by concocting false documents to show that the petitioner was facing an enquiry as on the date submission of his candidature for the post even though no such enquiry was initiated or pending against the petitioner as on that date,” the court said. Mr. Rangaswamy and Mr. Gandhi are contenders to the posts of V-Cs of Karnataka Rajya Dr. Gangubai Hanagal Sangeetha Mattu Pradarshaka Kalegala Vishwavidyalaya, Mysuru, and Gulbarga University, Kalaburagi.
13 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Undergraduate exam begins||The final year exam for undergraduate students of colleges affiliated to Bangalore University began on Saturday. Around 62,000 students from over 600 colleges wrote the exam at 205 centres in Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Kolar, Chickballapur, and Ramanagaram. Students were subjected to thermal screening, their hands were sanitised, and they wore masks before entering the centres. Candidates with COVID-19 symptoms wrote the exam in separate classrooms and invigilators donned PPE kits. Another positive case Another BU student tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday and was shifted to a hospital. The university had decided on Friday to test all students in the Jnana Bharathi campus hostel for COVID-19, after two students in the hostel tested positive. The undergraduate and postgraduate students returned to hostels after six months to attend their revision classes and appear for the final year examination. BU Vice- Chancellor K.R. Venugopal said they may have to close the hostel if cases increase.  The results of the final year engineering courses at the University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering (UVCE) were declared in record time. The exams were held between September 1 and 12 and the university said the results were announced within one hour of completion of the exam.
13 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Candidates who took a gap year see their dreams crashing||Many candidates who had registered for the National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT)-2020 on Saturday saw their dreams crashing as they stared at their computer screens. Many students who had opted for a gap year to prepare for the entrance test to get into the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) were dejected as they were unable to appear for the test. One of the candidates for UG-NLAT from Kolkata said her test was scheduled at 12.30 p.m. “I had taken a year off as I was very particular that I wanted to study in NLSIU, Bengaluru. My exam was at 12.30 p.m. and I sat in front of the system at noon. At 12.15 p.m., I was worried as my verification process was not complete. At 12.45 p.m., the technical team said they would give me another slot. At 2 p.m., the technical team said they could not help me and asked me to contact the NLSIU. I called the university helpline 15 times but got no response,” the candidate said. Another student who also took a gap year said she even appeared for the simulation test on Friday but was unable to appear for the test on Saturday. “I have sat at home and prepared for a year. I want justice. I cannot miss the opportunity of even appearing for the exam,” she said. All these candidates are now also looking at writing the Common Law Admission Test that is scheduled for September 28. “We are already stressed in this pandemic and now we have to appear for an additional test to make things more stressful for us. We hope the Supreme Court will take note of all this,” the candidate added.
13 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Bengaluru Chalo’ by govt. doctors on Sept. 21||Demanding pay parity with their counterparts in the Medical Education Department or pay revision as per the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) scale, 4,968 government doctors working in various health facilities run by the Health and Family Welfare Department have threatened to stop work and take out a ‘Bengaluru Chalo’ rally from their districts on September 21. They have decided to stop all work except COVID-19 duties and other emergencies. The doctors, under the banner of Karnataka Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA), have decided to stop submitting any online or offline reports, including those related to COVID-19, to the government from September 15. KGMOA members, who met on Saturday to decide on the course of action, said they will also stop participating in any meetings held either by the department or their jurisdictional deputy commissioners/ Chief Executive Officers whether offline or online.  KGMOA president G. Srinivas told The Hindu that all services except COVID-19 and other emergencies will be stopped from September 21. “We have been repeatedly urging the government to revise our pay on a par with Medical Education doctors. Although the Chief Minister and Health Minister assured us that our demand will be considered, nothing has happened so far,” he said. He said all district branches of KGMOA will submit memoranda to their respective Deputy Commissioners on Monday (September 14) informing that they will stop submitting reports from Tuesday and will stop work from September 21.  We have been repeatedly urging the government to revise our pay on a par with Medical Education doctors. Although the Chief Minister and Health Minister assured us that our demand will be considered, nothing has happened so far. G. Srinivas president, KGMOA
13 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JEE (Main): City student scores 99.9 percentile||Shubhan R. from Sri Chaitanya E Techno School in Bengaluru scored 99.9 percentile in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main results announced late on Friday night. He is the Karnataka topper. The student, who also bagged the second rank in engineering stream in KCET, secured 98.4% in CBSE class 12. Shubhan said he aspires to pursue a career in computer science and artificial intelligence. The cut-off score to write the JEE Advanced is 90.37.
13 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NEET to be held today||Ending months of anxiety and speculation, medical and dental seat aspirants will appear for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) on Sunday. Students will take the test across 80 centres in Bengaluru amid several safety measures. Candidates who have tested positive for COVID-19 will not be able to write the test and need to contact the authorities so that they can write it at a later date. After health screening at the examination centres, if candidates are found to have symptoms, they will be made to sit in a separate room for the examination.
13 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Website on industry queries to be launched||The State government will soon launch a one-point website for all queries relating to industries from entrepreneurs, Major and Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar has said. Inaugurating the Karnataka Chapter of Foreign Investor Council, he said the government aimed at attracting more investment in the industries sector. It is matter of pride that Karnataka is the first State to amend Industries (Facilitation) Act for Small, Medium and Large-Scale industries, he said.
13 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Many students opting for govt. schools: Karjol||“Following various improvement measures, nearly 34,000 students from private educational institutions are shifting to government schools, which is a welcome development,” Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Social Welfare Govind Karjol has said. Inaugurating various development works and laying the foundation stone for new projects at Nyamati in Davangere district on Saturday, Mr. Karjol said that the main reason for the change was the improvements that had been brought about in government schools. He appealed to the public to patronise government institutions further. “Amid the fear of COVID-19, 86% of the residents of government residential institutions have cleared the II PU examination while the State average is 61%. In SSLC examination too, 95% students from residential schools have cleared the examination against the State average of 79%,” he said. He said that two residential schools, at a total cost of Rs. 36 crore, and a hostel, at a cost of Rs. 5 crore, were being built in Nyamati andHonnali taluks. Nearly Rs. 50 crore was being spent for the welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the constituency, he said. Deputy Chief Minsiter and Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan said that amid the COVID-19 crisis, funds had been mobilised for development works, particularly those related to education. He said that the contribution of Karnataka in the field of education was huge and considering the same, various reforms were being implemented under the leadership of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. He said that Rs. 5,000 crore was being spent for the development of Industrial Training Institutes alone. Presiding over the function, Chief Minister’s Parliamentary Secretary M.P. Renukacharya spoke about the various development programmes sanctioned for the constituency and sought the public’s cooperation in developing the constituency further. G.M. Siddeshwar, MP, spoke on the welfare schemes of the Union and the State governments.
13 September 2020||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||‘Casino visit’ triggers row||While the alleged visit of Zameer Ahmed, MLA, to a casino in Colombo, while he was with the JD(S), is being dragged into the ongoing drug investigations, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy in a series of tweets said that a team of party MLAs did visit the island country but it was only for party-related discussions. Referring to this, former Minister and JD(S) leader Basavaraj Horatti on Saturday said that Mr. Kumaraswamy had the “guts to speak the truth” about the visit to a casino in Colombo and no other inference should be drawn from it. Mr. Horatti sought to know whether there were any rules that politics should not be discussed in a casino. “They had gone there for a political meeting,” he said. He clarified that while he knew about the visit of to the casino, he had not gone with them. “It is time that the names of all those involved in the drug racket comes out,” he said. Former Minister and JD(S) leader N.H. Konaraddi too confirmed the visit of JD(S) leaders to the casino, when he was an MLA. “I was invited but I did not go. Our party leader has tweeted about it,” he said. Mr. Konaraddi said the leaders had gone to the casino to discuss politics.
13 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Drug recovery: Five policemen suspended||Five police personnel, including a Circle Inspector, have been placed under suspension pending enquiry for “failing to detect the huge haul of ganja” at a sheep farm in Lakshman Naik Tanda under their limits. Kalaburagi Superintendent of Police Simi Mariam George held Kalagi Circle Inspector Bhojaraj Rathod, Police Sub Inspector Basavaraj Chittakote, Assistant Police Sub-Inspector Neelakantappa Hebbal, and constables Sharanappa and Anil Bhandari responsible for the vigilance lapses and took action. The Sheshadripuram police in Bengaluru had, without the knowledge of local police, recently unearthed 1,200 kg of ganja from the farm owned by Chandrakant Chauhan, a native of Kalagi in Kalaburagi district. Till the Bengaluru police unearthed the haul, the Kalagi police were apparently unaware of the stock though the farm was close to their police station.  They had “failed to detect the huge haul of ganja” stocked at a sheep farm in Lakshman Naik Tanda.
13 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||444 students of Expert PU College pass JEE (Main)||In all, 444 students of Expert Pre-University College, Mangaluru, have passed the Joint Entrance Examination (Main), 2020 and have been qualified to appear for JEE (Advanced). A release from the college said on Saturday that 1,021 students from the college had appeared for the JEE (Main). Of those who have passed, seven students have obtained above 99 NTA (National Testing Agency) score, 22 students have got above 98 NTA score, 103 students have scored it above 95 and 227 students have got NTA score of above 90. A release from Alva’s Education Foundation, Moodbidri, said that 523 students of Alva’s Pre-University College, Moodbidri, have passed the examination and qualified for JEE (Advanced). Of them, 70 students have obtained the percentile score of above 95, 155 students have got it above 90 percentile, 230 students have it above 85 percentile, 292 students have scored above 80 percentile and 369 students have obtained above 75 percentile score. The JEE (Main) is conducted for admission to National Institutes of Technology (NITs) and JEE (Advanced) is held for admission to IITs.
13 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Expo of Udupi saris||Udupi ZP has organised an exhibition of Udupi handloom saris at Atal Bihari Vajpayee Hall on DC office premises on September 15 at 10.30 a.m. It has been organised to promote marketing of particular saris under ‘vocal for local’ initiative.
13 September 2020||Mangaluru/Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Seven deaths, 570 cases in D.K. and Udupi||Dakshina Kannada and Udupi reported 570 new COVID-19 cases and seven deaths on Saturday. As many as five deaths were reported from Dakshina Kannada and two from Udupi. Dakshina Kannada reported 401 new cases taking the active cases to 3,707. Udupi had 169 new cases and the active cases stood at 1,760. Meanwhile, for the third straight day Belagavi district saw over 600 persons getting discharged on Saturday. It also reported 201 new cases and two deaths. Davangere district recorded 267 new cases [one death], and 484 persons getting discharged; Dharwad had 239 cases [nine deaths], and 266 persons getting discharged; Gadag had 49 new cases [one death], and 206 persons getting discharged; Bagalkot had 175 new cases and 117 persons getting discharged; Chitradurga saw 227 new cases [four deaths], and 126 persons getting discharged; Haveri saw 213 new cases [one death], and 48 persons getting discharged; Uttara Kannada saw 130 new cases [two deaths], and 86 persons getting discharged, and Vijayapura saw 58 new cases [one death], and 73 persons getting discharged.
13 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru Dasara from October 17||The scaled-down Mysuru Dasara celebrations will be traditionally inaugurated atop Chamundi Hills here on October 17 between 7.45 a.m. and 8.15 a.m. One among the five shortlisted COVID-19 warriors is expected to open the festivities. Other warriors would be felicitated on the occasion. This was announced at the Dasara meeting held here on Saturday to finalise the format of the celebrations. Five elephants that are going to be part of Jamboo Savari, including the lead elephant, will be brought to Mysuru from their respective camps on October 2. Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekhar said festivities will be confined to the Chamundi Hills and the Mysuru palace. The meeting decided to restrict the number of people inside the palace on the day of the Jamboo Savari even though around 2,000 people can be accommodated, in view of restrictions on the gathering.
13 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Eight roads inaugurated||The work to reconstruct the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) Road will be awarded soon, Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran has said. He was inaugurating eight roads in the Ambalappuzha Assembly constituency on Saturday. “As part of the reconstruction of AC Road, 80 bridges and five flyovers will be constructed. The tendering process will be completed soon,” Mr. Sudhakaran said. The 24.14-km AC Road reconstruction will be carried out at a cost of Rs. 625 crore. It is expected to prevent flooding of the road during the monsoon season. The work will be completed in three years. As part of the project, 20.04 km of road will be raised and strengthened, spending Rs. 172.47 crore.
13 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Tally in Alappuzha is 163||The district reported 163 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. While 148 persons contracted the disease through local transmission, 10 people who came from other States, four returnees from abroad, and a health worker also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of the 148 locally transmitted cases, 25 were reported from Punnapra South, 22 from Arattuppuzha and 14 from Purakkad.  Meanwhile, 146 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in hospitals in the district tested negative. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 1,944.
13 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Probe into ‘delay’ in informing of landslip||Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan has ordered an inquiry into the allegation that there was delay on the part of Kanan Devan Hills Plantation (KDHP) Ltd. in informing the authorities on the Pettimudy landslip on August 7. District Collector H. Dinesan had constituted a 12-member team to assess the landslip damage and recommend the rehabilitation of the survivors. In the report submitted by the team, it was suggested that an inquiry was needed to ascertain whether there was delay in passing the information of the tragedy to the authorities. The landslip, which claimed 66 lives (four are still missing), occurred at 10.30 p.m. The officials came to know of it only in the morning. Four estate lanes of workers at the Nayamakkad division in the Eravikulam National Park were buried in the landslip. ‘Facility at bungalow’ It was alleged that there was a facility at the estate bungalow in Rajamala to transmit the message, though the road was flooded and other communication systems were snapped. Mr. Chandrasekharan told The Hindu on Saturday that an inquiry under the purview of the Disaster Management Act would be conducted by a new team. The Minister handed over the report to Disaster Management Commissioner A. Kowsigen for the inquiry. A thorough inquiry would help the State Disaster Management Authority prepare better in the event of a similar disaster in future, he said. ‘Within an hour’ The 36-page report said the revenue team members were told that a company official (field officer) was informed of the landslip within an hour. The Rajamala manager’s bungalow within the jurisdiction of the KDHP has a system in place to report such incidents to the outside world. Pettimudy under Devikulam taluk was isolated in the first week of August due to extremely heavy rainfall. From August 2, the power connection was disrupted. Due to the absence of a battery or inverter system in the mobile tower, the mobile network was disrupted after the power connection snapped. The delay in passing the message resulted in the delayed rescue operations, the report said.
13 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||86 test positive in Idukki||Of the 86 persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Saturday, 57 were infected through local transmission. The source of infection of eight persons could not be traced. A native of Kottayam also tested positive in the district. Twenty-eight persons recovered from the disease on Saturday.
13 September 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Waive interest on loans, demands farmers’ forum||A group of farmers under the Haritha Sena, a farmer organisation, took out a march and staged a dharna in front of the Lead bank (Canara Bank) here on Friday, raising a slew of demands including full waiver of the interest on farmer loans during the moratorium period. Speaking after inaugurating the dharna, M. Surendran, president of the organisation, said the idea of moratorium was to defer repayment to ease the burden caused by COVID-19 and the lockdown. The moratorium on loan repayment was lifted on August 31 and the farmers were now forced to pay the their debts with penal interest, he said. Farmers had suffered huge crop losses owing to the recurring floods in past two years after a drought in the district in 2016-17, P.N. Sudhakara Swami, district coordinator of the organisation, said. The burden of the crisis increased further owing to the impact of the lockdown, Mr. Swamy said. As the farmers are not in a position to repay the huge debt, the government should consider either waiving their loans or write off the interest on the loans during the moratorium period, he said.
13 September 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Landslip rocks Kottakunnu||At least three families were evacuated following a landslip at Kottakunnu on the Belal-Rajapuram road in Kasaragod on Saturday. Vellarikundu tahsildar P. Kunhikannan said the landslip occurred around 2.30 p.m. No casualties had been reported. The families moved to houses of their relatives even though alternative arrangements were made for them, he said. The debris came down 400 metres, blocking traffic on the Belal- Rajapuram district panchayat road. Earthmovers had been deployed to clear rocks and other debris. It would take at least two days to resume normal traffic, Mr. Kunhikannan said. He said the area was prone to landslips during rain. On Friday also a minor landslip was reported from Nambiarmala in Maloth grama panchayat. One family there was shifted to a safe area, he added. Mr. Kunhikannan said the region was witnessing heavy rainfall during the past two days. While 125 mm rainfall was recorded in the area on Friday, it was 124 mm on Saturday.
13 September 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Life sentence awarded||Kasargod Additional District and Sessions Judge on Friday sentenced BJP activist Sarath Raj, the first accused in the murder case of CPI(M) worker P. Muraleedharan of Kumbala, to life imprisonment and fined him a sum of Rs. 2 lakh.
13 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Stress laid on flood mitigation efforts near Mullassery canal||Flood mitigation measures, accessible and safe public spaces and pedestrian-friendly walkways are all part of solutions suggested for the area around the 1.3-km-long Mullassery canal as part of an urban design competition. It had invited entries in an attempt to troubleshoot the environmental, infrastructural and social challenges that the area presents, without displacing people in the vicinity. As part of EnteKochi, an urban design competition was organised by the Kochi Corporation in association with GIZ (German Agency for International Cooperation) under the Sustainable Urban Development – Smart Cities project (SUD-SC). A nine-member jury of urban designers, researchers, academic experts, and architects recently selected three winning entries out of 117 submitted by teams from across the country. To ensure resilience to climate change, the winning entries focus on solutions such as multifunctional urban spaces and floodable landscapes, where water can be allowed to expand along the banks during high levels of rainfall, and when the water recedes, those areas can be used for purposes like sports. Softening of canal edges and removing its concrete banks to replace them with green patches that allow water to percolate was also suggested, besides integrating the KSRTC bus station well with the surrounding areas to be turned into an accessible, safe and gender-sensitive space. Turning the canal edge into a walkway with a bike path that could connect the bus station, boat jetty, and the nearest metro station, streamlining informal vending spaces, restoration of the Jewish cemetery in the area, creating safe well-lit public spaces and an amphitheatre in the vicinity of the Indira Priyadarshini Park were proposed by the winning entries. For K.T. Ravindran, Delhi-based urban designer, chairman of the Architectural Heritage Advisory Committee of INTACH and head of the jury, the methodology proposed by the winning entries looks at the locality and people’s needs with as much importance as the environment. Georg Jahnsen, an urban planner and project manager for SUD-SC, who was part of the jury, said the ideas would require a few months to be further detailed before they could be implemented. While implementation and procuring funds will be the Kochi Corporation’s mandate, GIZ and the supporting planning agencies Urbanista (Germany), Urbz (Mumbai), and Design Combine (Kochi)) offered technical expertise with the competition and fine-tuning of solutions. The solutions, in their implementation, will take into consideration the consent of the people living and working in the area and will not cause any displacement, Mr. Jahnsen said. The winning entries, once detailed, will have to be presented before the corporation council for its approval, besides consulting all other stakeholders, including people in the vicinity of the canal, said Rajan Chedambath, director, Centre for Heritage, Environment and Development (C-HED). “Some roads passing by the canal are fairly narrow and to what extent work in the area might be possible without affecting transport is not clear. Improving the living standards of residents and renovating the bus station will be essential to make the project meaningful,” said K.V.P. Krishnakumar, councillor representing the area.
13 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Homestay operators delighted at decision to hold Biennale||The decision of the organisers to go ahead with the Kochi-Muziris Biennale has been well received by the 300-odd classified homestay operators in the district, who were staring at zero room occupancy due to the pandemic situation. “We welcome the decision to have the art event this year, amid the pall of gloom. It played a key role in reviving tourist arrivals in Kochi after the devastating floods of August 2018. Fort Kochi, which hosts the event, alone has 50 of the 67 classified homestays in the district, said M.P. Sivadattan, director, Kerala Homestays and Tourism Society (Kerala-HATS). “It will hopefully help homestays recover this time around. The pandemic has already resulted in tourists showing a marked preference for homestays to hotels. Already, tourists from within Kerala and other States have resumed making enquiry about homestays in West Kochi, Kumbalanghi etc.... Guests who want to avoid overnight stay are opting to spend a day at many properties in serene locations. Homestays which have elderly people and children living in the same compound may not take room bookings for a few months,” he added. Mr. Sivadattan further welcomed Saturday’s announcement that classified homestays (which have five rooms or less and have the owners residing in the same compound) will no more have to pay commercial tarriff for power, water supply, and other payments. “They will thus fall under a category called ‘residential homestay’. The power tariff will thus fall from the commercial rate of Rs. 7.50 per unit to a rate which will be in proportion to the use by each property. “It will also lessen reliance on departments like Labour and Food Safety for different sanctions. This will see around 4,000 homestays, which remained dormant for years due to levy of commercial tarriff, bounce back, providing jobs to a whole lot of people,” he said.
13 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cusat turns to digital route for recruitment of faculty||Faculty recruitment at the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) has turned the digital route in view of the COVID-19 crisis. The online interviews have been held as per the norms of the Ministry of Education for the recruitment of faculty posts in the Department of Physical Oceanography. “Two of the candidates appeared through videoconferencing platforms. They could not be physically present as they were in Pune,” said K.N. Madhusoodanan, Vice Chancellor, on Saturday. Cusat has notified recruitment for nearly 110 faculty posts. The online interview will be available for candidates in outside locations and containment zones. “The face-to-face interview is being continued for persons who can turn up for the session,” said Prof. Madhusoodanan. Confusion had earlier prevailed over the conduct of online interviews for teaching and non-teaching posts. The Ministry had taken a position that it was not advisable to conduct online interviews. The authorities had said that the Ministry was yet to take a policy decision on holding online interviews. However, Prof. Madhusoodanan said that the Ministry has now issued a clarification permitting the conduct of online interviews. “This was sent to all central universities. We are going by the Ministry’s latest directive while holding the online interviews,” he said. The varsity had earlier held faculty recruitment interviews through Internet video call services after a few candidates abroad had cited difficulties in travelling all the way to appear in person before the selection panel. The Syndicate had then accepted a proposal to hold such interviews for candidates outside the country. With the pandemic resulting in travel restrictions, the online mode of interviews is here to stay, according to the officials. Freedom to choose The authorities pointed out that varsities could choose the mode of conducting the interviews, as the rules by the University Grants Commission had only stated that interview should be conducted for faculty recruitment. Many leading universities have now switched over to the online mode to attract the best of teachers from across the globe, they said.
13 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||10 health workers among 188 cases in Ernakulam||Ten health workers were among the 188 persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday in the district. Of them, nine were working in private hospitals. The district recorded more recoveries than positive cases on Saturday, with 233 persons testing negative. Eight persons who arrived from outside the State tested positive. The infection continues to give West Kochi a hard time, with 18 residents of Fort Kochi testing positive. Cases of infection were also reported from Alangad, Edappally, Elamkunnapuzha, Edathala, Eloor, Kadamakudy, Kunnukara, Kumbalangi, Kothamangalam, Thrikkakara, Thripunithura, Nedumbassery, and Rayamanagalam. A total of 21,239 persons are in quarantine in the district and 3,038 people are being treated for the disease. In Thrissur As many as 172 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Thrissur on Saturday. Of them, 169 cases were infected through local contact. There are 2,029 active cases in the district. In all, 135 people recovered.
13 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||War of words over voters’ list in Kizhakkambalam||With local body polls round the corner, politics seems to be hotting up in Kizhakkambalam panchayat with the local Congress leadership alleging Twenty20, the apolitical corporate-backed charity outfit that swept the polls in the last election, of rigging the electoral rolls. In a press conference held on Saturday, local Congress leaders alleged that the corporate entity backing the movement was settling its employees from elsewhere in the vacant places in the panchayat to get them enrolled as voters. ‘Documents fabricated’ “The company, using its clout in the local body, is fabricating documents with the active collaboration of the panchayat secretary for these settlers to get them enrolled. “Attempts are being made to slip in around 2,500 such voters into the list on the strength of forged documents. Having failed to develop the panchayat as they promised, and anticipating defeat in the forthcoming polls, the company, in connivance with the panchayat governing committee, is trying to sabotage the election process to retain power,” alleged Elias Karipra, president of the Kizhakkambalam Assembly constituency of the Congress. He said that the party had petitioned the Chief Election Commissioner and the District Collector. However, Twenty20 leadership dispelled the allegations as the desperate attempt of the opposition staring at another resounding defeat at the hustings. “None can illegally get enrolled in the voters’ list by forging documents as a transparent online process monitored by an autonomous Election Commission is in force. The allegation that the panchayat secretary is forging documents for us is baseless since any such attempt by a government servant will for sure leave him jobless, if exposed. Officials only do the verification while it is for the applicants concerned to upload the given set of documents,” said Sabu M. Jacob, businessman and chief mentor of Twenty20. He said that the party was raising wild allegations as an anticipatory bail to shield them from yet another inevitable electoral defeat.  None can illegally get enrolled in the voters’ list by forging documents as a transparent online process monitored by an autonomous Election Commission is in force Sabu M. Jacob Chief mentor of Twenty20
13 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||A unique experience of recovery, new life||The story of 43 children and 14 staff members at Don Bosco Sneha Bhavan, Palluruthy, who recovered from COVID-19 is one of positive energy. “There is nothing like being together in a crisis, said Father P.D. Thomas, rector of Don Bosco Sneha Bhavan, after he tested negative for the virus along with his wards and colleagues on Friday. Adv. Bitty K. Joseph, Chairman, District Child Welfare Committee, said most residents of around 100 homes for children had gone home to their places of security. Of the total 2,452 children at shelter homes, more than 2,000 had returned to their own preferred shelters, while public homes run by government agencies had just 1,079 children. She described the Don Bosco experience as a success. “It is the result of collective efforts. The Health Department opened a treatment centre at Sneha Bhavan. It helped those in the affected regions face the challenge in a natural and positive way,” she said. The case is similar to that at Karunalayam in Thrikkakara Municipality, where 52 persons recovered from the infection in August.
13 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Labour union seeks opening of Thoppumpady harbour||The Cochin Port Labour Union, CITU, has demanded that the long-line and gill-net boats, based at the Thoppumpady fisheries harbour, should be allowed to operate in view of the hardship facing West Kochi. M.M. Lawrence, veteran CPI(M) leader and president of the Cochin Port Labour Union, said in a memorandum to Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma and Minister for Agriculture V. Sunilkumar that these boats had been operating out of the Thoppumpady harbour for 50 years now and determined the character of the economic activities at the harbour as well as the entire West Kochi. The appeal said that if the activities at the seafood factories both in Kochi and the neighbouring areas such as Aroor and Eramalloor in the district of Alappuzha had to come to a normal level, the long-line and gill-net boats had to engage in fishing activities. These fishing operations have been at a standstill ever since the COVID-19 protocol came into effect. The State department of fisheries has banned the arrival of fishers from other States in view of the containment policies. Mr. Lawrence said in his appeal that West Kochi had suffered a big setback with the curtailment of operations at the Kochi port.
13 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cong. factional feud at its peak at Kadungalloor||Members of Congress factions in Kadungalloor exchanged blows at a reception held for newly elected mandalam and block representatives on Friday. A section of workers affiliated to the ‘I’ faction staged a march to the meeting held at the mandalam committee office. They alleged that the ‘I’ group was denied adequate representation in the newly elected block and mandalam committees. The scuffle broke out after those at the meeting objected to efforts by the rival faction to disrupt the proceedings. The situation was later brought under control. The incident followed the growing factional feud between ‘A’ and ‘I’ groups at Kadungalloor.
13 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Drinking water for Rs. 1||In keeping with its larger motto of ensuring drinking water for all, the Mulanthuruthy panchayat along the eastern suburbs of the district, has set up a kiosk that dispenses water for a nominal price. The kiosk has been set up at the Indira Gandhi bus terminal at Mulanthuruthy town at an estimated investment of Rs. 5 lakh. It dispenses 1 litre and 2 litres of purified and lab-certified water at Rs. 1 and Rs. 2 respectively.  “It was one of our plan projects and was executed using own funds with the help of a government-accredited agency. We expect the kiosk to enjoy high patronage once the bus terminal turns operative and the lockdown is fully lifted. ” said Ranjy Kurian Kallinal, president, Mulanthuruthy panchayat.
13 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||KMRL’s new electric sub station||Kochi Metro Rail Limited has constructed a Combined Auxiliary and Traction substation at the Muttom Depot. The facility will ensure uninterrupted 415 V AC auxiliary and 750 V DC traction power supply at its Operation Command Centre in Muttom.
13 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held for patricide||The North Paravur police arrested a man on the charge of patricide here on Saturday. The arrested man, identified as Rahul Dev, 25, was the elder son of the victim, a resident of Cheriapilly in North Paravur. According to the police, the victim, Jaladharan, was rushed to a private hospital at North Paravur on Tuesday evening with severe abdominal pain and vomiting. He died soon after arrival. Later, Rahul Dev turned up at the North Paravur police station and claimed that his father was injured in a fall under the influence of liquor. However, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural), K. Karthik, smelt something amiss and ordered registration of a case for unnatural death. The post-mortem report from the Kalamasserry Government Medical College proved those suspicions correct as it found injuries to the lower abdomen attributable to the impact of a strong kick. The ensuing probe revealed that the father and sons were in the habit of engaging in drunken brawl at home and at the end of one such fight, the accused had allegedly kicked his father. A team led by Aluva Deputy Superintendent of Police G. Venu made the arrest.
13 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam reports 265 new cases||A total of 265 persons from the district, including seven health workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. While 253 patients contracted the virus through local contact, three persons came from abroad and two from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Among the infected health workers, three are employees of Government Medical College Hospital, Kollam, while two from Eravipuram and Mangad are staff members of private hospitals. A 46-year-old Chavara resident and a 48-year-old Karunagappally resident are staff at Kollam District Hospital and Thiruvalla Taluk Hospital respectively. The office of N.K. Premachandran, MP, in Kollam was closed on Saturday with his driver testing positive. The district administration has sought explanation from private hospitals who are yet to start temporary COVID-19 wards and ICUs. Hospitals were also asked to make arrangements for 24-hour infection control and the permission of the District Medical Officer was made mandatory before shifting seriously ill patients to government facilities. The district reported 131 recoveries on Saturday.
13 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Cong. looks to firm up base in Kottayam||Even as the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani is yet to clear the air about its next move, the Congress has kick-started efforts to fill the vacuum created by the faction’s exit from the United Democratic Front (UDF). According to sources, the Congress has launched all-out efforts to poach UDF sympathisers from the estranged partner. Though the Mani camp has not made any formal announcement regarding its association with the Left Democratic Front (LDF), the Congress has reached out to some KC(M) leaders and the rank and file who may have apprehension about the party’s reported move to the Left camp and look to reconcile with the UDF. Discussion The other day, senior Congress leaders led by Oommen Chandy and Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan held a discussion in this regard with the party district unit in Kottayam. “The chaotic exit of the Mani group appears to have created a new political fissure that seems unbridgeable, at least for the time being. For the Congress, the break-up sounds alluringly like a golden opportunity to overcome the discontentment among its workers about playing second fiddle to a regional party in the district,” a party leader said. He said the party had entrusted workers on the mandalam and block committees to hold talks with KC(M) workers at the grassroots. To make most of the opportunity, the party would highlight the ‘bitter treatment’ of K.M. Mani, founder-leader of the KC(M), by the Left parties in the bar bribery case, among other things. Speculation is also rife about some from the Mani group switching sides to the rival faction led by P.J. Joseph, predictably with the support of some senior Congress leaders. The attempts to put on a brave face notwithstanding, the stay order issued by the High Court of Kerala on the Central Election Commission’s order allotting the party symbol has come at the most inopportune time for the Mani faction. Though legal options are being explored, it may take time to lift the stay order and this is expected to have an impact on the party’s discussions with the LDF.
13 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||166 cases in Kottayam||The district on Saturday reported 166 new COVID-19 cases and 137 recoveries. Of the new cases, 159 contracted the virus through local transmission. With 17 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Athirampuzha with 14 cases. Ettumanur municipality and Thiruvarppu panchayat reported nine cases each. The district currently has 2,083 active cases. Forty-two locations across 28 local bodies in the district have been currently marked as containment zones.
13 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||BJP, MYL stage protest marches||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Muslim Youth League (MYL) took out protest marches in Kozhikode on Saturday, demanding the resignation of Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel who has been quizzed by the Enforcement Directorate officials. BJP Kozhikode district president V.K. Sajeevan on Saturday said the Minister no longer had any ethical or legal right to stay in office. Inaugurating a protest of BJP activists, he said the Minister faced grave charges of anti-national activities and was challenging the people of the State by desperately clinging to his chair. The Chief Minister could not evade responsibility for the actions of his colleague, he added. The BJP workers took out a march from the district committee office at Tali and picketed Palayam Road. They were blocked by the police at Palayam. MYL activists took out a march to the office of the District Police Chief (Kozhikode City) on Saturday, seeking Dr. Jaleel’s resignation. The police erected barricades and used water cannons to disperse the protesters to prevent them from barging into the office. MYL State general secretary P.K. Firos, who inaugurated the protest, ridiculed Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for trying to protect Dr. Jaleel.
13 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Central Market closes as COVID-19 cases rise||The Kozhikode Corporation has decided to close down Central Market, one of the biggest commercial spaces in the city, after 111 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Twenty new cases were reported after antigen tests were held at Payyanakkal on Saturday. Meanwhile, the number of COVID-19 cases reported in the district rose to 286 on Saturday, 241 of which are through local transmission. The source of infection in 26 cases is unknown. As many as 176 people recovered on Saturday. In Malappuram As many as 310 people tested positive in Malappuram on Saturday. While 273 of them were found to have been infected through local contacts, the source of infection in 13 cases could not be traced. As many as 209 infected persons recovered on Saturday. In Palakkad In Palakkad, 184 people tested positive on Saturday. While 113 of them were infected through local transmission, the source of infection could not be traced in 45 cases. In Wayanad Fifty-four persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Saturday. Of them, 48 were infected through contact. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 150 cases were reported on Saturday. Of the infected, 149 had contacts with COVID-19 patients.
13 September 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Jaleel must quit, demands IUML||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has demanded that Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel step down owning moral responsibility for the smuggling of gold through diplomatic channels. Party general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP, addressing media here on Saturday, questioned the propriety of the CPI(M) Polit Bureau deciding whether Dr. Jaleel should quit or not. “It is a public outcry over a State matter. It is not a party matter for the Polit Bureau to decide. A Minister is a property of the State. He (Dr. Jaleel) has misused the State’s official position. And he is answerable to the State and its people,” said Mr. Kunhalikutty. “He can come back to the Cabinet if he is not found guilty. The law that is applicable to M. Sivasankar and E.P. Jayarajan is applicable to Dr. Jaleel too. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan should make his stand clear,” said the IUML leader. Mr. Kunhalikutty said the government’s double standards became evident when it came to Dr. Jaleel. Mr. Sivasankar and Mr. Jayarajan stepped down not after they were convicted in a court of law. “The situation demands that the Minister quit,” he said. He lashed out at Dr. Jaleel for appearing before the Enforcement Directorate in a covert manner. “His covert use of a private vehicle to appear before the investigating agency was a clear breach of protocol,” he said. Protests in Malappuram The district witnessed a barrage of protests against Dr. Jaleel in spite of heavy rain on Saturday. Youth organisations of the Indian Union Muslim League, the Congress, and the Bharatiya Janata Party spearheaded the protests, demanding his resignation after he was questioned by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the gold smuggling through diplomatic channels. The protesters marched to the Minister’s house at Valanchery. The police stopped the march well ahead of the house. Muslim Youth League workers laid a siege to a road at Malappuram town. The siege in the rain continued for about an hour.
13 September 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Body of youth recovered||The body of a youngster, who had gone missing in a stream at Mannarkkad along with another on Wednesday, was recovered on Saturday. The body of Mohammedali, 23, was found at a bathing ghat. The search is continuing for Irfan Ahamed, 21, who too had gone missing.
13 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Konni MCH to open tomorrow||Amidst the raging pandemic, the health service network in Pathanamthitta is all set to receive a major boost with the Government Medical College Hospital in Konni to be thrown open to the public on Monday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the outpatient wing of the hospital at 10.30 a.m on the day. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja will preside over the inaugural function, which will be attended by Forest Minister K. Raju and Anto Antony, MP. The institution, situated on 50 acres, is close to Sabarimala. Authorities have completed the construction of a hospital block and academic complex with a built-up area of 49,200 sq m. The project had received administrative sanction in 2012 but the rocky terrain hampered the work initially. Next phase Plans are now afoot to construct an administrative block, canteen, hostels, quarters, laundry, animal house, auditorium and mortuary in the second phase. To implement it through the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), administrative sanction for Rs. 351.72 crore has been granted. A proposal worth Rs. 338.5 crore is under consideration of the agency. The authorities have also constructed a road to the medical college at a cost of Rs. 18 crore and a water treatment plant at Rs. 14 crore. The offices of the college Principal and superintendent have started functioning.
13 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||88 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 88 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Saturday. Of the new cases, 65 persons contracted the virus through local transmission while nine came from abroad. Among those infected are a police officer and a health worker. The contact sources of 18 cases are yet to be identified. Meanwhile, the RT-PCR tests conducted posthumously on a 72-year-old woman and an unidentified person in Parumala confirmed that they had not died of the viral infection. With this, COVID-19 fatalities in Pathanamthitta, as released by the district administration, came down to 31. With 189 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 1,060 active cases.
13 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||566 cases in capital||As many as 566 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Saturday even as the official death toll rose to 138 with six more recent deaths getting confirmed as due to the disease. The deceased included a 78-year-woman from Fort who died on August 27; a 101-year-old man from Kalady; a 76-year-old man from Neyyattinkara; a 76-year-old woman from Uzhamalakkal; and a 72-year-old woman from Manacaud who died on September 4 and an 88-year-old woman from Poojappura who died on September 8. Disease transmission through contact accounted for 440 cases. Source untraced in 101 Meantime, the number of cases where the source of infection remains uncertain appears to be on the rise. As many as 101 cases reported on Saturday fell in this category, according to the official statistics. Such cases have been reported from all over the district including the coastal areas, the city proper, and the eastern regions. Health workers too The number of health workers infected by the virus too is on the rise in the district. Saturday’s caseload included 18 health workers. In all, 393 people tested negative on the day. As on Saturday, 5,094 patients are under treatment in the district. Manacaud in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation region reported 24 cases — including one death — while Karamana reported 11 and Rajaji Nagar, ten cases. Nine people tested positive at Thirupuram while eight people each were diagnosed with the disease at Poojappura, Ulloor, Mulluvila, and Ottasekharamangalam. Mailam, Malayinkeezhu, Olathanni, and Kallayam reported seven cases. Manvila, Dhanuvachapuram, Perukavu, Velliyad, Naruvamoodu, Peyad, and Vattapara also have reported multiple cases. The Central Prison, Poojappura, reported one more case. In all, 1,071 people were placed under disease surveillance in the district on Saturday even as 746 others completed the observation period without developing symptoms. As on Saturday, 23,841 people are under observation in Thiruvananthapuram district. Of this, 3,783 people are admitted to various hospitals.
13 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Opposition protests at Secretariat turn violent||The Secretariat and its vicinity turned into a battleground as demonstrations taken out by Opposition parties demanding the resignation of Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel turned violent on Saturday. Several protesters were injured as the State capital was kept on tenterhooks for the second day even as the government remained on the edge over the surge in COVID-19 cases. Security was strengthened outside the Secretariat and near Dr. Jaleel’s official residence since late Friday after Youth Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party activists clashed with the police, leaving nine people injured.  Water jets The series of protests outside the Secretariat got underway by 9.30 a.m. While the initial demonstrations organised by smaller parties passed off peacefully, tension went up after the Mahila Congress burnt the Minister in effigy. Soon, the Indian Union Muslim League and Muslim Youth League marched to the Secretariat, but were dispersed after being fired with water jets. The joint demonstration taken out next by the BJP, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha and Akhil Bharatiya Vidhyarthi Parishad witnessed around a hundred activists adopting aggressive tactics. With the protesters remaining firm despite the police using water cannons at least five times, the law enforcers resorted to firing tear gas shells thrice and grenade once. The situation came to a head when an activist entered the Secretariat premises by scaling the compound wall. The agitators were lathicharged after they attempted to prevent the police from taking him into custody. Five protesters were injured. Later, the Youth Congress staged a protest led by K.S. Sabarinadhan, MLA. The police sprayed water jets on the agitators as they attempted to topple barricades.
13 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||94% of 2,885 fresh cases locally acquired||Kerala reported 2,885 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,944 recoveries on Saturday. The samples tested in the last 24 hours is 43,954. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 1,05,139. Having reported 75,844 recoveries till date, the number of COVID-19 patients currently undergoing treatment in hospitals across the State now is 28,802. Source of infection The State’s COVID toll reached 425, with the Health Department adding 15 more deaths which occurred in the State between August 22 and September 8 to the provisional COVID death list of the State on Saturday. Six of these deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, three from Kozhikode, two each from Thrissur and Palakkad and one each from Malappuram and Ernakulam. On Saturday, nearly 94% of the new cases reported – 2,706 out of the 2,885 cases – were locally acquired infections, with the authorities unable to trace the source of infection in 287 cases. These include infections reported in 55 health-care workers, with 18 of these cases reported in Thiruvananthapuram, 10 in Ernakulam and the rest scattered in districts. Four-figure active cases The rise in cumulative case burden has seen a simultaneous rise in the number of active cases in all districts. Except for Idukki and Wayanad which have less than 500 cases occupying hospital beds, in all other districts, the number of active cases has crossed four figures. In seven districts, there are over 2,000 patients occupying hospital beds, indicating that as the surge in cases continue, health system capacity is going to be under tremendous strain. The number of hotspots in the State at present is 603. ‘Bed readied’ As the State crossed the one lakh mark in cumulative case burden on Friday and braces for a steeper rise in daily case numbers, the public health system, including all COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) and COVID hospitals, are prepared to meet any exigency, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said. In both public and private sectors, 41,391 hospital beds have been readied in 322 centres, of which, 21,318 beds are now vacant. These include 2,883 beds in 74 private hospitals. Of 871 ICU beds at government hospitals, 624 are vacant. Of 532 COVID ventilators in the public sector, 519 are vacant. At private hospitals, of 6,079 ICU beds, 6,030 are vacant.
13 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Probe into suicide begins||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police have instituted a probe into the death of a Communist Party of India (Marxist) worker who was found hanging at a party-owned building in Udiyankulangara, near Parassala, on Thursday. Tested negative Following a post-mortem examination at the Government Medical College Hospital here on Saturday, Azhakikkonam native Asha’s body was handed over to her family. Her swab sample had tested negative for COVID-19. The region witnessed slight tension after a group of Congress workers blocked the vehicle that transported the body from the hospital. Laying siege to the Parassala-Udiyankulangara road as they did on Friday following Asha’s death, the agitators demanded action against the CPI(M) workers who were allegedly named in her suicide note. In the note, Asha accused the party’s local committee members Kottamam Rajan and Alatharavilakom Joy of subjecting her to mental torture that led her to taking the extreme step. While no one has been taken into custody yet, the police will probe all aspects of the case, including the allegations levelled against the party workers.
13 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tourist guides, houseboats to get aid||The State government has announced a one-time financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 to 328 tourist guides rendered jobless due to the pandemic and a on-time maintenance grant of Rs. 80,000 to Rs. 1.20 lakh to houseboats based on the number of rooms in them. Relief will also be provided to homestays, which have been moved from the commercial category to the residential category. This allows the facility some relief in the house tax amount to be remitted to local bodies. Sanction for funds Announcing the decision after reviewing the tourism projects in Veli tourist village on Saturday, Minister for Tourism Kadakampally Surendran said administrative sanction of Rs. 32,80,000 had been given to provide assistance to approved tourist guides at the regional, local, State and national levels. Houseboats operating in the State with valid registration of Ports Department would be provided a maintenance grant. A sum of Rs. 10 crore would be required for disbursing the assistance to houseboats. As many as 1,000 entrepreneurs who had started homestays in the State would benefit from the government decision. The tourist guides and houseboats should apply before November 30 to get the financial assistance. The financial aid was in addition to the Rs. 455-crore package announced for the industry. As part of attracting tourists to the village, the Minister said a Rs. 3.60-crore tourist facilitation centre, a Rs. 9.98-crore convention centre, and ancillary facilities for Rs. 7.85 crore were being set up.
13 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Medical College police bust prostitution racket||The Medical College police on Saturday busted a prostitution racket and arrested nine people in connection with the case. Balu, 50, of Kumarapuram; Vijay Mathew, 24, of Gowreeshapattom; Sachin, 21, of Pothencode; Inshad, 22, of Vizhinjam; Manoj, 24, of Venganoor; Ananthu, 21, of Plamoodu; Amal, 26, of Powdikonam; and two women hailing from Shanghumughom and Poonthura were those arrested. The racket catered to people who contacted them through an online classifieds site. They operated from a two-storeyed building they rented allegedly under the pretext of providing accommodation for patients who sought treatment at the Regional Cancer Centre, the police said.
13 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online petition to promote Malayalam||Filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan on Sunday will launch an online mass petition seeking the Chief Minister’s intervention to put an end to the discrimination towards Malayalam. In a statement issued here, the Aikya Malayala Prasthanam said their protest was to get the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) to acknowledge the government’s policy on Malayalam language and make Malayalam a topic for exams for selecting primary teachers to teach in Malayalam medium schools. The link for signing the petition will be available to the public till September 20.
13 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Directive on parking||The State Human Rights Commission has directed the City police to initiate action against people who park their vehicles on footpaths. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic’s directive to District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) was acting on a complaint against parking on the footpath of the University Road that led to Kunnukuzhy junction. The police had said patrolling was strengthened.
13 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rainfall likely in State||Rainfall is likely to be widespread in the State in the coming days with the southwest monsoon continuing its active phase in September. Most districts are likely to receive isolated heavy rainfall till at least Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) indicated on Saturday. The IMD has put Kasaragod district on orange alert on Sunday. Yellow alert has been issued for Kannur, Wayanad, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Palakkad, Thrissur, Ernakulam, Idukki and Alappuzha for Sunday. Earlier, the IMD had indicated the possibility of a low pressure area forming over the Bay of Bengal on Sunday. The IMD indicates the possibility of a second low pressure area forming in the Bay region from September 18 to September 24. Fishermen have been warned not to venture out to sea. The agency warns that strong winds are likely along the Kerala, Karnataka and Lakshadweep coasts till Wednesday.
13 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) rejects demand for Jaleel’s resignation||The CPI(M) State secretariat has rejected the demand for the resignation of Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel. It said here on Saturday that the information that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had interviewed Dr. Jaleel was no ground for seeking his resignation. The Congress and the BJP had unleashed violence in the State in the name of Dr. Jaleel’s resignation to divert attention from the achievements of the LDF government. The CPI(M) slammed the Congress for playing second fiddle to the BJP in Kerala. The resignation demand aired simultaneously by both parties were mere political propaganda ahead of the local body polls. The Congress policy in Kerala appeared to be in variance with that of its national leadership. The All India Congress Committee had maintained that the Centre used ED as a political tool to deter the Opposition and unsettle non-BJP governments, the CPI(M) said.
13 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SSLC certificates on DigiLocker||Certificates of students who have cleared the SSLC examinations this year are available on DigiLocker. To get the certificates, visitdigilocker.gov.in, log in, and click on the button ‘Get more now.’ In the ‘Education’ section, select ‘Board of Public Examination Kerala’ and then ‘Class X School Leaving Certificate’ and enter register number and year. In case of complaints, call 1800 4251 1800 (toll-free) or 155300 (from BSNL network) or 0471 2335523 (from other networks).
13 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Child rights panel summons police officers||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has asked police officers investigating the case of a girl being forced to drink alcohol to appear before it. Aluva Edathala police station house officer Subair and police officer dealing with children’s and women’s issues Manju have been asked to appear before the commission on September 22. The child’s mother had submitted a complaint that while the six-year-old girl had been questioned over 10 times, the accused– her husband’s sister – had not been questioned once or taken into custody.
13 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Skill development course for nurses||With increasing demand for nurses, the Kerala State Women’s Development Corporation, along with the Centre for Management Development and Odepec (Overseas Development and Employment Promotion Consultants Ltd.) under the Labour Department, has launched the skill development course ‘Advanced skill enhancement programme in nursing.’ The first batch of trainees will be assured of jobs in hospitals in the U.K. Each batch will have 30 candidates.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ayurveda, wellness centres see opportunity during pandemic||With a COVID vaccine still a far cry, stakeholders in Kerala’s Ayurveda and wellness centres have demanded that the government roll out special operating procedures (SOPs) to cater to heightened demand from people across the globe who want to detoxify and rejuvenate themselves to boost immunity levels to take on the virus. The entire world is adapting to ‘Live with COVID by following strict protocols’ as a way to revive economic activities. Traditionally, foreign and domestic tourists used to visit Kerala for up to 10 months a year in search of prominent Ayurveda hospitals and 100-odd treatment centres offering an array of weekly, 14 and 21-day treatments. The 30-odd wellness centres, which are more popular among foreigners, are mostly located on the beachfront. These two sectors contribute a substantial chunk of the Rs. 45,000 crore annual revenue of the State from tourist arrivals, official sources said. The Ayurveda treatment season fell from 10 months to eight months, following the deluge of 2018 and intense rainfall in 2019. The pandemic has, however, caused a rise in demand from people for treatment packages, said Sajeev Kurup, president of Kerala Ayurveda Promotion Society and chairman of Ayurveda Task Force of FICCI Tourism Committee. “Based on Unlock-4 declared by the Central government, States like Karnataka, Goa, and Maharashtra have opened up their borders, while Tamil Nadu has reopened corridors leading to tourism destinations like Ooty and Kodaikanal. Hundreds of people, including film stars from other States, are keen to drive down to Kerala to avail traditional treatment and rejuvenation packages,” he added. While adhering to the State government’s protocols and directions like mandatory COVID test, the Ayurveda and wellness sectors in Kerala are willing to go the extra mile. Thus, guests could arrive with the results of a recent RT-PCR test or adhere to dual tests — rapid antigen and RT-PCR test on arrival — to obviate the need for 14-day quarantine. “Moreover, Ayurveda does not attract tourists en masse. It is mostly individuals or couples who come seeking treatment. The government must issue directives in this regard, since tourists seeking traditional and wellness health packages may be turned away by the present quarantine rules,” Mr. Kurup said. Stakeholders in the sector are willing to do monthly COVID test on doctors and other employees and provide accommodation to them to be doubly sure of their health condition.
13 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Engineering student ends life over PUBG ban||A B.Tech final year student of Chennai-based Bharati College, hailing from Anantapur, allegedly ended his life distraught over the ban imposed on popular online game Player Unknown’s Battle Ground (PUBG). Kurkuri Kiran Kumar Reddy went missing from his house five days ago. His parents thought he had gone to some friends’ place as this used to be his usual routine following his alleged addiction to PUBG. They searched for him at all possible places, but could not find him and lodged a missing complaint. On Friday, his uncle found him hanging from the ceiling of a small storeroom on the first floor of the house in Revenue Colony of Anantapur. According to family members, Kiran allegedly got addicted to playing with BitCoin and had invested about Rs. 3.5 lakh that he had borrowed from his mother. He subsequently reportedly mortgaged his laptop and phone. Following the closure of college due to COVID-19, he stayed in his maternal grandparents’ house in Amadaguru in Anantapur district reportedly playing PUBG all day long. The worried grandparents asked his parents to take him to their house in Anantapur, and after returning home, Kiran reportedly was restless following ban on PUBG. His father works at PVKK College here. There is always someone to talk to at 100; 9989819191 or reach over email: ananthapuramupolice@gmail.com
13 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Young farming couple ends life||A young farming couple allegedly ended their lives on Friday by consuming pesticide in their house at Ramarajpuram village in Pamidi mandal reportedly following “insurmountable” financial debts. According to family members, they were rushed to the Pamidi government hospital on Friday evening, where Anusha, 25, died. Her husband, Bhogati Bayyapureddy, 27, was immediately shifted to GGH, Anantapur, where doctors declared him brought dead. There is always someone to talk to at: 100; 9989819191 or reach over email: ananthapuramupolice@gmail.com
13 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||A surprise pick from State||The induction of veteran leader Chinta Mohan from Andhra Pradesh into the Congress Working Committee (CWC) as a special invitee on Saturday after a hiatus of 25 years turned into a hot topic in the party circles in Chittoor district. Dr. Mohan made a successful debut as MP in 1984 after being introduced into politics by Savita Ambedkar, wife of B.R. Ambedkar. In PV Cabinet A six-time MP, Dr. Mohan had served as Union Minster for Chemicals and Fertilizers in the P.V. Narasimha Rao Cabinet in the early 1990s, during which period he had also been a member of the CWC. Considered a confidant of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, the veteran leader also had close association with former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, veteran communist leader Harikishan Singh Surjeet and BSP founder Kanshi Ram. Dr. Mohan was said to be instrumental in the enactment of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, during the tenure of Rajiv Gandhi. In 1992, Dr. Mohan had played a crucial role in restoring the electoral process in Punjab with the consensus of all parties in the face of simmering terrorist activities. As YC leader As a Youth Congress leader, Dr. Mohan was said to be instrumental in making scholarship and fee reimbursement for members of the SC / ST / BC communities a reality, apart from opposing the privatisation of public sector undertakings. Between 2004-2014, Dr. Mohan played a vital role in getting several National Highways to the State, apart from projects such as the international airport in Tirupati, Mannavaram NTPC-BHEL project, a full-fledged maternity and children’s hospitals in Tirupati.
13 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jobless techie takes to bootlegging||Till a few months ago, M. Vamsikrishna Reddy used to earn handsomely as a web developer in Malyasia. After the COIVD pandemic broke out, he lost his job and was forced to return to India recently. Unable to find a decent job back home, he reportedly used his technical expertise in brewing illicit liquor to make some money. When a special party of the Special Enforcement Bureau raided a house near Sri Padmavathi Mahila University in Tirupati West in the early hours of Saturday, they were surprised to find scientific apparatus used for the manufacture of illicit liquor. Reddy was arrested also liquor bottles procured from Karnataka were seized. According to the SEB officials, Reddy, a resident of Thotapalle village of Pakala mandal, a B.Tech Graduate, had developed his own illicit liquor brewing unit with his technical skills, after reportedly watching the process on YouTube. The seizures included 70 litres of ID liquor and 400 litres of fermented jaggery wash fit for distillation of liquor, and 44 bottles of brandy bottles each of 1,000 ml, procured from Karnataka. The SEB officials also suspect the alleged involvement of his brother, Vasu, in the contraband trade. A case was registered and the accused was sent for remand.
13 September 2020||GUDIVADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two arrested for stealing temple hundi, damaging idol||Two miscreants allegedly damaged the Pothuraju idol in a temple and made away with the temple hundi in the town on Friday night. Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Gudivada, N. Satyanandam said that two persons were taken into custody on Saturday and the hundi was recovered from them. A case has been registered and investigation is on, he said. Meanwhile, local people staged a dharna protesting the theft and damage to the idol. The situation is under control, the police said. Statues damaged In a separate incident, miscreants allegedly damaged the statues of former Chief Ministers N.T.R and Y.S.R at T. Narsapuram village in West Godavari district on Saturday.
13 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bastar teak chosen to build new chariot for Antarvedi temple||The State government on Saturday selected the teak wood grown in the Bastar forests in Chhattisgarh for the making of the 40-foot-tall new chariot of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swami temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district. The century-old chariot of the temple was destroyed in a fire in the early hours of September 6. Backward Classes Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna has led a team of officials that selected the wood grown in the Bastar region in the Eastern Ghats, at a depot in Ravulapalem in East Godavari district. “We have ordered 1,250 cubic feet of the teak wood which has been dried for nearly one year and found suitable for making the chariot,” Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna told The Hindu.   Experienced artisan A Hyderabad-based sculptor, Ganapathi Acharyulu, has been entrusted with the task of making the new vehicle by February for the annual Kalyanotsavam. Mr. Ganapathi is credited with the making of nearly 80 temple chariots. It usually takes at least four months to make a chariot. “The State government is determined to provide the new chariot by February. Special teams have been put on the task within a week of the fire,” said Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna. The State government is spending nearly Rs. 95 lakh on the new chariot. The earlier one was insured for Rs. 84 lakh against damage due to fire or earthquake. According to East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, the insurance company is appraising the damage done to the chariot to arrive at the compensation amount.
13 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter-State fake certificate racket unearthed, 7 arrested||Prakasam police arrested seven persons on Saturday in connection with a fake inter-State certificate racket. Addressing mediapersons through a video conferencing platform along with the personnel from three police station limits, Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said one Srinivasa Rao floated Jawaharlal Nehru Technical Centre(JNTC) in Visakhapatnam in 2017. The person, who had worked as a sales executive for various companies in Vijayawada, Hyderabad and Kochi in the past, claimed to have got clearance from the Union Government for giving certificates and made a fast buck by creating a website and luring gullible youth. Over a period Srinivasa Rao, his wife Sujatha and five others opened 115 branches across the State and issued fake certificates to 1,855 persons collecting sums ranging between Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 5,000 for each certificate. The others arrested were Jampani Venkateshwarlu(49) , Siddi Srinivas Reddy(25) , Koduri Pradeep Kumar(32) , Anaparthi Christopher(47) and Batta Potula Venkateshwarlu(48).
13 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two fishermen drown in Prakasam||A 45-year-old man and his son drowned in the Kundhedu canal near Chinnaganjam in Prakasam district on Saturday. The man, I. Jogaiah jumped into the canal in a frantic bid to save his son I. Ramcharan, who reportedly got trapped in the net put to catch fish. He too got trapped. After some time, fellow fishermen took them out of the canal. But the duo could not be saved, the police said.
13 September 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 more die of COVID-19 in south-coastal Andhra||There was no sign of coronavirus subsiding in the south coastal Andhra region as 15 more patients--eight in Prakasam and seven in Nellore district-- succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours. The combined toll in the two districts rose to 751 with Nellore district accounting for 384 deaths and Prakasam 367 deaths, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government Saturday night. As many as 1,857 persons contracted the disease in the two districts during the period. Meanwhile, State Irrigation Minister P.Anil Kumar Yadav, along with Nellore District Collector K.V.N.Chakradhar Babu, inspected the dilapidated District Medical and Health department office in Nellore and said it would be pulled down and a new building constructed in its place for its efficient functioning during COVID-19 times.
13 September 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kakinada MP, five others test positive||Kakinada MP Vanga Geetha, 56, and five others, including three family members and two persons in her office, have been tested positive for COVID-19. East Godavari District Medical and Health Officer B. Subramanyeswari told The Hindu on Saturday, “Ms. Geetha was tested positive on Friday while she was preparing to leave for Delhi. Her health condition is stable and is under the 14-day home quarantine beginning Saturday.”  Home quarantine On Saturday morning, Ms. Geetha has been admitted to the Government General Hospital (GGH-Kakinada) for treatment. ‘Tests conducted’ “All the tests have been conducted on Ms. Geetha. We have advised her to be in the home quarantine,” said hospital Superintendent M. Raghavendra Rao. According to officials, five others, who were tested positive, are also under home quarantine.
13 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD puts darshan tokens on hold||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Saturday said that it would resume issuance of dharma darshan tokens at Tirupati only after the COVID-19 pandemic subsides. Even though it was earlier resolved to issue 3,000 free darshan tokens at Tirupati, the TTD decided to keep it in abeyance following concerns expressed by locals and elected representatives that the move could lead to further spread of the virus. The coinciding of the auspicious ‘Peratasi’ month – which is significant for Tamil devotees, with the annual Brahmotsavams, also played a part in the TTD’s decision to not issue the tokens as it would lead to large crowds. Reiterating that common pilgrims always had its top priority, the TTD said it was in the larger interests of devotees that it had temporarily nullified the quota of 3,000 free darshan tickets and to that extent enhanced the online quota of special entry darshan tickets. It also categorically stated that even those availing special entry darshan tickets at present are allowed in Sarva Darshan owing to COVID-19 restrictions.
13 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State’s tally crosses 5.5 lakh||The State’s COVID tally crossed the 5.5-lakh mark on Saturday as 9,901 new infections were reported in the past day. The State tested 75,465 samples in a day, the highest so far, and the total tests conducted so far has reached 45.27 lakh. The tally has reached 5,57,587 and the death toll climbed to 4,846, including the 67 deaths reported in the past day, according to the bulletin by the Health Department. The number of recoveries also crossed 4.5 lakh mark and reached 4,57,008 with 10,292 new recoveries in the past day. The recovery rate further jumped to 81.96% and the number of active cases came down to 95,733. The positivity rate of the tests slightly increased to 12.32% and the tests per million ratio is at 84,786. The death rate remains at 0.87% as the number of deaths has come down of late. District-wise count Meanwhile, with 1,398 new infections East Godavari continues to report the highest single-day peak of infections and three districts including it reported more than a thousand new cases. It is followed by Prakasam (1,146), West Godavari (1,069), Chittoor (932), Kadapa (792), Nellore (711), Anantapur (680), Visakhapatnam (584), Vizianagaram (583), Srikakulam (555), Kurnool (505), Guntur (479) and Krishna (467). Kadapa reported nine new deaths, the highest, and Prakasam and Chittoor reported eight new deaths each. Nellore reported seven, Guntur six, Visakhapatnam, Kurnool and Krishna reported five new deaths each. West Godavari reported four new deaths, East Godavari and Anantapur reported three new deaths while Vizianagaram and Srikakulam reported two new deaths each. Recovery rate in Kurnool is highest at 91% and it is followed by Anantapur with 90% recovery rate. Prakasam district has the lowest recovery rate at 57% while Vizianagaram district has 65%, Srikakulam district has 79%. Recovery rate of other districts is between 80% and 87%.
13 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. sanctions Rs. 2,050 crore for four new medical colleges||The State government accorded an administrative sanction of Rs. 2,050 crore for the establishment of four medical colleges in four parliamentary constituencies in the State on Saturday. Orders to this effect were issued by Special Chief Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy. The State government had earlier announced the establishment of one medical college in each of the 25 parliamentary constituencies in the State. In the first phase, Rs. 2,050 crore administrative sanction was accorded to the Director of Medical Education for the establishment of medical colleges in Paderu (Visakhapatnam district), Machilipatnam (Krishna district), Piduguralla (Guntur district), and Pulivendula (YSR Kadapa district). Student intake The medical college in Machilipatnam, which would have an intake of 150 students, was allocated Rs. 550 crore, while the other three with an intake of 100 students were allocated Rs. 500 crore each. The medical college in Paderu would be established under the Tribal Sub Plan and Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS) in 60:40 ratio between the Government of India and the Government of Andhra Pradesh. The colleges in Machilipatnam and Piduguralla would be established under Centrally Sponsored Schemes in 60:40 ratio between the Central and State governments. The State government had issued the Essentiality Certificate for obtaining permission from the Government of India for the new colleges. Land acquisition On the other hand, the State government accorded administrative sanction of Rs. 104.17 crore to acquire land under the relevant Act for the establishment of medical colleges at Amalapuram, Eluru, Piduguralla, Madanapalli, Adoni, and Pulivendula, officials said.
13 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMC to levy user charge for garbage collection||The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation will collect user charges from every household in the city starting from the current month as per the Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 towards door-to-door collection and processing of garbage. The user charge per household per month would be Rs. 50 if the garbage is segregated into dry and wet waste and handed over to the sanitation workers. If garbage is handed over to the garbage collectors without any segregation, the fee would be Rs. 100, as per a resolution adopted by the municipal council on February 2, 2020. The fund will be used for the welfare of sanitation workers and purchase of equipment required for garbage collection, said Municipal Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh.
13 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu playing Hindutva card, alleges Minister||Endowments Minister V. Srinivas has asked TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu to refrain from politicising the burning of temple chariot at Antarvedi, and warned of strict action against those causing inconvenience to the devotees in the name of protests. Addressing the media here on Saturday, Mr. Srinivas said the government had already ordered an inquiry by the CBI into the cause of the fire that gutted the chariot at Antarvedi, and accused Mr. Naidu, BJP State president Somu Veerraju and JSP president Pawan Kalyan of raking up the issue, thereby spreading communal hatred. Alleging that Mr. Naidu was playing the Hindutva card by taking advantage of the protests by various Hindu groups, the Minister pointed out that there were instances when the TDP leader participated in rituals by wearing shoes.
13 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Tax increased only on natural gas, not LPG’||Special Chief Secretary (revenue) Rajat Bhargava described as “misleading and mischievous” reports that the government increased the tax on LPG when, in fact, it was the rate of tax on natural gas that went up from 14.5% to 24.5%. Mr. Rajat Bhargava said that LPG was different from natural gas and, after the introduction of GST in 2017, LPG, along with all other goods, were subsumed by the new tax regime. The State governments had no power to revise the tax rates of GST on subsumed goods, including LPG. Mr. Bhargava further said it was the GST Council that decides the tax rates, and the present GST rate on LPG for domestic use was only 5%. He said only five petroleum products were kept outside the purview of the GST, and natural gas was one of them. Natural gas is used as an input in certain industries and in power production. Though it is also used as domestic fuel as Piped Natural Gas (PNG), in some metro cities, the rate of tax on PNG for domestic purpose is only 5% under the VAT Act. “PNG for domestic use continues to be taxed at 5%. The increased tax rate on natural gas is applicable only to natural gas used for purposes other than domestic,” Mr. Bhargava clarified.
13 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tenders sent for judicial preview||The AP State Civil Supplies Corporation has sent the tender documents pertaining to the delivery of Sortex quality rice and other essential commodities at the doorstep of the BPL families at an estimated cost of Rs. 593 crore for judicial preview. The tenders are for procuring the required number of four-wheeler mini trucks (mobile dispensing units). The documents will be placed on www.judicialpreview.ap.gov.in for seven working days for inviting public opinion.
13 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress gives details of case to LSA||APCC president S. Sailajanath on Saturday alleged that the State was witnessing autocratic rule under the YSR Congress Party. He referred to the CID enquiry against the party’s vice-president Gangadhar for raising concerns over non-availability of masks and PPE kits for doctors and other medical staff, and said the government was trying to suppress voices that tried to question its failures. The APCC president was speaking after a party delegation submitted details of the case filed against Dr. Gangadhar to the State Legal Services Authority (LSA). Mr. Sailajanath had written a letter to the High Court seeking justice. Responding to it, the court directed the State LSA to gather documents related to the case.
13 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||584 new cases take tally to 44,145||The district reported 584 new COVID-19 positive cases taking the cumulative tally to 44,145 in the district. The death toll also rose to 321, as five more persons died due to the coronavirus in the last 24 hours, as per the COVID-19 bulletin released on Saturday evening. This is for the first time in the last five days, the tally has crossed the 500-mark in a day. Meanwhile, as many as 443 persons, who were undergoing treatment at COVID-19 hospitals, COVID-19 care centres and under home quarantine, have been discharged/recovered on Saturday. According to the bulletin, the total number of active patients as on Saturday is 5,521 and recovered/discharged is 38,303. New facility Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar said that out of 718 clusters in the district, 118 are very active and 41 active. A total of 192 clusters were already denotified by the district administration.  The COVID-19 facility which was set up at the CSR block of King George Hospital (KGH) started receiving patients on Saturday. The facility which consists of 150 ICU beds and 500 beds with oxygen support also includes a lab, three operation theatres and an information centre for attendants of patients. Every room will have CCTV cameras and they will be monitored by the officials. Till 6 p.m., 28 patients were admitted to the facility, said Dr. Sudhakar. Not only the routine admissions, but also a baby was delivered under Caesarian section, he said. The mother hails from Laxmipuram of Jami mandal in Vizianagaram district. Both the mother and child are healthy, he said. There is another patient waiting for delivery, he added. In the morning, before start of the block, 20KL oxygen tank was inaugurated by the Superintendent. The oxygen is the critical component in the management of these patients. This tank takes care of all the 500 patients, he said. Dr. P. Ashok Kumar, Dr. Sadhana, Dr. Vijaya Sekhar and Dr. Manoj Kumar were present during the inauguration. Dr. Pardhasaradhi, nodal officer and Sri Ramprasad, Regional Director, and Nodal Officer from the revenue side were also present.
13 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held for ‘involvement’ in four house break-ins||The city police (crime wing) on Saturday arrested two persons who were allegedly involved in four house break-ins at various areas in the city. The arrested were identified as K. Mohan Rao (40) from Ponnuru mandal in Guntur district and V. Santosh Kumar (26) from Anakapalle in Visakhapatnam district. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone I) Aishwarya Rastogi said that in July, they had received a complaint from a police Reserve Inspector, that property worth about Rs. 5 lakh was looted from his house. Yet again two offences in Duvvada and one at Marripalem VUDA layout of the Airport Police Station limits were reported recently. Special team, which was formed under the supervision of ADCP (Crimes) Venu Gopal Naidu and ACP (Crimes) Ch. Penta Rao, collected CCTV footage and technical evidence. On September 11, the special team nabbed Mohan Rao at Tuni and based on his confession, Santosh Kumar was nabbed at Anakapalle. The special team recovered some part of the stolen property and remaining gold is yet to be recovered. Mr. Rastogi said that Mohan Rao had previously committed more than 60 offences and was arrested at different places. He was released from Kakinada jail on June 25.  ‘Met in jail’ Police said that during his stay in Kakinda jail, he met Santosh Kumar. Santosh was released from Kakinada jail and made bail arrangement for the release of Mohan Rao with an agreement that both will commit offences. “Before committing any offence, Mohan Rao removes his clothes and enters house. In case he is caught, he will act as a mentally ill person,” said the DCP explaining modus operandi of the accused. He also added that in every offence, Santosh Kumar drops him on his vehicle and after finishing the offence, he picks him up again. The DCP has given rewards to policemen, who nabbed the accused.  Before committing any offence, Mohan Rao removes his clothes and enters house. In case he is caught, he will act as a mentally ill person, say police
13 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two lodge cheating complaint against Nutan Naidu||Two persons lodged a complaint with Maharanipeta police that Nutan Naidu, a TV serial actor, had cheated them after promising to provide jobs in the State Bank of India (SBI), here on Friday. The duo alleged that the accused had collected more than Rs. 12 crore from them. Srikanth Reddy of Telangana and his friend B. Nookaraju from Cheedikada mandal in Visakhapatnam district lodged the complaint. According to the complaint, Nutan Naidu had allegedly promised the post of Director in the SBI to Srikanth Reddy and employee post in the same bank to Nookaraju. For the director post, he allegedly collected Rs. 12 crore from Srikanth Reddy, while for employee post, Nookaraju had allegedly paid Rs. 5 lakh. However, police are yet to ascertain facts in the case. The police said that the duo stated that they had been negotiating about the jobs since 2017. After his arrest, the complainants came forward and lodged the complaint. Based on the complaint, police registered cases against Nutan Naidu. According to the police, Nutan Naidu was taken into three-day police custody from judicial remand. The Pendurthi police are reportedly interrogating him. On August 29, the Pendurthi police arrested seven persons, including the wife of Nutan Naidu, for allegedly beating, abusing and tonsuring P Srikanth, their former employee, on August 28 in their house at Sujatha Nagar. On September 4, Nutan Naidu was arrested by the city police at Udipi in Karnataka for allegedly impersonating a retired senior IAS officer P.V. Ramesh and tried to get his wife admitted to hospital on health grounds. He was brought to Visakhapatnam on September 6.
13 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ozone Day: online elocution, poster design contests for students||The Hindu FIC and Arcelor Mittal Nippon Steel are jointly organising online elocution competition and poster design contest for school students to commemorate International Ozone Day. All one has to do is to talk on the topic for two minutes while taking a video and WhatsApp it to 9491827176. The video must reach The Hindu before 1 p.m. on September 14. Begin the video by mentioning your name, class, school and location of the school. The top 15 best entries from each category will be selected for the final round. The final round will be held on September 15, through a video call. The timing will be intimated to the shortlisted participants. Topics For elocution competition: ‘Climate Change - One Planet, One Chance.’ The competition will be held for juniors from Std V to VII and for seniors from Std VIII to X. The medium for elocution is English, duration is two minutes and registration is free. The theme for the poster design contest is ‘Reconnecting with nature’. This competition will also be held for juniors and seniors. Participants have to design a poster on A4 size paper, take a picture of the same and WhatsApp it to 9491827176 by September 14, by 3 p.m. Participants have to mention their name, class/section, school, location of the school, on the front-side of their poster. The students have to make sure that the details are clearly visible. All the participants will be given e-certificate of participation and the winners will be rewarded with a merit certificate and a shield/medal. For any further clarifications, please contact Mr. Ganesh on 9701394194 (or) Mr. Sampath on 7416329462.
13 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IGNOU term-end exams from September 17||Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) would conduct its term-end examination from September 17. The examinations are being conducted exclusively for final year/end semester students. The hall tickets are made available on IGNOU website. The final year/end semester students, who are eligible for the June term-end examination, 2020, can download the hall tickets from the website. “Visakhapatnam Regional Centre has also established six examination centres and made all arrangements. Officials at the centres have been instructed to allow students even if they do not possess hall tickets (examination intimation slips), hut their names exist in the list of examinees for that centre,” said Regional Director S. Raja Rao, in a release, on Saturday.
13 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI activists stage protest||Members of the CPI staged a protest objecting to the YSR Congress Party’s decision to develop Maddilapalem RTC bus station with the state-of-the-art facilities under the Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode. Party State Secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy said that the party would organise protests in a phased manner against the government’s decision to develop bus stations at seven districts under PPP mode. Party city secretary M. Pydiraju, members A. Vimala, Sk. Rahman and others were present.
13 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vignan starts final year exams||Vignan’s Institute of Information Technology (Autonomous) successfully conducted the first day of semester-end examinations for about 1,200 final year B.Tech Students. Rector V. Madhusudhan Rao said that adequate measures have been taken to conduct exams and more than 95% students attended.
13 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tighten security, temple officials told||Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Saturday asked the Simhachalam temple officials to ensure security with 24x7 CC cameras. Speaking to the media after having darshan at the temple, he said vigilance and temple security officials were asked to make frequent inspections. Speaking about the Antarvedi temple incident, he said that it was unfortunate. He said following the incident, security at all temples was stepped up. He warned that stern action would be taken against those indulging in such anti-social activities. He said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had already ordered a CBI inquiry into the incident and the government was committed to protecting the temple properties. YSR Aasara Week Later, the Minister participated in YSR Aasara Week at Gidijala where he distributed cheques to self-help groups. Speaking on the occasion, he said that there were 37,891 members in 3,631 groups in Bheemili constituency. He said Rs. 30 crore was released for payments under the first phase. Joint Collector Govinda Rao and RDO P. Kishore were present.
13 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 minors beaten on suspicion of being kidnappers||A group of locals allegedly beat up two minor girls suspecting them to be child kidnappers at Marikavalasa area here on Saturday. Two neglected girl children aged about 12 and 13 were reportedly found playing with another girl in Marikavalasa area. The locals suspected that the two could be kidnappers and allegedly beat them up. However, it is yet to be confirmed by the police. Upon information, police reached the spot and informed locals that they were just neglected children and need not panic at all. Inspector of PM Palem police station, Ravi Kumar said the girls lived in the same locality. Their father was an alcoholic, while the mother goes to various places for work. There is no one to take care of them, he said. The police conducted COVID-19 tests for the girls and handed them over to ChildLine centre at MVP Colony. No case has been registered.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. seeks CBI probe into ‘irregularities’ in APSFL||The panel, the sources said, found that without the required administrative approval either from the Government of Andhra Pradesh or from the Government of India, the project work of BBNL Phase-II costing Rs. 1,410.10 crore was allegedly awarded at an excess quote of 11.26% over the estimates in violation of tender procurement guidelines. The sub-committee observed that the APSFL had shown disregard to the guidelines laid down by the Chief Vigilance Commissioner, and awarded the tender for works valued at Rs. 329 crore in favour of M/s Tera Software Limited, for the laying of optical fibre network across the State. Serious allegations were reportedly levelled against Tera Software Ltd. during the process of tender by some of the co-bidders, but they were ignored. The sub-committee found that the work of Project Monitoring Agency (PMA) was awarded to Gemini Communications Ltd. without proper justification and by relaxing the tender conditions, violating certain norms and by cancelling the tender earlier awarded to Merax Technologies Private Limited, the sources said. Set-top boxes It also pointed out several irregularities in the procurement of set top boxes (CPE boxes) and empanelment of its suppliers and that the APSFL had split the procurement order and distributed it among the four bidders. The panel, however, found that the APSFL had set aside the CPE Boxes supplied by all other bidders and had taken into consideration only those supplied by L-3 – Tera Software Limited – and thereby facilitated in siphoning of funds to the company, the sources said. The sub-committee unearthed irregularities in awarding the O and M work of 13 districts to Tera Software Limited at Rs. 2.44 crore per month, the sources said.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Weekend fun||
13 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minister happy with RFCL progress||Ahead of its expected inauguration in November, Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya visited the Ramagundam Fertilizers and Chemicals Ltd. (RFCL) on Saturday to inspect the ongoing work and reviewed the project implementation status with senior officials. During the review meeting, Chief Executive Officer of RFCL Nirlep Singh Rai briefed the Union Minister about physical progress of various works of the project and said that the project was about 99% complete. He also informed that the work at the site got stalled during the lockdown period for sometime but had resumed from May 3. Besides, non-availability of manpower in the plant area had also caused some delay but the management had adopted proactive measures to retain contract workers by providing free meals and accommodation. They were also paid wages during the lockdown period. Appreciating the work done by RFCL during and after lockdown without risking the lives of workers, Mr. Mandaviya complimented the project management for its efforts to keep the work going even in adverse conditions. He stated that once completed, the RFCL project would reduce the country’s dependence on imported urea, save foreign exchange and create jobs. The gas-based fertilizer unit with 12.7 lakh tonnes capacity per annum is a joint venture company promoted by National Fertilizers Limited (NFL), Engineers India Limited (EIL), Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited (FCIL) and Gas Authority of India Ltd (GAIL). Foundation stone for the project was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 7, 2016. A gas pipeline for 360 km was laid between Kakinada and Ramagundam to supply natural gas for fertilizer production in the project. The Rs. 6,175 crore project is expected to create 1,000 direct and 3,000 indirect employment including suitable jobs to local people. According to officials, the daily production capacity of the project is 3,850 tonnes of urea and 2,200 tonnes of ammonia. Asked about employment opportunities to locals, Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy said during a virtual press conference that skilled jobs would be filled on an all-India selection basis for which locals could compete and unskilled jobs would be filled with competent locals.
13 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||JEE Main: Telangana girl topper among girls||Eight students from Telangana and three from Andhra Pradesh were among the 24 candidates who scored 100 percentile in the JEE Main examination, the results of which were declared late on Friday. The eight students from Telangana include Chagari Koushal Kumar Reddy, Deeti Yeshash Chandra, Chukka Tanuja, Morreddigari Likhith Reddy, Rachapalle Shashank Anirudh, Rongala Arun Siddardha, Shiva Krishna Sagi and Vadapalli Arvind Narasimha. Chukka Tanuja is the topper among girls, and the only girl to have scored 100 percentile. The Narayana Group in a statement here said that 20 of its students figured in the top 10 scores apart from taking first ranks in two categories. In the open category, its students secured 27 in the top 100, and 96 in top 100, including all categories. Sindhura and Sharani, directors of the group said that Swayam Chube secured all-India first rank in open category by scoring 296 marks. In girl’s category, Tanuja secured top rank among girls in India. “As many as 27% of students in open category in top 100 belong to Narayana Group,” Dr. P. Sindhura said. In a separate statement, the Sri Chaitanya institutions said that its student secured first rank in the OBC category, two ranks in the top 10, including 4th and 7th ranks. Top 17 ranks Sri Chaitanya academic director Sushma and founder chairman B.S. Rao said that their students secured an impressive top 17 ranks below 100 in open category and 129 ranks below 100 in all categories. Three from AP The three from Andhra Pradesh include Landa Jitendra, Thadavarthi Vishnu Sri Sai Sankar and Y S S Narasimha Naidu. Students from other States who figured in the 100 percentile list are Chirag Falor, Gurkirat Singh, Laksh Gupta, Nishant Agarwal, Tushar Sethi, Nisarg Chadha, Divyanshu Agarwal, Harshvardhan Agarwal, Swayam Shashank Chube, Akhil Agrawal, Akhil Jain, Parth Dwivedi and R Muhender Raj. JEE Advanced Candidates declared qualified for JEE Advanced can register from today on ‘jeeadv.ac.in’ and candidates selected in the JEE Advanced will be eligible for admissions into Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). This year the cut-off is 90.37, which is little higher than last year’s cut off of 89.75, according to the National Testing Agency (NTA) that conducted the test. Among the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) category, the cut-off score is 70.24, while it is 72.88 for OBCs, 50.17 for Scheduled Castes and 39.06 for Scheduled Tribes. The JEE Main is a computer-based test held twice a year and students have the option to appear both the times and pick up their best score. About 10.23 lakh students tested their luck this year and among them nearly 5 lakh appeared both the times held online.
13 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||OGH junior doctors call off protest||Junior doctors from Osmania General Hospital have called off their protest on Saturday afternoon after the hospital Superintendent B. Nagender gave them a written assurance to provide elective operation theatre (OT), post operative wards, general wards and emergency wards by September 19. On Tuesday, at least 120 junior doctors (post graduate students) from General Surgery department boycotted elective surgeries demanding elective OT and other resources. They were joined by 60 PG students from Orthopaedics department from Wednesday. Elective surgeries under the two departments were put on hold after the in-patient ward along with the OTs in the block were closed from third week of July due to rain water flooding. Hundreds of poor patients who opt the State government’s tertiary care centre faced inconvenience as the elective surgeries were suspended temporarily. The junior doctors demanded separate wards for Orthopaedics department and medical resources in Acute Surgical Care ward. Telangana Junior Doctors Association-Osmania Medical College (TJUDA-OMC) unit submitted representations to the hospital’s administration and senior officials in the Health department starting from third week of August. Since the issues were not addressed, they launched the strike. The OGH Superintendent held a meeting with heads of a few other departments. On Saturday, he issued an order detailing where to accommodate the elective OTs of General Surgery and Orthopaedics department on temporary basis. “The Neuro Surgery OT will provide one major operation theatre room for elective Orthopaedics cases. Three operation tables in the Plastic Surgery OT will be provided for elective General Surgery cases. The following arrangements will be done in coordination with administration and coordinators of Osmania Telangana Junior Doctors Association, on or before September 19,” read the order. Dr Nagender said that works to fix issues regarding oxygen pressure in pipes is being addressed. The TJUDA members called off the strike with immediate effect. “In the event that the demands are still left unaddressed after the given time period, we will launch an indefinite strike for the same,” the junior doctors said.
13 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Uttam for free laptops for poor students||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy on Saturday demanded that the Central and State governments must provide free laptops to all poor students from Below Poverty Line (BPL) families across the State of Telangana. Addressing District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee meetings in Suryapet and Nalgonda districts, held to review all the government-funded schemes in these two districts under Nalgonda parliamentary constituency, he said that COVID has badly hit education and students are being asked to study online. In view of this, he demanded that the Central and State government should distribute free laptops to all BPL students as poor families cannot afford smartphones or laptops. “They must focus on creating the right facilities and infrastructure for poor students. Only then online education will be successful,” he said. The TPCC chief reiterated the demand that the State government must utilise the entire mineral funds to strengthen government hospitals and upgrade all PHCs, Community Health Centres, and Area Hospitals in the State. Mr. Reddy also pointed out that farmers in Telangana have no crop insurance as the lack of coordination between the Central and State governments resulted in farmers not getting insurance facilities. He demanded that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao must take immediate measures to restore crop insurance.
13 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Power engineers urge MPs to mediate in Electricity Bill process||The All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) has requested Members of Parliament (MPs) of all parties to intervene in the parliamentary process to push through the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 during the coming session and press for referring it to the standing panel on energy. In letters addressed to all MPs on Saturday, chairman of AIPEF Shailendra Dubey also urged them to request the Ministry of Power to circulate a copy of the draft Bill with amendments so that it gets discussed at length to ensure that there are detailed consultations with all stakeholders concerned. Stating that the position regarding the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 is still not clear, the AIPEF chairman observed that while on the one hand, the Centre intends to introduce the Bill in the monsoon session of Parliament, the recent press statement of the Minister of Power made it clear that several key issues like direct benefit transfer (DBT) are still under discussion and yet to be finalised. The Minister has also admitted that the DBT structure is still not perfect and that the Centre is ready to wait for five years. The Draft amendment Bill is to be first finalised and then vetted by the Law Ministry before it is sent for clearance by the Union Cabinet and only then the Bill could be tabled in Parliament. In this dynamic situation, states have to be on alert so that they are not caught unawares, if events related to the Bill move fast, Mr. Dubey said in the letter. The AIPEF has requested the MPs to stress that they have serious reservations and objections to the Bill and that the objections already raised by several states have not been addressed in draft Bill. The letter was released by the State unit of AIPEF on Saturday.
13 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State adds 2,278 more cases to its COVID tally||Telangana recorded 2,278 more COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the total to 1,54,880. While 62,234 samples were put to test on September 11, results of 2,027 samples are awaited. The death toll reached 950 with 10 more COVID patients succumbing to the infection. The new 2,278 cases include 331 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, 184 from Rangareddy, 150 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 126 from Nalgonda and 121 from Karimnagar. Of the total cases detected till September 12, a total of 32,005 were active while 1,21,925 have recovered, apart from the 950 fatalities. The case fatality rate in the State is 0.61% and recovery rate is 78.7%. In the 42 State government hospitals, 3,528 oxygen beds and 587 ICU beds were vacant. In case of private hospitals, 2,677 oxygen beds and 1,166 ICU beds were available.
13 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PJTSAU VC in panel on agri education||Vice-Chancellor of Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) V. Praveen Rao has been chosen to be a member of the 10-member national level committee to prepare a roadmap for implementation of National Education Policy 2020 in higher agricultural education. According to a communication received by PJTSAU from the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), the composition of the committee has been based on the suggestion of the Union Minister for Agriculture. The committee will be headed by VC of G.B. Pant University of Agriculture and Technology in Uttarakhand Tej Pratap. The terms of reference of the committee are to discuss specific instructional requirements of higher agricultural education in the present set up of education/research/extension and suggestions for consideration of agricultural education in categories of medical and legal education under NEP-2020, to deliberate on issues of constitutional provisions of agriculture education, for implementation of NEP-2020 in State.
13 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSWB chairman thanks KCR for ban on registration of Waqf properties||TS Waqf Board (TSWB) Chairman Mohammed Saleem on Saturday expressed gratitude to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for announcing a ban on registration of Waqf properties. Mr. Saleem was addressing the media at Haj House where he described the announcement as significant. He reiterated that there are 33,929 Waqf institutions in the State, translating into 77,538 acres of land. Out of this, 57,423 acres have been encroached. Mr. Saleem said that efforts were underway to protect Waqf land parcels and the board has issued notices to encroachers under Section 54 of the Waqf Act of 1995. He added that the board is involved in as many as 2,000 cases that are being dealt in different courts of law. Mr. Saleem said that once a land parcel is declared as Waqf, it cannot be mortgaged or alienated.
13 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR reviews HMDA works||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) K.T.Rama Rao has directed the HMDA officials to ensure public amenities in a grand scale along the Outer Ring Road. He ordered for measures towards establishment of amenities such as petrol pumps, food courts, rest areas, and gateway structures on the road, in public-private-partnership model. The Minister, along with principal secretary Arvind Kumar, and other officials, reviewed the infrastructural and other developmental works in purview of HMDA, here on Saturday. He asked the officials to expedite the infrastructural development works in HMDA, and asked them to be prepared for changes that could take place in functioning of the urban development authority, especially in the Planning and Designing aspects, once TS-bPASS is legislated. A plan should be prepared about planning and designing After being apprised of the infrastructural works on the ORR, the Minister has asked the officials to act tough against the structures within the buffer zone of the Hyderabad Growth Corridor, in coordination with the Collectors of the districts through which the ORR passes. Reviewing other works, Mr. Rama Rao wanted Balapur flyover works to be completed by November-end, and an asset protection cell to be established along the lines of the same in GHMC. He also reviewed the works such as flyovers and sky ways within HMDA, and lake protection measures, besides Tank Bund beautification works.
13 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Encroachment removed||Asset Protection Cell (APC) under the GHMC on Thursday removed an encroachment on the plot demarcated as open space in Allwyn Colony Phase I in Kukatpally. The plot of 924 square yards was demarcated as septic tank in the colony, yet two houses have been constructed on the site. Notices were issued under the GHMC Act to submit ownership and permission documents. As they failed to produce the documents, the officials from the APC, under the Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management wing of the GHMC, demolished the constructions.
13 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Automobile theft gang busted||Langer Houz police on Saturday arrested six members of an inter-State two-wheeler theft gang and recovered 17 bikes worth Rs. 24 lakh from their possession. The accused were identified as Fahad Khan, 20, from Chandrayangutta, Shaik Moinuddin, 22, Mohd Azam, 19, Shaik Amer, 21, Mohd Azam, 19, and Mohammed Shakeeb Ahmed, 20, all from Bidar in Karnataka. On August 28, one Md Mustaim Ali Shairoz approached police stating that his Bajaj Dominar D400, which was parked near his house, was stolen. Based on his complaint, a case was registered and police launched a probe. “After analysing the video footage of over 100 surveillance cameras from Tolichowki to Barkas, a special team was formed to identify and nab the offenders. According to Joint Commissioner of Police (West) A R Srinivas, the gang targeted only costly sport bikes. “Two to four persons of the gang used to come to Hyderabad for committing offence. They move in the residential areas during the night and commit the theft by breaking handle locks and start the vehicle without keys, using a special technique, which they have learned after watching YouTube videos,” he said.
13 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FLO incubator opens at IIIT-H||An incubator to empower women entrepreneurs and women-led startups has been set up by FICCI FLO Hyderabad chapter in partnership with CIE of International Institute of Information Technology Hyderabad (IIIT-H). The FLOIncubator@CIE IIITH, inaugurated on Friday, will assist FICCI Ladies Organisation (FLO) members and women-led startups at early stages through talks/ roundtables on emerging business models, strategies for scaling up, differentiating a startup from conventional businesses as well as different types of funding.
13 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Institution of Engineers completes 100 years||An event commemorating the centenary year of Institution of Engineers, India, will be held through a webinar on September 13 at 5 p.m., by the institution’s Telangana State chapter. Ministers K.T.Rama Rao and Vemula Prashant Reddy are scheduled to speak in the webinar, a statement said, adding that the Telangana chapter has been adjudged as the Best State Centre among 32 state centres and 93 local centres, for its all round performance.
13 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||LRS is nothing, but fleecing people: Jagga Reddy||Sangareddy MLA T. Jagga Reddy said that the land regularisation scheme of the State government has burdened the poor and middle class people and he would raise the issue in the Assembly. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, he objected to the government’s ‘threats’ that plots would not be registered if the LRS fee is not paid. “The middle-class people and salaried class will be the worst sufferers as they buy such plots with loans and savings. The government can’t fleece them if it needs money,” he said.
13 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Godman’ booked||A self-proclaimed god man, who allegedly sexually exploited a teenage girl and forced her to marry him, was booked by the Banjara Hills police on Friday night. The accused, Ramesh Babu, 45, is currently at large. Inspector N Kalinga Rao said that Ramesh came in contact with the girl's mother in 2018 after her father passed away.
13 September 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||2 hurt as bus rams house||Two persons were injured when a private bus bound for Hyderabad from Odisha crashed into a roadside house along the Khammam-Suryapet highway at Nayakangudem village in Kusumanchi mandal in the wee hours of Saturday. About 20 passengers on board the semi-luxury air-conditioned bus had a narrow escape after the speeding vehicle rammed a house abutting the highway, before coming to a halt in the small hours of the day. A portion of the house and an adjoining small roadside eatery were damaged due to the impact. Two occupants of the house including an elderly woman, who were asleep, suffered multiple injuries, sources said. On hearing their screams, neighbours rushed to their rescue and shifted them to a hospital in Khammam. Locals assisted the stranded passengers in making alternate transport arrangements for their onward journey to Hyderabad. The Kusumanchi police on Saturday booked the Odisha-based private bus driver on charges of causing injuries to people by rash driving.
13 September 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||BRF||Revolutionary singer Gadar asked the government to offer land to those who lost their land under Kaleshwaram canals. Speaking to the media here on Saturday, Mr. Gadar said that though providing irrigation facility was welcome for development, farmers losing land would be on the road after that. Stating that farmers should be offered land for land, he said that he has lost 20 guntas. He urged the government to allot him land to establish a music school.
13 September 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘PHC in Nampally mandal has no power, only one doctor’||Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy wondered whether Nampally mandal of Nalgonda was in Telangana, when it’s Mandal Praja Parishad chief revealed that the primary health centre there has no power and asked for a generator. “The previous Collector sanctioned it, but the progress is unknown even now. The PHC also has a single doctor,” she said. Nampally’s power situation may be a singular case, but most MPPs, who were part of the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee review meeting on Saturday, had one common complaint: “No toilets in PHCs”. According to a representation from Gudipally and PA Pally, its PHC was built in 1942 and in a dilapidated condition now. All its staff were being deputed to other mandals. Chandur and Chintapalli leaders also complained that the roof right above patient beds in their facilities was chipping off, besides lack of sanitation, water facility and compound walls in Kondamallepally, Gundlapally and Gurrampode mandals. A new facility built at Rs. 3 crore was yet to be inaugurated in Marriguda. Mr. Reddy assured it would be planned after Assembly and Parliament sessions. When Nalgonda MPP complained that Ramulabanda PHC did not have a compound wall, has weed on its premises, and snakes were spotted thrice, Mr. Reddy’s reply left most laughing. “Snakes in PHC means there are no patients. Grass is good. Cleaning is GP’s duty,” he said. Later, many opined that the comments were ‘insensitive’.
13 September 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||BRF||Rajya Sabha member Badugula Lingaiah Yadav on Friday said that he would raise questions on improved railway network and safer highways for Telangana in the monsoon session of Parliament next week. Speaking to the media here, he said that the strategy, as directed by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, would be to put pressure on the Centre with respect to pending railway projects in the State.
13 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Demand for drugs peaked with liquor shops shut||The closing of liquor shops for around two months had a not entirely unexpected consequence in the national capital: the demand for drugs peaked during the lockdown. Prices of various narcotic substances rose up to three times the regular price because their availability was scarce, said a senior police officer. With inter-State traffic reduced to a trickle during the lockdown phase, the police managed to crack down on the drug supply lines. “We have seized a high quantity of marijuana supplied to Delhi-NCR from States such as Jharkhand, West Bengal and Rajasthan. Through our informers’ network, we kept watch on the movement of drugs from other States to Delhi,” said the officer. Until August 31, the Delhi police had recovered 2,262 kg of marijuana, 28 kg opium, 8 kg charas, 50 kg smack/heroin and 700 grams of cocaine. Explaining the high quantum of marijuana seized, the officer said it was the drug most readily available during the lockdown period. Most of those engaged in the sale of marijuana are slum dwellers, street vendors and rickshaw pullers. “Slum dwellers involved in the sale of marijuana sell it to customers in small packets of 5 g or 10 g. The clientele is usually through a network of contacts. Contact a person roaming in the periphery of the slum and he will get you a packet of marijuana,” said the officer. Busting the network is difficult because of attractive incentives at every point of the chain. “Drug peddling is a source of livelihood for many. We keep raiding slums whenever we get inputs regarding sale of drugs. We also send decoy customers to keep watch on such activities,” said the officer. Even drug peddlers who usually deal in high-end stuff such as LSD, cocaine and MDMA switched to selling marijuana and opium during the lockdown due to the ban on regular international flights, said the officer. The sale of high-end or expensive drugs anyway remained low because pubs and bars, which are the primarily points of sale for these, remained closed until recently in all of Delhi-NCR. Another officer said there were even instances of local smugglers misusing curfew passes to smuggle opium and marijuana on the pretext of supplying essential services during the period of severe movement restrictions. While in 2019, 712 cases were registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and 909 persons arrested, this year has seen a total of 373 cases and 461 arrests so far. “We have also impounded the vehicles used to transport drugs,” said the officer.
13 September 2020||New Delhi,||Riots: Assembly panel summons FB official||The Delhi Assembly Committee on Peace and Harmony, under the chairmanship of AAP MLA Raghav Chadha, has called for the appearance of vice-president and managing director of Facebook India, Ajit Mohan, on Tuesday for recording his statement before the committee, according to a notice issued by the Assembly.  The committee is looking into alleged “deliberate and intentional” inaction by Facebook to contain “hateful content”. On August 31, the committee said that prima facie it seems that Facebook had a role in the Delhi riots earlier this year, and Facebook India officials will be issued notices to appear at the next meeting of the panel. “The committee, under the chairmanship of MLA Raghav Chadha, calls you, the addressee, as a witness for testifying on oath and for rendering your assistance by providing the relevant information and explanations in order to smoothly expedite the determination of the veracity of allegations levelled against Facebook in the complaints and depositions made before the committee,” the notice dated Thursday [September 10] read. “Prima facie it seems that Facebook had a role in Delhi riots. Facebook should be treated as a co-accused in Delhi riots. There should be an inquiry and if the investigating agency finds that there is truth in the charges against Facebook, then a supplementary chargesheet against Facebook should be filed in the court,” Mr. Chadha had said at the last meeting of the committee. Mr. Chadha had also said that the “prima facie view” is that some rioters and Facebook had a “premeditated conspiracy”.
13 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mind the gap: Delhi Metro fully operational after five months||Five days after the resumption of Delhi Metro services in a graded manner with staggered timings, the nearly 400-km-long metro network became fully operational on Saturday, with the reopening of the Airport Express Line — over five months after all operations were suspended owing to COVID-19 pandemic. Services were available throughout the day – from 6 a.m. to 11 p.m. – for the first time on Saturday, since operations were suspended on March 22. The Delhi Metro witnessed a ridership of 1.52 lakh as opposed to 1.28 lakh on Friday. With a ridership of over 44,000, the Yellow Line saw the highest footfall followed by the Blue Line at over 42,000 on Saturday. Following complaints on social media pertaining to violation of protocol by commuters, the Delhi Metro has also deployed flying squads to “counsel and advise” passengers to follow norms. Fined for flouting norms As a part of its new protocol, commuters have to wear face masks throughout the journey and while on metro premises. Tokens have also been discontinued and mandatory use of smart cards have been put in place. According to data provided by the DMRC, 200 people were “counselled” for not wearing face masks properly and 114 were fined Rs. 200 for violating norms on Saturday. On Friday, 150 passengers were counselled, while fines were imposed on 92.  Despite concerns and apprehensions, ridership on the metro network saw steady increase with graded resumption of operations on different corridors. The first corridors to reopen on Monday were the 49.31-km-long Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli to Huda City Centre) and 12-km-long Rapid Metro, Gurugram. The Blue Line (Dwarka Sector 21 – Noida Electronic City/Vaishali) and Pink Line (Shiv Vihar – Majlis Park) resumed services on Wednesday followed by the Red Line (Rithala to Shaheed Sthal New Bus Adda), Green Line (Kirti Nagar – Bahadurgarh) and Violet Line (Kashmere Gate to Ballabgarh). Under the first phase of resumption, metro services were available for eight hours a day – from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. The ridership on Thursday, after the completion of the Stage 1 resumption, stood at over 84,000 till 7:30 pm. It crossed the 1 lakh mark once the Magenta Line (Janakpuri West – Botanical Garden) and Grey Line (Dwarka to Najafgarh) were made operational. On Friday, the operation timings were extended to 12 hours a day.
13 September 2020||New Delhi,||Fresh cases touch new high||The Capital on Saturday witnessed the biggest single-day spike in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases so far, with 4,321 cases having been reported in the past 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The total number of virus cases reached 2,14,069, of which 1,81,295 people have recovered. There are 28,059 active cases in Delhi at present. Also, 28 more deaths were reported, taking the total number of deaths to 4,715, the bulletin also said. Also, 60,076 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Saturday. This was the second time more than 60,000 tests were done in a day, the highest being 60,580.  Out of the total 14,390 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 8,096 (56.26%) are vacant, stated government data on Saturday. However, 60.14% ICU beds with ventilators have been occupied and 69.4% ICU beds without ventilators are full. Also, the number of containment zones in the city jumped to 1,383, which is the highest so far. The positivity rate, which is the percentage of people testing positive for every 100 tests done, has gone up slightly to reach 7.19 % from 7% on Friday. Delhi has conducted 1,09,619 tests per million population, which is one of the highest figures in the country. The government bulletin added that Delhi Health Minister had met Medical Directors/Medical Superintendents of all State government hospitals to review the status of testing.
13 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘De-addiction centres took few new admissions’||New admissions were discouraged at de-addiction centres during the lockdown to prevent spread of virus in other patients. Amod Kanth, founder secretary of NGO Prayas that runs de-addiction centres and shelter homes, said that the entire drug syndicate got disrupted during the lockdown. The addicts were restless after they were unable to find drugs and after a few days they started developing health problems. “Entry of new admission at drug addictions centres were barred to prevent the virus spread. We hardly took any new admission during the lockdown. In case of any emergency situation, the admission was taken only after following all COVID-19-related health protocols and tests,” said Mr. Kanth. He added that they also run several shelter homes for homeless people. He revealed that among the homeless, around 30% are drug addicts. “We tried to treat them at our 40 shelter homes in the city, unless there was any complication and the patients needed to be referred to hospital or de-addiction centres,” Mr. Kanth said. Turned violent A police officer said that during the lockdown, drugs addicts who were shifted to shelters homes turned violent after they didn’t find drugs for a long time. In some cases, they had to deploy extra force to keep them inside the shelter home. “It was tough to deal with drug addicts because after they failed to find it during the lockdown period, they started fighting with civil defence volunteers and policemen. In a few cases, we sent them to government-run de-addiction centres,” said the officer. Hari Gupta (name changed) said that he got his son admitted to a hospital after he witnessed severe behavioural changes in him, after few days of the lockdown. Initially, we thought he might be under job stress but his behaviour turned aggressive. The doctor at the hospital said that he a drug addict. “Initially, we were shocked to find out that our child was a drug addict, but the doctors promised that he will be fine soon. My son is under medication and we never leave him alone. Fearing of COVID-19 infection and other hygiene issues, we haven’t got him admitted to a de-addiction centre,” said Mr. Gupta.
13 September 2020||New Delhi,||DTC to hold trial of contactless ticketing||The Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) will conduct a week-long trial of its contactless mobile ticketing system on 29 buses running on route no. 534 between Anand Vihar Terminal and Mehrauli. A task force has been constituted to explore the option of contactless mobile ticketing on DTC buses so that no physical contact between the conductor and commuter takes place due to the exchange of cash or tickets amid the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. “On the recommendations of the Task Force, the DTC is conducting an actual trial of contactless mobile ticketing from September 14 to 21,” the public transporter said. This trial, the DTC said, would be conducted on 29 buses on route no. 534 – 25 of these would be non-AC buses from the Hasanpur Depot and four AC buses from the Ghazipur Depot. “To publicise and popularise contactless ticketing, posters and QR code have been affixed inside these buses explaining the mechanism to download the app and to buy mobile tickets. The pink pass or free pass for women commuters can also be acquired from this app,” the DTC also said. According to the public transporter, checking teams have been deployed to physically inspect the trial aboard the 29 buses and get feedback from commuters.
13 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Over 250 duped by calls offering gifts against points on credit card||Three persons, including a civil defence employee have been arrested for allegedly cheating people on the pretext of offering gifts against reward points in their credit cards, the police said on Saturday, adding that at least 250 persons across the country have been cheated. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said that the accused have been identified as Abhishek (24), a civil defence volunteer, Manish Gupta (23) and Ashish (25). The police said that a complaint was received stating that the complainant received a call from a person who offered him gifts against reward points in his credit card and subsequently lured him into paying Rs. 8,970. The complainant didn’t receive a gift after that and the caller too stopped taking his calls. A case was then registered and a probe was started. Paytm account It was revealed that the complainant had made the transaction through his Paytm account. The police analysed his bank account details to which his Paytm account was linked to and found that the account beneficiary was Ashish and Manish was the handler. With the help of technical surveillance, the two accused were arrested and on their instance, their third accomplice, Abhishek was also nabbed. During interrogation, the accused allegedly told the police that Manish worked in a call centre before. He got the idea to cheat people using telecalling and database of credit cardholders. He opened nine bank accounts in his name to receive the cheated money. He started this business in 2017. The police said that the accused set up a call centre and also got credit cardholder’s data from other members of the gang. They let other people join the gang by offering 20% commission on usage of their bank accounts for transfer of cheated money. Ashish and Abhishek offered Manish to use their bank accounts for quick money, the police said, adding that Abhishek is currently a civil defence volunteer and has worked as an Amazon delivery boy.
13 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||2 held for cheating man via domestic help app||Two persons, including a woman have been arrested for allegedly cheating people on the pretext of providing house helps on a mobile application, the police said on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) R.P. Meena said that the accused have been identified as Ajit Kumar Sorang and Heera Wati. The police said that on August 9, one Ashok Kumar filed a complaint at Sarita Vihar police station alleging that he was looking for a house help on a mobile app and found one Nidhi who claimed to be a representative of SJ Placement Service and when she was contacted, she offered a help at Rs. 5,000 a month, in addition to Rs. 25,000 commission. The help’s Aadhaar card and photo was also shared on WhatsApp. Help left next day On September 6, the help, S. Kumari came to the man’s house with another woman. When he asked the woman to go to the SJ Placement Service office to pay the commission money, she insisted that he could pay her after which he paid her the amount. Kumari didn’t do any work that day and the next day she was gone without informing anyone. The placement agency could also not be found, the complainant told the police. With the help of surveillance on mobile numbers, the accused were arrested. The police said that the two accused contacted young girls and used to send them to the victim’s house with a woman who took the money and gave it to the accused.
13 September 2020||New Delhi,||Doorstep delivery of services resumes||The Delhi government has resumed its doorstep delivery of services, which had to be suspended due to COVID-19 pandemic, sources have said. Citizens can once again avail the doorstep delivery of documentation related to income certificates, driver licenses and new water connections among a total of 100 such services. The government said that people can get listed services delivered at their doorstep by calling on 1076 or booking online apart from visiting one of the 46 centres for spot-booking. The Delhi government intends to publicise the resumption of the initiative next week even as it waits for the programme to stabilise after having been suspended for five months. The 100 services to be provided at the doorsteps of Delhiites include issuance of caste certificates, domicile certificates and marriage certificates, sewer connections, duplicate ration cards, learner’s licence, duplicate vehicle registration certificates and renewal of driving licence. The government has already hired a private company through which its services will be provided at people’s doorsteps and the company has hired “mobile sahayaks” or facilitators. The applicant has to pay Rs. 50 more to avail the doorstep delivery of public services. The government has also set up a feedback system for the citizens.  Citizens can once again avail the doorstep delivery of documentation related to income certificates, driver licenses and new water connections, among a total of 100 such services Sources
13 September 2020||New Delhi,||Bidhuri seeks extension of 1-day special session||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, on Saturday demanded extension of the one-day special session, to be held on September 14, to discuss various issues allegedly plaguing the city. Mr. Bidhuri demanded that the session be held for five days so that issues, especially the resettlement of residents of slum clusters along railway tracks, be discussed. “I have demanded from the Speaker and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal that this session should be held for at least five days. BJP MLAs will seek to raise the matter of about 48,000 slums on railway land, prominently,” Mr. Bidhuri said. “Over 50,000 houses have already been built for slum dwellers. The BJP will settle these slum dwellers in these vacant houses because the Central government has shared 50% of the expenditure of the construction,” he also said.
13 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||DDA to conduct online meeting with RWAs over Master Plan for Delhi-2041||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on September 17 will conduct an online meeting with resident welfare associations of planned plotted residential colonies, including Karol Bagh, Lodhi Estate and Rajouri Garden, as a part of its public consultation process pertaining to the preparation of the Master Plan for Delhi-2041. The first public consultation was held with residents of unauthorised colonies, where issues pertaining to the respective areas were discussed. Planning solutions “The second meeting is with RWAs from Planned Plotted Residential Colonies [including pre-1962 rehabilitation colonies] of Delhi. The objective of this meeting is to understand the issues faced by residents living in plotted colonies and discuss possible planning solutions,” DDA officials said. The colonies beingappealed to for the second meeting also include Yamuna Vihar, Preet Vihar, Shivaji Park, Krishna Nagar and Kohat Enclave among others. “The DDA in association with the National Institute of Urban Affairs is preparing the next master plan for Delhi. As a part of the process, a series of discussions and consultations have been carried out with various stakeholders and civil society groups to seek inputs from the people of Delhi that will help drive the agenda for the master plan,” the urban body said.
13 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Five held for running fake ghee unit||Five persons were arrested for allegedly running a fake ghee manufacturing unit in Outer North Delhi’s Bawana area, the police said on Saturday. DCP (Outer North) Gaurav Sharma said that the accused have been identified as Sandeep, Akshay, Rohit, Ratan and Ankesh. Over 284 cartons of fake desi ghee and other raw material has been recovered. A tip-off was received that a fake ghee manufacturing unit is running in Bawana Sector 1 after which a survey was conducted, the police said. The Food Safety Department was then informed to conduct a raid. The owner, Sandeep, allegedly told the police that he was making fake ghee using refined oil, dalda vanaspati, colour and essence.
13 September 2020||new delhi,||5 Delhi boys score 100 percentile in JEE-Main||Five students from the Capital have scored 100 percentile in the JEE-Mains exam, which was conducted earlier this month after being postponed twice in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The result for the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Mains was declared late night on Friday. The top scorers from Delhi are Chirag Falor, Gurkirat Singh, Laksh Gupta, Nishant Aggarwal and Tushar Sethi. They are among the 24 candidates who have scored 100 percentile in the crucial exam. ‘I was anxious’ Laksh Gupta, who wants to study at IIT Delhi, said the delay in the exam due to coronavirus made him anxious. “The multiple rescheduling of the exam made me anxious but it also gave me time to prepare more. Rescheduling exams any further would have proved to be disturbing for aspirants,” he added. Chirag Falor, who scored 99.98 percentile in the January attempt at JEE, has scored 100 percentile this time. “My preparations were through. The delay did make me anxious but I would have been demotivated if the year had gone to waste due to the virus,” he said. A total of 8.58 lakh candidates registered for the JEE-Mains exam for admission to engineering courses in IITs, NITs and Centrally Funded Technical Institutions (CFTIs) while only 74% of them appeared for the exam.
13 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Jharkhand CM meets Lalu Yadav, wants alliance for Bihar election||Basking in its impressive electoral success recently, the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) on Saturday evinced interest in fighting the upcoming Bihar Assembly election in alliance with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), which spearheads the Opposition Mahagathbandhan, consisting of RJD, Congress, RLSP (of former Union Minister Upendra Kushwaha) and VIP (of Bollywood set designer Mukesh Sahni). JMM executive president and Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren discussed the prospects of contesting the Bihar poll together with RJD president Lalu Prasad, who is admitted at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. Mr. Yadav, who is serving a jail term after being convicted in the fodder scam cases, was shifted to the RIMS Director’s bungalow in August in the wake of a spurt in COVID-19 cases in Jharkhand. Mr. Soren spent more than an hour with the RJD chief and deliberated on the upcoming poll in the neighbouring State. Asked about the focus of the discussions with Mr. Yadav, the Jharkhand CM said, “I paid a courtesy call. For quite some time I had not been to RIMS to inquire about the health of Laluji. The process of fighting the Bihar election together has been initiated. The declaration of an electoral alliance will be made by authorised people at an appropriate platform.” He added that the former Bihar Chief Minister’s health is better now. Border districts While the Jharkhand-based regional party is interested in contesting more than 10 seats, the RJD has so far maintained a studied silence on the matter. “Given a chance, we will do better in the Jharkhand-bordering districts of Bihar such as Katihar, Banka, Jamui, Rohtas, Nawada and Gaya. We had fought the Jharkhand Assembly election in alliance with the RJD last year. Even though the RJD had won only one seat, its MLA is a Minister in the government. It is natural that we should fight the Bihar election together,” said JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya. In Bihar, JMM has so far been able to win only one seat in several attempts, including the 2015 Assembly election. The sole victory was registered from Chakai Assembly seat in 2005. In the 2019 Jharkhand Assembly poll, the JMM and Congress had won 30 and 16 seats respectively while the RJD won one.
13 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Court issues arrest warrant against former Punjab DGP||A Mohali court on Saturday issued an arrest warrant against Punjab’s former Director General of Police Sumedh Singh Saini in the case of abduction and murder of a man in 1991. The court of Judicial Magistrate, S.A.S Nagar (Mohali), has directed the police to produce Mr. Saini before the court by September 25. Mr. Saini, a 1982-batch IPS officer, is on the run, with the police continuing to conduct raids at several places. He is wanted in connection with the abduction and murder of Balwant Singh Multani, a former Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation employee, in 1991. Mr. Saini, who faces arrest in the wake of no interim protection orders, had absconded, leaving his security detail behind, according to the Punjab police. In May, on the basis of a fresh application by the victim’s brother, Palwinder Singh Multani, the former DGP and six other accused were booked for kidnapping and wrongful confinement. Later, murder charge under Section 302 was added to the FIR after two co-accused turned approvers and, in their statements, claimed to be eyewitnesses to the torture meted out to Balwant Multani under the custody of Mr. Saini, who was then Senior Superintendent of Police of Chandigarh.
13 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Pilot writes to Gehlot on Gujjar reservation issue||Congress leader Sachin Pilot has sought the intervention of Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot for resolving the issues of 5% reservation to Gujjars and the community’s progress and welfare. Mr. Pilot has claimed that the quota provisions for the Most Backward Classes (MBC) were not being applied to the recruitments in the State. Mr. Pilot belongs to the pastoral Gujjar community. Though he had very rarely raised the issues related to Gujjars in the past, Mr. Pilot said the people had met him and demanded proper implementation and sufficient budget for the schemes meant for the community. In a letter written to Mr. Gehlot on September 2 and released to the media here on Saturday, Mr. Pilot said the Congress had mentioned in its manifesto for the 2018 Assembly election and the Congress government had agreed in 2011 to keep 4% posts reserved as “shadow posts” for the Special Backward Classes (SBC). After the Rajasthan High Court struck down reservation for the SBCs in 2016, the new MBC category was created in the State for extending 5% quota in the government jobs and educational institutions to Gujjars and four other nomadic communities. Mr. Pilot said the 5% reservation rule had not been applied to the recruitment of police constables, second grade schoolteachers, Panchayati Raj lower division clerks, technical helpers and other posts. He said the development works under the Devnarayan Board and Devnarayan Scheme meant for Gujjars, living in far-off regions, were almost stalled.
13 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Final-year exam in Rajasthan in offline mode||The final year and final semester examinations of universities and colleges in Rajasthan will be conducted offline as per the guidelines of the Supreme Court and the University Grants Commission. The process will ensure credibility of exams and establish validity of the degrees to be issued. The students who are unable to appear in the examinations because of the COVID-19 pandemic will be given another opportunity to write special exams to be conducted later. The decisions were taken at a meeting presided over by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot here. Mr. Gehlot said no student would be deprived of the opportunity to appear in the exams and the Higher Education Department would shortly issue detailed guidelines in this connection. He said his government was committed to making Rajasthan a leading State in the field of higher and technical education. Facilities for education in the remote areas would ensure that children from the villages excelled in medical, engineering, research as well as the emerging fields of learning. Mr. Gehlot also inaugurated nine colleges built at cost of Rs. 62 crore and new labs in 10 engineering and polytechnic colleges constructed at a cost of Rs. 23.22 crore.
13 September 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra COVID-19 tally crosses 10.37 lakh with 22,084 fresh cases||Maharashtra on Saturday again recorded over 20,000 new COVID-19 cases, taking its total case tally past the 10.37 lakh mark, while its cumulative death toll crossed the 29,000 mark. Health Department officials said the State was continuing its trend of reporting higher number of COVID-19 infections. With 22,084 new cases, the case load has now surged to 10,37,765. The State also recorded 391 more fatalities, pushing its death toll to 29,115. A total of 13,489 patients were discharged on Saturday, raising the number of recoveries to 7,28,512. Of the cumulative cases in the State, 2,79,768 are active, the Health Department officials said. While the State’s recovery rate now stands at 70.2%, its case fatality rate has reduced marginally to 2.81%. Mumbai recorded a massive spike of 2,350 cases, taking its total case tally to 1,67,656. The city also reported 42 more fatalities, pushing its death toll to 8,109. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), including Mumbai city, reported 5,942 fresh cases and 77 more deaths. The case load in MMR has now reached 3,93,581, while its total death toll stands at 13,867. While Pune city added 1,971 new COVID-19 cases, neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad civic body reported 1,294 new infections. 1,174 cases in Nashik Nashik city witnessed a rise of 1,174 cases, while Sangli’s total case tally went up by 914 cases. Nagpur city added 1,495 new cases, while Aurangabad city reported 914 fresh infections. Among other cities, Amravati reported 235 new cases, Chandrapur 144 and Jalgaon 102. A total of 16,52,955 people are under home quarantine, while 38,275 people are placed in institutional quarantine. A total of 51,64,840 samples have been tested in the State till date.
13 September 2020||Mumbai,||Lawyer provides succour to professor Saibaba in Nagpur jail||For the past three and a half years, a 30-year-old advocate from Nagpur has been providing medicines and other essentials for free to former Delhi University professor G.N. Saibaba, who is wheelchair-bound and serving a life sentence at Nagpur Central Jail for his alleged Maoist links. Aakash Sarode has been looking after the needs of Mr. Saibaba since his conviction on March 7, 2017. Mr. Sarode said he used to travel 12 km on his bike and visit Mr. Saibaba every Saturday, but since the lockdown, he has been able to see him only four times. He said, “It was easier to hand over a parcel before the COVID-19-induced lockdown. I would give it directly to Sai[baba] during our mulaqat [meeting] hours. Now, I have to drop the parcel at the main gate, where two or three guards inspect it. But I have never faced any trouble from the doctors or guards in prison.” Mr. Sarode spends around Rs. 2,000 every month to buy medicines for Mr. Saibaba, whose health conditions include blood pressure, hypertension, inflammatory bowel disease, stomach ulcers, gastroesophageal reflux disease, bronchitis and asthma. Mr. Sarode said the professor needs medicines such as Metolar XR 50 CAP, Lipvas 10 TAB, Olox 200 TAB, Rabesec 20 TAB, Montek 10 TAB, and Azipro 500. Apart from medicines, the lawyer also supplies Mr. Saibaba with multi-vitamins, shampoo, oil, toothpaste, stapler, writing pads, and pens. Mr. Sarode has also been providing medicines, clothes, sanitary napkins, undergarments and slippers to Ranjita, a 37-year-old undertrial, who has been charged along with Mr. Saibaba under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Mr. Sarode said, “She is from Gadchiroli and it is difficult for her family members to travel to Nagpur and visit her. That’s why I try to bring her whatever she needs.” He said Ms. Ranjitha slipped while taking a bath in prison one and a half years ago and her ankle became swollen, causing her a lot of pain. He said the doctors in prison were not very qualified and they gave her painkillers, but the swelling did not go away. “When she explained her plight to me, I brought her Volini and a crepe bandage, which really helped ease her pain,” he said. Asked why he was going out of his way to help the prisoners, Mr. Sarode said, “It is just out of humanity. My father also has polio and his right side is paralysed. I know how difficult it is for him to move about without anyone’s help. I try to help in whichever way I can.”  It is just out of humanity... I try to help in whichever way I can Aakash Sarode Advocate
13 September 2020||Mumbai,||Musician Aditya dies of kidney failure||Veteran playback singer Anuradha Paudwal’s son Aditya died on Saturday after suffering a kidney failure at a hospital in Mumbai. Aditya (35), who breathed his last early on Saturday morning, had been suffering from kidney ailments for “quite some time”, an official from the Cine Singers Association said. “I got a call from Aditya Paudwal’s family this morning and they said he died due to kidney failure at a hospital. We later informed all our members. He had been unwell since quite some time, he had kidney problems,” said Himanshu Bhatt, general secretary, of the Cine Singers Association. Aditya was a music arranger and producer. He had arranged and produced a song for the Nawazuddin Siddiqui-starrer Thackeray , which released in 2019. The news of Aditya’s death was first shared by music composer Shankar Mahadevan, who took to Instagram to pay his tributes. “Devastated hearing this ! Our dearest Aditya Paudwal is no more. Just can’t believe this. What an amazing musician and a lovely human being. I just sang a song which was programmed by him so beautifully two days back. Just can’t come to terms with this. Love you brother... miss you,” he wrote. Other prominent personalities from the field of music also condoled Aditya’s death on social media. Legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar tweeted, “I am deeply saddened to hear about the demise of Anuradha Paudwal ji’s son Aditya at such a young age. May his soul rest in peace.” Veteran singer Pankaj Udhas said he is shocked by the sudden passing away of Aditya. “Shocked to learn about sudden passing of dear Aditya Paudwal. We will never forget the image of his energetic and bright face. May God grant him eternal rest.”
13 September 2020||Mumbai,||Drug case: Zaid Vilantra moves HC seeking bail||An alleged drug peddler, Zaid Vilantra, who is a co-accused with actor Rhea Chakraborty, filed for bail before the Bombay High Court on Saturday. A resident of Bandra, Mr. Vilantra (20) — arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) — moved court after the special Narcotics Drug Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court rejected his bail on September 11. He has also sought quashing of the lower court order. Mr. Vilantra was sent to judicial custody on September 9 by a magistrate’s court along with Ms. Chakraborty and her brother Showik. On September 1, NCB had searched Mr. Vilantra’s premises and recovered Rs. 9,55,750, $ 2,081, £180 and 15 UAE Dirhams. In his statement, he reportedly said the cash was from the sales of contraband and mariajuana supplied to many persons, and disclosed a few names with details. Mr. Vilantra disclosed the names of one Abel Parihar as a receiver of marijuana. The bail petition mentions that “there is absolutely no nexus between the applicant [Vilantra] and any contraband of commercial quantity. Under no circumstance can Section 27A, which stipulates a strict 10- to 20-year sentence and fine of Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 2 lakh, be attracted. Thus the section cannot not be applicable to offences involving small quantity or non-commercial quantity”.
13 September 2020||Mumbai,||Kolkata man made threat calls to Thackeray too||The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), which arrested one person from Kolkata for allegedly making threat calls to Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, has alleged that he made similar calls to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar and State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. In a statement released in Mumbai on Saturday, the ATS said, Palash Bose, 49, is a science graduate and was working in Dubai for more than 15 years. He has admitted to making the threats calls on the landlines of the residences of the Chief Minister, Mr. Pawar and Mr. Deshmukh. While making the threat calls to Mr. Raut, the accused had claimed to be a member of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim’s gang, the statement said. He also reportedly told the police in Kolkata that he was a fan of Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut. Former encounter specialist, inspector Daya Nayak, of the Juhu unit told The Hindu , “Bose returned to India from Dubai in 2018. We have recovered three SIM cards from him. We secured his transit remand on Friday and he will be produced in court in Mumbai on Sunday.”
13 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Loan scam accused were former bank staff: police||The Sanpada police have revealed that two members of a gang, who were recently arrested for creating a fictitious bank, were employees of a bank and used their knowledge of loan documentation to dupe people. The APMC police busted the gang and arrested Rohit Nagwekar (30), Bhalchandra Palav (27) and Omkar Mhatre (35) on September 2. The police seized two cars and forged documents. The police said the accused created Vijaydeep Co-operative Bank after the bank they were working in shut down. The Sanpada police said the accused, who are in their custody, cheated people of Rs. 68 lakh. Their victims were mostly residents of Sanpada, Nerul, Naupada, Bhoiwada, Bhiwandi, Vartak Nagar, Kala Chowky, Khadakpada and Chunabhatti. The police said the accused would make the victims pay a processing fee to secure loans. They promised loans at lucrative interest rates to lure clients. Assistant police inspector Keshav Dinde said, “Two people have filed complaints of being cheated of Rs. 5 lakh. The accused took advantage of the lockdown and the rise in financial problems to dupe people.” Assistant police inspector Bhushan Pawar from APMC police station said the accused were history-sheeters and had various cases registered against them. They were arrested earlier for crimes committed at Vartak Nagar in 2018 and Naupada in 2019. They were recently released on bail and started conning people again. Rs. 13 lakh cheating case Mr. Pawar said, “The cars we seized were second-hand ones bought a year ago with swindled money. We laid a trap using a decoy customer in need of a loan and arrested them.” Once their remand ends with the Sanpada police, the Nerul police will seek their custody in a Rs. 13 lakh cheating case filed at the police station.
13 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||11 hospitals pay Rs. 32 lakh for overcharging patients||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has cracked down on 11 private hospitals in the city for allegedly overcharging patients, and made them pay Rs. 32 lakh by reducing bills and issuing refunds. On June 29, the then NMMC chief Annasaheb Misal issued a circular urging people to come forward with complaints against private hospitals overcharging COVID-19 patients. People then started filing complaints through email or personally visiting the NMMC headquarters. On July 15, Abhijit Bangar took charge as the new commissioner and on August 7 a help desk was set up to receive complaints. Nineteen complaints were filed and seven of them had the required documents. The NMMC then started settling the complaints. In the last two weeks, Rs. 12 lakh was refunded to patients and Rs. 20 lakh was reduced from their bills. He said, “Patients approach us after receiving the bill or paying the bill. On receiving a complaint, our team scrutinises the bill and issues a notice to the hospital if discrepancies are found. Discrepancies are usually found in charges for consumables, oxygen, lab, and rooms. If they exceed the cut-off prescribed by the government, relief is given.” Mr. Bangar said that the crackdown will send a strong message to hospitals. He said that the NMMC has also started auditing hospital bills and if significant discrepancies are found, severe action, including cancellation of registration, will be considered.
13 September 2020||New Delhi,||AAP alleges graft in test kits purchase in U.P.||The Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday alleged there was corruption in purchase of COVID-19 testing kits in Uttar Pradesh and demanded an independent probe into the matter. Addressing a press conference here, AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj claimed that coronavirus kit, comprising an oximeter, thermometer, sanitiser and mask, costs Rs. 2,700 to Rs. 2,800 in the market, but the U.P. government purchased it at 300% to 500% higher price. “The Uttar Pradesh government issued an order that every panchayat will get a corona kit from the State government. This kit will have one oximeter, one infrared thermometer, around 500 masks, 5 litres of sanitiser etc. One kit costs around Rs. 2,700 to Rs. 2,800. The same can be done within Rs. 2,000. But unfortunately, at various places in Uttar Pradesh, the price of thermometers and oximeters was increased by 500%, 400% and 300%,” Mr. Bharadwaj said. He said it was “ridiculous” that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath constituted an SIT to investigate the case in which he is being accused. “How can we expect that the officers, chosen by the U.P. CM, will conduct an impartial probe? The AAP wants an independent probe in the case,” he said. “The CMO bought ‘haematology analyser’ at Rs. 3.3 lakh per machine. The State government’s e-marketplace website shows such made in India machines available at just Rs. 1.45 lakh. Whenever the question of corruption arises, the BJP names the Gandhi family. But I am very certain that the way the Yogi government has indulged in corruption during the pandemic, the Gandhi family has not done in the last 60 years,” the AAP leader said.
13 September 2020||New Delhi,||HC reduces no. of Benches holding physical hearings||The Delhi High Court on Saturday said it has reduced the number of Benches that would be holding physical hearings due to the “alarming” rise in COVID-19 cases in the Capital and majority of lawyers preferring virtual hearings. According to a note issued by the office of Registrar General Manoj Jain, a full court of the judges of the Delhi High Court deliberated on continuing with physical hearings, which were started from September 1, and decided not to discontinue them completely. The full court decided that physical hearings would be conducted each day, from September 15 onwards, by one Division Bench and two single-judge Benches on rotation. Till now, two Division Benches and three single-judge Benches were holding physical courts on rotation.
13 September 2020||New Delhi,||HC tells police to give keys of centre to Saad’s family||A court here has directed Delhi Police to hand over the keys of the residential portion of the religious centre at Nizamuddin to the family of Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad. The centre was locked after a case was registered against several people for attending a religious congregation in violation of COVID-19 norms. An FIR was filed against Saad and six others on March 31, after thousands of people participated in the congregation and later many of them tested positive for COVID-19. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gurmohina Kaur gave five days to investigating agencies to inspect the premises before it is handed over to Mr. Saad’s family. The court was hearing an application, filed by Mr. Saad’s mother Khalida, seeking unlocking of the premises where they resided. It directed Khalida and her family members to give an undertaking that they would not obstruct the investigation in any manner and the residential portion of the property shall only be used for residing purpose.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||A counter-coalition of Eurasian powers||As External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi negotiated a five-point agreement which they hoped will lead to a disengagement process between Indian and Chinese troops ranged against each other at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), it wasn’t just the host, Russia, that played a part behind the scenes. In fact, the occasion for their presence in Moscow, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), had as a much of a role to play. The SCO was founded in June 2001, built on the ‘Shanghai Five’ grouping of Russia, China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan (Kyrgyz Republic) and Tajikistan, which had come together in the post-Soviet era in 1996, in order to work on regional security, reduction of border troops, and terrorism. A particular goal all these years has been “conflict resolution”, given its early successes between China and Russia, and then within the Central Asian Republics. The 1996 meeting of the Shanghai Five, for example, resulted in an ‘Agreement on Confidence-Building in the Military Field Along the Border Areas’ between China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, which led to an agreement on the mutual reduction of military forces on their common borders in 1997. Subsequently, it helped push the Central Asian countries to resolve some of their boundary disputes as well. In 2001, the Shanghai Five inducted Uzbekistan into the group and named it the SCO, outlining its principles in a charter that promoted what was called the “Shanghai spirit” of cooperation. According to its rules, the organisation has two permanent bodies — the SCO Secretariat based in Beijing and the Executive Committee of the Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure (RATS) based in Tashkent. The SCO Secretary-General and the Director of the Executive Committee of the SCO RATS are appointed by the Council of Heads of State for a term of three years. However, the venue of the SCO council meetings moves between the eight members (including India and Pakistan). The SCO also has four observer states — Afghanistan, Iran, Belarus and Mongolia — which may be inducted at a later date. Main goals The SCO describes its main goals, part of its Charter that was adopted in St. Petersburg in 2002, as: “strengthening mutual trust and neighbourliness among the member states; promoting their effective cooperation in politics, trade, economy, research and technology and culture, as well as in education, energy, transport, tourism, environmental protection, and other areas; making joint efforts to maintain and ensure peace, security and stability in the region; and moving towards the establishment of a democratic, fair and rational new international political and economic order.” No doubt, the SCO was eyed with some misgivings by the U.S. and Europe as a result of this, not the least by its desire to build a “new international political and economic order”, and it was even dubbed the “Anti-NATO” for proposing military cooperation. In 2005, the Astana declaration called for SCO countries to work on a “joint SCO response to situations that threaten peace, security and stability in the region”, indicating the group’s strategic ambitions Western and NATO concerns were heightened a decade later, when they placed heavy sanctions against Russia for its actions in Crimea, but China came to its aid, signing a 30-year, $400 billion gas pipeline framework agreement. Since then, helped by the personal bond between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Chinese President Xi Jinping, the SCO has become a platform for Eurasian cooperation in a region rich with energy resources. China’s Belt and Road Initiative, which Russia is not a part of but supports, and is joined by all members of the SCO (with the exception of India), has also become a part of the SCO declarations. Contradictions India and Pakistan joined the SCO as observers in 2005, and were admitted as full members in 2015. Joining the SCO has been seen as one of the Modi government’s more significant yet puzzling foreign policy choices, as it came at a time that New Delhi was looking more keenly at the West, and in particular at the maritime ‘Quadrilateral’ with the U.S., Japan and Australia. India has explained its membership in both ostensibly clashing groups as a part of its principles of “strategic autonomy and multi-alignment”. Other contradictions have also been noted. Since 2014, India and Pakistan have cut all ties, talks and trade with each other, and India has refused to attend the SAARC summit due to tensions with Pakistan, but both their leaderships have consistently attended all meetings of the SCO’s three councils: the Heads of State, Heads of Government, Council of Foreign Ministers, as well as other meetings. Despite the fact that India accuses Pakistan of perpetrating cross-border terrorism at every other multilateral forum, at the SCO, Indian and Pakistani armed forces even take part in military and anti-terrorism exercises together, as part of the SCO-Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure. In addition, the two countries are part of the SCO-Afghanistan Contact Group, to discuss the course of Afghanistan’s future, an issue New Delhi and Islamabad are bitterly divided over. Bilateral meetings Through the years, SCO hosts have encouraged members to use the platform to discuss differences on the sidelines. In 2009, India and Pakistan held the first talks after the Mumbai attacks on the sidelines of the SCO summit in Astana, where then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and former Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari met, and in 2015, Prime Minister Narendra Modi met then Pakistani PM Nawaz Sharif at the SCO summit in Ufa, for a meeting that even resulted in a joint statement. There have been no bilateral meetings between Indian and Pakistani leaders on the sidelines of the SCO since then, and both sides have pointedly ignored the other in recent years, although the SCO secretary general has often expressed the hope they will resolve their issues through dialogue, including last year after the Pulwama attack. Thus, it should not have come as a surprise that the SCO host, Russia, encouraged and facilitated meetings between the Defence Ministers of India and China (September 4) and Foreign Ministers of India and China (September 10) to discuss the stand-off at the LAC that has seen violent clashes, killings of soldiers and gun fire exchanges for the first time in 45 years. “The SCO Charter doesn't allow any bilateral dispute to be taken up, but it provides a comfortable platform for building mutual trust, expanding cooperation, finding common ground and eventually, creating conditions for dialogue between countries,” said Russian Deputy Ambassador to India Roman Babushkin in a press conference this week. It remains to be seen whether the Moscow meeting between the Indian and Chinese Foreign Minister results in a real breakthrough on the ground at the Line of Actual control, where armies remain entrenched, and the PLA has mobilised both troops and heavy equipment. If it does, that would be a feather in the cap for the SCO, and if fails to do so, the SCO will no doubt continue to provide other venues for its disputing members to meet, as it seeks to build a continental coalition that, its founders hope, may one day be as strong as some of the other coalitions that exist to its west and south.  In focus The SCO was founded in June 2001, built on the ‘Shanghai Five’ grouping of Russia, China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan  The platform played a key role in conflict resolution between China and Russia, and among Central Asian republics  India and Pakistan joined the SCO as observers in 2005, and were admitted as full members in 2015   The SCO describes its main goals as: strengthen mutual trust and neighbourliness among the member states and promote their cooperation in various fields
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||A spectre is haunting Brexit||The spectre of Britain’s cliff-edge exit from the EU — which has loomed large almost since the June 2016 referendum — has returned, months before the country’s scheduled departure on December 31. But this is not the most significant feature of this week’s controversial legislation, which aims to override the Irish protocol to the U.K.’s EU withdrawal agreement. With the new Bill, the government seeks to overwrite parts of the withdrawal agreement, which Prime Minister Boris Johnson struck with his 27 counterparts last October. The agreement had sought to avoid a hard border coming up between Northern Ireland, which is part of the U.K., and the Irish Republic, an EU member. According to the Northern Ireland protocol, which is part of the agreement, the region is expected to follow some EU rules in trade with the Republic of Ireland. The new law, the Internal Market and Finances Bill, could override the legal force of the withdrawal agreement, which has triggered angry responses from Belfast. Political integrity A precise determination of the status of Northern Ireland after Britain’s departure from the EU is most consequential at many levels. As a constituent territory of Britain, the region underpins the country’s overall identity and constitutional and political integrity. Northern Ireland’s relations with Great Britain and historical links with the Republic of Ireland to the south exert strong influence on the future of the tenuous peace that has prevailed across the island of Ireland since the 1998 Good Friday agreement. And, given the emerging geopolitical configuration after Britain’s exit, the promotion of Dublin’s interests within the EU are vital for the preservation of the centrepiece of European post-war integration, the lucrative single market. Ensuring the continuation of the existing soft border between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland in the changed circumstances arising from Britain’s exit from the bloc is thus paramount for overall stability. To this end, London and Brussels initially negotiated a temporary Irish backstop in 2017-18 wherein, the whole of the U.K. would continue in the EU customs union until an alternative was in place. Neither the trade-only-in-goods that this arrangement implied, nor the severe limits on concluding trade pacts with third countries was palatable for both hard Brexiters and even pro-remain politicians across parties. So contentious were the parliamentary debates over this withdrawal deal that three versions were defeated by massive margins in the House of Commons. The prolonged political turmoil pushed Britain’s EU exit deadlines at least thrice and eventually forced former Prime Minister Theresa May to step down in June 2019. Alternative plan Mr. Johnson’s alternative to the backstop was the establishment of customs checks on the Irish Sea to regulate the flow of goods in and out of Great Britain from Northern Ireland and vice versa. Dublin would have the best of both worlds, being brought under dual jurisdiction of the EU and the U.K. to safeguard Britain’s constitutional integrity and sovereignty, as also that of the European single market. Following the massive majority Mr. Johnson secured in the December 2020 general election, which was evidently a vote for Brexit, any dissenting voice from Northern Ireland’s hard-line Democratic Unionist Party were muted. The government now claims it was unaware of the onerous provisions in the Irish protocol requiring close regulatory alignment with the EU when the withdrawal deal was sealed during the tumultuous atmosphere in January. Accordingly, the amendments to the protocol tabled in the internal market Bill this week seek to empower authorities to sidestep EU jurisdiction in the areas of customs and state subsidies for industries. Mr. Johnson has defended the move as necessary to protect the country from external dangers. Although the government has refused to retract modifications to the Irish protocol, it is likely that this was an act of brinkmanship on the part of Mr. Johnson. The legislation could well be another ploy to secure relaxations on EU demands for greater access to Britain’s fisheries market. But then the present government is dominated by members who strongly back Brexit even without a deal.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||A former top cop on the run||A decorated former police chief who played a key role in bringing normalcy back to Punjab after the Khalistan militancy, Sumedh Singh Saini is now in the news for all the wrong reasons. Mr. Saini, a 1982-batch Indian Police Service officer, is on the run, with the police continuing to conduct raids across States to nab him. He is facing arrest for the abduction and murder of a man in 1991. Mr. Saini became the youngest DGP in the country at the age of 54, when he was appointed to the coveted post in 2012, during the Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janta Party government. He was shifted from his office in 2015, in the aftermath of a police firing incident, in which two persons were killed at Behbal Kalan of Faridkot district, which followed the sacrilege of the Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari. After 36 years of service, he retired in 2018. Mr. Saini was said to enjoy the full confidence of K.P.S. Gill, a former DGP of Punjab, who has been credited with bringing the Punjab insurgency under control. Mr. Saini took active part in counter-terrorism and anti-insurgency operations and was awarded the President’s Police Medal for gallantry and The Wound Medal (Parakram medal). Later, Mr. Saini was involved in anti-corruption drives when he served as the head of Punjab’s Vigilance Bureau between 2007 and 2012. Mr. Saini’s critics, however, accuse him of indulging in police excesses and human rights violations. They say he was a police officer with political patronage and had sought to meander through various episodes of rights violations and encounters during his tenure in the force. Many accuse him of even going to the extent of overawing the courts. Mr. Saini served as Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) at Batala, Bathinda, Ludhiana, Ferozepur, Rupnagar and Chandigarh during his service. It was in 1991 after a terrorist attack on Mr. Saini, in which he suffered injuries, while three policemen were killed, Balwant Singh Multani, an employee at Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation, was allegedly picked up by the police from his residence in Mohali. The three-decade old case has now come back to haunt Mr. Saini, who, according to the police, has ‘absconded’, leaving behind the Z plus security allotted to him. He has now approached the Supreme Court for an anticipatory bail after the Punjab and Haryana High Court dismissed his anticipatory bail plea. The court also dismissed his petition, seeking to quash the FIR, and issued directions to declare the subsequent investigation against him by the Punjab police in the case as “non est”. Murder charge In May this year, on the basis of a fresh application by the victim’s (Balwant Singh Multani) brother, Palwinder Singh Multani, the former DGP and six other accused were booked for alleged kidnapping and wrongful confinement, among other charges, under the Indian Penal Code. Later, murder charge under Section 302 was added to the FIR, after two co-accused turned approvers, and in their statement, claimed to be witnesses to the torture meted out to Balwant Singh Multani, under the custody of Mr. Saini, who was then the SSP of Chandigarh. CBI case After a preliminary inquiry surrounding the case had been conducted under the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered an FIR against Mr. Saini and others in 2008. However, the High Court’s order was challenged in the Supreme Court, which set aside the former’s orders on the ground that the Bench of the High Court lacked jurisdiction to deal with the case and consequently, the FIR was quashed. The Supreme Court, however, had given the victim’s family the liberty to take recourse to fresh proceedings. With controversies surrounding him, a case of alleged kidnapping of three Ludhiana men in 1994 is still pending against Mr. Saini at Delhi’s special CBI court. In 2007, during the SAD-BJP government, Mr. Saini was heading the State’s Vigilance, when Captain Amarinder Singh was booked for corruption in Ludhiana’s City Centre scam. Captain Singh, currently the Chief Minister of Punjab, was acquitted in the case in 2019.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||China appoints provincial official as envoy to Pakistan||In a break from the past, China has appointed an official from a provincial government, with a background in trade and religious issues, as its next envoy to Pakistan, a key posting usually reserved for its diplomatic cadre. Nong Rong will be a rare Chinese foreign envoy who is not a diplomat, instead a political appointee who has risen through the ranks as an official in the state government of the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, where he was responsible for the province’s international trade and religious affairs. He is also a member of the National People’s Congress (NPC), China’s Parliament, as one of the province’s representatives to the legislature. Top of his responsibilities will be taking forward the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) project, which President Xi Jinping has championed as a flagship under his Belt and Road Initiative. Mr. Nong’s recent predecessors — Yao Jing, who is returning to Beijing two months short of completing his three-year tenure, Sun Weidong (the current envoy to India), Liu Jian and Luo Zhaohui — were all seasoned diplomats. China has previously made political appointments to foreign missions, usually drawing from officers from the Communist Party of China’s (CPC) International Liaison Department — responsible for the CPC’s relations with foreign political parties and also involved in policy making — or the United Front Work Department, which, as its name suggests, is tasked with allying with external actors outside the party, both at home and abroad, to “unite” them with the party’s agenda. Mr. Nong, a career provincial government official, technically hails from neither agency, although, according to a profile in State media, he has served as a Deputy Minister of the United Front Work Department in the Guangxi local government. The China Economic Daily reported he was, before his appointment to Pakistan, working as the director of the Ethnic and Religious Affairs Committee of the province since December. Previously, he worked in the province’s Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation Department, focusing on ASEAN countries. According to a State media profile, Mr. Nong holds a degree in nuclear physics from the elite Peking University, from where he graduated before joining the Guangxi provincial trade office. Speaking in May, he highlighted Guangxi as a model where “all ethnic groups live together in harmony under the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party”. According to a profile in State media, he is from the Zhuang minority group. Pakistan is among the key postings for China’s diplomats, now seen by some Chinese analysts as Beijing’s only international ally, a country now referred to officially as China’s “iron brother”. It is a common practice for many Chinese diplomats to spend a term in Pakistan before being subsequently appointed to serve in India. His appointment comes amid a spurt of diplomatic engagement between the “all-weather” allies. China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Thursday met with his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi hours before his meeting with India’s External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar in Moscow, on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Foreign Ministers’ meeting. This followed Mr. Qureshi’s visit to China for a strategic dialogue on August 21. Support for Pakistan Mr. Wang said on Thursday China would “continue to provide support to Pakistan in fighting COVID-19 until the epidemic is defeated” and “stands ready to work with Pakistan to better develop the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor”. The CPEC was also the focus of the strategic dialogue last month, following which both sides, in a statement, agreed on “continuing their firm support on issues concerning each other's core national interests”. China, in the statement, described Pakistan as its “staunchest partner in the region” and said it “firmly supports Pakistan in safeguarding its territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence, independently choosing a development path based on its national conditions, striving for a better external security environment and playing a more constructive role on international and regional affairs”.
13 September 2020||Karachi,||Anti-Shia protesters march for second day in Karachi||Tens of thousands of anti-Shia protesters, including demonstrators linked to Sunni extremists, rallied in Pakistan’s Karachi on Saturday, in the second day of protests that have sparked fears of sectarian violence.  The rallies follow a raft of blasphemy accusations against Shia leaders in Sunni-majority Pakistan after a broadcast of an Ashura procession last month showed clerics and participants allegedly making disparaging remarks about historic Islamic figures. Ashura commemorates the killing of the Prophet Mohammed’s grandson Hussein at the Battle of Karbala in 680 AD — the defining moment of the religion’s schism and the birth of Shia Islam. A security official said Saturday’s crowd was estimated to exceed 30,000 people. There were no immediate reports of violence. The rally was organised by the Sunni organisation Jamaat Ahle Sunnat and the hardline Islamist party Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan, which has organised violent protests over alleged blasphemy in the past.
13 September 2020||Tokyo,||Japan PM hopeful says he may need Abe’s help on diplomacy||Japanese Prime Minister hopeful Yoshihide Suga said on Saturday that he lacks the kind of diplomatic skills that outgoing leader Shinzo Abe has, including Mr. Abe’s personal friendship with President Donald Trump, and that he will need his assistance if he assumes the top job. Mr. Abe in late August announced his intention to step down as Prime Minister due to health problems. He has led Japan since he returned to power in December 2012 for a second stint as Prime Minister. Mr. Suga, the Chief Cabinet Secretary, is expected to win Monday’s party election and then be endorsed in a parliamentary vote on Wednesday because of the majority held by the ruling bloc. Mr. Abe has traveled to 80 overseas destinations during his tenure, bringing stability and consistency to Japanese diplomacy and raising the country’s profile in the international community, experts say. He was noted especially for developing a personal friendship with Mr. Trump. “Prime Minister Abe’s leadership diplomacy was truly amazing. I don’t think I can match that,” Mr. Suga said as he joined the two other contenders at a public debate. Former Defence Minister Shiberu Ishiba and former Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida are also in the race. “I think there is a diplomatic stance that would fit me and I will stick to my own style, while also seeking assistance from the Foreign Ministry. And of course I will consult with (Abe),” he said.
13 September 2020||London,||Johnson accuses EU of plotting food blockade on U.K.||Prime Minister Boris Johnson has accused the European Union of threatening to tear the U.K. apart by imposing a food “blockade” between Britain and Northern Ireland, throwing new fuel on the fire of simmering Brexit talks. Writing in Saturday’s Daily Telegraph newspaper, Mr. Johnson said the EU’s stance justified his government’s introduction of new legislation to rewrite its Brexit withdrawal treaty — a Bill that is causing deep alarm among his own MPs. Talks between London and Brussels on a future trading relationship are deadlocked as both sides struggle to prise apart nearly 50 years of economic integration, after British voters opted for a divorce. “My assessment is that an unregulated situation (no deal) would have very significant consequences for the British economy,” German Finance Minister Olaf Scholz warned on Saturday after a meeting of EU Finance Ministers in Berlin. “Europe would be able to deal with it and these would not be particularly difficult consequences after the preparations we have already made,” he added. But absent a deal by the end of this year, when the full force of Brexit kicks in, Mr. Johnson said the EU was bent on an “extreme interpretation” of rules for Northern Ireland under the divorce treaty both sides signed in January. “We are being told that the EU will not only impose tariffs on goods moving from Great Britain to Northern Ireland, but that they might actually stop the transport of food products from GB to NI,” he wrote. “I have to say that we never seriously believed that the EU would be willing to use a treaty, negotiated in good faith, to blockade one part of the UK, to cut it off, or that they would actually threaten to destroy the economic and territorial integrity of the UK.” Mr. Johnson said the EU’s stance would “seriously endanger peace and stability in Northern Ireland”, and stressed he remained committed to finding agreement with the EU by the end of the year, but the new UK Internal Market Bill was a “legal safety net”.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||As Bahrain says it’s time to embrace Israel, the Gulf hears a Saudi voice||The tiny Persian Gulf kingdom of Bahrain lost much of its autonomy nearly a decade ago, when its rulers turned to their neighbour Saudi Arabia to save them from an Arab Spring uprising threatening their power. So Bahrain’s announcement on Friday that it would become the fourth Arab state to normalise relations with Israel was arguably the most significant clue yet that Saudi Arabia — the heavyweight of Gulf politics — might be moving in the same direction, albeit on a slower time scale. Bahrain, scholars said, could never have taken this step if Riyadh opposed it. “It is a vector,” said Bernard Haykel, a scholar of Saudi Arabia at Princeton University who has met with the kingdom’s de factor ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. “There are indications Saudi Arabia is moving in the same direction.” Ultimate prize Saudi Arabia is without a doubt the ultimate prize in Israel’s decades-long quest for recognition from the Arab states around it. With vast oil reserves and revered Islamic pilgrimage sites, the kingdom is the most influential state in the Arab world. Its warming ties with Israel are also a uniquely grave blow to Palestinians in their struggle with Israel. Over the last 75 years, Saudi Arabia has been the most important advocate among the Arab states for Palestinians, said Khaled Elgindy, a senior fellow at the Middle East Institute and a former adviser to Palestinian leaders. That support goes back to the start of the Saudi-American alliance during the Second World War, and in recent years the Saudis have repeatedly sponsored calls for the Arab states to withhold diplomatic relations with Israel unless it accepts a Palestinian state along historical borders — a prospect that has appeared increasingly unlikely. “If the Saudis go to normalisation without anything meaningful for the Palestinians, then we can safely assume that there will be no incentive for Israel to move toward statehood or end it occupation,” Mr. Elgindy said. “There will be no more leverage. Everybody else will normalise.” Remote possibility But Saudi Arabia’s acquiescing to Bahrain’s announcement is one thing; its taking the same step is another, and still unlikely any time soon. Speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss diplomacy, Trump administration officials involved in pushing the Saudis to recognize Israel say that the possibility remains remote at best for now, partly reflecting stark differences in the political context. Polls show that sympathy for the Palestinian cause remains widespread in public opinion across the Arab world. But since the crackdown on Bahrain’s Arab Spring uprising, the royal family has all but eliminated any domestic dissent or opposition, with rights groups documenting cases of summary execution and torture. In the aftermath of the uprising, sectarianism has dominated Bahrain’s internal dynamics. The country’s Sunni Muslim rulers can depend on the almost unquestioning support of a privileged Sunni minority united in fear of the country’s Shiite majority. And opposition voices in the Shiite majority have largely been silenced. Since the uprising, the Bahraini rulers have depended on the threat of military force from Saudi Arabia to keep the country’s Shiite majority in check, and Bahrain is regarded around the region as a dependent client of the Saudi royal court  The rulers of Bahrain, which hosts a major U.S. naval base, had in fact been quietly signaling for more than 15 years that they were considering closer Israeli relations.NY Times
13 September 2020||Colombo,||Sri Lankan navy plugs fuel leak on oil tanker||Sri Lankan military divers fixed a fuel leak from the engine of a fire-damaged oil tanker off the island’s east coast, the navy said on Saturday, in a salvage operation after the huge week-long blaze. While the navy says no crude oil has escaped the cargo of the New Diamond , leaked diesel fuel had created a 2-km-long slick in the Indian Ocean that was visible from the air. The fuel was seeping into the water through damaged pipes connected to a ballast water intake on the ship’s starboard side, according to a navy statement. That leak was plugged on Friday along with an inlet on the port side of the Panama-registered tanker, it said. Dutch salvage company SMIT said its experts had boarded the vessel and found the 2,70,000-tonne crude oil cargo unaffected by the fire. “The cargo tanks with the crude are intact,” the firm told AFP in The Hague on Friday. “Discussions are ongoing on the destination of the vessel to transfer the crude.” Environmental authorities fear a marine disaster if the tanker is allowed to transfer its oil to another ship in the country’s waters. The fire was completely doused on Wednesday, but an unspecified amount of the ship’s 1,700 tonnes of fuel leaked when storage tanks ruptured in the blaze that destroyed the engine room.
13 September 2020||Kinhasa,||50 dead as gold mine collapses in east Congo||More than 50 people are dead after landslips caused the collapse of three artisanal gold mines near the city of Kamituga in eastern Congo’s South Kivu province on Friday, officials said. “The diggers and the transporters of the stones were swallowed up by the waters,” said Kamituga Mayor Alexandre Bundya. Diwa Honorş, who survived the tragedy, said more than 50 people were in the mines, which are about 50 m deep.  Most of the dead were young people, according to a statement from the office of the Governor of South Kivu, Theo Ngwabidje Kasi, who offered condolences to their families.
13 September 2020||Caracas,||Caracas, Sept 12, 2020 (AFP) -||President Nicolas Maduro on Friday said an “American spy” had been arrested near two Venezuelan refineries, after authorities foiled a plot to “cause an explosion” at another oil complex. “Yesterday we captured... an American spy who was spying in Falcon state on the Amuay and Cardon refineries,” he said. According to Mr. Maduro the individual was “a marine who was serving at CIA bases in Iraq” and who was captured with “heavy weapons” and “large amounts of cash”. The arrest occurred after authorities on Wednesday “discovered and dismantled” a “plan to cause an explosion” at El Palito refinery.AFP
13 September 2020||New Delhi,||Discoms’ liquidity line to rise to Rs. 1.2 lakh cr.||The Rs. 90,000-crore liquidity package for discoms to help them pay their dues till the month of March would soon be enhanced to Rs. 1.2 lakh crore factoring in these utilities’ outstanding till June, said a senior official. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in May announced a Rs. 90,000 crore liquidity infusion into cash-strapped discoms for payment of their dues till March 2020. Discoms have been facing demand slump due to the lockdown to contain COVID-19. Participating in a webinar on ‘Innovation in Renewable Energy’ organised by PHDCCI, Power Secretary S. N. Sahai said the liquidity package would cover the outstanding dues of discoms for the months from April to June also and it would be enhanced to Rs. 1.2 lakh crore. While announcing the package, the government had said, “At present discoms have a total outstanding of Rs. 94,000 crore towards power generation firms (gencos)”. However, later, States demanded that the package be extended to include outstanding dues towards power generation and transmission firms for the month of April and May as well. A source said that an official communication in this regard has already been sent to the implementing state-owned non-banking finance firms Power Finance Corporation (PFC) and REC by the Ministry of Power. The source further said now the respective boards of REC and PFC will approve the increase in liquidity package to about Rs. 1.2 lakh crore covering a period of dues till June this year, by the end of September. As much as Rs. 68,000 crore has been sanctioned and about Rs. 25,000 crore disbursed to discoms under the package so far. ‘More States to tap’ The source further revealed that more States would avail the credit facility after the REC and PFC boards’ decision to raise the package. PFC and REC would apprise States in this regard. Some of the discoms were not eligible for getting loans under the package because they were not meeting working capital limit norms under Ujwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana (UDAY). Working capital limit In August, the Union Cabinet relaxed the working capital limit norms for discoms under UDAY to get loans as part of the liquidity infusion scheme. Under UDAY, banks and financial institutions are restricted to lend working capital up to 25% of a discom’s revenue in the previous year. Besides, discoms can get loan under the package against the receivables from State governments to clear their dues. But some discoms did not have headroom under both the provisions.
13 September 2020||new delhi,||Singapore Convention on Mediation comes into force||The Singapore Convention on Mediation came into force on Saturday and will provide a more effective way for enforcing mediated settlements of corporate disputes involving businesses in India and other countries that are signatories to the Convention. Also known as the United Nations Convention on International Settlement Agreements Resulting from Mediation, this is also the first UN treaty to be named after Singapore. “With the Convention in force, businesses seeking enforcement of a mediated settlement agreement across borders can do so by applying directly to the courts of countries that have signed and ratified the treaty, instead of having to enforce the settlement agreement as a contract in accordance with each country’s domestic process,” an official statement said on Saturday. The harmonised and simplified enforcement framework under the Convention translates to savings in time and legal costs, which is important for businesses in times of uncertainty, such as during the current COVID-19 pandemic, the statement issued by Singapore’s Ministry of Law said. As on September 1, the Convention has 53 signatories, including India, China and the U.S. According to the statement, the Convention, which entered into force on Saturday, would boost India’s ‘ease of doing business’ credentials by enabling swift mediated settlements of corporate disputes. ‘Cross-border disputes’ “Businesses in India and around the world will now have greater certainty in resolving cross-border disputes through mediation, as the Convention provides a more effective means for mediated outcomes to be enforced,” it said. Singapore had worked with the UN Commission on International Trade Law, other UN member states and non-governmental organisations for the Convention.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Has economic slowdown hit EPFO earnings?||The story so far: In March, the Central Board of Trustees (CBT) of the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) had recommended an 8.5% interest payout to members for FY20. At a meeting earlier this month, the CBT reiterated its recommendation, after a review, to the Centre. The payout would comprise 8.15% interest based on income from debt instruments and the balance 0.35% would be credited from the sale of a part of its investments in exchange traded funds (capital gains), subject to their redemption by December 31. The CBT also recommended that such capital gains be accounted for as income on an exceptional basis for 2019-20. Where does the EPFO invest to generate returns? The EPFO uses its corpus (estimated at Rs. 13 lakh crore-Rs. 14 lakh crore in the last fiscal) to earn income from investments in debt instruments and equities. Investment in equities is capped at 15%. The remaining funds are invested in debt. The debt component helps the EPFO earn fairly predictable returns, while the equity component has risks associated with fluctuations in the stock market. Based on the EPFO’s earnings for the year, the CBT recommends in March an interest rate at which the payouts can be made. The final decision is notified by the Ministry of Labour. What changed this time around? At the CBT meeting in early March, the earnings for 2019-20 were discussed. Debt component expectations were more or less fixed and were in the range of Rs. 58,000 crore-Rs. 59,000 crore. The ETF disinvestment process was expected to result in estimated capital gains of Rs. 3,000 crore. The interest rate recommendation, of 8.5%, was arrived at based on the estimated earnings. Typically, ETF dilution would have begun thereafter. But by the middle of March this year, equity markets were in free fall as the COVID-19 pandemic triggered a global selloff. It became clear that the anticipated earnings from ETF dilution could not be realised at the time. At a meeting of the CBT’s Finance, Investment and Audit Committee (FIAC), which took place later in March, it was decided that the equity dilution would be put on hold until the stock markets recovered. With the recent improvement in market conditions, the FIAC met again, followed by a meeting of the CBT. It was clear that the debt component had earned Rs. 58,000 crore. What remained was the equity component. The CBT recommended that the debt component, or the returns that were already in hand, would facilitate a payout at 8.15%. The earnings from ETF dilution were projected at Rs. 2,700 crore. So, the CBT decided to retain its recommendation of 8.5%, of which 0.35 percentage points would be realised based on the sale of equity. This sale could happen any time now, depending on how the market performs, but within December 31. Once the dilution takes place and it becomes clear that returns were indeed as anticipated, the CBT would convey the same to the Labour Ministry, and from thereon to the Finance Ministry. On approval, the interest rate would then be notified. Will EPFO make the payouts in two instalments? No. For now, there is no decision to make payment in two instalments, according to a member of the CBT. Whenever the ETF dilution takes place, within this calendar year, the interest payout is set to happen in one shot. Can the situation change? It could, but seems unlikely as of now. For example, if the stock market collapses again, and if the ETF dilution does not bring in the expected returns, the 0.35% part of the interest rate may get reduced. However, the CBT member said currently there is nothing the Board foresees that could endanger the returns.  Based on the EPFO’s earnings for the year, the Board recommends in March an interest rate at which the payouts can be made. The final decision is notified by the Ministry of Labour
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||CPCL targets improvements to margins||State-owned refiner Chennai Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (CPCL) , which posted a loss of Rs. 2,078 crore in FY20, has planned several initiatives for the current fiscal to improve its operational performance, said a top official. CPCL posted a pre-tax profit of Rs. 430 crore in the first quarter following improvement in crude prices though product margins continued to remain below the economic level and demand was only 70-75% of the normal. “We expect the demand to significantly improve by Q3 of FY21,” Chairman S.M. Vaidya told shareholders at the annual general meeting. “CPCL has initiated many measures to improve profitability and reduce operating costs and with good physical performance combined with these new measures, we are confident of better financial performance in the current fiscal,” he said. As part of measures to improve margin realisation, a naphtha splitter was being installed in crude unit II to split the naphtha into light and heavy grades. “This initiative will improve margin realisation of naphtha through exports and also help to consume part of the production within India as also contribute to improve the company’s gross refining margin,” Mr. Vaidya said. CPCL had also initiated action to manufacture low sulphur fuel oil, which has a better margin compared to other products. It also plans to raise hexane output from 20,000 MT to 36,000 MT per year during 2021-22 and later scale it up by an additional 15,000 MT per year in the near future. These efforts were expected to improve profitability by about Rs. 90 crore per year. Higher production of Lube Oil Base Stock (LOBS) products would also increase CPCL’s profitability, as margins from LOBS are quite high, he added.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Infra development imperative to revive economic activity’||Engineering conglomerate Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (L&T) recently completed divestment of its electrical and automation (E&A) business to Schneider Electric for Rs. 14,000 crore. The company is also planning to divest or dilute certain concession businesses as part of the strategic review of its business portfolio, said CEO and MD S.N. Subrahmanyan in an interview. Edited excerpts:  Recently, L&T divested its electrical and automation (E&A) division. What next? We keep conducting a strategic review of our business portfolio from time to time and take a call on the basis of consistent, long-term planning process. As per this, we may divest or dilute certain concession businesses such as L&T Metro Rail (Hyderabad) and Nabha Power Ltd. What will you do with the sale proceeds of the E&A deal? We are in the middle of an unprecedented pandemic which has caused considerable uncertainty to business during the past five months. In such times, it is necessary to strengthen the balance sheet and stay adequately liquid. Accordingly, the sale proceeds will be utilised partly for deleveraging the consolidated debt and also to strengthen the liquidity buffer warranted by the current economic environment. As business conditions improve post-COVID-19, some of the equity unlocked by the divestment will also be invested for growing the business at the group level. A certain part will also be used to reward our stakeholders. Has normalcy returned to business? As the country unlocks, means of transport open, supply chains resume and labour returns, operations at about 90% of our project sites and all manufacturing facilities have resumed and are gradually moving into normality. We remain positive. How many guest workers have returned to work? Pre-pandemic, we had around 2.7 lakh labourers on our rolls. This came down to 70,000 by end-May when the lockdown was lifted. Most of the labourers and workers went back to their villages and towns. But, we have all the reasons to be positive now as about 2.2 lakh are back on our rolls and most of the sites are back to more or less normality. The amount of steel and cement we are purchasing is going up and that indicates better progress. Have you started getting new business? Infrastructure development is imperative to revive economic activity, create employment and infuse more liquidity into the system. Additionally, funded projects by the World Bank, Japan International Cooperation Agency and Asian Development Bank, among others, should start moving faster. We are, therefore, optimistic that sectors such as hospitals, power transmission and distribution, water, railways, roads, renewable energy and defence will start showing greater traction. Digital is the buzzword these days. How is L&T readying for this fourth industrial revolution? Over the last few years, L&T has deliberately and slowly enhanced its technology footprint and is charting a course in recent years that will see its technology portfolio increase its contribution vis-a-vis its traditional businesses. In 2014-15, the world was seeing a tectonic shift with digital technologies. These emerging technologies were creating new processes, new business models and entirely new businesses. Digitalisation and digital transformation were sweeping the business world. L&T was seeing and experiencing this first-hand from the clients of IT services companies. [We] saw the opportunity of digital as twofold. First, to digitally transform its own operations and use these new technologies to get better at what it was already doing well; and second, to look at digital as a new business opportunity that could shape its future portfolio. L&T started doing both and it acted swiftly with determination.  The E & A sale proceeds will be utilised partly for deleveraging the consolidated debt and to strengthen the liquidity buffer warranted by the current economic environment
13 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Non-life insurers get a boost on robust health cover demand||Health insurance products that are seeing an accelerated demand, amid a raging pandemic, remained a positive influence on the overall performance of non-life insurers in August, too, even as motor segment stays in the slow lane. Provisional data from insurance regulator IRDAI shows non-life insurers, who also include two specialised insurers, have posted a 10.4% year-on-year increase in gross direct premium to Rs. 17,623.3 crore in August. Among them, standalone health insurers emerged star performers with a 36.4% increase to Rs. 1,462.9 crore. General insurers’, who also issue health covers, gross direct premium grew 5.6% to Rs. 13,139.6 crore. Max Bupa Health Insurance MD and CEO Krishnan Ramachandran said COVID-19 had acted as a catalyst for increased awareness of health insurance. “We have seen significant uptick in business in recent months due to an increase in demand for health insurance. Since May, we have seen strong retail growth, driven by the significant increase in purchase of indemnity plans, and due to the fact that we are able to sell and serve our customers end-to-end digitally,” he said. Max Bupa posted 39% growth in August. From 27% in March, the share of health insurance business in the insurance market had moved to 30% in July, said IRDAI Member Non-Life T.L.Alamelu. For the period till August this fiscal, non-life insurers reported a 3.5% growth to Rs. 73,965 crore While standalone health insurers’ gross direct premium increased 25.9% to Rs. 6,269 crore in the five months, general insurers’ growth was flat at Rs. 62,669 crore.
13 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Jewellery exports slump 42% in Aug.||Gem & Jewellery exports from India posted a year-on-year decline of 42% to $1,764.06 million in August 2020, from a year earlier. However, showing signs of recovery during the lockdown period, the sector’s exports rose significantly in August compared with the $36 million seen in April. “The recovery is due to growth in demand for diamonds and jewellery in international markets like U.S., China and Europe, which have opened for trade,” the Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) said. Colin Shah, chairman, GJEPC, said in a statement, “We are optimistic, as several countries are now open for trade. We have witnessed initial signs of recovery from markets like the U.S., China, Europe and export orders have seen a steady rise month-on-month over the last 4-5 months.”
13 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Overseas business helps security firm SIS India||When several COVID-19 and global recession-hit Indian companies are seen downsizing their loss-making international operations or restricting investments, Security and Intelligence Services Ltd. (SIS India), a leading security services company, has found its international operations to be a hedge. “Our international business, which accounts for 40% of the total revenue, has been a great investment,” Rituraj Sinha, Group MD, said in an interview. “The international market has been less impacted [during this crisis].” Of the Group’s total revenue of Rs. 8,500 crore in FY20, the international businesses contributed Rs. 3,500 crore. “In the context of Corona, it is a lesson for all of us. India is a growth economy but the economy has become extremely volatile,” he said. Volatile situation He said India is heading for a projected contraction of 5% in 20-21 compared with 7 to 8% growth a few years ago. “This kind of volatility [in the $2.5 to $3 trillion Indian economy] is unprecedented. “But, Australia and New Zealand are less impacted in terms of health and economy.” He said governments in those countries were very forthcoming to help businesses such as SIS, which helped in creating jobs. “Those governments provide incentives, employment-support scheme, payroll benefit scheme and business-wise it is good.” SIS is now Australia’s largest private security provider with a 20% market share. The company has set up bases in New Zealand and Singapore, where it is the third largest player.
13 September 2020||MUMBAI,||MFIs must build capital buffers, says Reserve Bank||As COVID-19 is likely to pose financial risks for microfinance institutions (MFIs), there is a need to build capital buffers and manage cash positions for microlenders to protect their balance sheets from any disruptions, according to an article published in RBI’s monthly bulletin. The article, by Snimardeep Singh of Department of Supervision, Reserve Bank of India, said though COVID-19 presents significant financial risks for the microfinance sector, it also presents an opportunity to build long-term resilience. “Going forward, building capital buffers and managing liquidity would be crucial for MFIs in fortifying their balance sheets against COVID-19 led disruptions,” it said. ‘Biggest tail-risk event’ The article termed COVID-19 as the biggest tail risk event in a long time. Owing to disruptions in supply chain and business operations, loss of livelihoods and consequent drop in household incomes is highly likely, it said. “Non-banking financial company microfinance institutions, which extend collateral-free loans to low-income groups, are particularly exposed to credit risks in this scenario.” The article said repayment rates had dropped significantly, posing liquidity risks to MFIs.
13 September 2020||MUMBAI,||ICRA raises Yes Bank’s debt ratings||Credit rating agency ICRA has upgraded the ratings for various debt instruments of Yes Bank following ‘an improved liquidity position’. “The upgrade factors in the capital raise of Rs. 15,000 crore in July, which has resulted in an improvement in the [bank’s] capital ratios. The ratios are now comfortably above the regulatory levels,” ICRA said on the rationale behind the rating upgrade. “The upgrade also factors in the improvement in the bank’s liquidity position after the stability and subsequent increase in its deposit base,” it added.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Royals hope to rise again on Ashes heroes’ wings||After Shane Warne scripted a fairytale in the IPL’s inaugural edition, the title has not returned to Jaipur. Twelve years later, and more than 2,000km away from home, Rajasthan Royals is looking to another tactician from Australia to lead from the front. Steve Smith showed he could make a difference to the side when he was handed the captain’s armband towards the end of Royals’ disappointing campaign last year. The team played better, he batted better. The Royals management must be relieved that he has recovered from a concussion during Australia’s current tour of England. Jos Buttler holds the key to the Royals batting. The explosive England opener could only play eight games last year, but smashed 311 runs (at a strike rate of 151.7). Buttler’s fellow World Cup-winner Ben Stokes is likely to miss a few matches, though, as he is in New Zealand with his ailing father. Not having the services of the world’s best all-rounder, even for a few games, is a blow, especially given the fabulous form he has been in over the last year or so. He masterminded the World Cup triumph and an Ashes Test win for England with two of the greatest innings in history, within the space of six weeks. The power-hitting of David Miller should compensate for the loss of the deft touch of Ajinkya Rahane. Big sixes could also come off the blades of the dashing Sanju Samson, the seasoned Robin Uthappa and the exciting Yashasvi Jaiswal. Jofra Archer leads a fine pace line-up that includes Tom Curran, Andrew Tye, Oshane Thomas, Jaydev Unadkat, Ankit Rajpoot and Varun Aaron. The two teenaged seamers, Kartik Tyagi and Akash Singh, could take inspiration from teammate Riyan Parag, who last year became the youngest to score an IPL fifty, aged just 17. Shreyas Gopal, whose googlies beat the best of batsmen in the 2019 edition, and Mayank Markande are excellent leggies, but Royals could be missing a quality finger-spinner or two on UAE’s slow wickets. New coach Andrew McDonald has his task cut out, given the side finished second from bottom last season. Revisiting scenes from 2008 in the team room may not be a bad way to start.
13 September 2020||MUGELLO,||95th pole for Lewis Hamilton||Lewis Hamilton claimed a record-increasing 95th pole position on Saturday when he outpaced Mercedes teammate Valtteri Bottas to seize the prime grid position in qualifying for Sunday’s inaugural Tuscan Grand Prix. It was the series leader and six-time champion’s seventh pole in eight races this year as Mercedes continued its dominant run to nine poles out of nine this season with an eighth consecutive front row lockout. Red Bull’s Max Verstappen was third.  Starting grid: 1st row: Hamilton (Mercedes), Bottas (Mercedes); 2nd row: Verstappen (Red Bull), Albon (Red Bull); 3rd row: Leclerc (Ferrari), Stroll (Racing Point); 4th row: Perez (Racing Point), Ricciardo (Renault); 5th row: Sainz Jr. (McLaren), Ocon (Renault).   6th row: Norris (McLaren), Kvyat (AlphaTauri); 7th row: Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo), Vettel (Ferrari); 8th row: Grosjean (Haas), Gasly (AlphaTauri); 9th row: Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo), Russell (Williams); 10th row: Nicholas Latifi (Williams), Magnussen (Haas) .
13 September 2020||NEW YORK,||Zverev stages remarkable comeback to make maiden Slam final||German fifth seed Alexander Zverev overcame a listless start to secure a thrilling 3-6, 2-6, 6-3, 6-4, 6-3 semifinal win over Spaniard Pablo Carreno Busta on Friday to reach his first Grand Slam final. He will take on Austria’s Dominic Thiem, who advanced to his second Slam final of 2020 by digging out a win over third-seeded Russian Daniil Medvedev 6-2, 7-6(7), 7-6(5). Zverev, with his back against the wall, raised his game just in time to deny the Spanish 20th seed the upset and, in doing so, secured his first career victory from two sets down. Error-prone The German looked headed for certain defeat after committing 36 errors through the first two sets but used his versatile game to pick himself up and looked like a completely different player the rest of the way. “I was actually looking at the scoreboard when I was down two sets to love and I was like ‘I can’t believe it, I am playing in the semifinal where I am supposed to be the favourite and I am down two sets to love’,” said Zverev. After Zverev levelled the match at two sets apiece, Carreno Busta took a medical time-out to have his back tended to and the German, with a sudden swagger in his step, got the break he needed in the first game before cruising home. Smooth start, but.. In the other semifinal, Thiem seized the early momentum, handily carrying the first set before Medvedev took an early lead in the second. The Australian Open runner-up converted a critical break to level the score 5-5 before the 24-year-old Russian dragged it into a tiebreak. The 27-year-old Austrian, who slipped and fell twice in the match and unfurled a string of frustrated exclamations, regained his cool to survive yet another tiebreak and clinch the affair.
13 September 2020||KOLKATA,||Ferguson keen to get back to the grind||An important component in the Kolkata Knight Riders pace battery, New Zealander Lockie Ferguson is keen to ‘get back to the grind’ again. Ferguson, who trained with the KKR squad in Abu Dhabi on Friday after completing his week-long quarantine, might showcase some new variations in the upcoming Indian Premier League (IPL). Nice little break “In my arsenal, I pack my yorkers and slower balls. But I am also working on some other variations… It was a nice little break (during the lockdown) but my body needs to adjust now from no bowling to lots of training,” Ferguson toldwww.kkr.in. Ferguson — who grew up in a sports family (father a rugby player and mother a sprinter) and competed with his elder brother in bowling fast — felt experience taught him to adapt to the T20 format. “T20 cricket is so fast-paced that you need to adjust your game and mindset. I feel I’m more ready and excited to take on those tough situations.” The 29-year-old was eager to bowl with Aussie pace ace Pat Cummins in KKR colours. Improving all the time “He (Cummins) seems to be getting better and better and he is still so young. He is a lovely guy and I am looking forward to rubbing shoulders with him.”  The presence of childhood heroes and fellow-New Zealanders, head coach Brendon McCullum and bowling coach Kyle Mills, has made Ferguson’s second season with KKR more special. “Brendon was definitely one of our heroes while growing up. After watching him do so well in the first match for KKR (in 2008), it was hard not to be a Kolkata fan. Super aggressive “He was always super aggressive (as a batsman) and I guess my bowling mirrors him in a way when it comes to aggression. I am looking forward to playing under him.” On Mills, Ferguson said, “I remember I was a young chubby pup at Auckland when I was starting out. Mills was well established in the Black Caps. I tried to rub shoulders… and learned some tricks from him. He has a really calm attitude… I am sure he has plenty to teach now.”
13 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kasparov holds Carlsen||In their first battle in 16 years. former World champion Garry Kasparov drew with current title-holder Magnus Carlsen in the second round of the Champions Showdown Chess 960 online event on Friday. Kasparov battled an inferior position in the middle game before forcing a draw in 55 moves, when only the kings and a couple of pawns remained on the board. In this 10-player round-robin event, Carlsen and Leinier Dominguez Perez led after the first day with 2.5 points from three rounds. But the talking point of the day was the return of the retired legendary Russian, considered by many in the chess world as the greatest player to have played the game. Kasparov is a special invitee for the event. Kasparov started his campaign with a win against young Iranian Alireza Firouzja, who plays under the FIDE flag. He drew the second with Carlsen before losing to fellow-Russian Peter Svidler. He shares the fourth spot, with four others, at 1.5 points. Unlike traditional chess, in Chess960 the pieces are placed randomly on the white’s home-rank by following two rules. The bishops occupy squares of different colours and the king is placed between rooks. Black’s pieces are then placed on the corresponding squares on its back-rank. The pawns retain their traditional starting rank.  The results: Third round: Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 2.5) bt Fabiano Caruana (USA, 1.5); Levon Aronian (Arm, 1) drew with Wesley So (USA, 2); Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra, 0) lost to Hikaru Nakamura (USA, 1.5); Peter Svidler (Rus, 1.5) bt Garry Kasparov (1.5); Second round: Kasparov drew with Carlsen .
13 September 2020||Kochi,||Jose Zachariah passes away||Dr. Jose Zachariah, former Kerala quartermiler and hurdler and a prominent sports medicine expert, passed away in Pala on Saturday. He was 72 and is survived by wife and two sons. Jose, who hailed from Mutholy village in Pala, was the first captain of the Calicut University athletics team and held the university record in 400m hurdles for 18 years. He later represented Kerala University. He was also the State captain at the 1976 Nationals in Pala. Jose’s athletics career was cut short following a bike accident and this made him take up sports medicine passionately. He treated some of the biggest names in Indian sport, including I.M. Vijayan, M.M. Jacob, C.V. Pappachan, Cyril C. Valloor and Lekha Thomas, at his hospital at Varapuzha in Ernakulam, helping them revive their career.
13 September 2020||LONDON,||Arsenal starts with a bang||Arsenal got its English Premier League campaign underway with a 3-0 victory at promoted Fulham in the opening game of the season on Saturday. Alexandre Lacazette fired the Gunners ahead in the eighth minute before new signing Gabriel made it 2-0 in the 49th and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang put the icing on the cake with a superb shot into the top corner.  The results:   Premier League: Fulham 0 lost to Arsenal 3 (Lacazette 9, Gabriel 49, Aubameyang 57).   Crystal Palace 1 (Zaha 13) bt Southampton 0.   La Liga: Eibar 0 drew with Celta Vigo 0 .
13 September 2020||Bengaluru:,||BFI’s financial assistance||In a decision aimed at helping basketball players who are facing financial difficulty due to COVID-19, the Basketball Federation of India (BFI) will provide a one-time assistance amount of Rs. 50,000 to players who have represented India. Players who have attended national camps but could not get selected to the Indian team will receive Rs. 25,000. The BFI has selected a total of 47 male and female players for this assistance scheme, based on employment status and medical requirements, among others.
13 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Player-turned-coach Anil Mittal passes away||Former Hyderabad cricketer and well-known coach Anil Mittal, 60, passed away on Saturday. He is survived by wife and two sons. After his playing days as pacer for Hyderabad juniors, Anil joined St. John’s Coaching Foundation in Secunderabad as a coach and was one of those who contributed in his own way when the likes of V.V.S. Laxman and Hanuma Vihari were training at the Foundation in their formative years. He was also responsible for many players from the Foundation going on to play Ranji Trophy. He was also coach of the Hyderabad under-16 team which once won the South Zone championship. HCA vice-president and founder of St. John’s CCF K. John Manoj, personal coach of Mithali Raj and a fellow member at St. John’s R.S.S.R Murthy, expressed their condolences to the family members.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||From CPL to IPL||
13 September 2020||Manchester,||Australia wins first ODI||Australia defeated England by 19 runs to win the first One-Day International at Old Trafford on Friday. World champion England, set 295 for victory, finished on 275 for nine as Australia defeated its arch-rival for just the third time in 14 ODIs. Steve Smith passes concussion test Meanwhile, star Australian batsman Steve Smith has been cleared to take part in the second ODI after passing a second concussion test on Saturday.  Smith was a late withdrawal from Friday’s first ODI after sustaining a blow on the head in the nets from a throw-down by a coaching staff member on the eve of the match.  The scores:   Australia 294/9 in 50 overs (G. Maxwell 77, M. Marsh 73, M. Wood 3/54, J. Archer 3/57) bt England 275/9 in 50 overs (S. Billings 118, J. Bairstow 84, A. Zampa 4/55, J. Hazlewood 3/26).   Australia won by 19 runs and leads three-match series 1-0.   Second match: Sept. 13 (Sunday), 5.30 p.m. IST .
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 06:18 IST,||Sudoku - September 13, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The cactus collector||Four years ago, E. Balakrishnan planted a few cacti in his terrace garden among other common house-plants. But little did the sexagenarian from Kozhikode in Kerala know that the thorny beauties would captivate him. He started potting cuttings of cacti varieties gathered from local sources. Gradually, his collection grew. Today, his cactus garden boasts over 2,500 individual plants comprising more than 200 different species, many of which are imported ones. “There is something about cacti that fascinates me. This enthusiasm was fired up once I started learning more about the plant to beautify my garden,” says Balakrishnan who runs a printing press. He maintains the plants on the terrace of his house and press. While Mammillaria , a bulbous ornamental variety that is a popular house-plant, are aplenty, rarer ones such as Euphorbia abdelkuri damask , Copiapoa and Euphorbia trigona (also known as African milk tree) find pride of place on his terrace. Balakrishnan, a native of Thiruthiyad, says he sourced many of the imported varieties through eBay from nurseries afar. “For instance, I brought in the pinkish-bodied Euphorbia from Brazil, while the small-sized Copiapoa came from New Zealand. I collected many other species from Thailand, Japan, and Indonesia. It’s a rather expensive hobby,” he says with a laugh. A few “crested” varieties of the thorny plant too adorn his garden. Balakrishnan acknowledges the goodwill of other gardeners in his hometown who have been happy to contribute to his collection. He propagates the plants himself through grafting, while some species are easily grown from stem cuttings. “I rarely use seeds for propagation since seed development is not conducive in this blow-hot-and-cold Kerala climate, which otherwise facilitates good growth,” he says. Balakrishnan says it is helpful that cacti demand less attention, unlike many other ornamental plants. “I water them only once a week or so. Cacti are quite resilient. Though they need less water, it is important to ensure that there is no water retention or stagnation in the pot, which may damage the plant,” he points out. He has also erected a rain shelter on the terrace. The 65-year-old, however, checks on them every day, mainly for worms. “I water the plants only after the medium or surface is dry. Cacti need a bit of sunlight but overexposure is not advisable. Depending on the growth, I prune them once in a while. In any case, cacti do not tend to grow too large,” he says, adding that he uses cow dung powder as fertiliser. Balakrishnan says sometimes maintenance of the garden becomes a family affair, with his wife, Devi, and sons Rahul and Gokul, lending a helping hand.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Four degrees of separation||“The hardest thing to do was to perform while we were in our comfort zones and to take care of 50 other aspects beyond just acting,” says Kubbra Sait, referring to working on the new Amazon Prime series Wakaalat From Home . Kubbra is one of the four actors in the comedy web series which launched on September 10 on Amazon Prime Video. The Hindi-language story follows couple Sujin Kohli and Radhika Sen — played by Sumeet Vyas and Nidhi Gupta respectively — going through the highs and lows of a divorce proceeding over Zoom. Yes, there are lawyers present and, no, it is not as depressing as some may think. Directed by Rohan Sippy ( Bluffmaster!, Kuch Naa Kaho, and Dum Maaro Dum ), the series was filmed during the initial months of the lockdown. “What was so liberating about Radhika is that she is so expressive,” says Nidhi, adding that actors could also be useful hair-and-makeup artistes. Nidhi had cut her own hair to portray her character’s psychological upheaval. “I couldn’t cut the length though for the sake of continuity, so I decided to cut my bangs. Rohan’s initial reaction was like ‘are you sure, what if it goes wrong?’ which was quite sweet, but he was excited,” she adds. Lawyer up Kubbra, whom we have seen in Sacred Games , says that the reality of the series reminded her to be thankful in a time of uncertainty for many actors, owing to productions halting during the pandemic. “When you are able to disconnect from the reality of our world and delve into a fictional show based on an ‘urgh’ topic, it’s really all credit to the writing. We all were contributing and collaborating too and for the one-and-a-half months working on the show, we became a close-knit family,” she laughs. Gopal Datt is full of excitement when describing his character Lobo Tripathi, a lawyer with a shelf-load of eccentricities bound to make audiences laugh. He says it was a no-brainer to join Wakaalat From Home given his respect for Anubhav Pal, the series writer, whom he calls a “genius”. Gopal has also worked with Rohan on The Office (India). “Knowing each other made it easy for the project to come together. My character is crazy but really well-written. My character in The Office was sanskaar , but in Wakaalat From Home, he is wacky even though he is a lawyer.” Improv chops The energy of the story was kept alive through balance of comedy and meaningful moments, Gopal adds. He explains that his theatre background has been incredibly helpful during this unusual filming time. “Rohan wanted to shoot it in one go and wanted us to think of it as a play to retain the spontaneity and the energy. If you are from theatre, you know how to handle forgetting lines and so on. Luckily, we are all from theatre.” The three actors agree that filming within the dimensions of a single screen offered new but welcome challenges for them. Rather than considering it to be limiting, the video-chat technique opened a new horizon. Nidhi, particularly, enjoyed the unusual set. “Rohan and Anubhav endorse freedom for their actors that way,” she says, adding, “Because the characters and we were at home, the everyday ‘comedies’ such as prepping food and cleaning can be seen. So there was interesting and creative layering there. The greatest joy is when, as an actor, you have a director who lets you juice a scene and run wild with your ideas.”  Season 1 ofWakaalat From Homeis streaming on Amazon Prime Video.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Where is the treasure?||A trilingual film titled Srishti , made by four Hyderabad-based film students has been selected for the Mumbai Film Festival organised by the Mumbai Academy of Moving Image (MAMI) under the ‘India Story’ category this year. The category presents new Indian feature films of merit and provides a platform for promotion and networking possibilities. This section of the MAMI Mumbai Film Festival focuses on diversity and bringing quality films from across the country.  Shristi is a dark tale about Neerav, a photographer fighting the odds to display his photos in an art gallery; but he is forced to experience a series of unfortunate events and his world comes crumbling down. Neerav, trying to live his everyday life, takes up a job in a dumpyard. People there are on a treasure hunt for a lost Bitcoin hard disk. Matters spiral down after Neerav photographs a kid’s death for a fundraiser. Written and directed by Paul Ratnaraz, the film was initially conceived as a short. Then, the idea came up during a casual discussion between Paul and the director of photography of the movie, Karthik Parmar. Paul shares, “After listening to the narration, Karthik insisted that I develop it as a feature film. He followed it up with me on developing the script until I said I was on it.” While Paul was busy writing and developing the story, Karthik finalised the crew, bringing on board his friends from a film institute who were hungry to work on something creative. Says Karthik, “As freshers, when we approach any production house with an idea or story, we are asked about the commercial gains. However, we wanted to make a film to tell a story and explore the craft to its fullest.” Executive producer Dinesh Yadav is a graduate from Flame University, Pune (Film & TV majors), Karthik Parmar and Abhimanyu Kumar are graduates from Annapurna Film School, Hyderabad. While Abhimanyu and Hari Shankar are editors, Rohan Singh is the production designer for the film. Paul says, “As a film buff, cinema has become my escape from reality and nothing felt more interesting than creating a film. I had worked as a writer and DoP, on various indie shorts, documentaries, and music videos earlier, so the team had confidence in me.” Choosing character actors As the film was shot mostly in Kolkata, the team picked actors from the city. “We are all in the same age group; for all of us in the team, it was our first project. So we selected character actors, apart from one veteran Bengali actor,” says Mathew Kilari, the producer of the film. The team made Kolkata their home because major chunks were to be shot at a dumpyard there. “No amount of set designing could have got us the real feel of a place like that where people work under harsh conditions,” feels Dinesh. The team is waiting to send the movie to other international festivals once it is screened at MAMI. “Due to the COVID-19 lockdown, most of the festivals are cancelled this year, so we are excited about next year’s screening,” says Dinesh.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Tales from Shivapore||Great novels have mapped out the interplay between historical forces and the lives of individuals, shown how political sins of commission and omission come down the lanes of time to devastate the lives of ordinary citizens. In these compressed times it may be possible to tell one such story in the space of a few hundred words. Millennia-old tradition There was once a Prime Minister in the time known as the 1980s. This man, let’s call him Pappu da Pappa (PdP), like the mafia have capo dei capi (boss of bosses, bhai of bhais). Now, PdP was ill-equipped to rule the country (nowhere near as ill-equipped as one or two who followed him, but still pretty bad) and he made several terrible mistakes during his tenure. The biggest one was to open the locked doors of a disputed religious site. Another biggie was to side with reactionary leaders of a religious minority over the matter of justice for a divorced woman. Both these were done to protect different vote banks. A less noticed mistake was made in order to keep America happy: in line with the Reagan administration’s definition of marijuana as a ‘hard drug’, in 1985 PdP’s government criminalised the use of ganja and charas, while protecting the manufacture and consumption of bhang. What PdP should have done is shown some atmanirbharta and nirbhay-ta , told the Reagan gang to go take a hike, and protected our millennia-old tradition of ganja consumption. Instead, cannabis became illegal and the following happened: 1. the use of ganja continued but it became much more expensive 2. this led to the introduction of far more dangerous drugs which had hitherto not seen much traction in the country, resulting in widespread addiction to brown sugar and the like 3. just as the poor suffer the most under alcohol prohibition, turning to toxic brews, here too the urban poor were the worst affected by the new drugs. However, the most dangerous drug released under PdP’s watch was majoritarian religious fundamentalism. Coupled with the unbridled capitalism let loose by PdP’s successors, this brought the republic into the maws of destruction within 25 years, creating a critical shock for its democratic immune system and putting humanity, civility and decency into the ICU under a deep coma. Cut to the present. Just as the worsening environmental crises mean that nature goes into deep distress, the growing social crisis in the country adds to mental health issues, especially among younger people. One such young man was a talented actor working in the film industry in a city by the sea. One day he was tragically found dead by suicide. Instead of starting a much-needed discussion on mental health, the young man’s death became a trigger for multiple poisons to start seeping out of the pores of our seriously ill society. Narcotic mixture Criminally cynical news anchors and their media channels saw the suicide as a TRP bonanza. Politicians now occupying the top posts in this fictitious country saw a great way to distract from their incompetence in dealing with the disasters the country was facing. They decided that this death could be leveraged to win State elections in another part of the country and simultaneously make the party running the government in the city by the sea look bad. And so, the circus began. First the rumour was solidified on air — this was not suicide but murder! Or, at least, it was abetment to suicide, which is tantamount to murder! Motive? Why, embezzlement and money-laundering, of course! One by one, the country’s major investigative agencies, the ones that are supposed to be tackling the big crimes, descended upon the dead man’s apartment and began to put his grieving partner through the wringer. Previous governments had misused these agencies, but the people now in charge took this to a whole new level — imagine the equivalent of the American FBI, the Internal Revenue Service, and the Drug Enforcement Administration all proving themselves be nothing more than vengeful private militias of the top bosses in the country’s capital. Imagine these private militias showing themselves to be working in a close dance with captive TV channels, which are the government’s propaganda arms. In sequence, when the top criminal investigative agency found no trace of foul play, the story was changed on the TV channels and the economic crimes wing was brought in. When they found no trace of financial wrongdoing, the channels changed tune and the national drug detectives came in. Finally, they claimed to have found around 50 grams of cannabis — remember, in this fictitious country cannabis is regarded as Shiva’s prasad as much as bhang is — and for possessing these 50 grams they arrested the dead man’s partner, her brother and various others. As the farce continues, we the consumers of this story, continue to watch agog, lapping up every byte of the narcotic mixture of lies that is fed to us.  Instead of starting a much-needed discussion on mental health, the young man’s death became a trigger for multiple poisons to start seeping out of the pores of our seriously ill society
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The joy of eating||I remember very little of my grandfather. In every evocation of my childhood, his face dims into a blur, my memory smoothing the reticulation of wrinkles on his face and turning it into a misty suggestion. Other things about him, I do remember. A tall man, whippet-thin and blade-tongued. I remember his strident voice, heavy with the weight of a lifetime spent in a small-town cotton mill in Gujarat. I remember the way he looked at me, his first grandchild, with a smile as wide as the sunset. I remember my name typed under the photograph of a little girl, framed and set above the dining table. It hung there for years and years, yellowing with age long after he had gone. I was his little bakalyu , he was my beloved dada . Most of all, I remember the joy he drew from eating. He was a man of prodigious appetites. I remember his breakfasts — scrambled eggs, hot and creamy, made with lots of eggs and lots of butter. Sometimes there was pora pao — a slab of garlicky-gingery omelette stippled with green chillies, onion and green mango with flecks of coriander tousled in; all fried in butter and folded into a pao. The pora was made with three eggs at least, and sometimes it was wrapped into ghaoon ni rotli (wheat roti) — either way, he ate it voraciously with both hands, in a sort of private orgy of delight. Sometimes, there would be boi fish, fried and eaten, sometimes akuri. On winter mornings, there was a splodge of vasanu (a spicy savoury breakfast fudge, rumoured to impart strength on wintry mornings) or eeda pak (a kind of savoury almond fudge). Most people would take a spoonful. My grandfather would take four. This was usually accompanied by doodh na puff that was once, by necessity, a winter dish. Bapaiji, my grandmother, would boil fresh, sweet milk the evening before, leaving it to cool overnight on the kitchen window, in a dekchi covered with mulmul. The next morning, she would whip the dew-soaked cream that had risen to the top into a bone-white lather, then scoop it into glasses and feed everyone with holiday abandon. Delicious deliveries Quite often, there was also malai pao. When my grandfather was a strapping young man and my father a little lad, trays and trays of laadi pao would stride in every morning on a train from Valsad. My father and his brother and my bapaiji would wait at the station for the delivery, my kaka (uncle) especially ravening with excitement for the sleeves of fresh-baked bread (each pao was pimpled with a little puff on its browned roof) that he brought home, mutinously eating one on the way. Then, back home, bapaiji would skim spoonfuls of cream off the top of a basin of freshly-boiled milk, bring out great big bowls in which the malai, pearl-coloured and glinting with sugar, settled in its little puddle of milk like silt in a pond. Dada would tear off a chunk of the pao, tracing its rim round the soggy edge of the bowl, and scoop it into his mouth. Even afterwards, when my grandfather retired and they moved to Mumbai and the world tilted this way and that around their axes, there was malai pao on the breakfast table. There was always malai pao. Like many Parsis of his time, my grandfather’s table was a parade ground of meat — the tongue of goat burrowing under a mound of masoor (split red lentils); sweetbreads shrouded in caramelised onion; plate after plate of bhujan, the meat stewed to bursting over a charcoal fire; its gravied cousin, khurchan; sali marghi, chicken in an apricot-swirled gravy, its surface craggy with potato matchsticks deep fried to shattering crispness; pan fried boi, its skin incised with turmeric and chilli powder; papri ma gos, a mound of mutton, its tawniness abraded by earthy papri (broad beans). Much of this was village food, rugged and homey; village kitchens always seemed to send out the most tantalising clouds. But the thing we talk about the most was his propensity for ice cream; the ice cream, lifted out of the icebox (and later the refrigerator), was always eaten out of soup plates! He simply couldn’t have enough of it. Twenty years after he passed away, we still marvel at it.  The independent writer-editor has a focus on food, travel and death metal.  Sometimes there was pora pao, a slab of garlicky-gingery omelette stippled with green chillies, onion and green mango; all fried in butter and folded into a pao
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Offerings to the queen of time||The disciple, friend and reclusive philosopher, departed first. The guru, the guide, the celebrity, followed in little more than a week, slightly reversing the order. Mukund Lath, singer, painter, Sanskritist, historian of Indian music and musicology, moral philosopher of the Mahabharata , art collector, and above all, poet-thinker ( kavir maniishii ), passed away on August 6. Within 11 days, Pandit Jasraj, who had taught Hindustani classical music to Mukund for at least five decades, breathed his last, 10 years short of a century. Close friends, they were also guru-bhais because both had sat at the feet of Pandit Maniram, Jasraj- ji ’s eldest brother. That double epithet kavi-maniishii is applied to the supreme Isha who dwells in and clothes and perfumes all that changes in this whirling world, à la the first verse of the Isha Upanishad . While a deadly virus plays havoc by making an unsocial ‘distancing’ from one another globally mandatory, that first verse continues to teach us how to enjoy by giving up. Mukund left this earth just in time before not sitting close to one’s teacher — un-Upanishad — became the new normal. Pandit Jasraj had initiated the brilliant adolescent Mukund into a gaana-yajna , which was simultaneously the art of offering away one’s intellectual/ academic ego, one’s vocal breath rising from one’s navel, and one’s emotional energy — all into the all-consuming mother of all flames: Maataa Kaalikaa. That first verse of the Isha Upanishad changed the life trajectory of Debendranath Tagore, the prodigal-merchant-turned-contemplative-saint father of Rabindranath. And it urges us to enjoy and suffer the beauty and the riches, the viruses and the vicissitudes of this world, by means of “sacrifice”. The last sacrifice is the offering up of one’s bodily life at the altar of Time, who reveals himself as “decimator of people” in the 11th chapter of the Bhagavad Gita . That most famous song sung and recorded by Jasraj- ji , which I first heard in Mukund’s voice, calls Kali the Mother “the great queen of Time the great” ( Mahakala Maharani ), opening with an arduous ascent in raga Adana and always finding a triplicate repose in the mantric repetition of bhavaani, bhavaani, bhavaani . Dark mother In 1898, sitting in a house-boat on Dal Lake in Kashmir, Swami Vivekananda invoked the same “Thou ‘Time’ — the all-destroyer dark Mother” in his classic poem ‘Kali the Mother’. Some phrases of this poem are fatefully relevant now in the pandemic-stricken world. The mother is addressed as one who comes “scattering plagues and sorrows ”. “Who dares misery love... to him the Mother comes” wrote that Buddha-like, tender-hearted, cyclonic monk who sacrificed his life to relieve the suffering of the sick, the poor, and the downtrodden. Fusion between the devotional raga Durga and the festive spring scale Bahar resulted in Jasraj- ji ’s invented raga Bhavani Bahar. The lyrics of the bandish that you can hear Jasraj- ji sing in this raga on YouTube were composed by Mukund: saanvari salone kaanh, un hii se laagyo dhyaan .  The focus here seems to shift from dark Mother Time to a dark lover lad of Vrindavana who seduces by his heart-stealing looks. Mukund and I used to savour Aurobindo’s poetic commentary on this civilisational fluidity between Kali and Krishna in the poem ‘Who’: “We have love for a boy who is dark and resplendent, A woman is lord of us, naked and fierce.” But Jasraj- ji was at his Upanishadic best when he sang the Islamic bhajan “ Mero Allah meherbaan ” in raga Bhairav. For decades now we have heard his Advaita Vedantic Sanskrit song Chidaananda Ruupah Shivoham Shivoham side by side with his Krishna song, ‘Notorious in Vraj is this butter-thief, who stole the clothes of the girls of Vraj, and steals the hearts of hermits.’ But when he addresses god as the lord, Maalik , and says “Amazing is this universe of yours, Master, some know and some do not know/ Those who knowingly know it, indeed, do not know… Those who are immersed in ecstasy do know,” ( Ajab teri duniyaa maalik — bandish in Darbaari) he effortlessly echoes the Kena Upanishad.  I started by claiming that Mukund was taught gaana-yajna , which is not just a pun on the Bhagavad Gita’s word jnaana-yajna . Whatever “fruit” of international fame he earned by his stupendously scholarly work on Dattilam , the 2000-year-old Sanskrit text on the theory of music, or by his translations of Prakrit and Sanskrit poetry, or by his work on moral dilemmas ( dharma-sangkata ) in the Mahabharata , or by his rendition of the first Indian autobiography (16th century), Half a Tale , Mukund renounced by offering it up to his poetry and painting, where the unsaid rules over what is said. He gave up the most brilliant research results — how many of us know that the expression sawaai in titles like Sawaai Gandharv or Sawaai Jai Singh meant one-and-a-quarter? — with a resonant laugh and a musical hand gesture of a sliding ( meedr ) swara-offering to the universal fire of egoless search for truth and beauty. Singular seer Although the teacher and the taught took their leave of us together, and one imagines them doing riyaaz together again in some empyrean baithak , to get ready for another Bhairavi rendering of the unique Niranjanii Naaraayani song, friends and family who knew the warm-hearted Mukund also knew that he preserved a profound solitude in his heart. In his last years, he told me he wanted to go back to the Isha Upanishad . He showed me the beginnings of his Hindi translation of his teacher Srimat Anirvan’s Bengali commentary on this Upanishad. Not only does this small Upanishad use the epithets “poet/ thinker” for god, it goes on to call the Sun “ ekarshi ” — the singular seer. I could sense something solar, in this sense, in Mukund’s intellectual-imaginative self. He was a singular seer — eka rishi.  As Kumar Gandharva, Mukund’s favorite singer, used to sing, we could predict with resignation: ‘The lonesome swan shall fly away.’ I remarked that he renounced his artistic and scholarly ego through his gaana - jnaana sacrifice. But he was no ascetic. He renounced the renunciation too. Even through his excruciatingly painful terminal sickness, Mukund lived lightly and tunefully, practising the Kashmiri Shaiva motto so well phrased by Abhinavagupta in his hymn ‘Anuttaraashtikaa’:  maa kim chit tyaja/ maa grihaana/ vilasa (‘do not give up anything/ do not acquire anything/ play and have fun’) But, for all that paradoxical wisdom, I feel inconsolably lonely now that Mukund is no longer waiting for me on his Jaipur home’s bed of books with an electronic tanpura droning in the background. Having lost both Jasraj- ji ’s inebriating voice and Mukund’s immeasurably agile imagination that improvised and revitalised Indian traditions beyond the boundaries of any religion, language or ethnicity, the world feels like a plundered polis . Which thug/ bandit has ravished this city? Kaun thagwa nagariyaa lootal ho?  The writer is a professor of philosophy at Stony Brook University and visiting professor at Ashoka University.  Pandit Jasraj had initiated the brilliant adolescent Mukund into agaana-yajna, which was simultaneously the art of offering away one’s intellectual/ academic ego, one’s vocal breath rising from one’s navel, and one’s emotional energy
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The many layers of the Mahabharata||Malayalam literature has a rich tradition of interpreting and retelling the Mahabharata . If P.K. Balakrishnan’s 1973 novel Ini Njan Urangatte ( And Now Let Me Sleep ) tells the tale of Karna from Draupadi’s perspective, M.T. Vasudevan Nair places Bhima at the centre of his Randamoozham ( Second Turn , 1984). Literary and social critics, from Kuttikrishna Marar to P. Govinda Pillai, have interpreted the Mahabharata from humanist and progressive perspectives, part of a larger Indian tradition of studying the epics to unearth their humanitarian side, literary values and underlying history. V.S. Sukthankar’s Critical Edition of the Mahabharata (1927-33) is among the most comprehensive texts. Historians D.D. Kosambi, Romila Thapar and D.N. Jha have studied the Puranas to understand the historical settings of ancient India. American indologist Wendy Doniger’s 2009 book, The Hindus: An Alternative History , which rebuilds the history of Hinduism from the point of view of the forgotten, draws extensively from both epics. Building on the past Scholar, critic and writer Sunil P. Elayidom has joined this long list of Mahabharata interpreters and retellers with his latest book in Malayalam, Mahabharatham: Samskarika Charithram ( Mahabharata: Cultural History ). Elayidom, who teaches Malayalam literature at Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Kalady, has not rejected the studies or works of fiction done before him. Rather, he takes bits and pieces from them all to build a new cultural narrative. Elayidom’s book is a compilation of his Mahabharata speech series, which he delivered across Kerala from 2016 onwards. He has reworked the speeches and given references, notes and context for the book. Running into 973 pages, the book is divided into seven parts dealing with various aspects of the Mahabharata , from its text and form to its historical context and philosophy.  Elayidom, like many of his predecessor-critics, doesn’t see the Mahabharata as an unvaried religious text written by a single author. Vyasa, he writes, could be the name of a series of writers, and it took hundreds of years for the Mahabharata to take today’s written form. The epic’s oldest available written text is from the 16th century. It’s believed that the written form came into existence in the early centuries of the Common Era, perhaps a thousand years after its early versions emerged in the songs of the Sutas (the bards of Puranic stories) in the Gangetic valley. The evolution of the Mahabharata over a millennium also reflects the evolution of ancient Indian society in northern India. Elayidom traces the Aryan invasion, the strengthening of Brahminism, the rise of the Mauryas and Guptas, and the challenge from Buddhism, all in the Mahabharata . The epic’s complex narrative itself reflects its multifaceted character. It’s not the linear text of a flawless story. There are several contradictions within. While Rishi Vyasa is believed to be the creator of the Mahabharata , he is also a character in the epic. Vyasa, son of Satyavati and Parashara, is the biological father of the Kuru kings Pandu and Dhritarashtra, but they are not seen as Vyasa’s sons, rather as the medium through which the Kuru royal lineage continues. This broken bloodline can be seen in the story of the Pandavas as well. None of them are Pandu’s sons. They have two mothers and five fathers, but are still Pandavas. Kunti and Madri were allowed to get pregnant by the gods as their husband Pandu, under a curse from Rishi Kindama, was unable to consummate his union with them. Draupadi had five husbands, which would not have been acceptable in the later Brahminised Hinduism and Varnasrama Dharma. Elayidom says these instances of broken bloodlines and polyandry are examples of folk-clan traditions that existed in ancient societies. With the Aryan migration, this folk-clan tradition paved the way for a more organised priestly religion, followed by Varnashrama Dharma. Draupadi’s children do not have much relevance in the storyline. The Kuru bloodline is re-endorsed towards the end of the epic, with Janamejaya as the surviving Kuru king. He is the grandson of Abhimanyu, the son of Arjuna and Subhadra. Elayidom also sees the challenge posed by Buddhism to Hinduism in the Mahabharata . After victory in Kurukshetra, Yudhishthira is not filled with joy, but with moral anguish. Realising that Karna is his older brother, he sees that victory is defeat. Elayidom finds similarities here with the Mauryan Emperor Ashoka, who fell into sorrow seeing the destruction wrought in the Kalinga war of BCE 260. Wendy Doniger calls Yudhishthira “the Brahmanised Ashoka”. “While it re-emphasises the violence based on Varnashrama dharma against Buddhism’s ahimsa, Mahabharata is also addressing the ahimsa principle,” writes Elayidom. “Along with the Brahminical values, the Buddhist value system is also trying to raise its head in Mahabharata .” Did dharma win? No discussion of the Mahabharata is complete without the question of dharma. The war was fought in the name of dharma. Kurukshetra was called the land of righteousness ( dharmakshetra ). Every time Duryodhana went to his mother Gandhari for blessings, she said dharma would win. But Elayidom asks in the final chapters if dharma actually won in the Mahabharata . He depicts a dying Duryodhana on the battlefield, who is telling Krishna that the war was won through deceit. “Yudhishthira, a country of widows is waiting for you,” the dying king tells the victorious one. Giving the examples of the fall of Bhishma, Drona, Karna and Duryodhana, Elayidom asks, “Did dharma really win?” By offering different interpretations and versions of the Mahabharata and retelling its stories with their inherent contradictions, Elayidom is fundamentally re-emphasising the multifaceted character of the epic. He has given detailed descriptions of the folk and oral Mahabharatas that existed in India’s hinterlands, the Persian translation of the epic, Razmnama , done during the Mughal Emperor Akbar’s time, and the versions that travelled beyond boundaries. Vyasa taught the Mahabharata to his five disciples. One of them, Vaisampayana, narrates it at Janamejaya’s snake sacrifice, which is retold by Ugrashravas. This itself underlines the diversity of the Mahabharata . By emphasising this diversity and offering different interpretations, Elayidom is rejecting a single authority over the text. As he writes in the preface, “at a time when communalists make epics their weapon depots,” he is making a reading that retells the Mahabharata in all its rich diversity.  The instances of broken bloodline and polyandry in the epic are examples of the folk-clan tradition of ancient societies, says Elayidom. With the Aryan migration, this tradition paved the way for a more organised, priestly religion   Elayidom sees similarities between the Mauryan Emperor Ashoka, who fell into sorrow seeing the destruction wrought in the Kalinga war that he waged in BCE 260, and Yudhishthira after the Kurukshetra War
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||More than a thousand words||It is said that a picture paints a thousand words and if proof of this is required, Dialects of Silence:Delhi under Lockdown , a coffee table book by Parul Sharma, furnishes it. At a time when everyone was terrified and locked themselves in their homes, reminiscent of the Egyptians in the wake of the pestilence caused by Moses’ terrible curse, Sharma travelled through the length and breadth of one of the world’s largest and busiest cities to capture it in its starkness. Covering a panorama of sights from the beautiful streets and buildings of the colonial city, to the bylanes of the old city; from the terrified faces of those abandoned in the streets to the loneliness of death in the abodes of the grim reaper; from the hope of the warriors fighting this pandemic to the despair of those who fought and lost, she has seen it all. Darkness visible It is said that a photographer chooses the subject and gives vent to the unlimited options they offer. Sharma has chosen the darkest, most horrific time any of us has seen as her subject and shows it to us in ways one may not have otherwise noticed or imagined. The book displays her passion for photography, as indeed she must possess, having left a successful and profitable career in the corporate world to pursue her calling. If the hallmark of a good photographer is depth of a picture, then Sharma has excelled in this through her riveting photographs —the aerial view of Connaught Place and the majestic peepal tree of Amrita Sher-Gil Marg particularly catch the eye. If another sign of a great photographer is the ability to capture not only the face but also the soul, one only has to look at her photograph of the migrant mother with her child. While a writer or poet needs a turn of phrase to convey something, a photographer has the camera to click the whole portrait without losing nuance and detail. Two photographs, one which shows the homeless being fed with social distancing norms, and another of the CISF guard at the entrance to the Red Fort with a thermal scanner in his hand instead of the gun we have become so used to, stand out. A photographer’s skill also lies in exposing hope and despair with equal fervour. Her picture of love and lust in the city of masks as the last photograph in the book with the faces of despair in her earlier photographs tells us why the human race survives, against all odds. Beauty over despair There are, of course, a few things a critic will always find missing. There are no pictures of the hordes of people forced to put social distancing aside and find some mode of transport to get to food, shelter and security once the lockdown was announced. She zoomed in on individuals but one misses seeing pictures of the multitudes of masked despair that one saw in Delhi. While sharing the majesty of a beautiful colonial Delhi, shorn of its pollution, overpopulation and filth, it appears that Sharma has been tempted by the photographer’s desire for beauty. Perhaps her aim was to show the beauty of Delhi despite these terrible times and sacrificed some of its horrors to achieve this. It is possible that portraying such beauty gives necessary relief from the reality of the horror of the times whose exposition the book attempts. While portraying the lonely dead in the burial grounds and cemeteries bereft of mourners, one is left wondering what the expression on the faces of those who lost a loved one, a child or a parent to this modern day plague would have been. But this does not detract from Dialects of Silence being a must-have, must-see and must-see again book. Perhaps in the years to come it will remind those who have no memory of these times either due to their youth or old age that there was a time so starkly different from the Delhi we know. The reviewer is a senior advocate of the Supreme Court.  Dialects of Silence: Delhi under Lockdown  Parul Sharma  Roli Books  Rs. 2,995
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The art of letting go||We always hear of learning life skills but we rarely hear about a peace skill, one that will bring peace and tranquillity in our lives: the art of letting go. As life evolves, we move to the next level only if we let things go. It may be a habit, passion, person or thing, but we have to let go of it at the right time like a cricketer who retires with grace at the appropriate time. My friend would be heartbroken every evening ever since her son started going to school. One day, I caught her wiping her tears and when I prodded further, she came out with an extremely amusing fact. The boy was five and on returning from school, he would head straight to the nearby flat where his best friend lived. With pathos, she told me, “Last year, he used to run straight into my arms after he got down from his school bus, but look at him now he hardly cares for me.” Parents in our country find it hard to let go. We can very easily come across a 90-year-old mother telling her 70-year-old son to take an oil bath and compelling him to to eat more and more rice and rasam. She hardly realises neither the oil bath nor the rice is good for her highly diabetic and asthmatic son now. Letting go of the habits we cultivated over the years is yet another thing. The number of cigarettes that you smoked, the glasses of wine you drank or the portions of potato chips you munched as a youngster are not going to be the same in your sixties. In learning to let go of these habits lies the key to good health in your twilight years. We carry in our hearts deep-rooted anger against people who wronged us. For our own peace, we have to learn to let go of anger. Last but not the least, we have to let go of our loved ones at some point of time. Many children find it hard to let go of their parents even when they are terminally ill. Many old people are made to undergo innumerable treatments which may increase the number of days they live but not the quality of life. Bidding adieu and letting them go gracefully from this earth is another way of immense love. vijinarayan57@gmail.com
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||‘We are great competition for the tortoise in matters of change’||When you read [Dostoevsky’s] The Idiot , you’ll want to be one... Innocents are what make humankind human.” It’s a grandfather’s advice to a young Myshkin, the protagonist of Anuradha Roy’s 2018 novel, All the Lives We Never Lived , which is back in the spotlight after being shortlisted for the International Dublin Literary Award 2020. Roy is the first Indian to be shortlisted for this prestigious award, which is celebrating its 25th year. All the Lives We Never is all about innocence, its loss, and the lifelong journey to reclaim it. The novel  begins in the turbulent years before Independence, when World War II was reshaping political and geographical boundaries, when trains carrying European prisoners of war pulled into Myshkin’s small town near Dehradun. The ideals of nationalism and patriotism play out at the personal level as we follow Myshkin’s and his mother Gayatri’s search for freedom. Roy reprises her novel in this email interview: What made you set your novel in the backdrop of India’s freedom struggle? For me the most inspirational novelist who uses this technique of understanding the present through historical fiction is the Estonian Jaan Kross, whose masterpiece, The Czar’s Madman, shows obliquely the continuity of current and past oppression under tyranny. I was reading an essay by John Freeman where he writes, “We are swimming in facts, but a fact does not fully obtain the depth of a fact, the power of a fact, until it becomes part of a story.” It is a real struggle for me — for many of us — to grapple with the extreme changes in this country over the past few years. Placing myself in a past time when similar questions have played out, but very differently, was for me a way of understanding the facts of my present. The nationalism that Myshkin grew up with is different from what a generation of Indians is exposed to today. The ideals of nationalism and patriotism have been twisted beyond recognition. Do you agree? There is no doubt that those ideals have beenhorribly warped. At the same time, when I was researching this book, I was startled by the kind of venom Rabindranath Tagore attracted for not being a diehard Gandhian nationalist and for believing in individual liberty as a goal. For his more radical ideas he was called a traitor and seditionist in the same way that many are labelled now. Jingoism changes its clothing but maybe it was always inherent in traditions of patriotism. What made you choose Walter Spies, a Russian-born German artist from Bali, as the friend who helps free Gayatri? Other people like Rabindranath Tagore, Begum Akhtar, and Beryl de Zoete are part of the narrative. The magical thing about the writing of this book was how a whole world slowly started taking shape as I mulled over Myshkin’s immersion in paintings. At a museum in Bali, looking at the paintings of Walter Spies, I discovered he died on January 19, the very day my beloved old dog had recently died. I know this sounds whimsical, but it felt as if my life, the novel and Spies were connected. Slowly these ripples spread wider as I discovered Tagore had met Spies; that Beryl de Zoete, who wrote a book with Spies, had come to India to write on dance. And as I found out more about these people who lived during a fraught historical period, it felt as if the past and present were swimming in and out of each other. Tagore and Spies had much in common: a deep involvement and interest in other cultures, art; they were both incredibly gifted in many different ways. So many shackles and prejudices that Gayatri and other characters (homosexuality in the case of Spies) encounter exist even today. People tend to look down on the arts; women are still shouting for freedom; the LGBTQI+ community remains marginalised. Can you comment? Someday pretty soon, when most of the planet has either been washed away or burned away, we’ll wonder at the futility of locking up people for what they wear, write, think or eat. Until then, we are great competition for the tortoise in matters of change.  At a museum in Bali, looking at the paintings of Walter Spies, I discovered he died on January 19, the very day my beloved old dog had recently died
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The satirist who sang love songs||Oh! What a wild Oscar.” That was my first taste of K. Ayyappa Paniker’s black humour. It was 1987, and we were at the University of Kerala’s Institute of English in Thiruvananthapuram. In five short words he had explained what Oscar Wilde means when he says “I can resist anything except temptation” in Lady Windermere’s Fan.  The Ayyappa Paniker who revealed himself before me since that day was a man of many parts. Most of his students felt that he was first and foremost a teacher. For the Malayali literati, however, he was the guru of modern poets. Thinker, theoretician, critic, translator, linguist, humanist — Ayyappa Paniker was all these and more. Born to E. Narayanan Namboodiri of Periyamana Illam and Meenakshiamma on September 12, 1930, in the picturesque village of Kavalam, Paniker (whose 90th birth anniversary was observed yesterday) had always radiated the rustic charm of Kuttanad. The irony, satire and black humour in his works are meant to unravel the hypocrisy of society. As former diplomat T.P. Sreenivasan says in an article, Paniker’s black humour has no parallel in Malayalam literature. First shoots of modernism Paniker’s poem, Kurukshetram (the scene of the great battle in Mahabharata ), published in 1960, fuelled the modernist impulse in Malayalam literature. According to K. Satchidanandan, it marked a decisive departure in poetry, freely mixing meters, breaking linear structure, and expressing in fresh, sometimes surreal, images the dilemma of contemporary life (‘Modernism in Malayalam Literature’). Critics generally agree that the first indications of modernism in Malayalam can be found in the fiction of Vaikom Muhammad Basheer, especially his novel, Shabdangal (Voices, 1947), and Changampuzha Krishna Pillai’s poem Padunna Pishachu (The Devil that Sings, 1949). Then came Paniker’s Oru Surrealistinte Premaganam (The Love Song of a Surrealist, 1952) and O.V. Vijayan’s Moonnu Yudhangal (Three Wars, 1957), which showed some traits of modernism. Poets N.V. Krishna Variyar, M. Govindan and G. Kumara Pillai, and playwright C.J. Thomas are among the transitional figures of modernism in Malayalam literature. Modernism rejected the clichés of romantic Malayalam poetry on the one hand and, on the other, fought against the simplifications of the progressive poetry that parroted egalitarian principles. The usual criticism levelled against modernism that it made literature more of an experimentation with techniques than a creative articulation of socio-economic situations does not apply to Paniker’s works, especially Kurukshetram , which calls for love and action. True colours Paniker’s first collection of poems (1951-69) was published in 1974. The second (1969-81), Pakalukal Rathrikal (Days and Nights), published in 1982, was well received by academics and readers aliks. Days and Nights and Passage to America , written during his days in the West, are in a sense a subtle dialogue between the East and the West: the material and the spiritual on one hand and the eternal and the fleeting on the other. Some poems from Days and Nights look at the mass of contradictions that is modern India. In ‘The Sabarmati’ , the poet laments: “Where have they gone, Sabarmati, your fountain springs?” Clifford Endres of Kadir Has University, Istanbul, writes in his introduction to Days and Nights that “The thread binding his poems is a vision deriving from an unflinching confrontation of life in its true colours: an intuition of the reality behind realism.” Beyond formula Paniker produced three more volumes of poetry: the third volume covering 1981 to 1989, the fourth 1990 to 1999, and the fifth 2000 to 2006. The lavish use of free verse in his poems, especially during the latter part of his career, helped him do away with artificiality and formalise a pattern suited to modern idiom and the more casual tonality of Malayalam. Abandoning the prosodic units of metrical feet per line, he sought to lay emphasis on sounds, words, phrases and sentences. Paniker did not stick to any one formula for writing. His style continued to evolve till he passed away on August 23, 2006. Gotrayanam (Southbound) , Mrithyupooja (Hymn to Death), Kudumbapuranam (The Family Saga), Ivide Jeevitham (Here, Life) , and Pookkathirikkan Enikkavathille (I Can’t Help Blossoming) bear testimony to his erudition. If his poetry opened up new areas of experience, his critical works created new levels of awareness for his readers and students.  The lavish use of free verse in his poems helped him do away with artificiality and formalise a pattern suited to modern idiom and the more casual tonality of Malayalam
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Plain Tales from the Raj by Charles Allen||Charles Allen, who had for decades travelled the length and breadth of the subcontinent chronicling its history, passed away last month. In his 20-odd books, he writes mostly about India and the colonial experience; how religion shaped its society, culture and people. Allen, who was born in Kanpur on January 2, 1940, loved nothing better than to immerse himself in India’s “muddy waters, getting her dust between my toes.” In the introduction to his last book, Coromandel: A Personal History of South India , he recalls that one of his earliest memories as a child is of lurching on elephant back through a hot tropical jungle in north-eastern Assam, losing his topi (“mandatory for any white child in the sun”), and the elephant retrieving it from the forest floor and handing it back to him with his trunk. Scratch the surface Among his tomes are Soldier Sahibs, God’s Terrorists, A Mountain in Tibet, The Search for Shangri-La, Kipling Sahib and the bestselling Ashoka . In 1974, he spoke to the last of the British administrators in India for a BBC radio series which was published as a book a year later. Plain Tales from the Raj lets the British speak for themselves about the India experience. “Yes, the British Raj was a self-serving exercise in throwing national weight about,” he says in the preface to the 1999 edition, “but it was also about people and the gambles they took with their lives, their interaction with other cultures and the subsequent cross-fertilisation which continues to affect us to this day.” The radio series and the book revealed that “you only had to scratch the surface of an average British family to find any number of links with India”. Widely separated by “age, rank, occupation, geography and personal character”, the survivors remember their time in India. Their stories, “warts and all”, show that they “lived out their lives, without self-conscious regard to their times and the great events that shaped them.” In 21 chapters, Allen gives readers a slice of British life and its brush with Indian culture and the people, of the chota and burra (child and older) sahib, the memsahib (daughters and wives), the armyman, the civil servant working in all parts of the subcontinent. He tells us of the seemingly ordinary things the British did in India, how they learnt the ropes, managed the household, often setting up replica of English homes, the Club, the sojourn to the hills to escape the hot plains, the city and mofussil life, and what they felt when they had to leave. Ayah and an open door “I grew up in bright sunshine, I grew up with tremendous space, I grew up with animals, I grew up with excitement, I grew up believing that white people were superior”: every chota sahib or missy baba whose first years were spent in India would echo such sentiments, writes Allen. “The extra dimensions of India took immediate effect — first memories are of mosquito nets, ponies rather than prams, of a father ‘killing a snake in my bathroom’, of ‘nanny getting small-pox.’” For many, the first common image is of their ayah, “the open door through which contact with India was made.” Train journeys which the adults found tedious were the delight of the children. Writer and humorist Spike Milligan remembers them fondly as a “golden experience” — compared to the sights and sounds of India, England was “gloomy, dull, grey.” At the close of the 19th century, men served the Empire as a matter of course and some of the well-known British families in India were the Rivetts, Carnacs, Maynes, Ogilvies, Birdwoods, Napiers, Lawrences. The Maynes, for instance, flocked to India from 1761 and left “two graves in Darjeeling, two in Allahabad, one in Saharashtra [Saurashtra], one in Meerut, one in Bangalore, one in Achola [Akola] and another in Lucknow.” Allen talks about planters who tamed the jungles of Assam to grow tea, going up the Brahmaputra against all advice, and a pet bear who saw off intruders in an estate. “Anybody with a Celtic streak was immediately more at home in India” — thousands of Scots were not only in the civil services but also worked as engineers and planters. What caused this last generation of young men and women to strike out for India knowing that independence was going to come? Allen lists the factors — romantic, practical, even involuntary. “For all of them India had moved deep into the blood,” and many were never able to get it out of their system. The writer looks back at one classic every month.  Allen talks about planters who tamed the jungles of Assam to grow tea, and a pet bear who saw off intruders in an estate
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The Grand Old Man who fought against colonial exploitation||The idea of nationalism and its evolution in British India, undoubtedly, is among the most contested ideas in India’s contemporary political discourse. New political realities seek to overthrow long-held hegemony of the political forces who defined the ‘system’. From pages of history Against this backdrop, Dinyar Patel’s biography,  Naoroji : Pioneer of Indian Nationalism is both timely and instructive in revisiting the contribution of the early nationalists as much as those by the ‘Grand Old Man of India’. The book is not another exposition on the role of the Indian National Congress (INC) — an organisation of which Dadabhai Naoroji was a founding member — but about his remarkable individual life and those of his contemporaries who helped shaped the nationalistic movement in the late 19th and the turn of the 20th century. From setting up educational institutions for girls in mid-19th century Bombay to expounding the drain of wealth theory about how Britain impoverished her colonies to winning a parliamentary seat in Britain before finally calling for ‘Self Government under British Paramountcy’, the life of Dadabhai Naoroji is any historian’s delight. His subsequent treatise Poverty and Un-British Rule provided a definitive theoretical framework to understand the exploitative nature of colonial rule. Even before the age of 30, Naoroji had been appointed a professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy at Elphinstone College in Bombay. He had been actively associated with reformist movements, both within the Parsi community as well outside and extensively collaborated with the Bombay ‘shetias’ (wealthy businessmen) to set up reformist organisations. His collaboration with Kharshedji Nasarvanji Cama, an energetic ‘shetia’ without any formal education, led to the setting up of the Gujarati paper Rast Goftar (Truth Teller) besides knowledge dissemination societies to fight orthodoxy and superstition. Dadabhai Naoroji also set up the Parsi Lekhak Mandli (Parsi writers’ forum) and a founding member of the Parsi Natak Mandli (Dramatic Society) that set the stage for the great tradition of Parsi theatre. “Dadabhai Naoroji is a seminal figure in the history of modern India, Victorian Britain and the British Empire.... And yet Naoroji remains strangely forgotten today. In India, many people recognise the Grand Old Man as an important nationalist leader but few can pin down why he was important,” says the author, who teaches History at the University of  South Carolina. Key figure The author acknowledges that the book is an attempt to ‘restore’ the centrality of Dadabhai Naoroji to the development of modern India politics. “Gandhi summed up Naoroji’s career by anointing him as the father of the nation and a Mahatma — titles that in India today are reserved for Gandhi,” notes the author. The story of a Parsi boy, whose family had fallen into hard times and was raised by his widowed mother, fighting the odds to become a member of the British Parliament, is now being retold to shed new light on India's early nationalist experiments that “harnessed technology, international alliances and financial networks across two continents.” The author notes that Naoroji's contribution got “pronouncedly dimmed in public consciousness, overshadowed by the legacies of those nationalist leaders who finally delivered on the promise of swaraj for India.” Rich in detail and references, the book is an important contribution in understanding how India’s nationalistic politics evolved from being defined by “strictly constitutional, agitation and forbearance” in the late 19th century to Mahatma Gandhi’s non-cooperation post 1920.  Naoroji: Pioneer of Indian Nationalism  Dinyar Patel  Harvard University Press/HarperCollins  Rs. 699
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1Born on September 12, 1916, this gentleman was actually a fighter pilot who once crash landed in the desert, survived and went on to become one of the most beloved children’s authors of all time. Having never learned to type, he wrote all his 30-plus books with a pencil. Who was this giant of an author who wrote the screenplay of a James Bond movie and invented words such as ‘snozzcumbers’ and ‘snozzberries’? 2‘I am monarch of all I survey, My right there is none to dispute; From the centre all round to the sea, I am lord of the fowl and the brute.’ These are the starting lines of a poem, ‘The Solitude of Alexander Selkirk’ by William Cowper. This was based on the real life story of Selkirk, who was a Scottish Naval Officer. What book did it inspire that has multiple film adaptations including one where a FedEx employee ends up having a volleyball for a friend? 3In 1987, Anne Fine published a book about a family where the parents have gone through a divorce and the father wants to spend more time with his three children. This book was turned into a movie in 1993, starring the late Robin Williams and was also adapted in an Indian version starring Kamal Haasan. What was the name of the book (which was modified slightly) or the name of the 1993 movie? 4This author narrates how, as she was in a train that was stuck outside Manchester due to a mechanical problem, she whiled away the time staring at cows in a field outside and the central idea for her story suddenly struck her. Who was this author and what iconic series did she go on to write which even has a train that starts from a platform number that you wouldn’t normally see? 5Eric Carle, author and illustrator, published his picture book in 1969. I became extremely successful and has been translated into over 50 languages. It is estimated that a copy is sold somewhere in the world every 30 seconds! The book teaches children the names of various foods as its protagonist moves through a series of foods, from fruits to junk-food to a nice green leaf, all in one week. What is this colourful tale, which is seen by educators as a metaphor to speak to children about transformations and growing up? 6This children’s series by Italian author Elisabetta Dami, published from 2000 onwards, is a huge success in the original Italian as well as in its English translations. Neither the original nor the English versions, however, have Dami’s name on the cover as author; instead, the protagonist of the series, a rodent reporter, is listed as the author. Who is this character by whose cheesy name this series is known? 7The author of this book, Michael Bond, has said that this character was partly inspired by all the child refugees he saw passing through stations during World War II, with little tags around their necks. Two movies were made featuring this titular character. Brexit and anti-immigration tendencies in the U.K. also led to discussion around the movie and books. Immigration lawyers have stated that should the main character enter the U.K. at this point, he would have been denied permission to stay, instead of going home with Mr. Brown and finding a family. Who is this endearing character? 8Rick Riordan was an English and history teacher who enjoyed making his subjects come alive for students, and when his own son was diagnosed with ADHD and dyslexia, he turned to myths to weave him stories about children who had these conditions and were revealed to be ‘demigods’. Who is the first and most famous protagonist of this author who so deftly recreates ancient myths? 9This author was flipping through TV channels one night, when she chanced upon a documentary with footage from the Iraq War. The unsettling images she saw began to ‘fuse together, in a very unsettling way’ and led to one of the most successful dystopian Young Adult books in recent times, which also went on to become a very successful film franchise. Who is this author and what series was this, which was born out of her channel surfing and the myth of Theseus and the Minotaur? 10This legendary musician from a 60s rock & roll band wrote a book called Gus & Me: The Story of My Granddad and My First Guitar . He wrote the book when he himself became a grandfather for the 5th time, because he wanted to celebrate the relationship between grandparents and grandchildren. The book is illustrated by his daughter Theodora Dupree _____ (the blank being the musician’s name), who was named after the grandfather. Who is the writer/musician who you would know for his ‘Never Say Die’ attitude, and for which band does he still play the guitar? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Learning in virtual space||This Teachers’ Day I spent at home, longing for the classroom and its possibilities of debate, conversation and epiphany. It was sad for all sorts of reasons. But what follows is not a sad tale. As education has proven to be an important site to battle and engage with the conditions of a pandemic, those of us who teach for a living have found our time occupied many times over in virtual space. Over the past month, I have participated in a seminar on masculinities and gender studies, recorded podcasts on virtuality, taught postcolonial theory to scholars in batches of two, three, seven and 15, been a panellist waxing eloquent about the importance of the humanities and social sciences, and offered a webinar on anthropological thinking. Yes, it’s exhausting. Not to mention, fodder for cynicism. It is easy to think of the current situation as the playing out of what French philosopher Gilles Deleuze terms “societies of control”. Here, continuous training has replaced the school and the individual is constantly in orbit from one virtual room to another. To Deleuze, the paradigmatic activity of such a society is surfing, and no, he isn’t talking about Hawaii. And of course, in such a society, falling off the orbit is tantamount to social and perhaps even literal death. There is a silver lining, however. These past weeks of virtual engagement have also forced me to reflect upon what might be a necessary reform to the classroom. In classes I teach, I am re-learning patience and the fine art of letting go. I no longer control who enters a classroom, who listens, who exits, who tunes out. I speak often to faceless audiences, a voice piping up every now and then. I have to listen better to faraway voices. We frequently interrupt each other. More often than not, whether due to technological interference or the inability to read each other’s gestures and expressions, we sit together in silence, a mass of icons and windows. A different classroom It is clear that we need a different kind of classroom, whether online or offline. One that allows noise as much as silence, one that re-structures groups in a circle with no one at the head of the table, one that allows for the unpredictability of the everyday encounter and technological failure. Such a classroom may also do well to invest in the fine art of doing nothing. HFBK University of Fine Arts in Hamburg, Germany, for example is offering timely ‘Scholarships for Doing Nothing’. Applicants to the scholarships must respond to four questions, “What do you want not to do? How long do you want not to do it for? Why is it important not to do this particular thing? Why are you the right person not to do it?” Think for a second, and consider how hard it would be to write this application. For all our educational systems are geared towards doing. Something. Even as those some things do not add up to any connections with life in the moment. In a recent radio interview, Sonam Wangchuk, engineer, innovator and education reformist, and founding-director of the Students' Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh (SECMOL), spoke about how fortuitous it was that he grew up in a village with no school. For he was then able to learn about leaves and shoots and trees via actual leaves and shoots and trees. Lest we dismiss this as romantic pastoral longings and excuses for infrastructural lack, how about we use this tale as an entry point into asking about the profound alienation of education from the conditions of life? Teachers’ Day Teachers’ Day, long ago, brought with it the pleasure of being able to temporarily assume the mantle of one’s teachers. We would dress up in a manner we thought befitting the solemnity of the profession and perform the cadences of lecturing and instructing. In that moment, though, we were also being indoctrinated into the institutional compulsions of authority, rigidity, and power. As one involved in the profession today, I think it may be time for another kind of reversal of no solemnity and much joy. Where we participate collectively in the act of undoing. Where we can all feel free to sit at the back of class, staring out the window, carving words into wooden benches with the pointy ends of our compasses.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Unlocking the party spirit||It has got to the point where we have forgotten what a party looks like. So while our leaders and betters are busy re-cranking the engine of the economy, it’s time for the rest of us to relearn a vital survival skill — partying. If you think the purpose of a party is having a rollicking time, you are naive. A party provides a platform to prove how popular and charming you are and how indispensable. Let’s suppose you get an invitation from an embassy. In terms of snob quotient, consular parties rank high, only below those thrown by Bollywood insiders or corporate czars. The occasion could be to greet a writer or painter, but it could be hu-tu-tu for all you care. You have more important things to attend to — making sure everyone knows. You can “forget” to pick up the invite and leave it face up on your desk or printer or you can introduce it gently into conversation. “This Friday evening, I’ve got to go to that embassy,” you say. “Ah, these parties go on forever.” Once in, you are there to make your mark and the way to do that is to “work” the crowd. Since parties tend to congeal into little islands, you need to pick the cluster which includes the chief guest and other bigwigs. The next step is to edge yourself in, play polite listener for a while and when you sense the tiniest of pauses in the flow of conversation, pounce into action.  Notable nothings But what do you say? Mouth notable nothings. Unlike sweet nothings, the nothings at a party are designed to impress rather than express. It doesn’t matter if what you say has no connection with what was said previously, and is neither profound nor witty — it won’t be understood anyway, given the ambient noise and low IQs. Now, to the refreshments. The good news is that parties are generally flush with good food and drinks. The bad news is that you can’t take as much you would love to. This may be hard to stomach, but the world, in its own perverse way, looks up to gourmets and looks down on gluttons. So you need to prevent yourself from making a grab at anything from prawns to pastries. While eating, do some role play. For example, you can play the elder statesman who makes mature observations about the cosmos, the coffee… Or you could be the resident wit whose responsibility it is to make everyone laugh. You could throw caution and common manners to the winds and act like some news anchors. Interrogate those around you but squelch them before they can speak. You will draw in a large audience. As important as your entry is your exit. You score big when you excuse yourself midway, saying you have an appointment you can’t miss, or better still, another party to attend. The acquaintances you form at one party turn into your bosom friends at the next, and before long, you will have a network that is the envy of lesser mortals. Hurrah! You’ve arrived! jairam.menon@gmail.com
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Slow change||Some 10 years ago, while going walking in Kolkata’s Rabindra Sarovar lakes at the crack of dawn as part of my still ongoing get-slim regime, I would stare wide-eyed at the ripped young men huffing and puffing all around — some swinging from bars, some cartwheeling, some zooming past me at supersonic speed — and repeat after the poet, “I had not thought death had undone so many.” The assumption being that they must be having some underlying fatal condition, physical or metaphysical (as, in my case, a dogged desire to be incorporeal), to overcome which they were tormenting themselves so. Bengali that I am, having a fit body for its own sake never struck me as a plausible reason for self-flagellation. Class prejudices Unbeknown to me, India had changed: anthropologist Michiel Baas traces the relatively new obsession with bodybuilding among Indian men to the release of movies like Om Shanti Om (2007), in which Shahrukh Khan sported six-pack abs, and the launching of the magazine, Men’s Health , in the same year. Gyms mushroomed overnight — the smithies where trainers and clients alike forged their Superman-like bodies. In the case of the trainers, life trajectories were also forged, since the gyms offered them not just an alternative career option but also sound possibilities of upward social mobility. Baas analyses this trend, examining different aspects of this ‘change’ in relation to male trainers — he talks to several from the big cities and shows how “India’s change does not necessarily translate to the same pace at the individual level, where things move slowly.” The trainers might be earning more than their parents ever did, wearing designer clothes and speaking English, but India, with its dogged class and caste hierarchies, still tends to judge them by their origins, resisting their movement up the social ladder. For Indians living the ‘change’, this might sound like a foregone conclusion: while we do not hesitate to enjoy the fruits of economic liberalisation, we remain notoriously intolerant of the army of ‘new labour’ it has brought into being, not just in gyms but also in malls, restaurants, beauty parlour chains or coffee shops. The upside, even if a cynical one, is that money goes a long way in bridging divides in India. Baas quotes a gym trainer who also provides escort services to men on the side while self-confessedly not being gay as saying “Money talks and everything can be done for money... And eventually money is stronger than morality.” It’s stronger than class/caste prejudices too — if successful trainers are really earning in lakhs per month, as Baas says they are, then they might just walk through the hallowed portals of the upper echelons in the near future without the old members of that class batting an eyelid. Indeed, we see some of the trainers making it big in the Epilogue: Delhiite Amit, for instance, now combines his business in personal training with involvement in the local chapter of the BJP, helping out families not as flourishing as his own. An avid supporter of Narendra Modi, he is the “poor man with three cars”. Baas’s study is nuanced — he steers clear of generalisations, letting his subjects speak for themselves. The book’s experiential quality gives it authenticity besides making it eminently readable.  Muscular India: Masculinity, Mobility and the New Middle-Class  Michiel Baas  Context  Rs. 699
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The recovery||South treated his hand as worth 18 points because of his two potentially valuable 10’s. We agree with his evaluation. That decision, however, led to a final contract that was far from cold. South wanted to retain the lead in dummy for a spade finesse of his own in case East started with three spades to the king, so he played dummy’s jack at trick one. This was not necessarily the right play, although it was reasonable, and it was wrong on this deal. When East covered the jack with his singleton king, it promoted West’s trump holding into a certain trick. Declarer discovered this when he cashed the queen of spades. His chances were extremely thin, but he kept trying to recover. He led a low club to dummy’s queen and then a diamond to his jack. Good guess! West’s low heart shift went to East’s queen and South’s ace. Declarer’s timing now was perfect. He cashed the king of clubs and the king of diamonds, followed by a diamond ruff in dummy. He discarded a heart on the ace of clubs and led a spade to his 10. He had nine tricks in the bag at this point — four spades, one heart, one diamond, and three clubs. He led his last diamond and West was not able to prevent dummy’s eight of spades from taking the tenth trick for declarer. Beautifully done!
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Primetime nonsense||Respected Madam/ Sir,  Monday morning at 7 o’clock itself phone started ringing like anything. Mrs. Mathrubootham immediately woke me up and said, old man, please pick up phone immediately otherwise I will put it inside cooking range ok? Marriage means like this. Morning itself love love and nonstop love. Ten minutes still no sign of phone. Ringing means nonstop ringing. Then finally I found phone inside sofa cushion gap. By that time phone is stopped ringing and now Mrs. M phone is ringing. I am running to the bedroom. But already she is awake and she is speaking. She is looking at me like Donald Trump looking at encyclopaedia. Hello Mr. Prathapan. Yes. What is the emergency? Oh I will give phone to Mr. Mathrubootham. Madam/ Sir, whether you are remembering Mr. Prathapan? He is retired from government job and all but these days living like Ambani. Any suspicious activities are happening? Please investigate but don’t tell Mr. Mathrubootham said. He is bringing large Toblerone after every foreign trip. I said, hello Prathapan. What is emergency? Whether any ambulance is needed? He said, Mathrubootham stop wasting time like mandashiromani. Urgently come to my house. I said, oh my god I am coming immediately. When I reached his house what is the scene? Heart attack? Fire? Earthquake? Flood? No no no. Prathapan is simply standing in front of flat screen TV when I am entering. He looked at me and said Mathrubootham! Help me Mathrubootham! All news channels are gone. Nothing is working. I used some two-three choice Tamil words such as rascal, somberi , madaya etc. Then said bloody fool for this purpose you have ejected me from my household at 8 a.m.? Madam/ Sir, tears are in his eyes when he is talking. Mathrubootham, he is telling, morning 6:00 onwards I am watching news. Breakfast, lunch, dinner, all in front of news. In toilet I am watching news on phone. Only in shower news is not available but I am thinking maybe I will purchase waterproof TV. But this morning tragedy. Not a single news channel is working. All nonsense channels only like Discovery and National Geographic. When whole country is fighting war with China and drugs who is wanting to see elephant and hippopotamus and all? Mathrubootham please, you are TV DVD VCD expert. You please investigate. Madam/ Sir, checking means IT raid type checking I did. Whether any solution is there? Nothing. All news channels are vanished. I am checking and checking. Then after two hours Mrs. Prathapan came and made some secret sounds like sshh psshh Mathrubootham sir. I secretly went to kitchen. There she is saying sir, news channels I only blocked. Whole morning to night this man is sitting and getting heart attack and hypertension. And what he is watching? Nonsense 100% nonsense. Whether any normal person with normal brain will watch these news channels. So I secretly blocked all the channels. You please don't tell anybody ok? Otherwise I will run away and come stay in your house. I said ok god-promise. Then I went and told Prathapan to relax and take 2-3 days news holiday and maybe it will automatically become ok. Madam/ Sir, then I went home and told funny story to Mrs. Mathrubootham. At 10 p.m. phone is ringing. It is Prathapan. He is saying Mathrubootham eureka! Problem solved. My wife is blocking all news channels. I have unblocked them! I said congratulations please enjoy. Then he is asking, Mathrubootham why she is blocking news? Some secret? Whether she is Chinese spy? Anti-national tendencies? Some Pakistan connection? Should I check her phone for Chinese apps? Madam/ Sir, this is the state of the country.  Yours in exasperation,   J. Mathrubootham
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||‘We should not allow the Mahabharata to be hijacked by Hindutva’||Why theMahabharata? There are two reasons. Historicity and literarity. As French philosopher Jacques Rancière pointed out, literarity is the ‘living dialectic’. On one hand, India’s social history from ancient times has been intermingled with the Mahabharata . From 1000 BC, the Mahabharata has been functioning in Indian society. We can see a multilayered history of social formations and the structural evolution of Indian society through the text. On the other, it’s a literary text that a modern society can find itself in. It offers a contemporary imaginative domain with its never-ending contradictions and open-ended character. Take a look at the novels, plays or movies [based on the Mahabharata ]. The text has played a role in the modern imagination. On one side is its ability to assimilate social history, and on the other its imaginative potential to remain the most contemporary. Also, the Mahabharata has worked in different layers of society in different ways. From marginal, folk traditions to extreme Brahminical traditions, it’s worked as a multilayered text. We see the Mahabharata in the Mughal palace and among folk groups. All these factors influenced me. From a personal point of view, its literary contemporariness is what attracted me the most. The book has drawn both praise and criticism. One criticism is that a study of theMahabharatawould indirectly help those who use religion for politics. How do you look at such criticism? That’s a rigid position about the ideological character of a text. As academic Raymond Williams said, every text is ideologically multilayered. There could be a dominant ideology. At the same time, there could be a residual one and an emergent one. And there are conflicts among them within the textual life. By exposing these conflicts, we are actually defending the text against the right wing’s efforts to essentialise it as a Brahminical text. Leaving this effort unaddressed is ahistorical. There are two problems in that position — one, considering a text as a single ideological representation; two, turning a blind eye towards a text’s multilayered life. Attributing essential values to texts is metaphysical. There is definitely a dominant layer of Brahminic ideology but there are other layers as well. It does not have a homogeneous religious meaning, which is exactly what the right wing tries to attribute to it. The life and function of the Mahabharata in the Mughal court or among the Meo Muslims is not Brahminical, right? Even if we keep it away, Mahabharata won’t stop functioning in Indian society. It’s not like Homer’s epic, the Odyssey , which now has only a literary value. The Mahabharata is a text that keeps intervening in day-to-day life. We should not allow such texts to be hijacked by Hindutva’s essentialist projects. You argue that Krishna represents the Brahminisation ofMahabharata. But Krishna is from the Yadava community and doesn’t always fit into Brahminical righteousness. How does he become a symbol of Brahminisation? Krishna is an evolving figure, not a static idol. Historian Kosambi said that in one of our earlier Upanishads, Krishna is an asura. In fact, Krishna acquired the importance he has today only after the Bhagavata movement. Then, the Mahabharata was re-organised as Krishna-centric. So, Krishna had different representations in different epochs of history. He is a hero of both pastoral and agricultural societies. But those early representations were brushed to the margins during the Bhagavata cult. And after the national movement came the Bhagavad Gita ’s Krishna. What is theMahabharata? A saga of life with living contradictions. What attracted me was that it’s a text that opens into the great conflicts of human life. To be precise, it engages deeply with the internal conflicts of the modern human. If you set aside its mythical aspects, there’s a great domain of literary imagination in the epic. I think it’s not there in any other ancient text. It says it’s trying to present the principles of dharma, truth and justice, but ends up failing due to its own internal contradictions. It’s like an Aristotelian tragedy, what he callshamartia— a flaw leading to a chain of actions culminating in a bigger tragedy. We see this throughout the Mahabharata , not as a personal problem but an overall characteristic of human life. Who is your favourite character? Bhishma. He’s a great tragic hero. He gave up power, but had to assume power later. He considered himself a man of dharma, but had to be a part of adharma . He didn’t want to live, but had to live till the end... he is a battlefield of contradictions. You can see the Mahabharata ’s essence in Bhishma’s life. The meaninglessness of life; its emptiness. — S.J.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Reason to smile||Conservationists have succeeded in bringing back from the brink of extinction the Burmese roofed turtle, an enormous river turtle. The creature, whose face looks like it is fixed in a permanent grin, was thought to have gone extinct two decades ago. Scientists, who discovered a small population, increased it to nearly 1,000 in captivity. Fishing, trapping and an overharvesting of eggs all contributed to the species’ decline.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Free Kaavan||An elephant that spent 35 years in an Islamabad zoo, and who animal rights activists campaigned to relocate, will finally be transported to a better environment. Kaavan, called the ‘world’s loneliest elephant’, will likely be shifted to an animal sanctuary in Cambodia. The animal lost its partner in 2012 and developed stereotypical behaviour.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Drug haul||A police crackdown on drugs in Bengaluru uncovered a huge, 1,350 kg haul of ganja stored underground at a goat farm. Four people were arrested. Raids in the preceding days had seized banned substances worth over Rs. 1.5 crore in total, and led to the arrest of 28 alleged peddlers, including Kannada actors Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Second place||Just as India began lifting lockdown restrictions, the country overtook Brazil to record the second-largest number of COVID-19 infections globally, with over 4.2 million cases, and more than 70,000 deaths. The majority of cases were reported from Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. There has also been a surge in rural areas. India is now surpassed only by the U.S., which has 6.4 million cases.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Before She Sleeps||Bina Shah  Macmillan Rs. 599 This dystopian novel from Pakistan is a modern-day parable imagining women’s lives in repressive South Asian countries. Set in Green City, where the ratio of women to men is alarmingly low, it amplifies and distorts existing patriarchal practices to imagine a terrifying future.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The Midnight Library||Matt Haig  Penguin Random House Rs. 599 The midnight library offers Nora the chance to undo the life she has led and do things differently. There’s a catch, of course, and soon her choices place the library and herself in danger. Now she must answer the ultimate question: What is the best way to live?
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Girls and the City||Manreet Sodhi Someshwar  HarperCollins Rs. 399 Three young women from Bengaluru, Juhi Jha, Leela Lakshmi and Reshma Talwar, bond over work, disapproving landladies, abusive bosses and roadside stalkers. As they navigate the city, their worst feasrs come true one rainy night: one person is dead and the rest are suspects.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||I Hold a Wolf by the Ears||Laura van den Berg  Farrar, Straus and Giroux $26 These 11 stories confront misogyny, violence, and the strange economics of America with humour and quirk. All feature women on the brink — grieving, divorced, searching, vulnerable, unhinged — trying hard to find meaning in a life of utter absurdity.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Stanley Kubrick: American Filmmaker||David Mikics  Yale University Press  Rs. 1,376 (Kindle Price) From a young age, Kubrick was consumed by photography, chess, and, movies. His films (A Clockwork Orange,The Shininget al) exist in a world of their own. In this Jewish Lives series, Mikics explores the personal side of his films.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Mission Bengal: A Saffron Experiment||Snigdhendu Bhattacharya  HarperCollins  Rs. 599 In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP won nearly half of the State’s 42 seats. The party has nurtured its votebank since 2011, when Mamata Banerjee came to power. As Assembly elections loom, a journalist explains how the BJP gained ground.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Vesper Flights||Helen Macdonald  Vintage/PRH  Rs. 799 This is a collection of essays about the human relationship to the natural world by the writer ofH is for Hawk. The subjects include write-ups on headaches, catching swans, hunting mushrooms, 20th century spies, nests and the tribulations of farming ostriches.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The Story of China||Michael Wood  Simon & Schuster  Rs. 899 With the help of local and personal stories and his own travel journals, a historian writes a volume on China and its burgeoning role in the world today. He takes into account China’s 4000-year-old tradition, and marks all the turning points in its modern history.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3116||Across  1 Novel that’s winning (10) 6 So shut up (4) 9 Put out novel, Daisy’s Fist (10) 10 Spoken of the country? Not once (4) 12 Book where one more duty laid out? (11) 15 Primarily, some uncanny carnal creatures undertaking bedroom incursions? (7) 16 Twice king and I eat, on time for expedition (3-4) 17 Commissions whereby queen’s collecting money in S Africa (7) 19 Old desire with eagerness cut short (4-3) 20 Pope with explanatory note for piece of Apocrypha...? (5,6) 23 Headgear, uniform back-to-front in western state (4) 24 Set apart, gutted, they bypass study (2,3,5) 25 Some dilly-dallying reactionary peer (4) 26 Listen up: Everyman’s in peril, sad, quivering (4,2,4)  Down  1 Puts cushions in frogs’ homes (4) 2 Groomsmen regularly downed wine (4) 3 Going to disturb nun during nap (2,3,7) 4 Ferociously, ambitiously, a boy strangely wanting encouragement (7) 5 Ill – almost ill – it’s when there’s less activity (3-4) 7 Drunk chairman’s admitted love for noises in Dylan records (10) 8 Loins dimly aroused by position (5,3-2) 11 Unprincipled, odd, tiny and drawn out (4-3-5) 13 Since university, gets into reading? Typical (2,3,5) 14 20 to go on here? (10) 18 Cover that woman to keep warmth in (7) 19 Drained and percolated audibly (7) 21 Bit of tsarina’s dress (4) 22 Reportedly ‘breaks down stains’ (4)
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Foul play||Tennis world number one Novak Djokovic was disqualified from the U.S. Open when, after his serve was broken during a match against Spain’s Pablo Carreno, he took a ball out of his pocket and hit it behind him in frustration. It struck a line judge in the throat and caused her to fall down. The incident polarised the tennis world, triggering furious discussion.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||No excuses||The Supreme Court rejected all pleas to postpone this year’s NEET for aspiring medical and dental students in the light of the pandemic, saying that even review petitions were dismissed. The test is being held nationwide today. Similar concerns about the JEE for engineering were dismissed earlier and it was held from September 1 to 6, with 26% of registered students absent.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||On the hunt||The investigations into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death saw the Narcotics Control Bureau arrest his girlfriend, actor Rhea Chakraborty, for allegedly being an “active member of a drug syndicate” who procured drugs for Rajput. In a bail petition, she claimed she was “coerced” into making the “confessions”. The police also filed FIRs against Rajput’s sisters for abetting his suicide.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Yuge prize||U.S. President Donald Trump was nominated for the 2021 Nobel Peace Prize by Christian Tybring-Jedde, a far-right Norwegian politician, who cited Trump’s role in the recent peace deal between Israel and the U.A.E. Tybring-Jedde has unsuccessfully nominated Trump once before, in 2018, for his overtures to North Korea. The 2020 recipient has not yet been announced, and it will be some time before next year’s winner is decided.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Brinkmanship||Tensions along the Line of Actual Control escalated as India and China accused each other’s troops of firing warning shots — the first shots fired there in 45 years. Both sides strengthened their positions, while meetings between commanders failed to resolve the stalemate. Foreign Minister S. Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi were expected to meet on the sidelines of the SCO in Moscow as this went to press.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Sunday Recipe||
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Can universal masking be a crude ‘vaccine’?||The idea of allowing people to get naturally infected with novel coronavirus in order to achieve herd immunity even before safe and effective vaccines become available has now been dismissed. Now, a few researchers are putting forth a hypothesis that supports universal mask wearing. According to this, universal mask wearing decreases chances of infection, and, if infected, decreases the amount of virus particles (inoculum) a mask-wearer is exposed to thus causing only asymptomatic infection or mild COVID-19 disease. Dr. Monica Gandhi and Dr. Eric Goosby from the University of California, San Francisco, and Dr. Chris Beyrer from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, argue that exposure to the virus “without the unacceptable consequences of severe illness” through universal masking can lead to greater spread of immunity in the community thus slowing down the spread of the virus eventually. Depending on the type and fit of masks common people use, the amount of virus particles a person is exposed to may be reduced even if infected. According to Dr. Beyrer, cloth masks can screen out between 65% and 85% of viral particles. Effects of exposure While much attention has been on the role of masks in reducing or preventing the spread of virus from an infected person to others, the possibility of a healthy mask-wearer getting exposed to only smaller amounts of virus and the possible effects of such exposure has not received equal attention, the researchers write in an article published in the Journal of General Internal Medicine. Dr. Gandhi and Dr. George W. Rutherford from the University of California, San Francisco advance the same idea in a perspective piece in The New England Journal of Medicine.  A growing body of virological, epidemiological, and ecological evidence suggests that universal masking can reduce the severity of disease among people who do become infected, they write. “We have known for more than 50 years that lower inoculums of other viruses, including flu, lead to milder illnesses. Since this is a basic principle in virology, it likely holds true for COVID-19,” Dr. Beyrer told Johns Hopkins. Learning from studies In a study of healthy participants exposed to wild-type influenza A virus, more severe symptoms were seen in those exposed to higher amounts of the virus.  A study involving hamsters helped understand the connection between novel coronavirus dose and disease severity. In the study, a surgical mask partition helped reduce the risk of infection in healthy hamsters that were separated from infected ones. And those healthy animals that did get infected had only milder manifestations of infection. The best epidemiological evidence comes from Diamond Princess cruise ship and a ship in Argentina. While only 18% of passengers in the Diamond Princess cruise ship were asymptomatic, universal masking in the Argentina ship resulted in 81% (128 of 217 passengers and staff) of the infected remaining asymptomatic. In a seafood processing plant in Oregon, U.S. universal masking could not completely prevent infection, but among the 124 who were infected, 95% were asymptomatic. Similarly, in a Tyson chicken plant in Arkansas, masking resulted in 95% asymptomatic rate of infection. “If this theory bears out, population-wide masking, might contribute to increasing the proportion of SARS-CoV-2 infections that are asymptomatic,” they write in The New England Journal of Medicine. Since universal masking decreases viral inoculum leading to increase in asymptomatic infection that induces strong T cell immunity for some duration, “could masking be a crude vaccine until we get to a real vaccine?” Dr. Gandhi asks in a tweet. Not to misinterpret It is important that people do not misinterpret the hypothesis to think that one can intentionally inoculate oneself with the virus by wearing a mask. Since studies have not been conducted with the sole purpose of studying the effects of universal masking on COVID-19 severity through reduced virus inoculum, people who wear masks should not become complacent nor should people think that masks are useless as they cannot completely prevent infection in some individuals. “I am not suggesting pox parties. Just saying masking could be good on multiple levels — decrease transmission, decrease disease severity, help drive up immunity,” Dr. Gandhi tweeted.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||A keen look at groundbreaking inventions in ICT||During my school days, a computer was a machine occupying a garage space, used only by engineers. Now, within 50 years, I hold it in my pocket as a mobile smart phone, as do 50 crore other Indians! How did this revolution happen? Do you know who invented such ground-breaking inventions in Information and Communication Technology (or ICT)? This is the theme of a remarkably informative and educative book recently authored by V. Rajaraman, who taught at the Supercomputer Education and Research Centre, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, and published by PHI Learning, Delhi. In this book, Prof. Rajaraman lists the history of 15 ground-breaking inventions and innovators who have made these hand-held fast, versatile computers possible. I believe that with computer-based education having become a part of the New Education Policy (NEP), it is vital that students and teachers get to learn the story of these 15 inventions and the innovators, not just as a part of history and development of these innovators, but as an inspiration for the future. As per Prof. Rajaraman: (1) The idea should be novel; (2) It should fulfil a need; (3) It should improve our productivity; (4) It should change the way computing is done; (5) It should lead to innovations; (6) The invention must have a long life and be continuously used; (7) It should create new industries that lead to further innovations and may, as a consequence, disrupt some old industries and (8) It should transform the way we live. It is not necessary that a ground-breaking invention satisfy all these; it is enough if it meets a majority of these. Recent history Interestingly, many of these inventions too have occurred in the last 55 years — starting from the computer language FORTRAN in 1957 to Deep Learning in 2011. A brief history and description of these, and the innovators associated with them is given in his book. We will take up the first seven innovations here and the rest in the next article. Programming languages The first is FORTRAN or Formula Translation, developed by John Backus and his team in 1957. This translated the binary language (0 and 1) of digital computers into everyday language that can be understood and used by all, using the IBM computers and later by other computers as well. (I remember how Prof. Rajaraman taught FORTRAN to all of us students and faculty at IIT Kanpur, and several lakhs of others elsewhere through his lectures and books). Others designed similar programming languages, but Fortran is still the language used by scientists. The second is the introduction of what are called integrated circuits or ICs. Until they were invented, signals were amplified using vacuum tubes. When John Bardeen and colleagues invented transistors way back in 1947, they reduced the size, and power consumption of amplifiers. This caused a revolution in information technology, because using these, Jack Kilby (and a few months later, Robert Noyce) could actually make a fully integrated complex electronic circuit on a single silicon chip. The third innovation discussed is databases and how to manage them in an organised fashion. For example, our own Aadhaar Card, contains in it a variety of data (age, sex, age, address, fingerprints and such), put together in a compact fashion. Such a database system is what is referred to as relational database management system, or RDBMS. Earlier, these files were stored in magnetic tapes, then in floppy discs and now in CDs and pen drives. LAN and Ethernet The fourth is what is known as local area networks (or LANs), introduced first by Norman Abramson’s group in Hawaii, where they used a wireless broadcast system called ALOHA net to interconnect computers across the islands to share a broadcast medium. Then Robert Metcalfe and David Boggs modified this protocol, and put together what they called Ethernet, which has allowed multiple computers to share and exchange messages and files through cable connections. We now use LANs in the office to transfer hard-copies into e-files, and to connect various departments in a University. The fifth innovation is the development of personal computers, which has allowed us to work and study from our homes. The first person to design a personal computer was Steve Wozniak in the mid-1970s and brilliantly marketed by Steve Jobs. By 1981, PCs began selling like hotcakes, and by the late 1980s, Apple, IBM and its clones captured the market, with Microsoft supplying the operating system. To open your phone or a computer, you need a passcode, which is secure and known only to you. And when a bank or a sender sends you a ‘confidential’ message, they too send a secure passcode (e.g., OTP). This aspect is what is known as an encryption system. This public key cryptography is the sixth Innovation. Your computer now has built-in programs that not only allow you to take photographs, movies and send them using applications likeWhatsApp, Facetime and such. This has come about thanks to the seventh Innovation called computer graphics, which Prof. Rajaraman discusses in his book in detail. In addition, he discusses in detail compression of multimedia data that has allowed exchanging audios and videos over the Internet. dbala@lvpei.org
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Science behind air-breathing scramjet engine||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) performed a major technological feat on September 7 when it flew a cruise vehicle at a hypersonic speed of Mach six for 20 seconds. The DRDO called the cruise vehicle Hypersonic Technology Demonstrator Vehicle (HSTDV). The centrepiece of the HSTDV was the indigenously developed air-breathing scramjet engine, which formed the HSTDV’s propulsion system. If the mission’s aim was to prove this scramjet engine in flight, it was achieved. The critical technologies developed for the HSTDV mission were the scramjet engine and its ignition, sustaining the ignition, ethylene fuel, generation of maximum energy from the engine, development of materials to take care of the high temperatures that occurred due to air friction on the leading edges of the cruiser’s wings, tail surface and nose tip, and controlling the HSTDV with minimum drag and maximum thrust. In a scramjet engine, air from the atmosphere is rammed into the engine’s combustion chamber at a supersonic speed of more than Mach two. In the chamber, the air mixes with the fuel to ignite a supersonic combustion but the cruiser’s flight will be at a hypersonic speed of Mach six to seven. So it is called supersonic combustion ramjet or Scramjet. Launched from Odisha On the D-day, a launch vehicle, which was derived from Agni 1 missile, rose from its launch pad in Odisha, carrying the HSTDV. The Agni 1 booster climbed to a height of 30 km in 12 seconds at a speed of Mach 5.6. The launch vehicle’s control systems were rugged enough to take care of its ascent through the atmosphere when it would experience heavy loads. When the launch vehicle reached an altitude of 30 km, the air intake ducts in the scramjet engine opened just before the launch vehicle separated smoothly. At 30 km altitude, the cruise vehicle’s nose cone split in two and fell off. Besides, the heat shield covering the cruiser was jettisoned. All these events took place in micro seconds. Mode of operation Air from the atmosphere was then rammed into the scramjet engine’s combustion chamber at a supersonic speed. The air mixed with the atomised fuel, the fuel was ignited and the scramjet engine revved into action. The HSTDV flew for the next 20 seconds at a hypersonic speed of Mach six and fell 40 km away in the Bay of Bengal. The mission was a success. Dr. Avinash Chander, former Director General, DRDO, said: “The fuel should be ignited in milliseconds. Not many countries were able to do it at the first instance... Energy generation should be maximum and drag should be minimum.” The ignition should be sustained for the duration set for the flight. The entire HSTDV should be controlled but with maximum thrust. Dr. R.K. Sharma, former Project Director, HSTDV, said lighting the fuel with the air coming in from the atmosphere at a supersonic speed was akin “to lighting a match-stick in a hurricane”. DRDO developed special materials to take care of the cruise vehicle's nose-tip, tail and the wings’ leading edges which were impacted by very high temperatures due to air friction. Dr. G. Satheesh Reddy, DRDO Chairman, said India mastering the scramjet engine technology “will pave the way for developing many more critical technologies, materials and particularly hypersonic vehicles”. Indigenous technology The DRDO’s missile complex in Hyderabad, comprising the Defence Research and Development Laboratory (DRDL), the Research Centre, Imarat (RCI), and the Advanced Systems' Laboratory (ASL) developed all the technologies needed for the mission. Mastering the air-breathing scramjet technology will lead to the development of hypersonic missiles, faster civilian air transportation and facilities for putting satellites into orbit at a low cost.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Low-cost device for deep vein thrombosis||A blood clot in one of the deep-running veins in our body can have serious consequences, even sometimes leading to pulmonary embolism. For the relief of those who are prone to deep vein thrombosis, such as patients needing to stay in bed for longer than 24 hours, hospitals use the external pneumatic compression device also known informally as the deep vein thrombosis pump. The device is usually imported for a huge sum. Now, researchers have indigenously developed this device at a much lower cost than the imported ones. Avoiding clots Blood circulation from the lower parts of the body back to the heart is maintained by the pressure exerted on the deeper veins by the muscles. If this process is interrupted, clots can form in the deep veins, which can travel upwards and reach the heart or lungs and cause serious problems. “The normal movement given by the muscles to keep the blood flowing is replicated by the device,” says Jithin Krishnan, a scientist and engineer with the Department of Medical Devices Engineering at Sri Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram. The device is attached to a disposable sleeve which is wrapped around the legs from feet to thigh. The sleeve has bladders into which air is pumped sequentially, imitating the muscle action. This needs care, firstly the arteries that run along to top layers should not get ruptured, and secondly, the process should not be too fast. This is needed to avoid damage to the nerves and valves in the veins also. Mr Krishnan, who is the principal investigator of the work, explains: “Once you compress a section of the veins, the blood from there flows up to the next section where it is held from flowing back by the valves. The pressed section now has to relax and blood should refill it. An appropriate relaxation time has to be given. All this is built into the device.” Along with that some residual pressure is built in to improve blood circulation. Other technical features include software that adjusts the amount of pressure. This can range from 10 mm to 130 mm of mercury. The pressure is adjusted so that the patient does not feel discomfort and also for correct venous refilling etc. The device can function in six modes such as feet-only mode, calf-only mode, thigh-only mode etc. Combinations of these modes can also be set. Also, alarms can be set to alert the doctor if the pressure exceeds optimum. Cost-effective solution The imported device costs around Rs. 1-2 lakh. “We wanted to enter the market with a low-cost product that would have all the sophistication and clinical viability of an imported device,” Mr. Krishnan says. “We wanted to come up with a device that every hospital can afford.” The product will be manufactured by Enproducts in Kochi.
13 September 2020||September 13 2020 00:00 IST,||At the razor’s edge||How do shaving blades become dull after repeated use? Shaving blades are made of stainless steel and coated with even harder materials such as diamond-like carbon. This is the reason why shaving blades are 50 times harder than human hair. Despite its superior hardness, blades become dull after repeated usage. It has always been thought that edge rounding and brittle cracking of a blade’s hard coating were responsible for shaving blades losing their sharpness. Now, researchers at MIT found that the act of shaving deforms the blade in a way that is more complex than simply wearing down the edge over time. A single strand of hair, they found, can cause the edge of a blade to crack due to out-of-plane bending, microstructure of the steel not being uniform and microscopic chips along the smooth edge of the blade. Once an initial crack forms, the blade is vulnerable to further chipping. As more cracks accumulate around the initial chip, the razor's edge can quickly dull. The researchers found that chips did not occur when the hair was cut perpendicular to the blade but only when it cut the hair at an angle and when the blade edge met the sides of the hair strands. Regardless of a hair’s thickness, in the experiments, the mechanism by which the hair damaged a blade was the same — the edges of the blade were getting chipped but the chipping was occurring only in certain spots.
