14 August 2020||JAIPUR,||Gehlot, Pilot meet ahead of key session||Ending the month-long political turmoil, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot met his former deputy Sachin Pilot here on Thursday after a resolution brokered by the top Congress leadership led to the return of 19 dissident MLAs to the party fold. Coming face to face the first time after the crisis erupted, the two leaders smiled and greeted each other with a warm handshake. Mr. Pilot attended a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) convened at Mr. Gehlot’s official residence to chalk out the party’s strategy for the crucial session of the State Assembly beginning on Friday. The session is likely to be stormy in view of the Opposition BJP’s attacks. Congress leaders K.C. Venugopal, Avinash Pande, Randeep Surjewala, Ajay Maken and Govind Singh Dotasra were present during the meeting. Mr. Gehlot announced at the CLP meeting that the Congress government would move a confidence motion and seek a trust vote on the floor of the House. However, the BJP, hoping that the truce in the ruling party would not last long, stated earlier in the day that it would bring a no-confidence motion against the government in the Assembly.
14 August 2020||Kolkata,||Forest Ministry releases guide to managing human-elephant conflict||The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change has compiled the best practices of human-elephant conflict management in India. “A variety of management strategies and practices has been developed and customised for implementing at different scales by the State Forest Departments for preventing and mitigating human-elephant conflict,” said the document released by the Ministry earlier this week to mark World Elephant Day (August 12). The publication running over 40 pages presents a pictorial guide and also points out that though the majority of existing prevention strategies are driven by site-specific factors that offer short-term solutions, many interventions adopted have resulted in successfully removing elephants from human habitations. These best practices have been discussed under several categories such as retaining elephants in their natural habitats by creating water sources and management of forest fires. The other best practices include elephant-proof trenches in Tamil Nadu, hanging fences and rubble walls in Karnataka, use of chili smoke in north Bengal and playing the sound of bees or carnivores in Assam. The document also talks about an elephant corridor initiative where 25.37 acres of private land was purchased at Edayarahalli-Doddasampige in Karnataka as part of conservation efforts. The document details a process of individual identification and monitoring of elephants in south Bengal. Other ideas include sending SMS alerts to warn of elephant presence. Ecologist Raman Sukumar of the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, welcomed the publication and said the best practices need to be evaluated.  “What we need is to narrow down the set of practices or methods that can be applied on a large scale,” Mr. Sukumar said. The elephant expert recommended cost-benefit analysis for these policies and said that it should be done in context of the economic damage caused by elephants to crops. Practices such as elephant-proof trenches should be discouraged in areas that receive more than 1,500 mm rainfall a year. “Hanging wire electric fences that produce electricity for milliseconds have given positive results. These practices have been tried in Sri Lanka and Tamil Nadu,” Mr. Sukumar said. The document also points out that India has the largest number of wild Asian Elephants, estimated at 29,964 according to the 2017 census by Project Elephant. “Over 500 humans are killed in encounters with elephants annually, and crops and property worth millions are also damaged. Many elephants are also killed in retaliation due to conflict,” the publication said.
14 August 2020||Kolkata,||Rare Tagore exhibits on virtual display||A rare photograph of Rabindranath Tagore signed by him showing the poet with Mahatma Gandhi and Kasturba Gandhi in Santiniketan in April 1940; Tagore in the clouds during his first flight from 1921, painted by Gaganendranath Tagore; and the pages of a handwritten manuscript titled Geetāshtak by the poet in Nuremberg and Munich on 18-19 September, 1926 — these exhibits are part of an online exhibition organised by Victoria Memorial Hall (VMH) and Ministry of Culture for India’s 74th Independence Day, through Google Arts & Culture. The organisers said that the virtual exhibition not only pays homage to Rabindranath Tagore, but also offers an opportunity to learn more about the Nobel laureate’s contribution to India’s freedom movement. Noteworthy moments Some of the noteworthy moments included in the exhibition are references to how Tagore opposed Lord Curzon’s Partition of Bengal in 1905, and used his gift of the pen to write songs to unite the Bengali population, including ‘ Banglar Mati Banglar Jol ’ (‘Soil of Bengal, Water of Bengal’) and ‘ O amar desher mati tomar paaye thekai matha ’ (‘O my motherland! I bow to thee’). The exhibition also points out how Tagore gave up the knighthood when he was honoured by the British, in protest against the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in 1919. A selection of 16 images from the collection of the VMH in the virtual exhibition can be viewed at: https://artsandculture.google.com/exhibit/rabindra nath-tagore/ iALivpnofn5SKQ  “Since the museum is still shut, we are trying to enhance our digital presence on various platforms. This has led us to use the innovative but user-friendly technology offered by the Google Arts & Culture platform to curate thematic exhibitions that offer online visitors a novel experience,” Jayanta Sengupta, Secretary and Curator of VMH, Kolkata, said. Mr. Sengupta expressed the hope that the exhibition will help visitors engage with Tagore in hitherto unexplored ways and appreciate his creative genius. This is the second exhibition to be organised by the VMH after the COVID-19 pandemic forced the galleries of the iconic structure to shut down. Earlier this month, the museum organised a virtual exhibition ‘An Inheritance of Imaginations’ showcasing the paintings of Abanindranath Tagore, Gaganendranath Tagore and Sunayani Devi. ‘Digital divide’ The VMH Curator said there was little doubt that every museum would have to expand its digital footprints in the present circumstances, but also added that institutions will have to be cautious about the digital divide in the country.
14 August 2020||Pune,||State to take call on holding CET exams within a week||A decision on conducting the Maharashtra State Common Entrance Test (MHT-CET) will be taken in the next seven or eight days after the government studies the feasibility of setting up exam centres at taluka and district levels, State Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant said in Pune on Thursday. Over five lakh candidates have registered for the exam, which determines admissions to 14 technical and professional courses. Mr. Samant said, “We are trying to work out the logistics. Can we get five-and-a-half lakh students to centres at taluka, district or divisional levels? We also have to see if exams can be held by taking precautions such as physical distancing to ensure the health and safety of students. Once authorities submit their feasibility assessments over the next week, we can take a decision in consultation with them.” The minister said several schools and hostels have been requisitioned as quarantine centres and the Education Department is considering giving students entry on the basis of marks obtained in the Class XII Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) exams. Mr. Samant said, “Even in this case, there are a number of factors that have to be taken into account. Generally, students study harder and prepare more intensely for cracking the CET than the Class XII HSC exams. So it would be unfair if entry is given only on the basis of Class XII marks. All these variables have to be considered before the government takes a concrete decision.” The lack of clarity over the conduct of CET exams has left students in a limbo. Similar confusion prevails among students awaiting word on their final year exams. Mr. Samant said, “The State government is firm on not holding the final year exams in view of the COVID-19 crisis. The Department of Higher and Technical Education has told the Bombay High Court that it is dangerous from the point of view of the safety of students to hold the final year exams.” The minister also clarified that this decision does not mean that the State government is not in favour of conducting the exams. He said that a Teachers’ Training Academy would be set up in Pune by December 1 to equip teachers of all schools across Maharashtra. Mr. Samant hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for criticising the State government over the “unconventional appointment” of first-time Minister and Shiv Sena MLA Aaditya Thackeray as chairman of a panel to suggest nominees for the Padma awards. The BJP said Mr. Thackeray was too inexperienced to head the panel. Mr. Samant said, “Some people are allergic to the Thackeray name, while some are struggling to stay relevant. Rather than raise objections over Aaditya Thackeray’s youthfulness, they ought to understand it is merit, and not age, that counts in politics.”  We are trying to work out the logistics. Can we get five-and-a-half lakh students to exam centres? Uday Samant State Higher and Technical Education Minister
14 August 2020||Belagavi,||Medical staff wear black bands to work||Nurses, para-medical staff and other workers of the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences wore black bands to work to protest against the low salaries and lack of social security benefits in Belagavi on Thursday. Basavaraj Hadapad, president of BIMS Workers Association, said that they had submitted their grievances to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Health Minister B. Sriramulu, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar and other leaders by sending messages on social media. The association has two sets of demands — to fill all vacancies and regularise the services of all temporary staff and provide better working conditions and facilities to permanent staff. “We are working with over 30 % vacancy at every level. For example, there is only one technician for three wards and one nurse for 100 beds. This has to be reduced by filling the sanctioned vacancies,” he said. “Secondly, most of the class four staff, attenders, para-medical and technical staff and nurses are on temporary contract. Their services have to be regularised. Only then, will we be able to provide quality service,” he said. Then again, the doctors, nurses and other regular staff of the hospital do not enjoy employee benefits comparable to the Health Department staff. They need facilities such as health insurance, pension and other retirement benefits. While the Health Department staff enjoy all these benefits, the medical education staff do not have them. This needs to be addressed, he said. He said that they would intensify the agitation if the demands were not met.
14 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||1,931 more test positive for COVID-19||A steady increase in COVID-19 cases continues in Telangana with 1,931 testing positive on Wednesday taking the total cases to 86,457. With 11 more succumbing to the infection, the number of fatalities has gone up to 665. According to the bulletin issued by the Health department on Thursday on cases till 8 p.m. on Wednesday, nearly 8.3% of those screened for infection tested positive (1,931 out of 23,303 samples). The total number of tests stood at 6,89,150. As the city, a hotspot of virus spread till recently, was witnessing a steady decrease in cases, the number of persons testing positive on Wednesday was 298. However, all the districts in the State were witnessing a steady increase in cases: Warangal Urban (144), Rangareddy (124), Karimnagar (89), Sangareddy (86), Nalgonda (84), Khammam (73), Siddipet and Medchal-Malkajgiri (71 each), Suryapet and Peddapalli (64 each), Jangaon (59), Jogulamba-Gadwal (56), Rajanna-Sircilla (54), Nizamabad and Nagarkurnool (53 each) and Jagtial (52), all reporting more than 50 positive cases each. With 1,780 declared recovered from the infection on Wednesday, the number of persons who recovered had gone up to 63,704, taking the recovery rate to 72.93% against the country’s 70.37%, the bulletin said. Similarly, the case fatality rate had been put at 0.76% in Telangana as against 1.97% in the country. A total of 22,736 were active cases as on Wednesday night with 84% (15,621) asymptomatic cases kept under home and institutional isolation.
14 August 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal records highest single-day spike of 2,997 cases||West Bengal on Thursday recorded 2,997 new COVID-19 cases, its highest single-day spike yet, taking its total case tally to 1,07,323. The State also recorded 56 more deaths in the past 24 hours, pushing its cumulative toll to 2,259. Of the latest deaths, 16 were recorded in Kolkata, raising the city’s toll to 1,015. North 24 Parganas district recorded 12 fatalities, taking its death toll to 524. The number of active cases in State has now increased to 26,447, while its recovery rate is 73.25 %. A total of 30,032 samples were tested in the State over the past 24 hours. School reopens A State-run school in Purba Medinipur Daspur area was reopened despite clear instructions from the State government to keep all educational institutions closed till August 31. The headmaster of Hat Sarberia BC Roy School said he had taken the decision as per the request of parents. The school authorities said the students did not have mobile phones for online classes. The State Education Department has sought a report from them. Meanwhile, the Kolkata police have directed their personnel to shift the barracks outside the police stations. The decision comes in the wake of several officials testing positive.
14 August 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra COVID-19 toll surges with record 413 deaths||Maharashtra reported 11,813 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking its total case tally to 5,60,126. A record-high fatality surge of 413 has pushed the cumulative death toll to 19,063. With 9,115 patients discharged, the total recoveries have risen to 3,90,958, State Health department officials said. The active cases have risen to 1,49,798, while the recovery rate is 69.8%. The State’s case fatality rate stands at 3.4%. With 1,200 fresh cases, Mumbai’s total case tally has reached 1,27,556, of which only 19,314 are active. As many as 48 deaths have pushed the city’s death toll to 6,991. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane district reported 22 deaths and 423 fresh cases, taking its death toll to 1,245, while its total cases crossed 39,000. As per the State Health Department figures, Pune district reported more than 2,300 new cases, taking its total case tally to 12,20,20. With a record fatality spike of 92, its death toll rose to 2,957. The Pune district administration, however, said the number of active cases was less than 27,000, with the district’s recovery rate rising above 75.41%. Kolhapur and Satara districts — emerging as new virus hotspots in western Maharashtra — reported 36 and 20 deaths respectively. Kolhapur’s death toll now stands at 312. The district also saw a record single-day spike of 837 cases, taking its tally to 12,013, of which 6,071 are active. Satara reported 323 fresh cases, as its total cases rose to 6,552, of which 2,213 are active. Its death toll has climbed to 206. Nashik district in north Maharashtra, a major virus hotbed in this region, reported 15 deaths, taking its fatality toll to 631. The district witnessed 926 fresh cases as its total tally soared to 23,503, of which 7,829 are active. Jalgaon, another major virus hotspot, reported 15 deaths as well, as its total toll climbed to 654. “Till date, of a total of 29,76,090 laboratory samples, 5,60,126 (18.82%) have tested positive with nearly 68,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said
14 August 2020||MANGALURU,||Corpn. cuts water rate, waste management user fee||The newly elected council of the Mangaluru City Corporation, which held its first meeting on Thursday after more than a year, slashed drinking water tariff for domestic connections. It also reduced the solid waste management user fee for residential property under three slabs. The council also agreed to constitute ward committees in the city. Water tariff had been hiked by the administrator of the civic body which became effective on April 1, 2019 when the elected council was not in place. Following the elections to the council in November 2019, the new council, for five-year term, came into being on February 28, 2020 with Diwakara and Janaki alias Vedavathi from the BJP getting elected as Mayor and Deputy Mayor, respectively. While reducing the water tariff, the council revised the slabs to five from the earlier four. The revised tariffs per each kilo litre (KL) of water and slabs will be Rs. 6 (0-10 KL); Rs. 7 (above 10 KL to 15 KL); Rs. 9 (above 15 KL to 25 KL); Rs. 11 (above 25 KL to 30 KL) and Rs. 13 for above 30 KL of water.Earlier, it was Rs. 7 (for 0-8 KL of water), Rs. 9 (above 8 KL to 15 KL); Rs. 11 (above 15 KL-25 KL) and Rs. 13 (for above 25 KL of water). The Whip in the council Premananda Shetty said that with the revision, a domestic user who consumes water up to 10 KL will have to pay Rs. 60 per month. Earlier, the minimum tariff was Rs. 65 per month. The council reduced the solid waste management (SWM) user fee, payable with the property tax, for residential property from Rs. 50 to Rs. 30 for property up to 500 sq ft built-up area, from Rs. 75 to Rs. 60 for property from 501 sq ft to 1,000 sq ft built-up area and from Rs. 100 to Rs. 80 for property from 1001 sq ft to 1,500 sq ft built-up area. The Mayor announced that those who processed solid waste into manure will be given 50 % concession in paying SWM user fee from 2020-21. As promised by the ruling BJP in its manifesto for the council elections last year, the council led by it gave its approval for constituting ward committees. But a city corporation will have to constitute ward committees under the Karnataka Municipal Corporations (Amendment) Act 2011. In addition, the Lok Adalat, on January 4, 2014, had asked the corporation to constitute the committees. Five years ago the then council led by the Congress had declined to constitute the ward committees. Instead the council in its October 2014 meeting presided over by the then Mayor Mahabala Marla had resolved to constitute a three-member House committee to study pros and cons of constituting them. An agenda placed in the meeting of the council on August 13 said that the particular house committee did not submit any report to the council.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM announces taxpayers’ charter||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched a “Transparent Taxation — Honouring the Honest” platform that provides faceless assessment, faceless appeal and a taxpayers’ charter. He appealed to those not paying taxes, despite having the ability, to come forward and commit themselves to the cause of making the country self-reliant. From Sept. 25 While the faceless assessment and taxpayers’ charter came into force on Thursday itself, the faceless appeal system will be available from September 25, the birth anniversary of Deendayal Upadhyaya. The assessment system seeks to eliminate corrupt practices by doing away with the territorial jurisdiction of income-tax offices.
14 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||Medical officer’s death riles doctors in Varanasi||Government doctors in Varanasi have expressed their resentment against the district administration following the death of an Additional Chief Medical Officer (ACMO) who was COVID-19-positive. They accused the administration of putting them under undue pressure. A probe has been launched by the Banaras Hindu University (BHU) hospital after the family of the deceased ACMO was handed over the body of another patient from Ghazipur for cremation, in a major goof-up. More than two dozen medical officers and staff of rural and urban primary health centres and Community Health Centres in charge of COVID-19 tendered their resignation — later withdr-awn — on Wednesday, saying they were unable to function under “mental pressure”. In an application to the district Chief Medical Officer, the doctors complained that the District Magistrate had threatened to lodge an FIR against them if they failed to fulfil their targets. They claimed the administration was blaming them for COVID-19 deaths in the district. ‘Dismissal threat’ The doctors also asked under what circumstances ACMO Jung Bahadur Singh died and if the administration would be responsible for it, as even Dr. Singh had been threatened with dismissal. They speculated if the death was due to “shock”. CMO V.B. Singh on Thursday said all the doctors who had resigned had withdrawn their application. “They had submitted [the resignation] emotionally. All are working now,” Mr. Singh said. Medical Superintendent of BHU Hospital S.K. Mathur said a committee has been formed to probe the circumstances leading to the mix-up of bodies. He said Dr. Singh died in the early hours of Wednesday. The same day, the body of another patient from Ghazipur was brought to the mortuary, where they were kept in “similar type of body bags”. The matter came to light after the family of the second patient reached the cremation ground and realised that the body on the pyre was not of their relative.
14 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||In Odisha hotspot, one-third of population has antibodies||Nearly one-third of the population of the Berhampur Municipal Corporation area in Odisha’s Ganjam district, the State’s virus hotspot, has developed COVID-19 antibodies, according to a survey by the Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC), Bhubaneswar. The Indian Council of Medical Research institute had carried out a serological survey in the BeMC area in association with the State Health and Family Welfare department, MKCG Medical College & Hospital and other government agencies between August 3 and 7. Sanghamitra Pati, RMRC Director, said about 25 randomly selected areas were taken up for the survey and antibody tests conducted on 2,830 persons. “We opted for random sampling in order to extrapolate the results for the community at large. Five slums and high-risk groups were part of the survey in Berhampur,” she said. “We have found sero prevalence to the extent of 31%, which means one-third of the population has developed antibodies. Sero prevalence ranged between 7% and 60% in different wards,” said Dr. Pati. ‘Low fatality rate’ COVID-19 antibodies were detected in over 50% of the population in four wards of the city and in over 35% of the population in the urban slums, but the RMRC Director rejected the possibility of a community spread, saying “there is no wider community transmission as had been feared”. “Besides, the fatality rate, which is an indicator of transmission, is very low at 0.02%,” said Dr. Pati. “We anticipate that about 1.5 lakh people were perhaps exposed to the novel coronavirus and developed antibodies... 90% of those who had developed antibodies did not have any major symptoms.” Given that the August 3-7 survey findings correspond to a period prevailing four weeks earlier, the RMRC Director said the second round is likely to yield better results. The RMRC began sero surveys in Puri in June, and then extended it to the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation and BeMC. A similar survey is currently under way in the Badamba-Narsinghpur area of Cuttack district, and Cuttack Municipal Corporation, Gajapati district and Rourkela Municipal Corporation are next in the pipeline.
14 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||In an all-time high, State reports 1,564 cases||Kerala reported 1,564 cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, the highest number of single-day cases so far, taking the State’s cumulative case burden till date to 39,708. The State also reported 766 recoveries. Of the new cases, nearly 90%, 1,404 cases, are locally acquired infections. Fifteen health workers were affected. Authorities were not able to establish an epidemiological link in 98 cases. Three more deaths were added to the official data of the State, taking the number deaths to 129. The deaths reported on Thursday were one each in Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode, and Malappuram. Among the districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of cases on Thursday, at 434, of which all except a lone case are locally acquired infections. Disease transmission remains high in Palakkad and Malappuram too, where 202 cases each were reported. Ernakulam reported 115 cases while in other districts, case numbers reported were fewer than 100. The number of patients currently undergoing treatment in various hospitals in the State now is 13,839. The number of recoveries reported in the State till date is 25,688. The number of samples tested by the State in the last 24 hours is 31,270. The number of hotspots in the State is 544.
14 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Pandemic surge continues unabated in State||The State once again witnessed close to 10,000 new infections in a day taking the overall tally of COVID-19 infections to 2,64,142. During the past 24 hours, 82 new deaths and 9,996 new cases were reported. The toll has gone up to 2,378 and the death rate remains at 0.90%, according to Health Department bulletin. The Department claimed that A.P. had become the first major State to have more than 50,000 tests per million ratio. With 55,692 samples tested in the past day, the total samples tested increased to 27,05,459 and the tests per million ratio stood at 50,664. Meanwhile, the positivity rate further increased to 9.76%. On the brighter side, 9,499 patients recovered and were discharged in the past day taking the total recoveries to 1,70,924 and the recovery rate to 64.71%. There are 90,840 active patients at various treatment facilities and under home isolation. Guntur beats Kurnool Guntur district crossed the toll of Kurnool for the first time due to rapid increase in the number of deaths. With 265 total deaths, including 10 in the past one day, Guntur has the highest number of deaths. It is followed by Kurnool (264), East Godavari (248), Krishna (218), Chittoor (205) and Anantapur (203). Among the districts with less than 200 deaths are Visakhapatnam (187), West Godavari (170), Srikakulam (150), Prakasam (146), Nellore (121), Vizianagaram (103) and Kadapa (98).
14 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||‘Capital decision within State’s competence’||A day ahead of the expiry of the High Court’s status quo order on the implementation of the Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Acts, the government filed a common counter affidavit on Thursday claiming that the related policy decision was within its competence and in consonance with the Central government’s sworn statement on the matter. In the affidavit, Municipal Administration and Urban Development Department Special Secretary V. Rama Manohara Rao said the State government’s decision was not arbitrary, but was taken on the basis of various studies conducted by experts, and it (the government) had the obligation under Article 38 of the Constitution to ensure that there were no inequalities among the people in different areas. The government argued that the questions of “legitimate expectation” and “promissory estoppel” did not arise as it was supposed to protect larger public interest. Besides, the references drawn to the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014, were untenable, it stated. Financial constraints Mr. Manohara Rao stated that the State had concluded that the decentralisation of seats of authority and development of all regions was the constitutional goal. Financial constraints was another factor that prompted it to embark on decentralisation, which was found to be ideal under the prevailing circumstances. It was further asserted that the rights of farmers who gave their lands were being guaranteed, and their expectation that all judicial and capital functions should be carried out from Amaravati at the cost of public interest was illegitimate.
14 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Continue to act against erring hospitals: HC||Telangana High Court on Thursday said the State government should contemplate issuing orders or circulars on the lines of Delhi government reserving some beds in private hospitals for the treatment of poor. The government should specify difficulty, if any, in issuing such orders, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said. The bench was hearing a batch of PIL petitions related to COVID-19. Since the State accorded some privileges to private hospitals, the latter were bound to provide free treatment to poor patients. The CJ instructed the government to confirm how many poor persons affected by coronavirus were treated by the private hospitals in the State. The authorities must examine lapses of private hospitals if the latter were found to have not extended medical treatment to poor COVID-19 patients. If any private hospital fails to comply with the GOs issued by the State, drastic action should be initiated against it albeit in accordance with law, the bench said. The process of cracking whip against private hospitals for any omissions, commissions and faulty functioning should go on. The bench instructed the government to examine the applications filed by NGOs seeking permission to establish COVID-19 isolation centres and take a call on them within two weeks, the CJ said. The CJ said the statement of World Health Organisation that India was yet to hit the peak of COVID-19 positive patients was startling. “Most of us believe that we took full precautions against coronavirus, but it seems that it is going to be long-drawn battle,” the CJ observed. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, who attended hearing of the pleas through video-conference, vouched for rapid antigen tests to confirm COVID-19. Observing that antigen tests were a boon for medical fraternity since they give results within 15 minutes, he said it helps the doctors to check further spread of the pandemic. Referring to Rajasthan government doing away with antigen tests, he said it is a mere “aberration”. “Most of our officials are working round the clock to check coronavirus. They are being deprived of sleep and exposed to contracting the virus,” Mr. Somesh Kumar said. It was high time the High Court appreciated the work rendered by doctors, bureaucrats, medical staff and entire State machinery, he said. “This court certainly appreciates efforts of not only the government and its officers, but also that of medical fraternity,” the bench observed.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,||DMK dismisses MLA Selvam from party||The DMK leadership on Thursday dismissed rebel MLA Ku.Ka. Selvam, elected from the Thousand Lights constituency in Chennai, from the primary membership of the party. Mr. Selvam was recently suspended from the party after he met BJP national president J.P. Nadda in New Delhi and hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Besides, he participated in a function at the BJP State headquarters on the day of the bhoomi pujan for the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. In a statement in Chennai, DMK president M.K. Stalin said the reply sent by Mr. Selvam to the show cause notice on why he should not be expelled from the party was “not satisfactory”. He was removed from the post of the office secretary of the party headquarters and member of the high-level executive committee “for bringing disrepute to the party and violating party discipline”. Though Mr. Selvam supported the BJP, he has been maintaining that he had not joined the national party. This is being seen as an obvious attempt to prevent attraction of disqualification from the Assembly under the anti-defection law. Asked about the status of Mr. Selvam in the Assembly since he has been expelled from the DMK, Assembly sources said a decision would be taken by the Speaker after getting intimation from the DMK leadership. “It is for the Speaker to decide,” the sources said when asked whether Mr. Selvam would be treated as an “unattached member” in the House.
14 August 2020||MANGALURU,||First Kuwait Airways flight lands in Mangaluru under Air Bubble pact||A Kuwait Airways flight landed at the airport here early on Thursday for the first time under the Air Bubble agreement. The flight had 118 passengers and eight crew. The Airports Authority of India, Mangaluru Airport, said in a tweet that the flight landed at 2.55 a.m. on Thursday. According to the Ministry of Civil Aviation, the “transport bubbles” or “air travel arrangements” are temporary arrangements between two countries aimed at restarting commercial passenger services as regular international flights have been suspended as a result of COVID-19. The agreement, between India and other identified countries, was to lift stranded passengers both to and from India. Under this arrangement, the airlines of both the signatory countries will be permitted to fly passengers both ways under relaxed entry restrictions.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||MIAL: international flyers arriving in city can avoid institutional quarantine||International passengers arriving at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) can skip the compulsory institutional quarantine, GVK Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) said on Thursday, adding that this has been made possible through an initiative of the Ministry of Civil Aviation. “Concessions on quarantine regulations have been made for international passengers travelling due to an emergency and those who have undergone an RT-PCR test within 96 hours prior to their planned journey,” MIAL said in a statement. The initiative will enable arriving passengers to fill the self-declaration form online at least 72 hours before their scheduled travel to be exempt from institutional quarantine as mandated by the Maharashtra government. The move will also help reduce the passenger processing time substantially on arrivals, the statement said. As per the directives of the Maharashtra government, all incoming international passengers have to undergo two stages of quarantine. This includes the mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine followed by seven days of home quarantine. With the latest initiative, passengers can avail of the option to bypass the institutional quarantine by filling in the self-declaration form that is available online at www.newdelhiairport.in 72 hours before their planned travel. “Passengers will also have to upload proof of the negative RT-PCR test, undertaken within 96 hours of the scheduled journey, to be relieved from the institutional quarantine,” the statement added. Besides, in the event of an emergency such as pregnancy, death in the family, serious illness, and parents with children below 10-years of age, 14-day home quarantine will be permitted. In the absence of an emergency or timely submission of the negative RT-PCR test on the portal, passengers will be subjected to the quarantine rules of the State government. All arriving international and domestic passengers will continue to undergo thermal screening at the city airport. All domestic passengers arriving at the CSMIA will have to observe a 14-day home quarantine after being stamped on the left hand.
14 August 2020||CUDDALORE,||Probe on into ineligible PM-KISAN beneficiaries||A scam in the implementation of the Pradhan Mantri-Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme has come to light in Cuddalore district, with officials estimating that over 30,000 ineligible/bogus beneficiaries received Rs. 2,000 each in their bank accounts recently. Cuddalore Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri told The Hindu that an inquiry was under way to ascertain the exact number of bogus beneficiaries. The portal for inclusion of beneficiaries under the scheme has since been suspended. Preliminary investigation by district officials revealed that the password of an official of the Agriculture Department from a district in northern Tamil Nadu was allegedly stolen to include bogus beneficiaries. These ineligible beneficiaries were added through middlemen. An official in the rank of Deputy Director has been directed to probe the inclusion of names of bogus beneficiaries in all the 13 blocks in the district. A senior official, requesting anonymity, said the Directorate of Agriculture had also asked officials to conduct a probe and submit a report.
14 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Jagan reviews progress of Amaravati work||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday held a review meeting on Amaravati Metropolitan Region Development Authority (AMRDA) and enquired about the work in progress in the region. There was discussion on an action plan to complete the works and the Chief Minister asked the officials to prepare a plan for fund mobilisation. The action plan could be drawn in association with the Finance Department officials, he said. He instructed the officials to complete the Happy Nest works. Municipal Administration Minister Botsa Satyanarayana, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, AMRDA Commissioner Lakshminarayana and other officials were present at the meeting.
14 August 2020||Staff reporter BHUBANESWAR,||Write prescriptions in capital letters, says HC||Finding it difficult to decipher medical records, the Orissa High Court has directed the State government to issue a circular asking doctors to write prescriptions in capital letters and in an unambiguous manner. During the hearing of a bail petition, Justice S.K. Panigrahi expressed dissatisfaction that while verifying the medical documents put up for the perusal of the court, it was found that the prescription by the doctor was of pathetically poor legibility and far beyond the comprehension of any common man or even of the court. “Such illegible handwriting in medical records has the propensity to have adverse medico-legal implications. However, learned counsel for the petitioner assisted the court with much difficulty to decipher what was written therein,” said Justice Panigrahi in his judgment. “This court feels it is imperative that the entire physician community needs to go the extra mile and make conscious efforts to write prescriptions in good handwriting, preferably in capital letters. The digital era could also throw open several options to make prescriptions and the diagnosis more patient-friendly,” the judgment read.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Reflection of the times||
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Down the drain||
14 August 2020||New Delhi,||Testing begins for returning migrants||The Delhi government on Thursday started testing migrant workers — who are coming back to the city — for COVID-19 at their drop-off points, said officials. “On Thursday, workers arriving at Anand Vihar bus terminal were tested using rapid antigen testing. We will start testing at a drop-off point near Wazirabad in north-west district from Friday,” an official told The Hindu . As many as 956 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,49,460, said a health bulletin released by the government. Of the total cases, 1,34,318 people have recovered; 10,975 are active cases, indicative of an upward trend.
14 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Forest cover loss threatens hornbills in Arunachal||A study based on satellite data has flagged a high rate of deforestation in a major hornbill habitat in Arunachal Pradesh. Using fine-scale satellite imagery, a trio of ecologists assessed the changes in forest cover of the 1,064 sq.km. Papum Reserve Forest (RF) adjoining the Pakke Tiger Reserve as well as a part of Assam affected by illegal felling and ethnic conflict. Papum RF is a nesting habitat of three species of the large, colourful fruit-eating hornbills: Great, Wreathed and Oriental Pied. The 862 sq. km Pakke reserve houses a fourth species, the Rufous-Necked. Referred to as ‘forest engineers’ or ‘farmers of forest’ for playing a key role in dispersing seeds of tropical trees, hornbills indicate the prosperity and balance of the forest they build nests in. The study was published in Silva Fennica , a forest journal of Finland.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Leaving no stone unturned||
14 August 2020||MANGALURU,||VHP leader clips video after it goes viral||A video clip where Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai is heard telling some right-wing activists in Mangaluru that cases related to communal incidents registered against them in different police stations will be closed went viral on social media on Thursday. The clip is said to be related to the talks the Minister had with some Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and Bajrang Dal activists at Mangaluru International Airport on Wednesday. The video was shared by VHP Mangaluru divisional secretary Sharan Pumpwell on his twitter handle @pumpwellsharan on Thursday. After it went viral, he removed it. When contacted, Mr. Pumpwell told The Hindu that he had submitted a representation to Mr. Bommai seeking action against Social Democratic Party of India for its alleged role in the Bengaluru violence. Mr. Pumpwell said that he told the Minister that the police continued to book activists under Section 107 and 110 of Cr.PC and sought an undertaking of good conduct during festivals. “Mr. Bommai only promised to look into it,” he said. A senior police official told The Hindu that no communal-related case has been registered against Mr. Pumpwell in Mangaluru.
14 August 2020||MANGALURU,||Police register case again as old post resurfaces||Cyber Crime Police of Mangaluru have registered a fresh case after an old social media post hurting religious sentiments was shared again on social media platforms. The police had registered a case when the post was made for the first time in 2018. Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash said here on Thursday that an old Facebook post defaming Hindu Goddess Lakshmi was shared on some social media groups. Mr. Vikash said that the particular post had been made in 2018 and a case had been registered then. “We are trying to trace the person who has posted this image again now,” he said.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping the law||
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||SC refuses to stay decision on BSP merger||The Supreme Court refused to stay Rajasthan Assembly Speaker C.P. Joshi’s September 2019 decision to recognise the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress. It said it will not interfere as the case against the merger is being heard by the High Court.page 11
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Govt. will fall, BJP leader tells MLAs||At a meeting attended by BJP legislators in Jaipur, party national general secretary P. Muralidhar Rao is reported to have said that there is no way, looking at the events of the last five weeks, that the Gehlot government will survive its full term.page 11
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Amid slush||
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||KTR convening Cabinet meet criticised||Congress Legislature Party leader Bhatti Vikramarka has sought clarity on reports that Information Technology Minister K.T. Rama Rao conducted a Cabinet meeting in Pragathi Bhavan on Wednesday in the absence of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. If the reports are true, it is a serious issue and raises serious questions over the reasons for the absence of the Chief Minister, and the government should give a clarity on this, he said in a statement here.
14 August 2020||KOCHI,||Munnar project plan soon||The annual work plan for the Munnar Mountain Landscape project will soon be submitted for approval. A decision in this regard was taken at a review meeting convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday. Forest officials were directed to submit the annual work plan in 10 days.Page 8
14 August 2020||New Delhi/Lucknow,||Ram temple trust head tests COVID-positive||Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra chief Mahant Nritya Gopal Das tested positive for COVID-19 in Mathura on Wednesday morning, officials said. He was shifted to the Medanta Hospital in Gurugram after Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s intervention. Health officials in Mathura said he was stable and “largely asymptomatic”. Mr. Das, who is also the head of the Krishna Janmabhoomi Nyas, was in Mathura to lead the Janmashtami celebrations. “He offered prayers at the Krishna Janmabhoomi temple on Wednesday night,” said Rohit Mishra, Additional Superintendent of Police (Security), Mathura .  Mr. Das was present on stage with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the groundbreaking ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5. However, a source in the PM’s Office said that Mr. Modi was “not isolating” and is “on course for the Independence Day address”.  Earlier, Mathura District Magistrate Sarvagya Ram Mishra said the mahant, who was staying at an ashram in Mathura, complained of fever and slight breathlessness in the morning. Doctors were called immediately and a rapid antigen test was conducted, which came out positive. Samples of six of Mr. Das’ associates, including the secretary of Krishna Janmabhoomi Seva Sansthan, have been taken for COVID-19 test. ‘Permission not needed’ On how the 82-year-old was allowed to travel to Mathura when the district administration had stopped the entry of devotees coming from other cities, Additional SP (Crime) Radhey Shyam Sharma said, “Being the head of the Krishna Janmabhoomi Nyas, he did not require any permission.”
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to pronounce verdict in contempt case today||A three-judge Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra is scheduled to pronounce its judgment on Friday in a suo motu contempt case against civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan for his tweets.
14 August 2020||Lucknow,||56 in Lucknow juvenile home test positive||Fifty-six inmates and a home guard of a juvenile observa-tion home in Lucknow have tested positive for COVID-19, the Uttar Pradesh govern-ment said on Thursday.
14 August 2020||Kolkata,||No charges for applying to colleges in Bengal, announces govt||The West Bengal government on Thursday announced that students will not be charged for applying to State-run colleges and universities for admission in undergraduate courses. As per an official order, no money can be charged from students for providing application forms or prospectus for admission. “Let me assert in unambiguous terms, colleges should not take a single rupee under any head from the candidates during admission,” Education Minister Partha Chatterjee said. “The colleges can’t even charge money for buying prospectus or in any other category. Those universities, which directly offer undergraduate courses, cannot similarly charge anything from the candidates,” he added. Mr. Chatterjee said students should not be put under any economic stress as they are already faced with hardship due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
14 August 2020||Kolkata,||Time to do justice to farmers, they should not be deprived of central aid: Guv to Mamata||Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Thursday asserted that it was “time to do justice” to farmers in West Bengal as they have lost benefits of Rs. 8,400 crore owing to the State government’s failure to implement the PM Kisan scheme. A senior Trinamool Congress leader, however, took exception to the remark, and said the Mamata Banerjee government has introduced many pro-farmer schemes in the State over the past nine years. Taking to Twitter, Dhankhar said farmers should not be deprived of the central aid available under the scheme. “Farmers have lost 8,400 cr benefit due to failure @MamataOfficial by not forwarding details #PMKisan In my address to the assembly on Feb 07, 2020 benefit by govt. To farmers was ONLY 620 cr. Time to do justice to farmers. They can’t be deprived benefit available all over the country!” the Governor tweeted.
14 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Train to airport from city rly station on the anvil||If all goes as planned, air passengers and employees working at KIA will soon be able to travel from Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna City Railway Station to the airport.
14 August 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 cases cross 2 lakh mark in State||With a total of 6,706 new COVID-19 positive cases reported in Karnataka on Thursday, the total number cases detected in Karnataka has crossed the 2 lakh mark.
14 August 2020||Pune,||Amid COVID-19, an ‘infrastructure census’||While the COVID-19 pandemic has put the brakes on rural infrastructure development works in most districts of Maharashtra, and the country’s rural hinterland, it has kept its pace in Pune’s rural areas under the APJ Abdul Kalam PURA (Providing Urban Amenities in Rural Areas) initiative. Headed by zilla parishad Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Ayush Prasad, the Pune rural administration carried out a gap analysis and an innovative ‘infrastructure census’ to plan rural works in a transparent manner while also coping with the COVID-19 pandemic.
14 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘Can’t allow Jain temples to open for Paryushan’||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Thursday that it cannot allow Jain temples to open for Paryushan from August 15 to 23 in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Pune. A Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and Madhav Jamdar was hearing two petitions filed by Ankit Vora and Shree Trustee Atma Kamal Labdhisurishwarji Jain Gyanmandir Trust. They both sought directions to the State government, Chief Secretary, departments of Revenue and Forests, Disaster Management, Relief and Rehabilitation, and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to allow the members of the Jain community to visit the temples to perform puja and offer prayers. The State informed the Bench that it had rejected the demand of the petitioners in view of the existing COVID-19 guidelines.
14 August 2020||HUBBALLI,||200 new COVID-19 cases in Davangere district||Davangere district recorded 200 new COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday and three deaths, while 224 persons were discharged from hospital taking the total number of discharged persons to 2,871. Meanwhile, Belagavi and Dharwad districts continued to record an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases. Belagavi registered 288 cases and six deaths, while Dharwad reported 257 cases and six deaths. Bagalkot recorded 143 cases and one death, Vijayapura 121 cases and two deaths, Gadag 98 cases; Haveri 96 cases and three deaths, Chitradurga 67 cases and Uttara Kannada 64 cases and two deaths.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||State records 119 deaths, 5,835 fresh infections||Chennai Tamil Nadu reported 5,835 new cases of COVID-19 and brought on record the deaths of 119 more patients, including that of a 14-year-old boy, on Thursday. This took the State’s tally to 3,20,355, and the death toll to 5,397. Another 5,146 persons were discharged. Of the fresh cases, Chennai accounted for 989, followed by Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur. Eighteen of the deaths were in Chennai, while Chengalpattu, Coimbatore and Tirunelveli accounted for seven deaths each.
14 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||At 1,564 cases in a day, it is a new high for Kerala||Kerala reported 1,564 cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, the highest daily cases reported so far, taking the State’s cumulative cases to 39,708. Of the new cases, nearly 90% – 1,404 – were locally acquired infections. Fifteen health workers were infected and no epidemiological link was available in 98 cases. Three more deaths were added to the COVID-19 death toll, taking total fatalities to 129. The deaths reported on Thursday were in Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode and Malappuram. Thiruvananthapuram district reported the maximum cases at 434, all except one locally acquired infections. Viral spread remained high at Palakkad and Malappuram with 202 cases each. Ernakulam reported 115 cases while in other districts, case numbers were less than 100. There were 13,839 patients under hospital treatment, while recoveries were 25,692. Samples tested in 24 hours stood at 31,270. Andhra Pradesh was close to 10,000 new infections again, and the tally was 2,64,142. In 24 hours, 82 new deaths and 9,996 new cases were reported. So far, 2,378 deaths were reported, and the death rate was 0.90%, the Health Department said. With 55,692 samples tested in a day, total samples tested rose to 27,05,459 and tests per million to 50,664. The positivity rate of tests rose to 9.76%. There were 90,840 active cases. With 265 total fatalities, including 10 in the past day, Guntur had the highest number. Kurnool came next with 264 deaths, East Godavari with 248, Krishna 218, Chittoor 205 and Anantapur 203. Among the districts with less than 200 deaths were Visakhapatnam (187), West Godavari (170), Srikakulam (150), Prakasam (146), Nellore (121), Vizianagaram (103) and Kadapa (98). East Godavari reported 10 new deaths and had 1,504 new cases, Chittoor (963), Visakhapatnam (931), Anantapur (856), West Godavari (853), Kurnool (823), Kadapa (784), Nellore (682), Prakasam (681), Guntur (595), Vizianagaram (569), Srikakulam (425) and Krishna (330). With 6,706 new cases, Karnataka on Thursday had a tally of 2,03,200. Also, 103 more deaths on Thursday took the total to 3,613. Of the total 6,706 positive cases, 1893 were reported in Bengaluru. Tamil Nadu reported 5,835 new cases of COVID-19 and recorded 119 more deaths including that of a 14-year-old boy on Thursday. The overall tally was up, at 3,20,355 and toll 5,397. The teen from Cuddalore had seizure disorder and was admitted to the Government Headquarters Hospital in the town with fever for two days and breathing difficulty on August 7. However, he died on August 9 due to cardio respiratory arrest and COVID-19. Two persons aged in their 20s also succumbed. A 28-year-old man from Coimbatore was declared brought dead at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on August 11. His death was due to COVID-19. A 29-year-old man was admitted to a private hospital with polytrauma on August 11 and died within two hours of admission due to COVID-19 and hypovolemic shock, the Health department said. (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP sure Gehlot govt. will fall||The BJP’s decision to move a no-confidence motion against the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan, as the State Assembly convenes on Friday, echoes the message that the party high command sent to Jaipur and conveyed through national general secretary P. Muralidhar Rao to party MLAs — the Gehlot government is not likely to complete its tenure. Speaking to party MLAs in Jaipur during a meeting of the legislature party, Mr. Rao is reported to have said that looking at the events of the past five weeks, there was no way the Gehlot government could survive its full term. Sources said Mr. Rao was of the opinion that the return to the party fold of rebel Congressman Sachin Pilot was not “tenable in the long run” and that Mr. Gehlot had only kicked the can down the road. Introspection needed The BJP has maintained that it has nothing to do with encouraging a rebellion in the Congress ranks but the return of Mr. Pilot to his party has exposed some chinks in the BJP’s armour as well. MLAs have been told to wait for the next big conflagration to hit the Congress, “because this wasn’t the last or conclusive one”. “What had never happened earlier in Rajasthan happened in the last couple of months, and it’s not likely that such an event will not have consequences in the future,” said a senior leader in the Rajasthan BJP. Sources told The Hindu that in former chief minister Vasundhara Raje’s meetings in New Delhi with the party’s national president J.P. Nadda and general secretary B.L. Santhosh, the question of leaving her out of any political developments in the State was raised by her. She was, say sources, assured that since the party had not encouraged the rebellion and was not in any way close to inducting Mr. Pilot into the BJP, she was not brought into the loop. “She was told that it was the party’s wish not to embroil her in needless controversy,” said a source. Revamp of State unit The events in Rajasthan have also, however, made the BJP realise that its own house needs to be set in order in the State and that plans to alter the authority structure in the unit could be tougher than earlier thought. Ms Raje had, in 2017-18 strongly resisted any attempts to appoint Union Minister Gajendra Shekhawat (who enjoys the Central leadership’s blessings) as State unit chief. The party had to fly out (and bus back in) 20 of its MLAs from Rajasthan to Gujarat at the height of the recent crisis. All of this does not bode well for the BJP. Mr. Pilot’s rebellion in fact, failed at two levels — one at the personal level for himself and his ambitions with regard to State politics, and secondly for the BJP’s central leadership to effect a shift in leadership in its own State unit, using Mr. Pilot’s entry as an alibi to effect a change in the power dynamic. As of now, therefore, the message the Central leadership has sent across is to take the reverses on the chin, and watch the equations between Mr. Gehlot and Mr. Pilot carefully.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘509 nurses infected with virus’||Maharashtra, Gujarat and West Bengal have the maximum number of COVID-19 positive staff nurses in the country and also the highest fatality rate, the Trained Nurses Association of India (TNAI) said on Thursday. TNAI, the largest nursing association in the country, released data for the first time since the beginning of the pandemic, indicating that 509 nursing staff were infected and 20 had died while providing care to COVID-19 patients. According to the data, West Bengal reported 111 COVID-19 positive nurses with three fatalities; Maharashtra has 75 cases with six deaths and Gujarat 96 cases with four deaths. Mizoram, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Uttar Pradesh has the least recorded COVID-19 caseload among nursing staff, with Rajasthan, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh registering the lowest reported fatalities. The Central government, meanwhile, said so far more than 3.04 crore N95 masks and more than 1.28 crore PPE kits had been distributed to States/UTs/Central institutions, free of cost since March. Also, more than 10.83 crore HCQ tablets have been distributed while 22,533 ‘Make in India’ ventilators have been delivered to various States/UTs/Central Institutions. “Safety of medical staff is among our top priority and along with augmenting COVID-19 facilities, the Union government has been providing medical supplies free of cost to the State/UT governments to supplement their efforts. This is being done with the combined efforts of several ministries,” said an official.
14 August 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. pans ‘vicious’ TV debates||The death of Congress spokesperson Rajiv Tyagi moments after finishing a television show on Wednesday evening stirred up some party leaders to come out with statements on media neutrality on Thursday. Former Information and Broadcasting (I&B) Minister Manish Tewari blamed the government for failing to maintain a ‘modicum of civility’, while party spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill wrote to I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar, saying most TV debates “coerce spokespersons to surrender to a slanderous, defamatory and vicious atmosphere to feed the monster of sensationalism”. Lok Sabha member Shashi Tharoor, who heads the Parliamentary Committee on Information Technology, tweeted on Mr. Shergill’s letter, saying the panel would examine the issue of freedom of speech and expression. Senior party leader Ahmed Patel took to Twitter to ask TV channel owners and editors to reflect on the nature of debates. ‘Meaningless activity’ “It is high time TV channel owners, editors and anchors introspect on how some in the industry have reduced news debates into a meaningless, poisonous and potentially fatal activity,” he said. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Tewari said, “Rajiv Tyagi’s death should be a trigger for the Ministry to revisit their stand on these theatrics that pass off as prime time debates”. The former Minister, who had been at the receiving end of media coverage during the anti-corruption movement led by activist Anna Hazare, claimed that “TV debates now resemble WWF wrestling matches”. “What has happened in the last six years is a free flow of Hindi expletives on national TV. The I&B Ministry has failed in its responsibility as the licensor to maintain a modicum of civility which the programme and advertising code mandates”, he stated. Post May 2019 Lok Sabha results, the Congress communication wing had banned its spokespersons and panelists for a year from taking part in any TV debates. “The reason is very simple, as media neutrality is now dead,” said Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala. He said, “In the last six years, the media has only been questioning the Congress and other Opposition parties instead of holding the government to account on issues such as failure in corona management, economy and unemployment, border hostility, demonetisation or a faulty GST. Today, 95% of the media are Godi media [embedded] and we have reason to believe the government tells them to focus on polarising Hindu-Muslim issues as debate.”
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Consider more languages in govt.’||Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde has said that the government should consider amending the Official Languages Act of 1963 to include more vernacular languages in governance, and not just confine it to Hindi and English. “These days, translation is the easiest task between you and Google translator. In Parliament, any language is translated. We are also translating our judgments into vernacular languages... You [Centre] can bring your Act up to date,” Chief Justice Bobde told the government, represented by Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta. To this, Mr. Mehta quoted Albert Einstein, that a translation cannot be as evocative as the original version. It was like looking at the rear side of an embroidered cloth. “But here it is from English to our vernacular languages,” one of the judges on the Bench replied. The court was hearing an appeal filed by the Union of India challenging the legality of a Delhi High Court judgment of June 30 to translate the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification of 2020 into all 22 vernacular languages in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution. The High Court had reasoned that the EIA concerned environmental restrictions on building, expansion and modernisation of major infrastructure projects across the country. The EIA should reach the maximum number of people without discrimination to any part of the country, especially the non-Hindi speaking parts of India. It should reach and be understood by the rural population of the country. The High Court wanted to ensure maximum public participation, so that people studied the draft and responded with suggestions and objections. “We do not object to the High Court judgment,” Chief Justice Bobde told Mr. Mehta. The apex court then gave Mr. Mehta permission to withdraw and return to the High Court with a review petition. The government could come back to it if the review plea failed.
14 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Probe indicates SDPI role, says Bommai||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that initial police investigation into the rioting, within two police station limits of Bengaluru on Tuesday night, has revealed the involvement of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI). The police are collecting information of its involvement in the past incidents in other parts of the State as well, said the Home Minister. Four members of SDPI were arrested for their alleged role in the violence into which a magisterial inquiry has already been ordered. “We are investigating and collecting information about SDPI’s involvement in various past incidents in Mysuru and Mangaluru,” Mr. Bommai said, adding that based on the information the government will take action against the organisation. Three people were killed in police firing following rioting in K.G. Halli and D.J. Halli police station limits. More than 140 people have been arrested. On Wednesday, the SDPI ruled out its involvement in the violence and cited a delay in police action as the reason for the escalation in the situation. They said that if the police had immediately acted against the person who had put up an inflammatory post on Islam, which had triggered the riots, the situation would have come under control. Mr. Bommai told presspersons here on Thursday that “new aspects” were coming out in the probe. Declining to divulge details of the probe, he said, “But with video footage and other evidence, the involvement of the SDPI has come to the fore. We are going for an in-depth investigation. We have seen from some video footage that SDPI workers came to K.G. Halli and D.J. Halli from neighbouring areas. This also we are investigating”. In a public appeal, the Home Minister asked citizens to maintain law and order. He said the government “will not rest” till the case is busted. “We will go deep into this conspiracy regardless of who is behind it.” Mr. Bommai further said, “We will investigate the role of political parties and organisations. At the local level, we are looking at all angles such as rivalry between and within political parties. We will investigate anything and everything that caused this incident. We will take action against whoever is at fault, even if it is an elected representative.”
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Australia shares experience on 5G||India and Australia are sharing experiences on protecting critical infrastructure, including 5G networks, said a senior Australian High Commission official on Thursday while talking of the huge increase in cybersecurity cooperation between the two countries. However, Australia has no intention of banning Chinese apps like India has done, said Minister-Counsellor, Home Affairs, Tara Cavanagh. At the Prime Minister’s virtual summit in June both countries had signed a cyber and cyber-enabled critical technology framework agreement along with the Comprehensive Strategic Partnership (CSP). “We have a close and ongoing dialogue, through that we exchange a range of our experiences, including what we are doing on critical infrastructure and aspects, including our 5G network,” Ms. Cavanagh said. She said another area which the two countries were exploring was of regulatory space, including Australia’s encryption legislation, and how that could be used to prevent cyber-enabled crime. “Also on how to police the dark web ... That’s a new area. That’s of particular focus for us,” she stated. In August 2018, Australia had banned Chinese companies from offering 5G services, citing national security. In January, India allowed Chinese firms to participate in 5G trials but with the current border standoff in Ladakh, there are reports India may take a tougher stand. On June 29, India banned 59 Chinese apps citing national security and later banned 47 more Chinese apps. On this, Ms. Cavanagh said, “We recognise that each country will make its own decision in its own national interest. We have looked at the matter and we have decided that we will not be making such a decision at this stage.” Deputy High Commissioner Rod Hilton sad there was a lot of focus on the CSP but in his view the cyber framework was the second most important agreement signed that day (June 4). “The [cyber] agreement sets out practical actions to enhance digital trade, harness critical technology opportunities and address cybersecurity challenges,” he said. As part of this, the two countries had been increasing information sharing and stepping up cooperation, he added. The two diplomats said the categories of threats that the two countries were looking at were criminal groups, financial gain, sophisticated state-based actors and so on.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC refuses to stay Rajasthan Speaker’s order on BSP MLAs||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to stay Rajasthan Assembly Speaker C.P. Joshi’s September 18, 2019 decision to recognise the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress party. A Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra said the court will not interfere as the case against the merger is being heard by the State High Court. The court’s disinclination to intervene was despite apprehensions raised by petitioner and BJP leader Madan Dilawar that there may be a floor test in the Assembly on August 14. Senior advocate Harish Salve, for Mr. Dilawar, raised the spectre of the six MLAs defying the BSP whip and voting in favour of the ruling Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for one of the six legislators, said the Business Advisory Committee was meeting at 10 a.m. on Friday to chalk out the agenda for the House. “They will have to form an agenda. A no-confidence motion has not yet been moved. Meanwhile, the High Court is hearing the case filed by Mr. Dilawar for disqualification of the six MLAs on the ground of defection and a judgment may come in the meantime. As of now, this petition by Mr. Dilawar is based on apprehensions,” Mr. Sibal submitted. Senior advocate S.C. Misra said the BSP MLAs had voted as Congress legislators in the Rajya Sabha election recently, defying the party whip. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan said the High Court should be given time to decide on the validity of the merger and the question of disqualification. “As of now, this case is based on 'ifs' and 'buts'. The Supreme Court cannot pass orders on the basis of anticipatory worries,” Mr. Dhavan submitted. “Yes, you’re right,” Justice Mishra reacted, saying any voting done now by the six legislators would be subject to the final decision of the High Court on the question of merger. But Mr. Salve pressed for an immediate stay. “Even if you stay the Speaker’s order later, the BSP MLAs can say that the order was not stayed on that day (August 13) and so they can vote under the cover of the Speaker's acceptance of their merger...” However, the Bench refused to intervene and adjourned the case to Monday.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC panel for physical hearings on a trial basis||A seven-judge committee of the Supreme Court led by Justice N.V. Ramana has “in principle” recommended the beginning of hearings in two or three courtrooms on a trial basis in a fortnight amid the COVID-19 pandemic. A source aware of the committee’s deliberations said medical experts were, however, still against the idea of physical court hearings. They have been advised to wait as statistics on COVID-19 cases continue to ride high. The court was nevertheless making preliminary preparations in the courtrooms, the source said. An aluminium frame was seen nailed on the wall in Justice Arun Mishra’s courtroom, possibly to install a glass partition between the judges and the lawyers. The proposal from lawyers was to allow physical hearings in regular matters or cases. “Even a few cases listed would see an inflow of at least 200 lawyers,” the source said, expressing doubts over the move. A meeting was held recently among the committee and senior advocate Dushyant Dave, president of the Supreme Court Bar Association; senior advocate Manan Kumar Mishra, chairman of the Bar Council of India; and advocate Shivaji Jadhav, president of the Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association. Lawyers’ anguish Mr. Mishra had told The Hindu that the Bar leaders had conveyed the anguish of lawyers, many of whom are in dire straits, financially and professionally. They had urged opening up courtrooms for hearings in a limited manner. They said many lawyers were unable to cope with the virtual court system as cases were complex, required detailed arguments and involved voluminous documents. Virtual court hearings of limited cases have been on for the past few months of the pandemic lockdown till date. Besides Justice Ramana, the other judges on the committee are Justices Arun Mishra, Rohinton F. Nariman, U.U. Lalit, A.M. Khanwilkar, D.Y. Chandrachud and L. Nageswara Rao.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Navy should design and develop armaments: Rajnath||The Navy, which has made significant progress in indigenous design of warships, should now focus on design and development of armaments, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday after virtually launching the Indian Naval Innovation and Indigenisation Organisation (NIIO). “The NIIO puts in place dedicated structures for the end users to interact with academia and industry towards fostering innovation and indigenisation for self-reliance in defence in keeping with the vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat,” the Navy said in a statement. The NIIO is a three-tiered organisation. The Naval Technology Acceleration Council (N-TAC) will bring together the twin aspects of innovation and indigenisation and provide apex level directives. A working group under the N-TAC will implement the projects. A Technology Development Acceleration Cell (TDAC) has also been created for induction of emerging disruptive technology in an accelerated time frame, the Navy stated. The Navy has an in-house design bureau, which, over the years, has made significant progress in designing the ‘float’ component, and made some progress in the ‘move’ component, which is propulsion. However, there is heavy reliance on imports for armaments, called the ‘fight’ component. Ships of all sizes Vice Chief of Navy, Vice Admiral Ashok Kumar said that over 130 ships of all sizes and types had been designed in-house, from small boats to the aircraft carrier under construction at Kochi. “Every type of ship and submarine is now built in Indian shipyards, including nuclear submarines. In the last five years, over 70% of our capital budget has been spent on Indian vendors,” he stated. During the launch, the Navy signed four memorandums of understanding (MoUs) with the Uttar Pradesh Expressway Industrial Development Authority, Raksha Shakti University, Gujarat; Maker Village, Kochi; and the Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers.
14 August 2020||Bengaluru,||HC notice on plea to extend education loan moratorium||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday ordered issue of notices to the State and Union governments, and the Reserve Bank of India on a PIL petition seeking extension of the benefit of moratorium scheme on education loans to all categories of students in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the court declined to entertain two others pleas, made in the petition, seeking direction to the State and Union governments to either waive outstanding education loans with effect from March 1, 2020, or waive the interest amount on all education loans for two years. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the order on the PIL petition filed by Dr. Ram Manohar Lohiya Thinkers Forum, Bengaluru. As the Bench declined to consider the plea for waiver of either outstanding or interest amounts, the petitioner’s counsel requested the court to consider a plea for directing the authorities to extend the moratorium period, available to students belonging to economically weaker sections in repayment of educational loans under the Central Sector Interest Subsidy Scheme (CSISS) of the Ministry of Human Resources Department, to all students. It was pointed out in the petition that in the CSISS, the interest payable during the moratorium period, that is course period plus one year, would be payable by the government in the case of students belonging to economically weaker sections. The petitioner requested the court to issue direction to authorities to extend this benefit to all students without any exception.
14 August 2020||IDUKKI,||Landslip-hit will be rehabilitated: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the government will ensure the rehabilitation of those affected in the Pettimudy landslip. Mr. Vijayan, accompanied by Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, on Thursday visited the landslip-hit areas of the Nayamakkad tea estate where four layams were buried under the debris on August 7. As many as 55 bodies were recovered till Thursday and 15 persons were still missing. They reached Idukki on helicopter from the capital in the morning and set out to the spot in a motorcade of vehicles. Mr. Vijayan praised the rescue work carried by local people and government agencies. He said they had braved inclement weather, the threat of more landslips, blocked roads, fallen trees, power outage, and poor communication to search for missing persons. After a review meeting with officials at Munnar, Mr. Vijayan said the government would ensure the rehabilitation of the victims. Those who survived should be rehabilitated. The education of children should be ensured, he said adding that building houses on the same spot was not possible. New accommodation New places to accommodate them should be considered. The government was ready to build houses and ensure the education of the affected children, he said adding that the government looked forward to getting the support of the parental company in this regard. He said the company had shifted the people from landslip-prone areas to other layams. They were now without income, he said and added that the company should support them. Mr. Vijayan said issues such as repairing works of the estate lanes were brought to the attention of the company. Company’s assurance “The company officials have agreed to cooperate with the government. They will also provide land for building new quarters for plantation employees,” he said. Mr. Vijayan was accompanied by Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan, Power Minister M.M. Mani and senior officials of various departments. Mr. Vijayan said the Revenue Department would soon finalise a rehabilitation package for Pettimudy similar to the one implemented for the survivors of the landslip at Kavalappara in Wayanad district in 2019.  Meanwhile, Dean Kuriakose, MP, who also accompanied the Chief Minister, said there was no clarity on measures to be taken to mitigate the plight of the affected families at Pettimudy. Relief package The Chief Minister said the government would provide Rs. 5 lakh each to the victims' families. The relief package would be implemented with the assistance of KDHP (Kanan Devan Hills Plantation) Ltd. Meanwhile, Mr. Khan said the tragedy had shocked the entire country. Messages of grief had flowed in from across the country. President Ram Nath Kovind had called Mr. Khan to offer his condolences to the victims and their families. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had spoken to Mr. Vijayan soon after the tragedy struck, he said.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||India announces $500 mn package for the Maldives||India announced a slew of new connectivity measures for the Maldives, including air, sea, intra-island and telecommunications in an effort to help the Indian Ocean Islands deal with the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Among the initiatives announced at a meeting between External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Maldives Foreign Minister Abdullah Shahid via videoconference on Thursday are an air connectivity “bubble” for travel, a direct ferry service, a submarine cable for telecom connectivity; and assistance for the Greater Male Connectivity project (GMCP) to connect Male to three neighbouring islands, the biggest such project thus far. “Responding to a request from the Government of Maldives, the External Affairs Minister announced India’s decision to support the implementation of the GMCP in Maldives, through a financial package consisting of a grant of USD 100 million and a new Line of Credit (LoC) of USD 400 million,” the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in a statement. The GMCP would be the “largest civilian infrastructure project in Maldives”, it noted. Connecting islands The project, which will consist of a number of bridges and causeways to connect Male to Villingili, Thilafushi and Gulhifahu islands that span 6.7 km, will take much of the pressure off the main capital island of Male for commercial and residential purposes. The $400 million Line of Credit comes in addition to a previous LoC of $800 million that was announced by New Delhi in December 2018. “A landmark moment in Maldives-India cooperation today as we receive Indian assistance of USD250 million as budget support and USD500 million for the Greater Malé Connectivity Project,” said Mr. Solih in a tweet thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi and India.  When completed, the project would render the Chinese-built Sinemale Friendship bridge connecting Male to two other islands, thus far the most visible infrastructure project in the islands, “insignificant in comparison”, the sources said.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC allows withdrawal of plea against contempt law||The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed veteran journalists N. Ram and Arun Shourie and advocate Prashant Bhushan to withdraw their writ petition challenging “scandalising of court” as a ground for contempt with liberty to approach a High Court. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra, however, insisted that the writ petitioners could not withdraw the case with an intention to straightaway move the Supreme Court later on. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, for the petitioners, agreed, saying they would approach the appropriate forum, that is, the High Court concerned. Mr. Dhavan said the issue represented in the writ petition was important, but “this is not the propitious stage”. “We would like to file it, maybe after two months,” Mr. Dhavan submitted initially. ‘Vague ground’ The writ petition had challenged the “scandalising of court” as an “incurably vague” ground for initiating contempt action. They said the contempt law in question was unconstitutional, rooted in colonialism and produced a chilling effect on free speech and expression. Their petition, filed through advocate Kamini Jaiswal, focused on the legality of Section 2(c)(i) of the Contempt of Court Act. The Section holds that it amounts to criminal contempt if a person publishes, by words spoken or written or by any other act, anything “which scandalises or tends to scandalise or lowers or tends to lower the authority of any court”. “ ‘Scandalising the court’ is rooted in colonial assumption and objects, which have no place in legal orders committed to democratic constitutionality and maintenance of an open robust public sphere,” the petition had said. The petition was earlier dropped from the list of cases scheduled for hearing before a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud on August 10 because it had been accompanied with an application to stay contempt cases pending against the noted civil rights lawyer before another Bench (Justice Mishra’s). A note issued from official quarters had said that the Supreme Court Registry committed a “mistake” in listing the writ petition before Justice Chandrachud, and an explanation had been sought from the Registry officials. Another note explained the dropping of the case from the Justice Chandrachud Bench, saying the accompanying application sought a stay on a criminal contempt case of 2009 and the suo motu contempt proceedings, both pending before a three-judge Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra.
14 August 2020||New Delhi,||Ravi no show at NSCN-IM informal talks||Naga interlocutor R.N. Ravi kept the National Socialist Council of Nagaland-IM (NSCN-IM) leadership waiting as he did not turn up for the scheduled informal talks in New Delhi on Thursday. The meeting was arranged a day after the NSCN-IM released the details of the 2015 framework agreement and accused Mr. Ravi of deleting a key word from the original document. The NSCN instead had a meeting with Intelligence Bureau officials. The framework agreement released by the NSCN-IM stated that the Centre had agreed on “sharing the sovereign power” and provide for an “enduring inclusive new relationship of peaceful co-existence of the two entities”. The Centre has not issued any statement denying the contents of the framework agreement that were released for the first time by the NSCN-IM. The details of Thursday’s meeting were not known. Mr. Ravi did not respond to requests for a comment. Mr. Ravi, who is also Nagaland’s Governor, was rushed to Delhi from Kohima for the meeting. NSCN-IM chief Thuingaleng Muivah, 86, had refused to speak to Mr. Ravi, following which a meeting with two IB officials was arranged in Delhi on Monday. Mr. Muivah has been camping in Delhi for the past fortnight. Verge of collapse The Naga talks were on the verge of a collapse as NSCN-IM demanded that Mr. Ravi be removed from the position. The Isaak Muivah faction of the NSCN-IM, one of the largest Naga groups, signed the agreement in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 3, 2015 to end the decades-old Naga issue.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Too few forensic labs delaying evidence analysis, says NHRC||Members of the National Human Rights Commission have raised concerns over the inadequate number of forensic science laboratories in the country that delays evidence gathering, leading to cases pending in courts and undertrial prisoners remaining behind bars. Speaking to The Hindu on Thursday, NHRC member Jyotika Kalra said if forensic evidence was collected and preserved on time, particularly in sexual assault cases, the case could be resolved sooner. In addition, she highlighted the importance of ballistics. At a recent webinar attended by Union and State government as well as police forces’ representatives, Ms. Kalra said the experts informed the officials that 70% of the weapons used in the country are “country-made” and do not comply with specifications that can be traced. She said Joint Secretary in the Union Home Ministry Punya Salila Srivastava, who attended the webinar, informed the gathering that the Centre had allocated Rs. 200 crore out of the Nirbhaya Fund to States to ramp up forensic science infrastructure. Ms. Kalra said the NHRC would follow up on the matter, seeking action-taken reports as needed. During the webinar on Monday, NHRC member Justice. P.C. Pant had said the Commission had been raising the issue of the number of pending cases at forensic labs, a statement said.
14 August 2020||Srinagar,||J&KPM future uncertain after Shah Faesal’s exit||Launched with a lot of fanfare with prominent, young faces 17 months ago, J&K’s youngest political party, the J&K Peoples Movement (J&KPM), is struggling to stay afloat. Days after IAS topper Shah Faesal announced his decision to quit politics, the other well-known face of the party Javaid Mustafa Mir, a former legislator and minister, also has quit. “Many young faces are also leaving the party. These is a sense of disillusionment after Faesal’s exit and his recent statements,” a young party leader, who also quit the party, told The Hindu . Promise of change Scores of youth were attracted to the party that pledged to “fight corruption and push for peaceful resolution of the Kashmir issue”. Mumbai-based Kashmiri businessman-turned-politician, Feroze Peerzada, has taken over as the president of the party. “My first priority is to give confidence to those who joined the party because of (Bureaucrat-turned-politician) Faesal. We are trying to restore the party system. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, it is not possible to reach out to masses on the ground. But we are intact as a party and will not dissolve it,” Mr. Peerzada told The Hindu . However, he also said, on hindsight, if the party leaders had had any inkling about the events of August 5, 2019, “Me and Faesal may not have floated the party”. On rumours of Mr. Faesal returning to the civil services, Mr. Peerzada said, “Faesal’s passport was impounded following the slapping of the Public Safety Act (PSA) on him. If he is given the passport back and allowed to travel, his first priority would be to go abroad for studies.” He said Mr. Faesal is “also hurt that no one came to his support the way he expected and shed tears with his family during his detention”. Mr. Peerzada said Mr. Faesal was a very popular across the country. “At a party in Mumbai, Bollywood actor Shahrukh Khan praised his (Faesal) decision saying ‘he is brilliant’,” he added. Unusual situation Disagreeing with the former IAS officer over “political parties not having much role now in J&K” post August 5, 2019, Mr. Peerzada said, “Time heals every wound. It’s a matter of time. We are hopeful statehood will be restored soon.”
14 August 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra govt. evaluating feasibility of conducting CET||The State government will take a decision on conducting the Common Entrance Test (MHT-CET) in the next seven-eight days only after considering all feasibility assessments, said State Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant here on Thursday. He also said the authorities of the CET cell were carrying out feasibility surveys to see if exam centres could be created at the taluk and district levels. The COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns have cast a shadow on the CET, for which more than six lakh candidates across Maharashtra have registered. The crucial entrance exam determines admissions to 14 technical and professional courses. Exam centres “We are trying to work out the logistics for setting up centres at the taluka level. Can we get five-and-a-half lakh students to centres at the taluka, district or divisional levels? We also have to see whether exams can be held by taking due precautions like physical distancing to ensure the health and safety of students. Once authorities present their feasibility assessments over the next week or so, only then can we take a decision after consulting with them,” Mr. Samant said. He also said the Education department was mulling over the alternative of giving students an entry on the basis of marks secured in their Class 12 or Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) exams. “Generally, students study harder and prepare more intensely for cracking the CET than for the HSC exams. So, it would be unfair if entry is given only on the basis of Class 12 marks. All these variables have to be considered before we take a concrete decision,” the Minister said.
14 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Work begins on Rs. 1,000-cr. rail coach factory||Industries and IT Minister K. T. Rama Rao has urged the Centre to keep its promise of establishing a rail coach factory in Telangana. Laying the foundation for a Rs. 1,000-crore rail coach factory of Medha Group near Hyderabad, Mr.Rao said at the time of bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh, the Centre had said that a rail coach unit would be set up at Kazipet in the public sector. Largest pvt. facility It was six years since Telangana formation and the promise was yet to be kept, he said, adding that on completion the Medha Group’s facility would be the largest such in the private sector in the country. Ministers Harish Rao and Sabitha Indra Reddy, people’s representatives and Medha Group managing director Y. Kasyap Reddy participated in the ground-breaking ceremony of the project that was expected create 2,200 direct and indirect employment opportunities, a release said. Medha’s facility, at Kondakal village, Shankarpally, in the neighbouring Rangareddy district, would be equipped to manufacture coaches, locomotives, intercity trainsets, metro trains and monorail. It would have a capacity to manufacture 500 coaches of various types and 50 locomotives per year. Hailing the decision of the Medha Group, Mr. Rama Rao said the first assembly line was expected to be completed in about 15 months, while it would take 4-5 years for the entire project to be completed. It was coming on about 100 acres spread across Kondakal and Veimula villages. The project was expected to create an ecosystem for rail coach manufacturing in Telangana, he said, adding that the State had manufacturing units for buses, tractors, parts of aircraft and helicopters. Describing the rail coach factory as an important step towards a self-reliant India, he said Medha was also in talks with a European firm for a partnership that would open doors to export of the coaches. Rs. 2,100 crore turnover Medha Servo Drives is the flagship of the group with focus on design and manufacturing of various high-tech electronics products for application on locomotives, trainsets, coaches, railway stations and yards. It is the largest propulsion equipment supplier to Indian Railways. According to the release, the group had a consolidated turnover of around Rs. 2,100 crore.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi sees surge in passengers after resumption of flights||Delhi airport said on Thursday that its share of passengers relative to other airports in the country has surpassed pre-COVID-19 levels. In a press note, the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said that during the first nine weeks since resumption of domestic flights its share of total domestic passengers rose to 23%, which was 5% more than pre-COVID-19 level. Similarly, its share in the international passenger chunk also rose from 27% to 36%. However, in absolute terms, the total number of monthly footfall is far below what it used to be until February, i.e. two lakh per month. Domestic operations resumed on May 25, after a ban of two months. International flights, which were banned on March 22, are yet to resume fully as the government has only allowed international flights to and from countries like France, Germany, US, UAE and Kuwait under a bilateral agreement with each. The rise in share of domestic passengers at the Delhi airport could be because it’s a hub for many stranded passengers trying to return to northern parts of the country, as well as due to easier quarantine norms for incoming passengers as compared to other States and Union Territories. The increase in the share of international passengers for Delhi is largely because of many of the repatriation flights under Vande Bharat and those by other countries being operated from and to Delhi.
14 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Malayalam cinema loses prolific lyricist Chunakkara Ramankutty||Chunakkara Ramankutty, who died in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday night at the age of 84, was a prolific lyricist who penned some of the biggest hits of Malayalam cinema in the 1980s and 90s. He wrote more than 200 songs in a career that spanned over five decades. Among his most popular songs are Devatharu poothu ...(Engane Nee Marakkum), Hrudayavaniyile gaayikayo ... (Kottayam Kunjachan), Shyamameghame nee yadukula ...(Adhipan), Sindoorathilakavumaay ... (Kuyiline Thedi) and Chandanakkuriyumaayi vaa ... (Oru Nokku Kanan).  Hit pair Interestingly, all of those songs were composed by Shyam. The Chunakkara-Shyam combine used to come up with successive chart-toppers. The music for Chunakkara’s debut film, Ashramam , though was by the legendary M.K. Arjunan, who died four months ago. That was in 1978. The following year saw him pairing up with Shyam for the first time, for Koumara praya m . Though the duo came up with a fine Yesudas song, Pravahame pravahame... , for the 1981 film Aa Divasam , it would take another couple of years for them to establish themselves as one of the successful pairs of Malayalam film music. Though most of his biggest hits may have been tuned by Shyam — together they created about 100 songs — he also worked with composers such as G. Devarajan, M.G. Radhakrishnan, S.P. Venkitesh, Kannur Rajan, and Mohan Sithara. Before entering the tinsel town he had written songs for plays and radio. He was fortunate that he could write songs at a time when melody was still very much alive in Malayalam cinema, though its golden age had ended. Chunakkara may not have been quite in the league of the legendary poet-lyricists of Malayalam cinema, but he leaves behind some eminently enjoyable songs that will continue to delight music lovers.
14 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Srisailam half-empty even after 3 weeks of flood||When the discharge of flood started at Jurala project on July 14, initially with power generation and later from the spillway, the chances of Srisailam dam getting filled early this year appeared very high as inflows into the common reservoir of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh commenced more than two weeks early compared to last year. A month later, the reservoir remains about half empty although the discharge of flood from Jurala with the help of inflows from the upstream have been continuous and going up to over 2 lakh cusecs in between. Last year, Srisailam dam received surplus water within a matter of just 10 days of heavy flood as it received only half (0.5) tmc ft of water in two months till July 31 and the spillway discharge was commenced only August 9 itself. However, this year drawal of water from Srisailam for supplementation to Nagarjunasagar with power generation by Telangana and drawal for irrigation and drinking needs both by Telangana and Andhra Pradesh left the water storage in the reservoir only half-full. “Against the arrival of about 188.1 tmc ft of flood as on August 13, over 101 tmc ft has been drawn from Srisailam, including about 75 tmc ft for supplementation to Nagarjunasagar and about 25 tmc ft by AP and Telangana for irrigation and drinking needs,” a flood monitoring official told The Hindu . On the commencement of new water year on June 1, the carry over storage in Srisailam was 35.13 tmc ft and the arrival 188.1 tmc ft of flood so far this season would have made it surplus already as the capacity of the reservoir is 215.81 tmc ft. At 7 p.m. on Thursday, the water storage in Srisailam was 122.72 tmc ft have with inflows of 55,300 cusecs reaching it mostly from Jurala and in small measure of 1,125 cusecs from Handri river. Meanwhile, heavy rainfall in the catchment areas of Krishna and its tributaries in Karnataka and Maharashtra is still getting sizeable flood to Almatti and Narayanpur allowing heavy flood discharge to Jurala. The Central Water Commission (CWC) has forecast that flood to upstream reservoirs is expected to continue further with 12 cm of rain recorded in Mahabaleshwar and 5.8 cm in Koyna during the 24 hour period till 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. Besides, Hidkal dam across Ghataprabha and Tungabhadra dam in Karnataka are also steadily moving towards surplus position with Hidkal requiring less than 1.5 tmc ft and Tungabhadra needing less than 11 tmc ft water.
14 August 2020||SANGAREDDY,||2 of family, one virus-hit, die within 12 hours||In a pathetic incident, two members of a family died within 12 hours. One of them tested positive for coronavirus while the other was not tested. The incident took place at Narayankhed on Thursday. The corona-positive victim was a 35-year-old man who died while sitting on a sofa in the house at the midnight of Wednesday. His mother, aged about 60, died in the morning. Incidentally, four others of the victim’s family tested positive for the virus. According to sources, the 35-year-old man had been staying with his family and retired father and mother at Narayankhed. On August 11, he and his wife had tested positive for the virus. On receipt of the news, his children were sent away to the relatives’ house. On August 12, three members of the families of the victim’s brothers, who were staying at Sangareddy, tested positive for the virus. Sources said the body of the 35-year-old was kept outside the house and allegedly got drenched in the rain before officials reached the spot in the morning. In the next few hours, his mother also collapsed and died. She was not yet tested. Meanwhile, the father of the deceased developed corona symptoms and would get tested on Friday, according to a medical officer. “My brother got scared after contracting the virus. Medicines were not supplied to us. We purchased them on our own. We do not know whether he had cardiac arrest but he died last night, vomiting blood. My mother also died, probably after hearing the news,” said a brother of the deceased. However, doctors said that they had supplied medicines to the family.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Film city to come up in Bengaluru||Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan on Thursday said that a film city would be established on 150 acres of land at Hessarghatta in the city. This proposal, earlier, had drawn criticism by environmentalists. Speaking to reporters after meeting Kannadaactor Shivarajkumar, the Deputy Chief Minister said theAnimal Husbandry Department has 450 acres at Hessarghatta, of which 150 acres would be earmarked for the film city. Conservationists slammed the move saying it would mean disaster for the ecosystem there. “This is nothing but a real-estate prospect. Now the government has a rule that if you lease government land, you can buy that land. Around the grasslands, there is a lot of farmland. The whole area’s complex ecology will change. It will become a city,” said one of them. They also pointed out that there are 140 species of birds, some of them rarest of rare such as the greater spotted eagle, vulnerable to extinction; lilac silverline butterfly, and slender loris. “Moreover, it is Arkavati river’s catchment area,” said a conservationist, adding that they would approach the court against the move. During his meeting with Dr. Narayan, Mr. Shivarajkumar discussed the problems being faced by the film industry owing to COVID-19 and sought the government’s support. The actor and other film personalities are expected to meet Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa next week. Issues related to financial support to daily workers in the film industry, subsidy for films, and reduction of GST for films were discussed, Dr. Narayan said.
14 August 2020||Kochi,||Gold smuggling case: Swapna denied bail||The bail application of Swapna Suresh and other accused were rejected by the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, on Thursday after considering the arguments of the Customs in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case. Dismissing her bail application, the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (Economic Offences) noted that Swapna was an “extremely influential lady” and she had continued to help officials of the UAE consulate even after resigning her job. She had managed to obtain employment in a project proposed by the State government. Her extreme influence in the corridors of power was evident from available records. Such a woman was not entitled for the benefits as a woman as envisaged in the Code of Criminal Procedure, the court observed. The court noted that the instant release of the petitioners would certainly hamper the successful progress of the investigation. On the submission of eighth accused E. Said Alavi that he was suffering from cancer and needed medical aid, the court directed the jail superintendent to monitor his health in order to provide medical aid when required. The jail official shall also ensure that the accused shall be kept in hygienic ambiance. HC seeks response The Kerala High Court on Thursday sought the response of the Customs to the bail plea of Abdul Hameed of Malappuram, 11th accused in the case. He was arrested on July 17 on the charge of hatching a conspiracy with the other accused to smuggle in 30 kg of gold through diplomatic channel.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||NEET can’t be online for those abroad: NTA||The NEET (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test) for undergraduate medical courses cannot be held online for candidates abroad, the National Testing Agency (NTA) has told the Supreme Court. The specialised body, which conducts examinations for higher educational courses, said the Medical Council of India (MCI) had made it very clear that NEET was mandatorily held in the paper-book format for all candidates. It is a policy decision of the NTA. The conduct of these exams was purely within the MCI’s domain. An NTA affidavit said, “There is nothing to show the MCI has taken the decision illegally or arbitrarily.” The NTA was responding to an order of the apex court to respond to a petition filed by the parents of over 4,000 NEET candidates in West Asia for a direction to either allocate exam centres in these foreign countries or postpone the exams. “The examination cannot be conducted abroad as the NEET (UG) has to be held in a single shift at the same time on the same day to maintain uniformity... Question paper and other exam materials have to be transported from the NTA Headquarters to a large number of exam centres in various cities securely,” the affidavit said. The NEET cannot be compared with Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) conducted for engineering and technical courses. The preparation was more rigorous and there were far fewer seats for the former than in the latter, the NTA said. It was responding to the parents’ argument that the JEE had centres in foreign countries as well. The JEE is both an online and offline mode examination. The parents, represented by advocates Haris Beeran and Pallavi Pratap, had asked the court to step in and spare their children from being forced to travel to India to take their exams amid the pandemic.
14 August 2020||Mumbai,||NSEL scam: CBI seeks Finance Ministry view||The CBI on Thursday told the Bombay High Court that due to clauses in the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act, the agency is unable to conduct investigation into the National Stock Exchange Limited (NSEL) scam allegedly involving former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram without approval of the competent authority. The affidavit was filed in a criminal petition filed by 63 Moons Technologies limited also known as Financial Technologies Indian Limited. The six-page affidavit filed by Rakesh Kumar, Inspector, CBI, said, “In the absence of any supporting documents in support of the allegations from the complainant and due to the technical nature of the complaint, it was decided to forward it to the Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) of Department of Economic Affairs (DEA), Ministry of Finance for expert examination at their end and also to revert mination if allegations are substantiated. It was informed in the letter that the matter may be reverted to the CBI along with due approval of the competent authority of the PC Act for taking up formal enquiry in the matter.”
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||1,931 more test positive for COVID-19 in TS||The bulletin also stated that 47.5% of the COVID-19 cases in Telangana were from the age group of 21-40 and 32.8% were from the age group of 41-60. Case positivity in the age group above 61 was 10% and the remaining 9.7% was from the age group up to 20. According to the bulletin, 46.13% of the COVID deaths were purely from coronavirus infection and the remaining 53.87% were with co-morbidities, although they were infected with COVID-19. The bulletin said a total of 11,484 regular beds, 4,506 with oxygen facility and 1,744 ICU beds with ventilator facility were available for treatment of COVID patients in government hospitals. In private hospitals, the availability of regular beds was 1,449, beds with oxygen facility was 1,305 and with ventilator facility was 672, according to the bulletin. The occupancy of beds in private hospitals was 1,767 regular, 1,840 oxygen and 846 ventilator beds and in the government hospitals it was 800 regular, 1,355 oxygen and 507 ventilator beds.  46.13% of the COVID deaths were purely from coronavirus infection and the remaining 53.87% were with co-morbidities. Bulletin
14 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Trial in nun rape case to begin on Sept. 16||The Additional District and Sessions Court I, Kottayam, is slated to commence the trial in the nun rape case September 16. Bishop Franco Mulakkal, former head of the diocese of Jalandhar of the Catholic Church, is the accused in the case. As part of it, the court on Thursday framed charges against the accused. As the bishop, who was present in the court room, denied the charges, the case was posted to September 16 for examining the victim . Various charges The bishop faces trial under Indian Penal Code Section 342 (wrongful confinement), 376 (c) (a) (sexual intercourse by person in authority), 377 (unnatural sex), 506 (1) (criminal intimidation), 376 (2) (k) (rape on a woman incapable of giving consent), 376 (2) (n) (causing grievous bodily harm during rape), and 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty). Returning from the courtroom after the hearing, the bishop told mediapersons that ‘let the truth, which is with God, emerge through the court of law.’ Last week, the bishop was granted bail by the court here on the condition that he should be present in the court on all posting dates. Prior to this, the court had issued a non-bailable arrest warrant against him for violating its directive to him to appear in person.
14 August 2020||KASARAGOD,||Youth poisons sister to death, father critical||Police on Thursday arrested a 22-year-old youth from Balal in Kasaragod who allegedly mixed rat poison in ice cream, causing the death of his sister and leaving his father in a critical condition. According to the police, Albin’s 16-year-old sister Ann Marie started vomiting and had diarrhoea soon after consuming the home-made ice cream on July 31. She was rushed to a private hospital at Cherupuzha, where she died on August 5. His 48-year-old father Benny was admitted to a hospital at Payyanur with similar symptoms. He was later shifted to the Kanhangad district hospital. Albin, too, complained of uneasiness, but doctors said there was no trace of poison in his body. The Health Department, which carried out the antigen test as part of COVID-19 protocol, found a poisonous substance in Ann’s body. This aroused suspicion and the police took Albin into custody on Wednesday night. During inquiry, he admitted to the crime. Police said the suspect was in a relationship with a distant relative and he considered his family an obstacle. They said he had earlier mixed poison in chicken curry, but that attempt failed.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||PM announces taxpayers’ charter||With the help of technology, the cases of scrutiny will now be allocated randomly to any official in any part of the country. The document identification numbers will be issued from the Central database. Review of orders will also be done by another team at some other place, chosen randomly using data analytics and artificial intelligence. From now on, officials in the Directorate General of Income Tax (Investigation) and the Principal Commissioner of I-T/Chief Commissioner of I-T (TDS) will be the only competent authorities for approving survey actions to gather information for scrutiny and assessment. The Prime Minister said that in the new system, the department would escape unnecessary litigation and the officials would get reprieve from the energy otherwise spent on transfers and postings. The platform would instil a sense of fairness and fearlessness in the taxpayers. “In the past six years, our focus has been banking the unbanked, securing the unsecured and funding the unfunded. From today, we have embarked on a new journey: honouring the honest,” he said. The new facilities were in consonance with, and further strengthened, the government’s motto of ‘minimum government, maximum governance’, he noted. The effort was to make the tax system seamless, painless and faceless. On the taxpayers’ charter, Mr. Modi said it was also a vital step in the country’s development, in terms of bringing about a balance between the responsibilities and the taxpayers’ duties and also fixing the government’s responsibilities.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Gehlot, Pilot meet ahead of key session||While assuring that the grievances of the dissident MLAs would be addressed, Mr. Gehlot said the government would have proved its majority even without them, but added that this would “not give us happiness”. “ Apne toh apne hi hotey hain (Our own people are after all our own),” he remarked. All the legislators raised their hands when Mr. Gehlot asked them to stay united. Mr. Pilot, who was seated next to Mr. Gehlot, expressed his gratitude to the party leaders and workers for supporting him during his tenure as the Pradesh Congress Committee president for six years. He also thanked Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Mr. Gehlot for appointing him as Deputy CM after the Congress' victory in the 2018 Assembly election. Earlier, AICC general secretary in charge of Rajasthan Avinash Pande announced revocation of suspension of MLAs Bhanwarlal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh, who were supporting Mr. Pilot. The two legislators were suspended from the party’s primary membership on July 17 after some audio clips pertaining to an alleged conspiracy to topple the Gehlot government were leaked. Mr. Gehlot tweeted separately that that the misunderstanding that occurred in the party in the last one month needed to be forgiven and forgotten in the interest of the country, State and the people and in the interest of democracy. Meanwhile, the hearing in the Rajasthan High Court on the petitions moved by the Bahujan Samaj Party and BJP MLA Dilawar challenging the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress remained inconclusive on Thursday. The hearing will continue on Friday.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Write prescriptions in capital letters, says HC||“The digital era could also throw open several options to make prescriptions and the diagnosis more patient-friendly,” the judgment reads. The court noted that illegible scrawls composed by doctors created unnecessary nuisance at the end of the patients, pharmacists, police, prosecutors and judges who are bound to deal with such medical reports. “Prescriptions of physicians, outdoor patient department slips, post-mortem reports and injury reports, perforce, are required to be legible and fully comprehensible. A medical prescription oughtn’t leave any room for ambiguity or interpretation,” it noted. The judgment quoted a notification of the Medical Council of India (MCI) issued on September 21, 2016, which directed physicians to prescribe drugs with generic names and preferably in capital letters. “In view of the growing concerns in this regard, especially in view of the fact that illegible handwriting could have life-threatening consequences, this court deems it fit to request the Chief Secretary, Odisha, to examine the feasibility of issuing appropriate circulars, in consultation with the Medical Council of India and the Central Government, to implement the direction,” it stated.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Former V-P to open defence exam ‘summit’||Former Vice-President (V-P) Hamid Ansari will inaugurate a two-day “virtual summit” for defence exam aspirants on August 14, being organised by Unacademy, an education technology platform, in association with The Hindu . The conclave will bring together former generals, defence analysts and Kargil war veterans. Former Army chief Gen. V.P. Malik, Lt. Gen. H.S. Panag (retd.), Air Marshal Raghunath Nambiar (retd.), Capt. Yashika Hatwal Tyagi (retd.), and actors Gul Panag and Sonu Sood, are among the participants in the summit. Lt. Gen. Asit Mistry, commandant of the National Defence Academy (NDA), will also address the online gathering. Over 12 lakh youngsters appear for the defence exams each year. With power-packed sessions, this summit will bring together a list of curated sessions and workshops to help learners navigate the complexities of the defence exams. To view the complete schedule and be a part of the summit, learners can visit https://unacademy.com/event/command and register for free.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to pronounce verdict in contempt case today||A three-judge Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra is scheduled to pronounce its judgment on Friday in a suo motu contempt case against civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan for his tweet on a photograph of Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde astride a bike, and another on the role of the top court in the past six years. Mr. Bhushan has maintained that the tweets amounted to ‘criticism’ and not contempt. The court had reserved its judgment on August 5 after hearing arguments made by Mr. Bhushan’s lawyer, senior advocate Dushyant Dave. “If citizens stand up and criticise the system, say everything is not hunky dory, how can it be contempt?” he had asked.   He said the right to dissent and free speech cannot be controlled by contempt proceedings. “Contempt is to be used sparingly and only for administration of justice. If a judge is defamed, he should seek relief in the ordinary laws of defamation,” he said.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Cancellation of exams will hit students’ future’||The University Grants Commission (UGC) on Thursday questioned the logic of States like Maharashtra and Delhi cancelling the final term exams for fear of COVID-19, but at the same time willing to open up varsities and educational institutions for the next academic session. The Commission said if institutions could be opened up for the next academic session, there was nothing to prevent the conduct of final exams. Cancellation of exams would cause “irreparable damage” to the future of students, the UGC said.   A separate affidavit by the Union Home Ministry said the decision to open up educational institutions for final exams and evaluation work was made in consultation with the Ministry of Education after “taking into consideration the academic interest of a large number of students.” The hearing is based on a bunch of petitions filed by over 30 students challenging the conduct of exams amid the pandemic.
14 August 2020||New Delhi,||IFFI schedule remains, but with virtual offering||The International Film Festival of India (IFFI) will be held as scheduled from November 20-28, officials at the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said, but the format will be changed in the wake of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. In accordance with the regulations formulated by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, the festival will screen films on its official digital platform, along with a theatrical screening during the festival in Goa “subject to the then prevailing conditions”. Protocols in place Senior officials at the Ministry said that all the necessary precautions and COVID-19 protocol will be followed. The Ministry has called for entries for the festival. Ministry officials added that it was an evolving situation, and modalities would have to be worked out closer to the date of the festival. The festival has been an annual event since 1975. Meanwhile, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has also asserted that IFFI 2020 will stick to its laid down schedule, but said that he had not heard anything so far on the subject from the Union government. The festival is organised by the Directorate of Film Festivals in association with the State government’s Entertainment Society of Goa. According to the latest figures, the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in Goa is close to 10,000, and the State has so far reported 89 deaths. In 2019, nearly 200 films from 76 countries were screened.
14 August 2020||ghaziabad,||U.P. govt takes action on MLA’s complaint||The Uttar Pradesh government has suspended the station house officer (SHO) of the Gonda police station and transferred the Superintendent of Police (Rural) of Aligarh district after Iglas MLA Raj Kumar Sahayogi alleged that he was assaulted inside the station on Wednesday when he went to question a cross FIR registered against a Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) worker. Sources said the orders were issued from the Chief Minister’s office in Lucknow after BJP workers created a ruckus and demanded action against the police. The Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh, has also asked the Inspector General, Aligarh Zone, to submit a detailed report on the incident by Thursday evening. Mr. Sahayogi had alleged that he was manhandled by three personnel, including SHO Anuj Saini, when he went to enquire about a case registered against VHP worker Rohit Varshney.
14 August 2020||Hyderabad,||Tenders for Secretariat complex likely soon||Tenders for the construction of the new integrated secretariat complex are likely to be issued sometime next week. The Roads and Buildings Department is preparing estimates for the integrated secretariat complex planned with seven floors (G+6) with built up area of around seven lakh square feet. The finer details of provisions that should be incorporated in the bid documents are being worked out and the process is likely to take two more days to complete. "We will call for the tenders next week once the final bid document is ready," a senior official engaged in the process told The Hindu . The development follows completion of dismantling of the old Secretariat complex a couple of days ago and shifting of the debris from the site is underway. Demolition of the old complex resulted in debris of more than one lakh tonne, including few thousand tonnes of iron. More than 80% of the debris has already been removed from the premises and shifting of the remaining material is likely to be completed in two to three days. The government has decided to call for all India tenders with two-week time for the interested firms to submit their bids. Given the magnitude of the project involving few hundreds of crores, officials feel that only reputed firms with expertise are likely to bid for the project. The development comes at a time when the architects, Chennai-based Oscar and Ponni Architects, are holding discussions with senior police officials and related departments over the blue print for security and surveillance in the new complex. Asked whether the tenders would be called after the exercise is completed, the official said: "Adequate care has been taken about these aspects while finalising the design of the new complex. Whatever the other changes, they will be internal arrangements which can be made any time and will not be concerned with the tender process," the official said.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Three categories of kings||Kings fall into one of three categories, uttama, madhyama and adhama, said Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. An ideal king consults his ministers and the elders in his court and uses their inputs too when he makes a decision. The one in the madhyama (mediocre) category, consults his ministers, but does not follow their advice. The one in the adhama (inferior) category does not consult anyone, but makes decisions himself. Ravana carried away Sita, a sinful, unforgivable act of wickedness. He did not bother about the consequences. Even after the war began, he did not repent and return Sita to Rama. Had he done that, further bloodshed could have been avoided. As most of his warriors died in battle, Ravana felt that only Kumbhakarna could defeat Rama. So he woke up Kumbhakarna. Kumbhakarna told Ravana the process by which a king must make decisions. He said that a king should know whom to trust. Among the men who offered advice, there might be those who spoke sweet words, but their advice might be harmful to the king. There would be others who were not well read in the dharma sastras, and so their advice would not have the merit of justice. Some ministers might be in the pay of enemy kings. They might deliberately mislead a king. A king must protect himself by listening to the right persons. Kumbhakarna concluded that Vibhsishana had offered proper advice to Ravana. He thereby indicated that Ravana had rejected sound advice, and had acted against his own interests. Yet, because Ravana wanted him to fight Rama, Kumbhakarna did so, and was killed. Ravana had the advantage of being advised by both his brothers. But he ignored their advice, refused to part with Sita, and eventually got killed by Rama.
14 August 2020||CHIKKAMAGALURU,||Row over ‘SDPI flag’ on saint’s statue||A cloth resembling the flag of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) was found on the canopy over a statue of Adi Shankaracharya in Sringeri town on Thursday morning, leaving people of the temple town agitated. The devotees of Sharada Peetha, established by Adi Shankaracharya, have demanded that the police arrest those involved in the act. The police, meanwhile, have said hat it is a cloth “resembling the SDPI flag” but not the flag itself. The incident came to light around 10 a.m. when a few local people noticed it, which was removed later. Adi Shankaracharya Bhakta Vrunda, a forum of devotees, has submitted a memorandum to the Superintendent of Police of Chikkamagaluru condemning the incident and demanding immediate action. A few devotees also met police officials in Sringeri and urged them to arrest those involved in the act. Minister for Kannada and Culture and Tourism C.T. Ravi, who is also Minister in charge of the district, in a tweet, said he got to know that “an SDPI flag was hoisted” on the statue of Adi Shankaracharya and had directed the Superintendent of Police to investigate the issue. The Sringeri police have registered a case on the charge of hurting sentiments of the people. Akshay M. Hakay, Superintendent of Police, told The Hindu that it was raining in the morning and somebody had thrown the cloth on the statue. “The cloth is similar to SDPI flag, but not exactly the flag. It has three colours - green, red, and light blue. It seems somebody just threw it on the statue and left the place. It must have happened early in the morning,” he said. The police are checking CCTV camera footage. BJP demand Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party has urged the Union and State governments to initiate the process to ban SDPI and take strict action against those who are involved in the alleged “sacrilege.” In a release, BJP State spokesperson Ganesh Karnik alleged that communal and anti-social elements among the minority community were “itching for a communal flare-up” by engineering a clash between Hindus and Muslims. “It also seems that these forces are emboldened by the violence that took place in Mangaluru some time ago and on Tuesday late evening at Kaval Byrasandra in Bengaluru,” he said.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Five-member team to probe Kerala air crash||The government body in charge of investigating air crashes, the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), on Thursday appointed a five-member team to probe last week’s crash involving Air India Express IX 1344 at the Calicut International airport in Kerala that killed 19 people. The team will be led by Captain S.S. Chahar, a former examiner of Boeing 737 NG — the same aircraft type that met with an accident on August 7. Thursday’s order gives the probe team up to five months to finish the investigation.
14 August 2020||New Delhi,||ED pushes plea against 2G acquittals||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday asked the Delhi High Court for an expeditious hearing of its appeal against the 2G case verdict acquitting former Union Minister A. Raja and other accused. Additional Solicitor Genral Sanjay Jain, appearing for the ED, said Justice Brijesh Sethi, who has been hearing the appeals filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the ED in the case, was retiring on November 30 this year. The CBI had already concluded its arguments before Justice Sethi in January this year, but for various reasons, including the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, further hearings could not be held, said Mr. Jain.
14 August 2020||New Delhi:,||Editors Guild flays attack on journalists||Condemning the recent incidents of attacks on journalists in Delhi and Bengaluru, the Editors Guild of India said that freedom of press is an “indispensable attribute of a functioning democracy”. Three journalists working with The Caravan magazine were allegedly assaulted while they were in northeast Delhi’s North Ghonda neighbourhood on August 11 to report on a complainant in the recent communal violence case in the Capital. They also say they were subjected to communal slurs, threatened with murder and sexually harassed. On the same day, in Bengaluru, as many as four journalists belonging to India Today , The News Minute and Suvarna News 24X7 were reportedly attacked by the city police. They were covering the mob violence triggered by a social media post. “Both attacks are reprehensible. The freedom of the media to discharge its responsibilities without fear or harassment is an important and indispensable attribute of a functioning democracy,” the Guild said. The Guild further pointed out that the case of assault on journalists working with The Caravan shows a dangerous trend where communally inspired people can assault and harass journalists with impunity in the presence of an indifferent police, while the Bengaluru incident highlights the failure of law enforcement agencies in maintaining an environment where the media can function freely and without fear.
14 August 2020||New Delhi/Lucknow,||Ram temple trust’s head tests positive||Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra chief mahant Nritya Gopal Das tested positive for COVID-19 in Mathura on Wednesday morning, officials said. After intervention from Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, he was shifted to the Medanta Hospital in Gurugram. Health officials in Mathura said he was stable and was “largely asymptomatic”. Mr. Das, who is also the head of the Krishna Janambhoomi Trust, was in Mathura to lead the Krishna Janmashtami celebrations. “He offered prayers at the Krishna Janmabhoomi temple on Wednesday night,” officials said .  Mr. Das was present on stage with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the groundbreaking ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5. However, a source in the Prime Minister’s Office said that Mr. Modi was “not isolating” and is “on course to the Independence Day address”.
14 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Meghalaya hit by African swine fever||African swine fever (ASF) has spread to Meghalaya. Preliminary screening of tissue samples of pigs in Meghalaya at a laboratory in Guwahati confirmed the cause of death as ASF. The samples have also been sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal for analysis. “We had received nine samples of pigs that died in three districts of Meghalaya. These samples tested positive for ASF in our laboratory,” said Pradip Gogoi, Deputy Director in-charge of the Animal Health Centre at the North-Eastern Regional Disease Diagnostics Laboratory.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Countdown on||
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED summons 3 persons in Sushant case||The Enforcement Directorate on Thursday questioned a talent manager purportedly linked to Rhea Chakraborty in connection with Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. The agency has summoned three more persons linked to Rajput to record their statements under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Ms. Chakraborty, her brother Showik, father Indrajit and former manager Shruti Modi have been questioned multiple times. The ED has also examined Siddharth Pithani, who worked for Rajput and also lived with him in the house where the latter’s body was found on June 14. Documents of the companies that were floated by Rajput are being analysed by the agency to gather information on the financial transactions over the past two years.
14 August 2020||Guwahati,||Singer-actor Zubeen Garg attacked||Unidentified miscreants attacked Assamese singer-actor Zubeen Garg in Guwahati on Thursday while he was travelling to his residence from an audiovisual studio. The incident happened days after the Assam government proposed his name as the State’s ambassador for the agriculture and allied sectors. According to the first information report that Mr. Garg lodged at the city’s Dispur police station, six youths travelling in a white sedan overtook and stopped his SUV in the Ganeshguri area at about 12.40 a.m. “They hurled abuses at me and had beer bottles in their hands. They used unparliamentary words when I tried to defend myself,” Mr. Garg said in the FIR. He said he was accompanied by his driver and two security persons. “He alleged that six people accosted and abused him but there was no physical assault. We are investigating the matter,” Guwahati’s Commissioner of Police Munna Prasad Gupta said.
14 August 2020||BENGALURU,||Nadda to launch work on party offices||Close on the heels of making inroads into parts of Karnataka that are not their traditional bastion, the Bharatiya Janata Party is gearing up to have its own buildings for all the district units in the State. Party national president J.P. Nadda will lay the foundation stone for the construction of party offices in eight districts and one taluk on Friday, in a virtual event. Each of these offices will have three floors and an area of about 12,000 to 15,000 square feet, according to party State vice-president Nirmal Kumar Surana and M. Nagaraj, convener of the Office Construction Committee. While the State has 30 revenue districts, the party has bifurcated them into 37 organisational districts.
14 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab reports 36 virus deaths, Haryana eight||Punjab recorded 1,035 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday and reported 36 more deaths, taking the tally to 706, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 27,936. The major chunk of new cases, 222 and 176, were reported from Ludhiana and Jalandhar districts respectively. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh emphasised the need for 100% testing in the micro- containment and containment zones using the rapid antigen tests to keep further spread of COVID-19 under check. Reviewing the prevalent situation across the State, the Chief Minister asked officials to go for vigorous contact tracing of at least 10 contacts of each positive case. He also directed testing of persons with multiple contacts on account of their occupation, such as shop workers, mandi workers, and front-line government employees within this week, declaring that this should be a “Testing Week”. In Haryana, 793 fresh cases of the virus surfaced, taking the total tally of cases to 44,817. Haryana also reported eight deaths, taking the toll to 511. The major chunk of new cases, 136 and 119, were reported from Faridabad and Panipat districts respectively.
14 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala cuts tax on aviation turbine fuel||Kerala has announced a reduction of tax on aviation turbine fuel (ATF) from the existing 5% to 1% for domestic flights operating from Cochin International Airport and Calicut International Airport. The 1% tax on ATF will be valid for 10 years, the Chief Minister said after the Cabinet meeting on Wednesday.
14 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||IIT-Ropar develops room disinfection device||IIT-Ropar on Thursday said it has developed a room disinfection device, which harnesses the germicidal effects of ultraviolet radiations to inactivate viruses and bacteria. The device has been developed by researchers of IIT Ropar in collaboration with Momentum India Pvt. Ltd. The device has been tested for its efficacy by FICCI Research and Analysis Centre in New Delhi.
14 August 2020||Hyderabad,||Runaway prisoner deported||Afzal Hussain, one of the four persons sentenced to life imprisonment in a murder case in Hyderabad, was recently deported from Abu Dhabi, UAE. “He was brought back to India with efforts of Interpol,” Afzal Gunj inspector M Ravindar Reddy said. In December 2006, they were convicted and sentenced, and in April next year, Hussain managed to escape. “Based on our request and persuasion, a Red Corner Notice was issued and the convict was apprehended in Abu Dhabi from where he was deported to Delhi by Interpol officers. Later, he was brought back Hyderabad and produced before a local court and sent to Chanchalguda Central Prison,” Mr. Reddy said.
14 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Siddaramaiah discharged||Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, who tested positive for COVID-19, was discharged from a private hospital on Thursday. He has been advised follow-up and home quarantine as per guidelines. In a media statement, Sudarshan Ballal, chairman of Manipal Hospitals, said Mr. Siddaramaiah had been under the supervision of an expert team of doctors and responded very well to the treatment. He was discharged following his clinical recovery, in accordance with the guidelines. At the time of discharge, he was asymptomatic and all his vital parameters were stable, he said. Mr. Siddaramaiah was admitted on August 4 for evaluation after he reported fever. The antigen test was found to be positive.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pranab’s condition remains unchanged: hospital||The condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee remained unchanged on Thursday. He was deeply comatose with stable vital parameters and continued to be on ventilatory support, the Army’s Research and Referral (R&R) Hospital said. Mr. Mukherjee’s daughter, Sharmistha Mukherjee, said that while his condition continued to be critical, all “rumours” about her father were “false”.
14 August 2020||SRINAGAR,||After Rajouri families’ claim, police to match DNA||The Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) police on Thursday collected the DNA samples of three families from Rajouri that claimed that the three youths killed on July 18 this year in an encounter in Shopian were their kin and not militants. A police team from Kashmir on Thursday met the families and a team of doctors collected DNA of the families, sources said. The families had claimed that the militants resembled their kin after their pictures went viral online. They filed a missing persons report in Rajouri for the three youth, identified as Abrar Ahmed Khan, Imtiyaz Hussain, and Abrar.
14 August 2020||Patna,||Bihar govt. is manipulating COVID-19 figures, alleges Tejashwi Yadav||Bihar Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly Tejashwi Yadav on Thursday slammed the Chief Minister Nitish Kumar-led government for “lying and manipulating” COVID-19 data to confuse people in poll-bound Bihar. He also accused the Central government of “step-motherly” treatment meted out to Bihar in the allocation of funds. He said that there were 3,000-3,500 positive cases when 10,000 tests were being conducted but now, when the State was testing 75,000 samples, the average number of positive cases remained 4,000.
14 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||COVID-19 infections in Odisha jails touches 175||As many as 54 inmates of the Rourkela Special Jail have tested positive for COVID-19 over the past few days, disrupting Odisha’s attempts to prevent infections in prisons. The administration has commenced contact tracing, said officials. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the jail is now 78. Currently, 175 inmates of different jails in the State have tested positive.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nod for Ministries’ schemes integration||The Governing Board of the National Health Authority (NHA), chaired by Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Dr. Harsh Vardhan, met on Thursday to review the implementation of the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB PM-JAY). “The Governing Board has approved the proposal to integrate existing health schemes of Central Ministries with AB PM-JAY to employees (including government and contractual employees),” said a release.
14 August 2020||New Delhi,||Oli likely to call up Modi on I-Day||After months of bilateral tension over the Kalapani territorial dispute, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Nepalese counterpart K.P. Sharma Oli are expected to hold a telephonic conversation during the coming weekend. A Nepalese news outlet has reported from Kathmandu that Mr. Oli will convey his greetings to Mr. Modi on the occasion of Independence Day.
14 August 2020||Lucknow,||56 in Lucknow juvenile home test positive||Fifty-six inmates and a home guard of a juvenile observation home in Lucknow have tested positive for COVID-19, the Uttar Pradesh government said on Thursday. The home, which is run by the Women and Child Development Department, has inmates from Lucknow, Unnao and Rae Bareli districts. While it has a sanctioned capacity of 100, the home currently had a total of 153 inmates, the government said.
14 August 2020||Bhopal,||BJP MP Solanki tests positive||BJP Rajya Sabha MP Sumer Singh Solanki on Thursday tested positive for COVID-19, according to the Barwani district administration. “We are going to hospitalise him, and trace his contacts of the past 10 days,” said District Chief Medical and Health Officer Anita Singare. Mr. Solanki, down with fever for a few days, is the second Rajya Sabha MP from Madhya Pradesh after Jyotiraditya Scindia to have contracted the virus.
14 August 2020||New Delhi,||Optional Class 12 exams in Sept., says CBSE||The optional exams for improvement of performance in Class 12 board examination are proposed to be held in September, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said on Thursday. The results of the exams, which were cancelled in view of the pandemic, were announced last month on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme. The compartment examination for Classes 10 and 12 are also being planned in September while dates will be announced soon, it said.PTI
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Recovered city police personnel donate plasma at RGGGH||In 20 days, 76 persons who recovered from COVID-19 donated plasma at the bank in the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), and it was transfused to 89 patients. On Thursday, 40 police personnel, who had also recovered, donated plasma at the bank, according to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. “South India’s first plasma bank was set up at a cost of Rs. 2.34 crore at RGGGH. A total of 76 persons donated plasma, and it was transfused to 89 patients,” he told reporters on Thursday. Till now, 70 persons with moderate symptoms have recovered after receiving convalescent plasma therapy, while seven were treated with plasma in Madurai. The Minister said over 2.5 lakh persons had recovered from COVID-19 in the State, and asked them to come forward to donate plasma. Chennai’s recovery rate stood at 88%, while it was 81% for the State, he added. Public movement With 40 eligible police personnel donating plasma, Dr. Vijayabaskar said this could be utilised for saving 80 patients. “Plasma donation should become a public movement,” he said. When one person donates 500 ml of plasma, it can save two lives. The person can donate again after 14 days, he added. The Indian Council of Medical Research has granted approval for plasma banks in Chennai, Madurai and Tirunelveli. Apart from this, equipment is being readied for installation in six medical colleges for plasma donations. The Minister said Tamil Nadu was at the forefront of plasma donation and therapy in the country. Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal said a total of 1,920 police officers and personnel had tested positive in the city. Of this, 1,549 had recovered. ‘Don’t ignore symptoms’ Dr. Vijayabaskar told people not to ignore fever for even a day. “We are receiving patients at the last minute with breathlessness. They say they had no symptoms, but had fever for a day a week ago. Fatigue, loss of smell and loss of taste are also symptoms of COVID-19. If patients come early, before the lungs are involved, they can recover,” he said. He added that strategies of aggressive testing, early diagnosis, micro-planning and fever camps were being followed in districts such as Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur to bring down the spread. Noting that the case trend had declined in Madurai, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said Theni, Coimbatore and Cuddalore were among the focus areas.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,835 persons test positive in State, 119 deaths recorded||Tamil Nadu reported 5,835 new cases of COVID-19 and brought on record the deaths of 119 more patients, including that of a 14-year-old boy, on Thursday. This took the State’s tally to 3,20,355, and the toll to 5,397. The boy from Cuddalore had seizure disorder and was admitted to the Government Headquarters Hospital in Cuddalore with complaints of fever for two days and difficulty in breathing for a day on August 7. However, he died on August 9 due to cardio respiratory arrest and COVID-19. Two persons aged in their 20s also succumbed to the infection. A 28-year-old man from Coimbatore was declared brought dead at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on August 11. His death was due to COVID-19. A 29-year-old man was admitted to a private hospital with polytrauma on August 11 and died within two hours of admission due to COVID-19 and hypovolemic shock, according to a bulletin issued by the Health Department. Eighteen of the 119 deaths were in Chennai, while Chengalpattu, Coimbatore and Tirunelveli accounted for seven deaths each. There were six deaths each in Kancheepuram and Kanniyakumari, and five each in Cuddalore, Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Salem, Theni and Tiruvannamalai. Recovery in State Another 5,146 persons were discharged following treatment in the State. This included 1,070 persons in Chennai, 488 in Chengalpattu and 200-plus persons each in Kancheepuram, Kanniyakumari, Theni, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Virudhunagar. With this, a total of 2,61,459 persons have been discharged in the State, while active cases stand at 53,499. Of the fresh cases, Chennai accounted for 989, followed by Chengalpattu with 453 cases and Tiruvallur with 390. There were 289 cases in Coimbatore, 286 in Theni, 258 in Cuddalore, 243 in Kancheepuram and 219 in Virudhunagar. Twelve districts had 100-plus cases. In the last 24 hours, 67,275 samples were tested. With this, 34,99,300 samples have been tested till now. One more private laboratory — the Cancer Institute in Adyar, Chennai — has been approved for COVID-19 testing. As of date, there are 134 testing facilities — 73 in private sector and 61 in government — in the State.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No substance in DMK’s charge against privilege motion’||Tamil Nadu Assembly Secretary on Thursday asserted before the Madras High Court that the ruling AIADMK was never in a minority in the House ever since the 15th Legislative Assembly was constituted in May 2016 and hence there was no substance in the allegation of mala fide intention behind the breach of privilege proceedings initiated against DMK MLAs. Advocate General Vijay Narayan told Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy that the 15th Assembly was constituted with a strength of 232 MLAs, as against its full strength of 234 MLAs, on May 21, 2016, since elections were not held for two constituencies. Then, AIADMK had a strength of 134 MLAs — well beyond the half way mark of 116. On May 25, 2016, ruling party MLA S.M. Seenivel died and hence a bypoll was conducted in his Tirupparankundram constituency along with regular polling in two other left-out constituencies. On November 29, 2016, the Assembly had a full strength of 234 MLAs and again the AIADMK legislators were in majority in the House. However, on February 18, 2017, when Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami moved a motion of confidence, the effective strength of the House had gone down to 233 due to the death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. Then, 122 AIADMK MLAs voted in favour of the motion, 11 voted against and one remained absent though the half-way mark was only 117. Even after the defection of 18 AIADMK MLAs on August 22, 2017, if a motion of confidence had been moved, “the strength of the AIADMK would have been exactly on the half-way mark of 116. The DMK and its allies plus the 18 MLAs would also have been 116. In such a case, the Speaker gets a casting vote and the government would have been saved”, the A-G said. Comfortable majority Even as on Thursday, the strength of the House was 231 since three MLAs had passed away and AIADMK enjoyed a comfortable majority of 124 MLAs, he told the court. The submission was made in response to writ petitions filed by DMK MLAs challenging the breach of privilege proceedings initiated against them for displaying the banned gutkha sachets in the Assembly on July 19, 2017. When the Chief Justice pointed out that the DMK MLAs’ case was that the government was actually facing the threat of being in a minority, the A-G replied: “That is their perception which cannot be given any credence. An allegation of mala fide is antithesis of guilt. They cannot get absolved of the guilt by attributing motives behind the proceedings initiated against them.” Mr. Narayan went on to state it was not necessary for the House to decide immediately on any action to be taken against those who had committed breach of privilege. He said it was the prerogative of the Speaker to decide whether such issues should be decided immediately or referred to the Committee of Privileges. At this point, the Chief Justice expressed his anguish over the Legislative Assembly not having codified its privileges even after 70 years since Independence. In the absence of any codification, how could action be initiated for breach of privilege and courts could be called upon to decide whether there had been any breach or not, he wondered. Later, senior counsel A.L. Somayaji, representing the Committee of Privileges, commenced his arguments. The Bench adjourned the hearing to Friday for continuation of arguments.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||S.Ve. Shekher upset with BJP||The Cyber Crime Wing of the Central Crime Branch on Thursday booked a case against actor and BJP functionary S.Ve. Shekher under Section 2 of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971. In a YouTube video, the actor while responding to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s strong reaction to the recent draping of a saffron cloth around a M.G.R. statue in Puducherry, sought to allude that each colour in the national flag represented a religion. Following this, a Nungambakkam resident Rajarathinam lodged a complaint against him and accused him of seeking to incite communal violence. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar had earlier objected to the actor-politician’s remarks and said the AIADMK government would fulfil Mr. Shekher’s desire if he wanted to go to jail. Insisting that he did not seek to dishonour the tricolor, Mr. Shekher told The Hindu he was upset that BJP leaders in the State did not come to his aid. “When there is a problem for a member, the party leadership here should come out and support. I am very upset with the BJP State unit,” he said.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amidst debate over CM candidate, OPS calls for unity||Amidst divergent views expressed by second-rung AIADMK leaders over the Chief Ministerial candidate for 2021 Assembly election, party coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Thursday appealed to party cadre to realise their responsibilities and “remain united” to win the poll for the third consecutive time. In a tweet, the Deputy Chief Minister said the AIADMK’s sole aim was to secure a massive win in the next Assembly poll, which was also the dream of late leader Jayalalithaa. Reminding the cadre of the dictum ‘Duty, Dignity and Discipline’, he said if those who followed Jayalalithaa’s footsteps stood together, they could win [in] the future. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has so far remained tight-lipped on the debate that was triggered by some Ministers and senior leaders. AIADMK deputy secretary K.P. Munusamy maintained that the party leadership would announce the Chief Ministerial candidate at the appropriate time, after consulting all senior leaders. Earlier in the day, Mr. Munusamy, along with his Rajya Sabha colleague R. Vaithilingam, Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam and former MP Manoj Pandian held a meeting in the party headquarters. Party sources said the leaders held discussions to finalise the AIADMK’s opinion sought by the Election Commission on campaigning for elections during the COVID-19 pandemic. They also discussed about the intra-party elections.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Organ donation norms see radical shift||COVID-19 and its subsequent lockdown may have slowed down organ donations and transplants in the State, but they have also brought in a paradigm shift in the processes involved. In three months, Tamil Nadu has recorded three donations, from which eight organs, including a heart, were transplanted. The beginning of 2020 saw 32 donations in the State during January and February. However, as COVID-19 cases started to surge in the State, a lockdown was put in place during March-end and this brought the cadaver transplant programme to a standstill. Fewer road accidents Officials of the Transplant Authority of Tamil Nadu (Transtan) said that there were no donations and transplants during April, primarily because of the lockdown and a decrease in road traffic accidents. Simultaneously, the National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation called for a suspension of the cadaver transplant programme in the country. However, live organ donations of kidneys and liver were performed during the period. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said that the State had framed guidelines to ensure that organ transplants continued uninterrupted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Safety protocols “We came up with a set of protocols in May for the transplant centres to follow. With COVID-19, we have to take a number of precautions to ensure the safety of patients and healthcare professionals. Hospitals need to perform COVID-19 tests for the donors and recipients, as well as their near relatives/attendants. The opinion of infectious disease consultants on the COVID-19 status of the donor/recipient should be obtained. The recipients should sign a high-risk informed consent, specific to COVID-19. Only if the patient agrees can the hospital proceed,” R. Kanthimathy, member secretary of Transtan, said. “The guidelines are essential, as after operation, the chances of COVID-19 infection is high.” In May, there was one donation at the Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital in Coimbatore, where a kidney was retrieved and transplanted on an in-house patient. The second donation took place during the end of June at the Velammal Medical College Hospital in Madurai. In this, the liver was harvested and transplanted, while the kidneys could not be utilised due to medical reasons. The third donation happened in July at MGM Healthcare in Chennai. The hospital transplanted a heart and a kidney, while the liver, another kidney and lungs were allocated to the Global Hospital, the Gem Hospital and the Apollo Hospitals, officials said. “The first two donors were non-medico legal cases, while the third was involved in a road traffic accident,” she said. In the meantime, live organ donations continued in the State. There were 26 kidney transplants and 44 liver transplants from April to July. Organ Donation Day To mark Organ Donation Day on Thursday, the Health Minister released the annual report of Transtan. Mr. Vijayabaskar said that till now, a total of 8,163 organs were retrieved from 1,382 donors in the State. Among others, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, project director of the Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society Deepak Jacob and member secretary of Transtan R. Kanthimathy were present.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan explains party’s stand to office-bearers||Actor and politician Kamal Haasan on Tuesday addressed more than 300 office-bearers of Makkal Needhi Maiam on various important issues, including the two-language policy, reservations and the need for the State government to move out of liquor sales. Party sources said that this was a ‘Know Your Leader’ initiative to clarify party president Kamal Haasan’s points of view on issues characterised as “confusing” by a few on social media in the past. Speaking to The Hindu , MNM’s vice-president R. Mahendran said the initiative was an opportunity for district secretaries to understand the party president’s perspective on important political issues so that they can carry forward the message to the people with clarity. “We have around 350 plus secretaries — party has 114 district secretaries — and they asked questions to which Mr. Haasan explained his stand on issues such as reservations, TASMAC and so on. The aim of this initiative, as the party president himself put it, is that many of them would have already known these views earlier… This is an opportunity for them to know it well because this is what they will tell when somebody asks them about the party’s view.” Dr. Mahendran said that Mr. Haasan spoke about 32 different topics. ‘Well received’ C.K. Kumaravel, party leader, said that the question and answer session with Mr. Haasan was “very well received by the party”. “He explained the party's view on reservations, the possibility of creating a $1 trillion economy in Tamil Nadu, and addressed the accusations that he is ‘anti-Hindu’, job creation and skill development. He was on a roll I must say,” he said.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No grama sabha this Independence Day||Grama sabhas across Tamil Nadu, that usually meet on the Independence Day (and three other days), will not meet on Saturday , in view of the unusual circumstances prevailing due to the spread of COVID-19. “We have decided to postpone grama sabhas across the State due to the COVID-19 scenario. It will not be possible to follow physical distancing norms if we go ahead with the meetings,” director of rural development K.S. Palanisamy told The Hindu on Thursday. Approvals in this regard have been obtained from the State government. “Senior officers and the elderly from the villages regularly attend the grama sabhas, and hence, it will not be in their interest if we go ahead with the meetings as usual. We have decided to postpone them, and the dates will be announced once the situation is conducive for holding the meetings,” he said. Grama sabhas were not held in the State on May 1 either due to the COVID-19 lockdown, that has been in place since March. According to the rules framed by the Tamil Nadu government, it is mandatory that grama sabhas meet at least four times in a calendar year, i.e. on January 26 (Republic Day), May 1 (May Day), August 15 (Independence Day) and October 2 (Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary). Besides, the grama sabhas can be convened as and when the necessity arises. Usually, the schedule and the agenda for the grama sabhas are communicated by the State government to all Collectors, much in advance, before these four days. A senior officer said: “Every year, the State government decides on certain themes. For instance, poverty alleviation or priority for primary education and the likes, and they are communicated to the local authorities for passing resolutions in this regard at the grama sabhas.” The respective District Collectors, in circulars to Block Development Officers (BDOs), inform the grama sabhas about these resolutions. “Panchayat presidents or vice-presidents will convene the sabhas, wherein these resolutions, along with others, if any, will be passed,” he said. All those who attend the meeting sign the attendance register. Attendance registers A Village Administrative Officer (VAO) pointed out that these attendance registers are important. “The attendance is important because only based on the number of persons attended, will it be decided whether the resolutions passed are valid. For instance, if the population of the village panchayat is about 500, the quorum needed is the attendance of at least 50 people.” There are 12,525 village panchayats, consisting of 79,394 habitations, in 36 rural districts across Tamil Nadu, as of March 2020. All registered voters of a village panchayat constitute the grama sabha, which has specific powers and functions. Grama sabhas are to be held statutorily, in such a way that the intervening period between two meetings shall not exceed a period of six months.
14 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||I-Day celebrations to only have 60% turnout||The Independence Day celebrations on Saturday, at Fort St. George and District Collectorates, will be a low-key affair, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. While the government on Thursday asked the public, students and the elderly not to attend the flag hoisting and attendant celebrations, sources told The Hindu that only about 60% of the usual turnout would be seen this year. Many usual invitees, including former MLAs, have not been invited due to the pandemic. About 500 former MLAs, who are usually invited, have been excluded. “Irrespective of how many former MLAs come, the government, as per protocol, sends invitations to about 500 of them, who are residents of Chennai, every year. Considering their age and vulnerability, they have not been invited this year. The same is the case with second-level heads of all departments. However, IAS officers can come,” a senior officer said. National Cadet Corps (NCC) cadets, a fixture at such events, will also be giving the celebrations a skip. However, invitations to VVIPs and members of the Consular Corps have not been restricted. “We expect about 60% of the usual audience,” another senior officer said. All invitees will have to wear face masks and undergo temperature checks, with all entries being manned by workers with thermal scanners. Chairs will be positioned 5-6 ft apart from each other. Wearing of masks Even the members of the contingent, who will accord the Guard of Honour to the Chief Minister, will wear masks. Recipients of medals and awards will receive them from the Chief Minister on the ramparts of the Fort. St. George. All personnel will be wearing masks and following physical distancing norms, as much as possible. Instructions have been given to District Collectors to visit the residences of 10 freedom fighters, in each district, and honour them with shawls by following public health advisories. An official release said that the Social Welfare Minister would visit homes of differently-abled persons and distribute sweets this year. Every year, the Chief Minister distributes sweets on the Fort St. George campus. Live broadcast of the celebrations has been scheduled on television channels and the radio.  (With inputs from R. Sivaraman)   Considering their age and vulnerability, the former MLAs have not been invited. The same is the case with second-level heads of all departments Senior officer
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Napier Bridge gets dynamic lighting system||The Greater Chennai Corporation will launch a dynamic lighting system on all its 37 bridges and subways. On Thursday, the dynamic lighting system was tested in bridges such as Napier Bridge and T.T.K. Road bridge near the Music Academy. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami is expected to launch the project on Friday. “We will be able to generate millions of colours using the combination of red, green and blue. The city’s dynamic lighting system will be controlled by the command and control system,” an official said. The system will also reflect the mood of each festival. “We will be able to change the colour at frequent intervals, creating a pattern,” the official said. The system will be energy efficient and will be used to promote tourism in the city.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations will move indoors this year||Imposing restrictions on Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations in public, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Tamil Nadu government on Thursday said that people must celebrate the festival indoors. Installing of Vinayaka idols, a common feature during the festivities, and taking them out in procession for immersion in sea or waterbodies will not be allowed.  The Hindu   had on August 6 reported that Vinayaka Chaturthi processions were unlikely to be allowed this year, following a decision taken after a meeting held by authorities with representatives of various religious organisations. An official release said “it was not possible” for the State government to allow the installing of idols, their procession or their immersion in public places “in view of the COVID-19 lockdown across the State”. It also mandated the general public to wear face masks and ensure physical distancing norms, at all places, while stepping out for shopping for the celebrations. “Temple managements are requested to ensure strict adherence to the standard operating procedure, while allowing worship in small temples,” the release said. Safety protocol must be followed in these temples.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police announce traffic diversions for I-Day||The traffic police have announced route diversions that will be implemented on Saturday for the Independence Day celebrations at Fort St. George. The modifications will be in force from 6 a.m. till the function’s end. The stretch of Kamarajar Salai from Labour Statue up to RBI Subway North on Rajaji Salai and Flag Staff Road will be closed for all vehicles without passes. Vehicles heading to Parry’s Corner via Rajaji Salai may use Swami Sivananda Salai, Anna Salai, Muthusamy Bridge, Muthusamy Road, R.A. Mandram and NFS Road. Vehicles from Rajaji Salai proceeding to Kamarajar Salai can go through NFS Road, R.A. Mandram, Muthusamy Road, Muthusamy Bridge, Anna Salai and Wallajah Road. Those going to Parry’s Corner through Flag Staff Road may use Muthusamy Bridge, Muthusamy Road, R.A. Mandram and NFS Road. They can use Wallajah Road to reach Kamarajar Salai. Vehicles coming before 8.30 a.m. with red and purple passes will take Rajaji Salai and the occupants will alight outside the Secretariat, where the cars will be parked. Those with blue and pink passes will either come by Flag Staff Road or Wallajah Gate or Muthusamy Bridge, Muthusamy Road, NFS Road, Parry’s Corner and RBI subway to reach the Secretariat out gate. The vehicles will be parked at the Public Works Department. Red and purple pass holders coming after 8.30 a.m. will take Flag Staff Road and enter Fort St. George through Wallajah Gate. They will follow the same instruction given to Blue and Pink pass holders. Those without passes will alight near War Memorial and enter Island Ground through either gate No. 6 (War Memorial side) or gate No. 9 (Anna Salai Side) to park their vehicles.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Government appoints new law officers||The State government on Wednesday issued five Government Orders terminating the services of some law officers, extending the tenure of a few others and appointing many law officers, including two more Additional Advocates General (AAG). While Special Government Pleader M. Sricharan Rangarajan in the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has been elevated as AAG-XI in the Bench, advocate K. Kumaresh Babu has been appointed as the twelfth AAG in the principal seat of the High Court in Chennai. The services of Special Government Pleaders V.R. Shanmuganathan, S. Nagarajan, R. Sethuraman and Additional Government Pleader Aayiram K. Selvakumar, serving in the Madurai Bench, have been terminated with immediate effect on payment of one month’s retainer fee. Further, two Fovernment Advocates M. Elumalai and Y.T. Aravind Gosh in the principal seat have been elevated as AGPs and advocates C. Ramesh, K.P. Krishnadoss, M. Muthugeethayan, K.P.S. Palanivelrajan and K.P. Narayanakumar have been appointed SGPs in the Madurai Bench. Apart from these, a number of lawyers have also been appointed as AGPs and Government Advocates, both on the civil as well as criminal side.
14 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Thengaipattinam fishing harbour to be dredged||The Fisheries Department will soon take up dredging of the Thengaipattinam fishing harbour in Kanniyakumari district at a cost of Rs. 1.60 crore. Fishers across the State had staged protests last month demanding that dredging of the bar mouth be taken up. Due to the prevailing heavy tidal waves and swelling wave action, the situation has become heavy at the bar mouth and along the quay wall making it difficult for fishers to enter or exit the harbour. Several persons have also lost their lives. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar said that silt at both the old and new basins would be removed during the dredging, which would be carried out under State funding.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cancel final semester college exams: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday demanded cancellation of final semester examinations in arts, science and engineering colleges. He said marks could be awarded based on the performance of students in the previous examinations. In a statement in Chennai, he said the BJP government at the Centre should not stand on ego and should allow the State governments to take a decision on the final semester examination depending on the local circumstances. “The students should have earned their degrees by now. But the war of power waged by the BJP government against the State government has caused agonising moments for the students and their parents,” he said.  Mr. Stalin said students, who were selected through campus interviews could not join work, and many organisations had withdrawn offer letters. “Many companies are urging students to get their degree certificates before joining duty.” Students, who were interested in pursuing postgraduate courses and wanted to study in foreign countries, could not submit their applications because of the delay in awarding degrees, he added.  Many companies are urging students to get their degree certificates before joining duty
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||27 frontline staff chosen for special award||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday announced the Chief Minister’s Special Award for 27 frontline workers, who were at the forefront of the State’s battle against COVID-19. They will receive a gold-plated medal and an appreciation certificate on Independence Day. The awardees are from departments such as Health and Family Welfare, Police, Revenue and Disaster Management, Fire and Rescue, Municipal Administration, Water Supply and Co-operation, Food and Consumer Protection.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘I cannot be gagged from speaking against Dy. Speaker’||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president M.K. Stalin on Thursday told the Madras High Court that any blanket gag order restraining him from making speeches against Deputy Speaker Pollachi V. Jayaraman would have a “chilling effect” and directly affect his fundamental right to speech and expression guaranteed under the Constitution. In a counter affidavit filed before Justice P.T. Asha through his counsel S. Manuraj, the Leader of the Opposition said he could not be gagged from speaking against Mr. Jayaraman especially when the latter belonged to the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) party and was holding the significant post of Deputy Speaker. Mr. Stalin also claimed that Mr. Jayaraman had a “malicious and mala fide” intention behind the filing of a civil suit seeking damages of Rs. 1 crore from him for a public speech already made in Madurai on February 23, besides seeking an injunction restraining him from making defamatory and derogatory speeches against him in the future. He pointed out that the Deputy Speaker was the chairman of the Committee of Privileges which had issued show cause notices to him and other DMK MLAs for displaying gutkha sachets in the Assembly on July 19, 2017. He also informed the judge of having filed writ petitions in the High Court challenging the show cause notices on the grounds of mala fide and gross illegality. Pointing out that those writ petitions had been taken up for final hearing, the Leader of the Opposition said that it was in the light of those developments that the plaintiff had instituted the present suit and was attempting to obtain a gag order. Advocate P.T. Perumal, representing yet another defendant R. Nakheeran Gopal, stated that he had also filed an application to reject the plaint. One more defendant S. Arivazhagan, Editor of Tamil magazine Junior Vikatan was represented by N. Ramesh.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Hold polls for Pachaiyappa’s Trust Board’||The Association of University Teachers (AUT) has demanded that Justice P. Shanmugam, the Madras High Court-appointed interim administrator of the Pachaiyappa’s Trust Board, conduct the elections for the board. Addressing journalists after a meeting of the AUT central executive committee on Wednesday, its general secretary M.S. Bala Murugan accused the interim administrator of undue interference in the activities of the colleges functioning under the Trust. The AUT questioned why Justice Shanmugam had not conducted the elections, which would help the board to run its affairs smoothly. Mr. Murugan questioned the show cause notices issued by Justice Shanmugam to 152 teachers in the six colleges run by the Trust recently. The interim administrator had held that they were not appointed as per university norms.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police find over Rs. 1.5 lakh, jewellery in ragpicker’s house||Nearly a week ago, Prabhavathi, a ragpicker in her sixties, was found dead on a pavement in Otteri. Her mentally challenged sisters Rajeshwari and Maheswari performed the last rites with help from the police. Their house in the TNSCB tenements at Sathiyavanimuthu Nagar had been kept locked for 10 years. The police took them there. E. Rajeshwari, Inspector, Secretariat Colony, said, “Garbage was strewn everywhere inside the house. While cleaning, we found cash worth around Rs. 1.5 lakh, gold and silver jewellery and over 110 demonetised Rs. 500 notes.” The items would be handed over to the sisters, she added.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for abusive social media post||The All-Women Police, Ambattur, on Thursday arrested a youth for allegedly circulating an abusive social media post on a minor girl. Police identified the suspect as Mahadevan, 25, of Oragadam, who was in love with a college girl in his area. After she broke off the relationship, he posted her photo on social media in an abusive manner. The girl’s family lodged a police complaint.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Guidelines issued for school admissions||The admission process in schools, which will begin from August 17, should be carried out in accordance with physical distancing norms and a host of other precautions. The School Education Department had announced, earlier this week, that admissions for Classes 1,6 and 9 would begin in all schools, including government and aided institutions, from August 17. For Plus One, schools have been asked to begin admissions from August 24. In a set of Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) released, the government had directed schools to fix pre-assigned time slots to prevent crowding of students and parents on the campus and had asked everyone to wear face masks. Schools have been directed to thoroughly clean and sanitize campuses and make arrangements for handwash facilities and sanitizers before commencing the process. Heads of schools have been asked to ensure adherence to the guidelines.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvallur to get two field support teams||The government will constitute two Field Support Teams for Tiruvallur to coordinate efforts against COVID-19, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam said on Thursday. Speaking to reporters, he said the teams would comprise of an IAS officer, a police personnel and a health officer. While one team would focus on Avadi and Poonamallee, the other would focus on Ponneri and Gummidipoondi, he said.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Children of the visually impaired face hardship||Fifteen-year-old Dinesh Karthik has been running errands for his visually-impaired parents while missing his online classes. “When our priority is to first get something to eat for the family and meet emergency expenses, how can I ask them to buy me a laptop or a smartphone,” he asks. Like him, many children of the visually impaired, who have lost jobs and are already suffering without any income owing to the lockdown, are struggling without a smartphone or a laptop to attend online classes. Dinesh, who has been studying in a private school in Kundrathur, said, “So far, my parents, with the help of several well wishers, managed to pay the fees, but this term, a huge amount remains unpaid.” Similarly, Mini Annalamai, a visually-impaired person, said that she had been requesting the school to give them time to pay. K. Mercy, a Class X student at a private school in Kundrathur, has been helping her mother with chores. “My father, who is visually impaired, used to earn a meagre amount, but this has been affected by the lockdown. We are not in a position to buy a smartphone. I’m hoping that my friends will help and I will eventually be able to catch up with the lessons,” she said. Her parents too have not been able to pay the fees and have taken time extension from the school. R. Diwakar lost his sister some months back and his family has not coped with the grief yet. His father, a visually-impaired person, has lost his job now. Despite all this, he still does his best to keep up with his lessons. “I don’t have a laptop or a smartphone. So, every day, I go to my friend’s place to use his phone to study,” he added. Dharani Raj, a visually-impaired student pursuing masters from college in Nandanam, said that his father is a construction worker. “I have been asking help from people I know to spare a laptop so that I can begin with the lessons,” he added.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Take care of elephant: HC||The Madras High Court on Thursday directed the Puducherry government to make sure that the Manakula Vinayagar Temple elephant, Lakshmi, was provided proper nutrition. A Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha instructed Additional Government Pleader D. Ravichander to make sure that a report on its health is filed by September 3.
14 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. to start processing accumulated waste by month-end||By the end of this month the Coimbatore Corporation will begin processing the waste it had dumped and accumulated over the years at its yard in Vellalore. The contractor the Corporation had engaged for the purpose had erected a row of machinery and was in the process of putting up three more rows. The contractor had also applied for power connection. Hopefully, by the end of the month the civic body should start processing the waste, said sources familiar with the development. The process – biomining the waste – included segregation, cleaning the waste in trommel, shredding and a few other steps. At the end of the process, the contractor would sell the waste to industries that could put it to use in their processes and that included selling refuse-derived fuel to cement industries. The sources said the contractor had tied up with a few companies to sell the segregated waste and was in the process of signing up a few more. Everyday, the contractor would process 1,800 cubic metre waste – 600 cubic metre on a row – and would take less than two years to process the 9.4 lakh cubic metre accumulated waste. The aims was to complete the project in two years but the contractor hoped to complete the project earlier, the sources said. The Corporation had taken up the accumulated waste processing project at Rs. 60.01 crore under the Smart Cities Mission. The sources said the Corporation was in the process of engaging the environment studies department of Anna University as a third-party consultant to certify that the contractor worked and processed the waste as per specifications. The third-party certification was necessary for the Corporation to pay the contractor for the waste processed. The Corporation had agreed to pay Rs. 640 for a cubic metre of waste. Once completed, the Corporation would gain 60 – 65 acres of land in Vellalore, which it could put it to better use, considering the fact that it had started building the city’s integrated bus stand there.
14 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||International air cargo movement picks up in Coimbatore||Movement of air cargo to international destinations from Coimbatore International Airport has seen a steady increase since May, despite the numerous challenges because of the spread of COVID-19. According to an official source, between March 27 and April 22, when there was complete lockdown, only domestic cargo was airlifted from Coimbatore. Nearly 13 tonnes were air-lifted by special flights, chartered flights, etc and these were all healthcare products. In May, 34 tonnes of international cargo were sent from Coimbatore. It increased to 52 tonnes in June, 61 tonnes in July and between August 1 and 10, 43 tonnes were air-lifted. Except for one SalamAir and Air India flight in July, the rest of the international cargo movement was by SpiceJet. All the international cargo were perishables - vegetables, fruits and flowers. These were sent to destinations such as Kuwait, Muscat, and Sharjah. Before the lockdown, on an average, Coimbatore International Airport saw movement of 200 to 250 tonnes of cargo a month, including bonded truck goods. In the last three months, there have been a few consignments that originated here but were sent by bonded trucks to other ports too. The cargo is booked by some regular exporters and new exporters too. The official said that the industries faced several challenges because of the spread of COVID-19 and lockdown restrictions, such as manpower availability and transport facilities. However, permission to operate all-cargo flights and the support extended by the authorities concerned had given a fillip to air cargo movement during the last three months, the official added. Coimbatore Custom House and Steamer Agents Association president P. Subramaniam said that currently, the air cargo rates were high and flight frequency was relatively low. So only, emergency goods were sent by air and the rest by sea route. Regular passenger flight services should resume so that small consignments could also be sent. Though Coimbatore region had high potential for export cargo, more exporters would prefer air cargo only when prices reduced.
14 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Bus services should resume: MSMEs||Industries in the Micro, Small and Medium-scale segment (MSMEs) here have appealed to the officials to provide better transport facilities so that workers can report to work. The Federation of Coimbatore Industries Association said buses should be operated during peak hours in the morning and evening for workers in the district to report to work every day and return home. The Associations also called for removal of the need for e-passes for inter-district movement. Meanwhile, the Coimbatore Compressor Industries Association appealed to the Union Government to resume train services across the country. M. Raveendran, president of the Association, said, in a press release, the air compressor manufacturers in Coimbatore supplied products across the country. They were mostly in the small and micro sector. The units usually sent the compressors to the buyers through trains. Now that train services were suspended, the manufacturers were unable to send the products or personnel to install the compressors. They were facing financial crisis because of the lockdown and could not afford to organise air travel or taxi services for the personnel. At present, the railways was operating special AC train services between New Delhi and State capitals. These services were not sufficient for the industries located in tier-two cities and other towns. The Central Government should consider resuming atleast weekly train service between State capitals, he said. The Federation also appealed to the bankers and District Collector to ensure that MSMEs with current accounts got loans as the industries had resumed operations. “We have a list of 410 units that submitted applications to the banks, but were unable to get loans. These units have annual turnover of Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 40 lakh. They do not have loans now and have current accounts. But, the banks are not lending to them now,” said J. James, one of the co-ordinators of the Federation.
14 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘No more dancing at COVID-19 Care Centres’||The Health Department has warned asymptomatic patients against resorting to dancing at COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC). Deputy Director of Health Services, Coimbatore, G. Ramesh Kumar told The Hindu that videos of asymptomatic patients dancing inside the CCC at Codissia Trade Fair Complex had come to his attention. The videos of a few COVID-19 patients dancing to Kollywood fast numbers inside the CCC went viral on social media after some other patients recorded and shared these with their friends and family members. “We have advised them to avoid dancing as it may cause disturbance to other patients. Instead they can do yoga or go for a walk in the facility. Ten Ayush doctors are posted at the two halls of Codissia for the patients' care. They provide yoga training,” he said. For entertainment purposes, the Revenue Department had set up projectors to screen movies and songs at the two halls of Codissia. CCCs, like the ones at Codissia, were established to accommodate asymptomatic COVID-19 patients. There are 670 beds in the two halls of Codissia and 970 beds at various CCCs in other areas of Coimbatore district.
14 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Over 300 temples in Corpn. limits to reopen today||The district administration cleared 306 small temples whose annual income is below Rs. 10,000 within the Corporation limits to reopen on Friday. District Collector K. Rajamani said on Thursday out of the 452 temples in the Corporation limits under the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department, 146 had an annual income of more than Rs. 10,000. The 306 small temples could open from Friday after completion of “some formalities,” he said. However, temples in COVID-19 containment zones would remain closed, he said. The State government permitted the reopening of small temples whose annual revenue is below Rs. 10,000 from August 10. These temples remained closed since March due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The government directed that temples in Municipal Corporations except Chennai Corporation must get the permission from the respective District Collectors to reopen. Sources in the HR&CE Department said devotees were not expected to be allowed inside the small temples for Vinayaka Chathurthi and that special pujas would be conducted in the temples that were open on August 22. However, an official announcement would be made by the district administration regarding Vinayaka Chathurthi, the sources said. The police and Revenue Department officials would ensure that there would be no crowding in these small temples, the sources said.
14 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Will defy govt., install idols, says Munnani||Hindu Munnani State president Kadeswara C. Subramaniam announced on Thursday that Vinayaka idols would be installed at 1.5 lakh locations across the State as part of Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations on August 22, in defiance of the State government’s directions. Mr. Subramaniam said in a statement that the idols would be installed, as planned earlier, with “adequate precautionary and safety measures”. He condemned the State government for taking an “anti-Hindu stance” by not permitting the installation of idols in public places. He noted that the Supreme Court had allowed the conduct of Puri Jagannath Rath Yatra in June.
14 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Worker dies as pit caves in||A worker engaged on contract in underground drainage works in Erode Corporation limits died in an accident at the work site. Police identified the deceased as Anand from Lakkapuram here. According to the district officials, a 15 ft deep pit dug for laying drainage pipes on Old Karur Road caved in, trapping the worker underneath a pile of earth. Other workers alerted the police and Erode Corporation officials, and earth movers were used to remove the mud and pull the worker out. Probe on He was shifted into a 108 ambulance nearby, but was declared dead. The body was taken to Erode government hospital for autopsy. Police are investigating.
14 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Student, faculty come up with automatic sanitiser dispensers||A second-year student of Electronics and Communication Engineering of Nandha Engineering College, Perundurai, and his professor have come up with two automatic sanitiser dispensers. R.K. Boopesh and Assistant Professor M. Srinivasan had developed the dispensers at the Centre for Innovation and Product Development cell in the college and demonstrated its usage.  Ultrasonic sensor Mr. Srinivasan said the ultrasonic sensor he developed detected the palm and dispensed one ml sanitiser at a given point of time and the machine can be used indoor and outdoor. “Certain dispensers function on infra-red sensors and natural light triggers the sensor,” he added. The machine could hold 500 ml sanitiser and could be operated with batteries. The cost of the machine came around Rs. 3,000, he added. Mr. Boopesh said analog components were used in his machine and it could hold one litre sanitiser and dispense two ml. Alarm fixed “Even if the palm is placed below the sensor for a long time, the machine dispenses only two ml,” he said and the cost came around Rs. 2,000 per machine. An alarm was fixed to refill the sanitiser, he added. V. Shanmugan, chairman, Nandha Educational Institution, N. Rengarajan, principal, Deans S. Kavitha and C.N. Marimuthu appreciated the two.
14 August 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Construction of international flower auction centre begins||Works for an international flower auction centre at Moranapalli revenue village have commenced at the project site at Marasandiram. To coincide with it, a Farmers’ Producers Organisation has been formed with farmers from four flower-growing blocks of Thally, Hosur, Kelamangalam and Shoolagiri, said Bala Siva Prasad, president of Hosur Small Farmers Association and one of the directors of the National Horticulture Board. “Each block has five members, and each member will have 25 farmers, whose quality and quantity monitoring will be the responsibility of the member,” he said. Three meetings were organised from the stakeholders’ side to ramp up the quality and quantity capabilities of the growers here. The stakeholders committee will put in place three levels of quality control - at the farm level, unloading point and the auction hall. The centre being built at a cost of Rs. 20.20 crore will have an auction hall, two large cold storages, a pre-cooling unit, a grading and packing unit, refrigerated trucks, parking lot, an administrative office, conference hall, a training center, and 18 shops. The centre at Moranapalli will be the country’s first online auction centre, that will enable buyers to bid for flowers both online and offline based on the Dutch auction clock. This envisions software enabled price moderations based on demand, eliminating human interventions and middle-men. The flower will be captured on a very high-resolution camera as it comes out of cold storage and based on the images price is determined setting off the bids. “A buyer in Coimbatore can bid online and the sellers will ensure the flowers are delivered to the buyer’s location,” said Mr. Siva Prasad. Once the auction centre comes into operation, growers of Bengaluru are also expected to use the facility. “The engineering team met with the farmers and we are happy with the design. Since the auction market will be constructed and handed over to the stakeholders, we need to be prepared to take over once the infrastructure is handed over to us to keep up to the world-class standards,” he says. The centre is being set up with a capacity to auction five lakh flowers with expandable capacity. For now, Krishnagiri Floriculture Committee has requested inclusion of power backup with solar power and green energy. The proposal is under consideration, said Mr. Siva Prasad. The construction works are scheduled for completion in 12 to 14 months.
14 August 2020||KODAIKANAL,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on assistive technology for special children||People from various institutions and cities such as Dhaka, Muscat and Dubai took part in a webinar on ‘Assistive technology in educating children with special needs’ organised by Mother Teresa Women's University here recently. Vice-Chancellor Vaidehi Vijayakumar spoke on the need to integrate tools such as highlighting pens, screen readers and use of closed captioning for online learning for children with special needs. The webinar had two technical sessions. The first session on assistive technology and inclusive classroom routines was meant for all categories of children with special needs, including those with learning disabilities and visual impairment. It was conducted by Assistive Technology and Accessibility Consultant Shankar Subbiah. Akila Surendran, Senior Engineer, Centre for Assistive Technology and Innovations, National Institute for Speech and Hearing, Thiruvananthapuram, took the second session on low-cost assistive technology solution for education. She demonstrated the preparation and use of low-cost aids for children in a classroom setup. As many as 297 persons took part in the webinar.
14 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Autorickshaw drivers take up odd jobs||G. Sivakumar, an autorickshaw driver from Naganakulam, wakes up at 3 a.m. and heads towards the Central Vegetable market at Mattuthavani for the last two months. By 6.30 a.m., he starts selling vegetables at P and T Nagar, Kannanendhal, Aathikulam and nearby areas. “I hardly get any customers nowadays due to lockdown. I started selling vegetables to earn a decent income to feed my family,” he says. Some other autorickshaw drivers also have taken up odd jobs as a means of additional income to make their ends meet. They say the public movement has come down with the closure of schools, colleges, bus stands, railway stations, tourism spots. They have very few customers and earn a meagre income. C. Prabhakar, an autorickshaw driver who is sole breadwinner of his family, was working as a salesman for a few days. However, he discontinued it as it was not very remunerative. R. Marimuthu, another autorickshaw driver, has set up a fruit stall along with his wife. Earlier, he even worked as a loadman at the Central Vegetable Market in Mattuthavani. Similarly, other autorickshaw drivers have taken up odds jobs. S. Murugan works as a security guard and K. Pandi works as a helper to an electrician. Autorickshaw drivers who have rented their vehicles have suffered the most, says Mr. Sivakumar. “With the meagre income we earn from riding autorickshaws, it is difficult to pay rent for the vehicle. The rising fuel cost adds to our burden,” he says. M. Nanda Singh, district general secretary of Madurai Mavatta AITUC Auto Thozhilalar Sangam, says that the most daunting problem is the huge money they have borrowed from moneylenders. An official from Regional Transport Office (RTOs) says there are around 15,000 autorickshaws registered in Madurai. In addition, there are around 5,000 autorickshaws that are unregistered, says Mr. Singh. “Some of these workers have started taking up jobs as vegetable or fruit vendors, construction workers, loadmen as they earn a pittance from riding autorickshaws,” he says. He adds that the government must provide additional assistance of Rs. 7,500 per month for three months to all drivers registered with the RTO.
14 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Residents lack civic sense: High Court||Taking cognisance of unauthorised and haphazard parking of vehicles in Madurai, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that the residents nowadays lacked civic sense and acted in an irresponsible manner. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam observed that the court had come across many incidents where even the affluent and the educated were not willing to follow rules. That was why there were many incidents of unauthorised parking on roads, causing much inconvenience to pedestrians and road users. The court was hearing a petition complaining of haphazard parking of vehicles at Lourdhu Nagar in K. Pudur in Madurai. The petition was filed by S.M. Ramasamy, a retired Deputy Inspector of Survey. He complained of haphazard parking of vehicles at Lourdhu Nagar, IInd Cross Street in K. Pudur, where he was residing. It led to blocking access to the road. “In the considered opinion of this court, it is extremely difficult to enforce these kinds of discipline through court orders. Adherence to the rule of law and orderly behaviour should come within and as of now, it remains only as a distant dream,” the court said. During the course of the hearing, the Madurai Corporation submitted that in terms of Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, the corporation had power only to remove encroachments and projections on streets. It was open to the petitioner to approach the jurisdictional police and the corporation officials for remedy, who would extend their cooperation in the issue, the corporation said. Perusing photographs on projections, the court said it was open to the Corporation Commissioner to inspect the area and find out if the constructions and projections were authorised, unauthorised or deviated. It was open to the petitioner to submit a representation along with photographs to the police, who were expected to take immediate and appropriate action. The case was disposed of.
14 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||151 test positive in Madurai||A total of 151 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai district on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 12,515. Ninety seven patients, who have recovered from the infection, were discharged. The active cases in the district stands at 1,056. Five deaths were recorded on Thursday, taking the toll to 308. Three deaths were reported by private hospitals, and two by Government Rajaji Hospital. Virudhunagar district reported 144 COVID-19 deaths after two more deaths were recorded on Thursday. Two men – aged 49 years and 62 years – had died on Tuesday and Wednesday. Meanwhile, the district has registered 219 fresh positive cases taking the total positive cases to 10,849. However, with 225 patients having been discharged on Thursday (9,280 till date), the number of active cases stands at 1,425. Theni tested 286 fresh cases which took the tally to 9,122. The number of people discharged from hospitals stands at 275. Dindigul Dindigul had 140 new cases and the total number of positive cases till date stands at 4,386. Seventy nine people have been discharged. Ramanathapuram had 60 fresh cases, taking the tally to 3,840. As many as 57 patients have been discharged. With 64 new cases, Sivaganga’s tally stands at 3,203. The number of patients discharged from the hospital on a single day was 26, according to the State medical bulletin. Southern districts While the death toll in Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari districts crossed 100 mark on Thursday, both districts collectively added 375 more fresh cases that took the districts’ tally beyond the 7,000-mark. After adding 189 new cases on Thursday, the tally of Tirunelveli that witnessed the death of seven patients, touched 7,112 and the number of active cases stands at 1,541 after 203 cases were discharged from hospitals. The district has so far lost 106 patients to the viral infection. Kanniyakumari In Kanniyakumari, 186 fresh cases were reported, taking the district’s tally to 7,050 and the number of active cases to 1,641 as 245 patients were discharged. Six deaths took the total fatality to 103, the second highest among the southern districts so far. Tenkasi added 138 more cases to have 1,419 active cases after 97 patients were discharged and the tally stands at 3,632. The district lost four more patients that took the total deaths to 61. Thoothukudi reported 103 new cases to have 9,730 COVID-19 patients so far and 1,498 active cases as 225 patients were discharged from hospitals. No death was reported.
14 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||AePS more popular now||The postal department’s India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) has conducted around 15,000 transactions worth Rs. 2 crore in Madurai district through Aadhaar-enabled Payments System (AePS) during lockdown starting from March 23. K. Lekshmanan, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Madurai Division, explained that through the AePS facility, a postman or Gramin Dak Sevak acts as a human ATM and delivers money at the doorstep of customers. The customers can withdraw money from the nearest post office. This service allows customers to withdraw up to Rs. 10,000 for each transaction from any of their Aadhaar-linked bank accounts using biometric authentication. More than 300 Gramin Dak Sevaks and around 200 postman have been equipped with smartphones and biometric devices to provide banking services at the doorstep of customers. “All postmen use ‘micro ATM’ application on our smartphones to help customers in withdrawing their money. A postman can deliver up to Rs. 50,000 every day,” said K. Packiaraj, a postman at Madurai Head Post Office. Mr. Lekshmanan said while the AePS facility was introduced last year, it became more popular during lockdown when public transport was suspended. The department has urged the public to withdraw Old Age Pension and financial assistance from other social security schemes, including PM KISAN scheme, through the AePS facility.
14 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Skeletal remains of an adult unearthed at Keeladi||The first skeletal remains of an adult were unearthed at Konthagai village, on Monday as part of the ongoing sixth phase of Keeladi excavations. The skeleton was 183 cm long with a width of 35 cm according to Deputy Director (DD) of Archaeology R. Sivanandam. Based on the height and the shape of the forehead, it was likely to be the remains of a man, he said. A total of five other skeletal remains have been excavated till date but all of them have been of children, he added. The DD says that pit burial was conducted at a depth of 70 cm to bury the remains. It was merely 2.5 m away from the other skeletons. Burial site Konthagai village located four km from Keeladi, was added as an excavation site during the sixth phase. It was considered to be a burial site. The DD said that the remains were being handled with care to ensure that there was not too much exposure to sunlight and transported to the Madurai Kamaraj University for DNA analysis. More details “We will be able to determine more details only when the lab begins functioning in full swing,” he said. Excavations are currently taking place at Keeladi, Konthagai, Manalur and also Agaram villages in Sivaganga district. Recently, a terracotta ringwell was unearthed as part of the excavation at Manalur.
14 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||No respite for revenue staff||“Revenue department staff have been issuing e-passes, coordinating vendors in containment zones, providing pension to elderly persons and coordinating efforts to send migrants back home. M.P. Murugaiyan, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Revenue Officials Association (TNROA), says that though at least 20 staff, including Village Administrative Officers have been infected, the work continues in full swing and despite fatigue. A senior revenue inspector, who contracted COVID-19 and recovered, says he was busy providing passes to volunteers and supplied relief materials. When he contracted COVID-19, it was like a tsunami. The impact was more severe when his four-and-a-half-year-old daughter contracted the disease. “We are often posted at check posts along with police and health department staff to check validity of e-passes. Though I was doing fine for the first couple of days and wearing a mask, I developed symptoms and decided to home quarantine upon my doctor’s advice. Despite keeping a safe distance from my family and restricting myself to a room, my daughter began exhibiting symptoms. I was shaken,” he says. Though he was confident of recovery, he was overcome with concern about his daughter. “We have completed our mandated quarantine and are safe. I am back at the office. However, I am not doing COVID-19 duty now. I am ready to serve on the field though,” he says. A tahsildar says this is the first time he has seen people at all levels of the administration taking on the job hands-on. “We have been carrying bags of relief materials, stacking them, deciding the distribution process. It is not that staff at the lower rung are burdened with such tasks. We have all been lending a hand to ensure that work is completed quickly,” he says. Mr. Murugaiyan says that in the past too they have worked hard during elections. “Election work takes around two months and we look forward to a break in the end. Here, we do not know what the future holds for us but we have no choice but to march on. There are many departments where there is staff shortage. We have been stepping in and helping them too. Recently, we helped in distribution of the State government allowance to differently abled persons,” he says. He says they want the government to give ex-gratia to those staff who have died due to COVID-19. “It would be nice to cover the cost of treatment also,” he says.
14 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||With mounting losses, hotel owners at the end of tether||With hotels and lodges across Tamil Nadu remaining shut for over 130 days due to the lockdown, many of these establishments have incurred huge losses and are desperate to resume operations. G. Vasudevan, vice-president, Tamil Nadu Travel Mart Society, and director of the Fortune Pandiyan Hotel in Madurai, pointed out that though the Centre had issued guidelines for reopening hotels and other hospitality units, the State government had not yet permitted the resumption of business. “Though we have made several representations for reopening, there has been no positive response yet,” he said. The closure of business for more than four months has financially affected hotels and lodges, irrespective of their size or location, said Sivaraj Kalppana, joint secretary of the Tamil Nadu Tour Travel and Hospitality Association. “Hotel and lodge owners have to pay electricity bills and undertake expenses for maintaining their properties. With no income for months, salaries could not be paid for most staff members, including migrant workers,” she added. The impact has been more profound in hill stations, where hotels and lodges totally depended on tourists for business, said S. Abdul Gani Raja, secretary of the Kodaikanal Hotels’ and Resorts’ Owners’ Association. “Allied service providers like cab drivers, travel agents, horse owners, tour guides and petty shop owners are also bearing the brunt,” he added. M. Venkada Subbu, president of the Tamil Nadu Hotels’ Association, said that many hoteliers would be unable to repay their debt and eventually their businesses would go bankrupt. “If hotels and lodges are not allowed to resume operations at the earliest, then many will have to sell their properties,” he added. President of the Madurai Hotel and Lodge Owners’ Association, K.P. Navaneetha Krishnan, said that hotels and lodges were ready to follow the safety precautions issued by the Central government. “We will completely disinfect common spaces, ensure that only one guest stays in a room and follow other guidelines,” he said. “If hotels are currently allowed to accommodate doctors, frontline staff and travellers during their quarantine, then why can it not be extended for regular use,” asked Mr. Subbu.
14 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks details of certificates in NEET case||Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has sought to know if the education certificates of the first student accused in the NEET impersonation case was in the file of Judicial Magistrate, Theni. Justice R. Pongiappan directed the High Court Registry to ascertain from the Judicial Magistrate whether the certificates had been submitted by the police probing the NEET impersonation case. The petitioner had sought the return of his Class X and Class XII mark sheets, transfer certificate and community certificate, which he said were taken by the CB-CID officials during inquiry. He said he approached a few colleges in Chennai seeking admission to arts and science courses and he was asked to produce his original certificates. He said if the documents were not returned, his future will be in jeopardy.
14 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Two accused in rice smuggling case get bail||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has granted bail to two men from Sivaganga district, accused of illegally transporting rice meant for supply through public distribution system (PDS), after they undertook to give Rs. 5,000 each to Madras High Court Madurai Bench Advocate Clerks Welfare Association. The petitioners, Saravanan, a rice mill owner, and Murugavel, a temporary employee of a fair price shop, were arrested on July 22 on a charge of illegally transporting the PDS rice. The petitioners volunteered to give a total of Rs. 10,000 to the association. Justice V. Bharathidasan directed the accused to deposit the amount to the credit of the association and execute a bond of Rs. 50,000 each to the satisfaction of the Judicial Magistrate, Sivaganga. The accused should appear before the police concerned whenever required for interrogation, the court said.
14 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sattankulam case: Bail petitions dismissed||The Madurai District Court on Thursday dismissed the bail petitions of S. Sridhar and S.Veilmuthu, policemen accused in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks. Dismissing the bail petitions, Sessions Judge M. Thandavan considered the gravity of the offence and observed that the investigation in the case was in the initial stage and if released on bail the petitioners could tamper with the witness. Special Public Prosecutor for CBI cases S. Vijayan argued that the petitioners had brutally tortured the traders with deadly weapons and caused their death. In the final post-mortem certificate that was received, it was stated that the traders would have died due to the complications of the injuries sustained by them, he said.
14 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court seeks status report on situation in Tiruchi district||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the State government to submit a comprehensive status report on the COVID-19 situation in Tiruchi district including the number of private testing labs and hospital beds available. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam put forth a series of queries for the State to answer in a comprehensive report and sought to know if personal protective equipment was provided to frontline health workers including doctors and paramedical staff. Apart from these queries, the court sought information on whether the test results were informed to asymptomatic patients and within what time period. The details on crematorium and burial facilities for those who died of the pandemic was also sought. The court directed Tiruchi Collector and Tiruchi Corporation Commissioner to appear before the court through video conferencing during the next hearing to assist the court. The case was adjourned for further hearing to August 27. The court was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by R. Rajagobal from Tiruchi who sought a direction to the State government to ensure proper monitoring of the COVID-19 situation in Tiruchi and to impose a lockdown in the district to contain the spread of the virus. A separate public interest litigation petition was filed before the court seeking a direction to the State government to move a COVID-19 treatment facility from a private hospital in Srirangam to a suitable place as it was functioning without norms and was situated in a residential area. The court ordered notice to the State government in the PIL petition filed by S. Sakthivel from Srirangam who said that the private hospital was not having the required infrastructure as per norms. The case was adjourned to August 27 for further hearing.
14 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Railway track inspection on||Officials of Research, Designs and Standards Organisation (RDSO) along with engineers of Madurai railway division have started periodical inspection of tracks on Wednesday. A special train with a Track Recording Car (TRC) began nspection on the Tiruchi-Rameswaram section. In the coming days, the inspection would be conducted on Tiruchi-Tirunelveli; Vanchi Maniyachi-Thoothukudi; Tenkasi-Kollam; and Virudhunagar-Manamadurai sections. “This inspection is carried out twice a year on main lines such as Tiruchi-Tirunelveli/Thoothukudi sections and once a year on branch lines,” a railway engineer said. “It helps in better maintenance of the tracks as we get technical reports on track geometry and track health,” he said. RDSO has given various parameters to check such as gauge, alignment, level and surface of rails. Besides, lateral and vertical oscillations would also be recorded. The TRC would produce computer-based data through infra-red scanning of the tracks. “Based on track conditions on on different sections, recommendations will be made for immediate and planned attention for rectifying the deficiencies, if any,” the official said.
14 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court seeks report on progress in investigation||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State government to submit a status report on progress made into the investigation in the alleged custodial torture and resultant death of Tenkasi farmer Anaikarai Muthu. Justice R. Pongiappan also directed the government to submit the post mortem report. The court was informed by the State that a doctor who had performed the post mortem had tested positive for COVID-19. Additional time was sought to submit the report. The court was hearing the petition filed by Palammal, the wife of Anaikarai Muthu who sought a CB-CID probe into the death of her husband, a farmer from Tenkasi who she alleged died in the custody of Forest department personnel. She said her husband was picked up by the Forest department personnel for inquiry on a charge of illegally tapping electricity. She suspected that her husband died due to the torture meted out to him by them.
14 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Thursday stood at 137 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 2,211 cusecs and a discharge of 2,160 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 44.55 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,985 cusecs and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit stood at 7,250 mcft. The water level in Papanasam dam stood at 105.65 feet (143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 1,658.08 cusecs and 806 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 73.65 feet (118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 182 cusecs and 25 cusecs of water was discharged.
14 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Fill up vacant posts of medical officers||Southern Railway Mazdoor Union has appealed to the railway administration to fill up the posts of medical officers in Karaikudi, Thoothukudi, Shenchottah and Tirunelveli health units. Its Madurai divisional secretary J.M. Rafi said though there was a temporary recruitment of eight doctors, 10 nurses and 15 housekeeping staff for the Railway Hospital in Madurai, it should fill up vacancies in other health units also as the need for medical services had increased under the pandemic situation. The SRMU has suggested a diet chart for COVID-19 patients admitted to the Railway Hospital.
14 August 2020||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||EIA notification is pro-rich: MLA||Members of village panchayats and town panchayats in Padmanabhapuram Assembly constituency in Kanniyakumari district sent postcards to Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar against Environment Impact Assessment Notification 2020 in its present form. Led by Padmanabhapuram MLA Mano Thangaraj, they said the EIA notification, available in English and Hindi, should also be made available in Tamil and other languages so that people from all the States could understand its content. It was in favour of the rich and the super rich, and against farmers, fishermen, tribal people and people living near areas where the rich establish their manufacturing units. “The BJP government is pushing all anti-people projects and policies and actively going ahead with privatisation of public sector undertakings,” said Mr. Mano Thangaraj.
14 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Aggressive testing is best strategy, says WHO scientist||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Thursday held discussions on the COVID-19 situation in the Union Territory with chief scientist of the World Health Organisation Soumya Swaminathan at the Legislative Assembly. Mr. Narayanasamy said Dr. Swaminathan had stressed on the need to strengthen contact tracing, testing and isolation as the key to winning the battle against the virus. Quoting the chief scientist, the Chief Minister said the virus would be active for several months. ‘Lockdown not a permanent strategy’ The only way to flatten the curve was to do more testing, contact tracing and then isolating the patient, he said. “Lockdown cannot be a permanent strategy to deal with the pandemic. The administration could deploy more number of people for contact tracing,” Dr. Swaminathan suggested. Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar and District Collector-cum-Health Secretary T. Arun were present.  Bedi’s message Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi, in a message, said Dr. Swaminathan in a conversation with her during the visit to Puducherry suggested that students who passed out from high school could be deployed for contact tracing so that paramedical staff were spared for healthcare. Separate place The Chief Scientist said home quarantine would not work in compact homes as other members of the family faced the risk of infection. They need a separate place to be isolated, Ms. Bedi said in her message.
14 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Centre mum on aid: Narayanasamy||The Centre has kept mum on Puducherry’s plea for funds to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said on Thursday. At a virtual press conference, Mr. Narayanasamy said there had been no response to the letters he had written to the Centre and Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking interim assistance of Rs. 225 crore and a larger package of Rs. 975 crore as special aid even when the Union Government had sanctioned substantial funds to other States. The amount provided by the Centre so far to combat the crisis was a mere Rs. 3 crore, he said. At a time when revenue had declined substantially in the last four months and Rs. 560 crore GST compensation was due from the Centre, the Puducherry government had to allocate Rs. 25 crore from within its resources for procuring equipment, ambulances, diagnostic kits and PPEs, Mr. Narayanasamy said.
14 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Deaths cross 100||The COVID-19 death count in the Union Territory crossed the 100-mark on Thursday with six more patients succumbing to the infection. Five patients died in Puducherry and one at Yanam GH, taking the toll to 102. The tally in the UT is 102 deaths, 2,750 active cases (1,504 in hospital/1,246 home isolation), a cumulative total of 6,680 cases and 3,828 patients discharged.
14 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry Collector issues directive||District Collector T. Arun has asked for speedy disposal of the bodies of COVID-19 patients. In an order on Thursday, he directed hospital authorities to immediately handover the bodies of COVID-19 patients to the heads of local bodies after following the Standard Operating Procedures.
14 August 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Coconut farmers seek relief||Coconut farmers of Rajapalayam taluk have complained that they have suffered significant loss due to gale that struck on August 5. P. Ammaiyappan of Mettupatti, a farmer, alleged that he had suffered a huge loss after the swirling wind damaged many well-grown coconut palms on his 30 acre of farm. “While only six palms were broken by the strong wind, inflorescence tender coconuts and leaves have withered due to the gale,” he said. It has led to considerable loss of yield and it would take at least six months for the next harvest. Tamilaga Vivasayigal Sangam district president, N. A. Ramachandra Raja, said crop on at least 100 hectares in Seithur, Zaminkollaikondan and Ayankollaikondan and nearby areas have been destroyed. An official of Department of Agriculture said a survey of damaged crop would be taken up soon. Rajapalayam MLA S. Thangapandian inspected affected coconut farms. “I was shocked to hear that compensation of Rs. 68 lakh for the crop damaged during July 2018 was yet to reach the farmers,” he said. He said he had taken up the issue and the Government Order sanctioning compensation was issued in February 2020 but farmers were yet to get the funds. The MLA met Collector R. Kannan and asked him to expedite the distribution process. Mr. Ramachandra Raja urged the government to extend crop insurance scheme for coconut farmers of the district. “It is not happening as facts and figures about palms in the district have not been collated so far,” he added.
14 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Centre failed to contain pandemic: CPI leader||Communist Party of India State secretary R. Mutharasan on Thursday accused the Centre of not taking adequate precautionary measure to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Mutharasan told journalists here that the first COVID-19 case was reported in China in December last year and India reported its first case in Kerala in January. Yet, according to him, the Centre did not take enough measures to contain the pandemic. He claimed that using the pandemic the Centre was taking important decisions without discussions in Parliament. He reiterated that Tamil Nadu must cancel the e-pass requirement for inter-district travel and resume public transport services with safeguards. As for the 2021 Assembly elections, the Secular Progressive Alliance would face it with Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M K Stalin as its Chief Ministerial candidate. Mr. Mutharasan alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party was trying to gain new ground in the State by weakening other parties.
14 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Ryots learn modern farming techniques online||Starting August, the Agriculture Department has been conducting online sessions for farmers under the Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) programme. Agriculture officials said only a few farmers are called to the agriculture extension centres. A senior agriculture official said earlier they used to visit villages in person and advise farmers on modern practices and schemes available. Elangovan, Joint Director, Agriculture, said, “experts from KVK and TNAU communicate with farmers via online. The farmers are invited on a rotational basis to ensure that all those in a block are covered.” Abinavam S. Jayaraman, a farmer, said though the initiative was good, such measures should reach the grassroot-level farmers.
14 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Centre failed to take precautions: CPI leader||CPI State secretary R. Mutharasan on Thursday accused the Centre of not taking adequate precautionary measures to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. He said that using the pandemic, the Centre was taking important decisions without discussions in the Parliament.
14 August 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Two injured in fire accident||Two persons sustained injuries in an explosion at a cracker unit manufacturing roll caps here on Thursday. The police said that R. Jayamuthu (52) of Narnapuram and S. Pandiyaraj (37) of Periya Pottalpatti had noticed smoke coming out from a shed where roll caps after chemical filling were kept for drying. When one of them reportedly poured water, an explosion occurred. The injured have been admitted to a private hospital.
14 August 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Watcher trampled to death||An anti-poaching watcher was trampled to death by a wild elephant near Courtallam on Wednesday. Sources said a group of forest personnel, who were on routine patrolling along the Western Ghats close to the Courtallam – Five Falls Road on Wednesday, spotted a wild elephant roaming near a private estate. They tried to chase the elephant into the deeper part of the jungle by bursting crackers. But the animal started chasing the forest personnel. While all managed to escape, Muthuraj, 57, of Nannagaram near Courtallam, who could not run fast, was caught by the animal and trampled to death. Even though the forest personnel, carrying flambeau, tried to chase the animal away with crackers, it was stood near the body till Thursday. Only after the elephant left the spot, the body could be retrieved to be sent to Tenkasi GH for a post-mortem. The family has urged the Chief Minister to give relief and a job to a member of the family.
14 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Painganadu villagers are elated||Several residents of Painganadu hamlet near Mannargudi basked in happiness as they came to know that the granddaughter of a man from the village has been named the running mate by Democratic Party presidential nominee Joe Biden in the United States of America. Kamala Harris, 55, who has been named as running mate of Mr. Biden, was born to a Jamaican, Donald Harris, and Shyamala, daughter of P.V. Gopalan, who hails from Painganadu in Tiruvarur district. Gopalan, a stenographer with the East India Company, was sent to Zambia in 1930 by his employer to enumerate details of refugees who had sought asylum there. His daughter, Shyamala, married Donald Harris and settled in the United States. Family donated funds Stating that Gopalan used to visit the village occasionally, Ramani of Thulasendrapuram, near Painganadu, said Gopalan’s family had donated funds for the consecration of the Dharmasastha temple in the hamlet in 2014. Raghavan, who is from Painganadu, said that Ms. Kamala Harris, in a book written by her, had termed Gopalan as her mentor and also recalled her conversations with her grandfather right from her childhood through letters and over telephone. The villagers said they were waiting to hear that the third generation woman from their soil had got elected as the Vice-President of the U.S.
14 August 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Water for irrigation released||Releasing 200 cusecs of water from Mullaperiyar dam for irrigation in Cumbum Valley and another 100 cusecs of water for drinking purpose in Theni, Collector M Pallavi Baldev urged the public to use water judiciously here on Thursday. Following requests from various farmers associations, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami ordered release of water. For the next 120 days, water for irrigation would be released from the reservoir. Farmers in ayacut areas of Cumbum Valley, who have begun farming activity for the first crop, would get water without interruption. PWD engineers said that 14,707 acres of land in the region would benefit from the water release. Following active south-west monsoon in Kerala, there has been copious rainfall along the Western Ghats. The heavy rainfall resulted in landslides and claimed over 40 lives in Idukki district. Ms. Pallavi Baldev said the government has adequate stock of urea, DAP, potash in Primary Cooperative Societies and private outlets. The government has extended subsidies for fertilizers and appealed to farmers to benefit by approaching the societies. Bodi MLA S. T. K. Jakkayan, SP E. Sai Saran Tejaswi, PWD (WRO) Executive Engineer V. Sugumaran and others participated in the function.
14 August 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Banned tobacco products worth Rs. 17 lakh seized||The police seized banned tobacco products worth Rs. 17 lakh weighing about 1.25 tonne and arrested three persons on Wednesday. When a special team, led by Sub-Inspector of Police, Thoothukudi North Police Station, was conducting a vehicle check at State Bank Colony on Wednesday, they intercepted a scooter. As the rider, who was identified later as P. Prithviraj, 22, of Krishnarajapuram, was carrying 2,600 banned tobacco products in two bags, he was picked up for interrogation. Prithviraj told the police that he was taking the tobacco product from a godown at nearby Kurinji Nagar. The police raided the godown immediately and seized 2,44,958 packets of banned tobacco products, weighing about 1.25 tonne and worth Rs. 17,17,376. The police arrested S. Maharajan, 36, of Kurinji Nagar and M. Solaiyappan, 33, of Krishnarajapuram in this connection. The duo told the police that they had brought the tobacco products from north India to be sold here. The police seized a lorry, three cars and a scooter for using the vehicles to smuggle the contraband. Superintendent of Police S Jayakumar, who visited the godown, said the police, who have intensified vehicle check and raids in suspected places to weed out drug abuse, would act tough against those who sell ganja or banned tobacco products. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thoothukudi, Ganesh, Inspector of Police, Thoothukudi North, S. Arul, were present. Meanwhile, the police seized four tonnes of banned tobacco products stocked illegally in a broiler unit at Aththiyooththu near Alangulam in Tenkasi district. The Alangulam police raided the broiler unit, owned by Jayakumar, son of a retired Deputy Superintendent of Police, on Thursday and seized the contraband. The hunt is on to nab Jayakumar. In a similar raid in a godown near Kadayanallur, the police seized two tonnes of banned tobacco products on Thursday.
14 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region witnesses spike with 691 fresh cases, records 13 deaths||The central region on Thursday recorded a sharp increase in COVID-19 cases with 691 patients testing positive on a single day. The region also recorded 13 deaths including four from Perambalur, three from Thanjavur, two each from Tiruchi and Karur and one each from Tiruvarur and Ariyalur districts. Fatalities Men aged 63, 72, 57 and 63 died with co-morbidities of respiratory failure and hypertension died in Pudukottai. In Thanjavur, men aged 82, 58 and 74 died of respiratory failure and comorbid condition of diabetes. A 55-year-old man and a 40-year-old woman from Karur died of COVID-19 pneumonia, while a 47-year-old man from Ariyalur and a 60-year-old woman with co-morbidities, including hypertension, died in Tiruvarur. In Tiruchi, a 75-year-old man and a 70-year-old woman with history of diabetes died. The man also suffered from septic shock. Tiruchi recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases with 161 patients testing positive on Thursday. Pensioners Colony in ward 35, where three cases were reported, Vignesh Apartments in Palayam Bazaar, Thillai Nagar 1st Cross West, Nachiyarpalayam in ward 59 and Vekkaliamman Nagar in ward 60 were barricaded and declared as containment zones. The patients were admitted to Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. In Thanjavur, 154 cases were recorded. Among them were a ward counsellor at Kumbakonam, a sanitary worker and an office staff member of the Kumbakonam municipality. Four workers at shops in Thiruvaiyaru market, a policeman, a staff nurse of Pattukottai Government Hospital and an assistant at the Public Works Department were among those who tested positive. Pudukottai recorded 131 cases, which comprised local primary contacts largely. Some patients were also inter-district travellers, official sources said. Ariyalur recorded 76 cases, a sharp increase, causing the total number of cases reported in the district to increase to 1573. Twenty of the 76 patients hailed from Ariyalur town, while 13 hailed from rural parts of Ariyalur. A total of 361 new throat swabs were lifted from immediate contacts and those with symptoms and have been sent to the lab for testing. A total of 71 patients, including nine healthcare workers, four frontline workers including sanitary workers, 17 patients with symptoms of Influenza Like-Illnesses and 23 primary contacts, tested positive for the viral infection in Nagapattinam. Karur recorded 40 new cases and Tiruvarur 27. Fifty-nine patients were discharged from the Karur Government Medical College Hospital on Thursday. In Perambalur, 31 patients tested positive, among which 12 patients hailed from Perambalur, seven each from Veppur and Alathur and five from Veppanthattai. Meanwhile, 273 new COVID-19 throat swab samples were taken and were sent to the lab for testing, officials said.
14 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Woman from Home goes missing||The police have launched an investigation to trace a 26-year-old woman accommodated in the Mose Ministries Home, after she went missing on Tuesday. The woman had left the home on Tuesday claiming that she was going to church and did not return. On being informed, the District Social Welfare Officer, Thameemunisa, preferred a complaint with the K.K. Nagar police. A woman missing case was registered, police sources said. Ms. Thameemunisa said the woman had been residing at the home, which has been in the news since 2015 for being run without authorisation. “The police have filed a FIR based on the complaint and are on the lookout for the missing woman,” she said.
14 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Home inmate goes missing||Police have launched an investigation to trace a 26-year-old woman inmate of Mose Ministries Home. She left the home on Tuesday morning, saying she was going to a church nearby and did not return. District Social Welfare Officer Thameemunisa preferred a complaint with K.K. Nagar police and a woman missing case was registered. The home has been in the news since 2015 for being run without authorisation. There are 76 other women at the home. As per a court direction, it now functions under a committee with the District Social Welfare Officer as member.
14 August 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Kanniyakumari-Madurai NH takes a toll on road users||The 243-km long four-lane national highway between Kanniyakumari and Madurai has become a death trap for motorists. When national highways are not maintained even after frequent fatal accidents, it is only legal intervention that has compelled the official machinery to ensure safety of motorists by maintaining these express thoroughfares. Only after an advocate took up the matter regarding the Madurai – Tiruchi stretch with the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court, the National Highways Authority of India made it motorable and safe. However, the stretch between Madurai and Kanniyakumari lies neglected though road-users pay hefty toll at four places – Nanguneri, Kayathar, Sattur and Kappalur. The upper layer is damaged in many places on the 243-km-long stretch resulting in constant vibration. Wherever the damage is more, the deep craters result in accidents. “The stretch has not been properly maintained for reasons best known to the officials concerned though heavy toll is being promptly collected from the users. Since, money collected is not being properly utilized, approaching the court for a legal remedy for this problem is inevitable,” says advocate D. A. Prabakar of Palayamkottai, also a consumer welfare protection activist. Another major threat the motorists face is from public who have broken the concrete median in many places so that they can enter the other side of the road on their bikes instead of ‘unnecessarily travelling’ for a distance to take a ‘U’ turn. This has resulted in many fatal accidents. Though contract has been awarded for maintaining the greenery planted along the concrete separator to avoid the headlight glare of oncoming vehicles in the night, poor maintenance has led to the death of many plants. During rainy season, the stretch becomes a death trap as rainwater can be seen stagnating at the beginning and end of the flyover. This had resulted in two major accidents near the Kovaneri bridge near Valliyoor but yet the problem has not been rectified. Project Director, NHAI – Madurai Division, V. Saravanan said Rs. 5,000 crore contract for relaying and maintaining the 500 km stretch up to Kanniyakumari stretch had been awarded to a Singapore-based company in November 2019 and the work should have commenced by April. “Due to the lockdown, the company, which will execute this contract on Toll, Operate and Transfer (TOT) basis, could not mobilize its men and material for the work. So this is only a temporary delay and the work will start soon once the situation improves,” Mr. Saravanan said.
14 August 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK will retain power, says Minister||Information Minister ‘Kadambur’ C Raju on Thursday claimed that the AIADMK will retain power in 2021 on the strength of its performance. He claimed that the fight for the second place would be between the DMK and BJP. “The battle will be only for the second spot and not for coming to power with absolute majority, as the AIADMK will register a resounding victory with people’s backing,” Mr. Raju said after laying the foundation stone for a drinking water distribution project at South Vandaanam near Kayathar. His remarks came in response to BJP vice president V. P. Duraisamy’s claim that the fight in the 2021 elections was going to be between the BJP and DMK. He said only parties that allied with the AIADMK would be placed comfortably and cited the example of the DMDK becoming the principal opposition party in Tamil Nadu in 2011. According to him, the DMK would witness an exodus in the coming days, as predicted by expelled leader M. K. Alagiri, since party functionaries were upset over the dynastic rule.
14 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Disruption in drinking water supply||In view of pipeline work, water supply will be suspended in wards 19, 26 and 27 in Melapalayam zone of Tirunelveli on Saturday, August 14. In a statement, Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan said since one of the major pipelines near Gopalasamudram Bridge got punctured, steps had been taken to replace the 600 mm MS pipe with a new one. As the work will be taken up on Friday, residents living in these wards will not get water on Saturday.
14 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man sentenced to five years imprisonment||Tiruppur District Sub Court on Thursday sentenced a man to five years imprisonment for stabbing a member of Tamil Nadu Special Police Youth Brigade in 2014. Legal sources said K. Kathiresan (37) stabbed Jagadeesh Kumar in front of the Old Bus Terminus when the latter was regulating traffic. On Thursday, Judge Anuradha sentenced five years for each of the three sections of Indian Penal Code and imposed a fine of Rs. 3,000 on Kathiresan. The sentences would run concurrently, sources said.
14 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Horticulture Dept. distributes seed balls to promote organic farming||To promote kitchen gardens and organic farming, the Horticulture Department has begun providing inexpensive seed balls to recreational gardeners across the Nilgiris. The initiative, first started in 2019, has succeeded in getting thousands of people involved in farming and growing vegetables in small plots of land in their homes, said Assistant Director of Horticulture, Nilgiris district, M. Radhakrishnan. In 2019, the department distributed 15,000 seed balls, and it has set a similar target this year, with all the seed balls being dispatched across the district. Mr. Radhakrishnan said that the seed balls contained perennial beans, which are easy to grow in kitchen gardens. “The main goal of this initiative is to encourage people to grow some of their own vegetables organically. When these vegetables are grown in their own houses, people will see the benefits of eating organic vegetables and the demand for such produce will also increase,” he said. The department said that there was a great demand for the seed balls from residents, as each ball costs only Rs. 2. “Many people have small plots of land in which they can cultivate vegetable patches for use in their own homes. These seed balls, as they have all the essential nutrients and manure already packed around them, will grow successfully even in small patches of land,” said an official from the horticulture department. After their resounding success in distributing hybrid banana plants, developed at the tissue culture laboratory in Udhagamandalam, the department also plans to grow and distribute over five lakh saplings this year. Officials said that there was a great demand for the saplings from farmers from surrounding districts.
14 August 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Plea to scrap e-pass system||The Youth Congress committee here has demanded the State Government to scrap the e-pass system. In a meeting that was held under the chairmanship of the east district Congress youth wing president M. K. M. Meenachi Sundaram, the members also demanded transparency in COVID-19 related death reports. The State government should come forward to distribute free Android phones and free internet connectivity to the poor students to facilitate them to participate in online classes, the members said. The district administration should also ensure safety for the health workers involved in COVID-19 duty, a resolution said.
14 August 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Positivity rate comes down in Virudhunagar||Virudhunagar district has recorded an overall of 10% COVID-19 positivity rate after conducting swab tests on 1.62 lakh persons till date. Reviewing preventive measures taken in the district here on Thursday, Minister for Dairy Development K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji said 3,114 fever camps had been conducted so far. While swab tests were conducted on 1.62 lakh persons, 10,626 tested positive. Among them, 9,550 persons had recovered and gone home and 1,432 active cases were under treatment in hospitals. However, the district administration claimed that the positivity rate had come down below 8% in early August and it had further declined to around 5% now. The district has recorded 144 deaths till Thursday.  The Chief Minister had ordered distribution of free face masks to all 5.72 lakh ration card holders. The Minister also handed over cheques of Rs. 25 lakh each to the families frontline workers, head constable V. Ayyanar of Seithur police station and the village assistant of Chinnamooppanpatti who died while taking up COVID-19 preventive measures.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Security tightened in Coimbatore in view of Independence Day||The security cover in Coimbatore district has been stepped up in view of Independence Day, which falls on Saturday. Police presence and surveillance have been ensured at important places, vital installations, places of worship and places with a history of communal tensions. Though Independence Day celebration this year will be a low-key affair due to the COVID-19 pandemic-induced restrictions that are in place, the police are taking the security aspect seriously as intelligence agencies had warned them of possible attacks by religious fundamentalists. Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan instructed police personnel to be on vigil round-the-clock. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) G. Stalin said that more than 2,000 police personnel were on security duty in the city, conducting patrols, vehicle checks and surveillance. Ara Arularasu, Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore District (Rural) Police, reviewed security arrangements in rural parts with senior officials. More than 1,500 police personnel were on security duty in rural parts of the district. As usual, a red alert was sounded at the Coimbatore International Airport a few days ahead of Independence Day. The alert will continue for at least 10 days after August 15, sources said. Around 200 staff from GRP and 100 personnel from the Railway Protection Force were taking care of security cover in railway stations. A. Annadurai, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Government Railway Police (GRP), said that security alert was sounded at all the railway stations in the region. “Track patrols are conducted on the main stretch between Erode and Walayar. The activity is also done up to Pollachi and Udhagamandalam. Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad and dog squad are also engaged in security checks,” he said. Safety norms In Salem, the celebrations will be held following safety norms at Mahatma Gandhi Stadium. According to a release from the district administration, District Collector S.A. Raman will hoist the National Flag and receive guard of honour from police personnel. The Collector will later distribute appreciation certificates to frontline workers and other staff involved in COVID-19 preventive measures. The district administration has advised students and freedom-fighters not to visit the stadium for the event and freedom fighters will be honoured at their residence on the day following all safety measures. The administration has also advised government officials who would be honoured on the day to not bring their family to the venue.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Schools asked to ensure physical distancing during admissions||All schools in Coimbatore district must ensure physical distancing norms during the admissions that commences on Monday, Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer P. Usha has said. School education officials said that admissions for Classes I, VI and IX will begin on Monday as per the directions of the State government. To prevent overcrowding and the consequent spread of COVID-19, Ms. Usha directed all schools to complete the preparatory works such as disinfecting and drawing of circles on floors by Friday. The District Educational Officers and Block Educational Officers will inspect the schools to ensure compliance with the COVID-19 precautionary measures, according to the officials. Upon completion of the admission process, the schools must provide books and notebooks to the students. The schools must provide the transfer certificates to those students in need via the Educational Management Information System (EMIS) portal, the officials noted.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police personnel felicitated in Tiruppur||City Police Commissioner G. Karthikeyan on Thursday felicitated 26 police personnel who were part of four special teams that successfully investigated four cases in July. A release said that the first three special teams were from Velampalayam, Thirumuruganpoondi and Tiruppur Central police stations, each having inspectors, sub-inspectors and constables from the respective stations. These teams investigated a burglary case where gold jewellery weighing 13.5 sovereigns were recovered, an abduction case where a 14-year-old girl was rescued from Dharmapuri district within 24 hours and a murder case where the accused was arrested in Tirunelveli district respectively. The fourth special team comprised 14 personnel from Tiruppur Rural, Veerapandi, Anupparpalayam, Thirumuruganpoondi, Tiruppur South, Tiruppur Central and Cyber Crime. Mr. Karthikeyan presented certificates and cash awards at an event held at the Commissioner's Office. A senior police officer clarified that the police personnel from Tiruppur Central police station did not attend the event as an inspector from the station tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. Inspector honoured A police inspector from the Nilgiris who is among 121 police personnel to have been awarded the ‘Union Home Minister’s Excellence in Investigation’ for 2020, was felicitated by the Nilgiris District Superintendent of Police on Thursday. A. Ponnammal, currently serving as Inspector of Police at the Prohibition Enforcement Wing in the Nilgiris, was among the list of awardees for her work in investigating a case registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act in the All Woman Police Station in Coonoor in 2017.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district sees 289 more cases, seven deaths||Coimbatore reported 289 COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday, taking the district’s tally to 7,884. Of the total cases so far, 5,805 have recovered and 1,923 are under treatment. Seven deaths were reported in the district on Thursday, including two youths aged 28 and 29. The 28-year-old was brought dead to the hospital and his sample tested positive later. In Tiruppur, three patients aged 50, 71 and 78 died of COVID-19. Coimbatore’s new cases were from places including Veerakeralam, Vadavalli, Ellai Thottam, Sowripalayam, Selvapuram, Chokkampudur, Gandhi Ma Nagar, Ramanathapuram, Rathinapuri, Karumathapatti, Karumbukadai, Malumichampatty, Kuniamuthur, Sundakkamuthur, Karumbukadai, Vellakinaru, Chetty Street, Velandipalayam, NGGO Colony, R.S. Puram, K.K. Pudur, Saibaba Colony and Neelikonampalayam. Of the 173 fresh cases in Salem, 166 were indigenous including 96 in the Salem Corporation limits. Seven patients returned from Chennai, Tiruchi, Kallakuruchi and Namakkal. Namakkal district saw 47 persons testing positive, of whom 25 returned from other districts and the remaining were contact cases. Tiruppur district reported 64 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 1,379. The cases were reported from Tiruppur, Palladam, Udumalpet, Avinashi and Dharapuram Blocks. A total of 50 patients were discharged on Thursday. Of the 50 cases in Erode, 16 were contacts of previous cases. Seven returned from Namakkal, Chennai and Coimbatore. In the Nilgiris, seven persons tested positive, taking the district’s tally to 996. With 902 people having recovered, 91 persons were under treatment. With Krishnagiri reporting eight cases, the district’s tally increased to 1,539. In Dharmapuri, 16 persons tested positive, taking the total number to 934.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||GST officials detect fake invoices||The GST officials have detected a case of raising fake invoices without actual supply of goods and claiming GST refund for the same. The officials have taken action against two persons in this regard. Mohammed Sahil from Coimbatore and Kandaswami from Tiruppur, were involved in issuing invoices without actual supply of goods and availing of input tax credit based on the fake invoices. This has been prima facie established based on the documents seized from their premises and also from their statements wherein they have admitted to the same. They had done so with an intention to claim refund fraudulently and also pass on credit to other fake companies. They had registered five fake companies, four in Tiruppur jurisdiction and one in Mumbai. Both were arrested under Section 69 of the CGST Act, 2017 for contravention of Section 132(1)(b), 132(1)(c) of CGST Act, 2017 and have been remanded to police custody on August 13. According to an official press release, based on intelligence and data analytics that fake invoices are being issued without actual supply of goods, the residence of the Mohammed Sahil, alias Sathya, was searched and various incriminating documents were seized. It was found that invoices were issued for around Rs. 50 crore within a month involving a GST amount of Rs. 10 crore (approximately) without actual supply of goods through various fake units floated by the accused. On further investigation of Mohammed Sahil, it was found that the assessee due to business loss had asked for help from a GST consultant Kandaswami. He had, in turn, suggested the idea of floating fake companies for availing of fake credit and taking refund fraudulently from the Government under the GST Act. Both have floated the fake companies under random names and different addresses by providing false credentials and forging documents after which they have raised invoices without actual supply of goods. They had availed of input tax credit with the motive of filing refund and monetising the same. The official and residential premise of the consultant was also searched and similar incriminating documents viz, fake invoices, letterheads, mobile sim cards of numbers used to take registration of the fake units were found and seized. They had also claimed refund of Rs. 2.5 crore, which was not given. The two had taken the help of Saravanan, a Chartered Accountant for filing refund with the GST office which was rejected. Investigations are on in the case.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Probe into ineligible PM-KISAN beneficiaries||The PM-KISAN Nidhi Scheme aims to give Rs. 6,000 a year in three instalments to farmers owning up to two hectares of cultivable land. As many as 1.79 lakh farmers are covered under the scheme in Cuddalore district. The scam came to light after the third instalment of Rs. 2,000 was credited into the bank accounts of beneficiaries recently. Over 30,000 ineligible and bogus persons across the district are suspected to have received the amount necessitating a probe, an official said. Another official said that in Pillayarmedu village in Karaikadu panchayat alone, complaints started pouring in that over 300 ineligible persons, who were not farmers, had received the instalment in their accounts. "The administration swung into action and ordered a probe," he said. Official sources said that a probe had commenced to verify beneficiaries under the scheme, cross check them with the land details available with the department and bank accounts, and weed out ineligible persons from the list. Villupuram An official in the Department of Agriculture in Villupuram district said that as many as 3.15 lakh beneficiaries are covered under the scheme in Villupuram and Kallakurichi districts. "The inclusion of beneficiaries through the online portal has been suspended following complaints over anomalies in the scheme," the official said. A probe has been ordered to weed out bogus persons from the scheme he said, adding that the department would recover the instalment amount if it was found to have been credited to the bank accounts of ineligible persons.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kamala Harris’ nomination brings joy||Residents of Painganadu village near Mannargudi basked in happiness when they learnt that Kamala Harris, the granddaughter of a late resident of the village, has been named by U.S. Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden as his running mate. Kamala was born to Donald Harris, a Jamaican, and Shyamala, daughter of Gopalan of Painganadu in Tiruvarur district. Gopalan, a stenographer with East India Company, was sent to Zambia in 1930 by his employer to enumerate details about refugees who sought asylum there. Shyamala married Harris and settled in the United States. Recalling Gopalan’s occasional visits to the village, Ramani of Thulasendrapuram near Painganadu said the family donated funds for consecration of Dharmasastha Temple in the village in 2014. In a book written by her, Kamala had described her grandfather as her mentor and recalled their conversations conducted through letters and over the phone, said Raghavan of Painganadu. The villagers said they were awaiting the moment when a third generation woman from their soil would be elected as U.S. Vice-President.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 2,000 cured in Pudukottai: Minister||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Thursday said 2,414 patients in the district recovered after being treated in government hospitals. Quality treatment was being provided to patients at Government Ranees Hospital, old Government Headquarters Hospital in Pudukottai Town and government hospitals in Aranthangi and Illupur. Those undergoing treatment at the Siddha treatment centre were also being given quality treatment. Nutritious diet was being provided to them.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman allegedly electrocuted, one held||The district police on Wednesday arrested a man, who is the manager of a private farm near Udumalpet, where a woman was allegedly electrocuted by a solar-powered electric fencing. Lakshmi, 55, was found dead by her family members on Monday at around 6.45 p.m. in the fencing erected around the farm near the check-post at Manupatti village in Udumalpet taluk, the police said. The deceased left her residence to collect neem seeds on Sunday morning and did not return home. She was allegedly electrocuted as she attempted to collect the seeds from a tree inside the private farm through the solar-powered electric fencing, according to the police. Amaravathi police registered a case based on the complaint lodged by the daughter of the deceased on Tuesday. Upon investigation, the police arrested the farm manager Mohan, 64. The accused was booked under sections 285 (Negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter) and 304A (Causing death by negligence) of the IPC. The owner of the farm is staying at Idukki and will be arrested soon, the police said. Udumalpet tahsildar Jeyasingh Sivakumar said that an inquiry on whether the fencing was illegal is under way.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in road accident||Two persons were killed in a collision involving a tanker truck and a mini lorry at Chettipalayam on Salem - Kochi highway in the early hours of Thursday. While the driver and cleaner of the mini lorry were crushed to death, the driver of the tanker escaped with minor injuries. G. Kumaravel (35) from Dhali in Tiruppur, driver of the mini lorry, and V. Yobu (20), cleaner of the mini lorry, were killed in the accident. The police said that the collision took place around 3.30 a.m. Salem native N. Sekar (40) drove the tanker which was heading towards Palakkad. Sekar, who escaped with minor injuries, was admitted to a private hospital. The Chettipalayam police registered a case against him in connection with the accident. The bodies of the deceased were shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for post-mortem.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Public display of Vinayaka idols prohibited||The Karaikal district administration has prohibited display of idols at public places during Vinayagar Chathurti celebrations. Idols must not be placed at any place with the intent of attracting public view or gathering, and no public procession involving gathering of people will be allowed, Collector Arjun Sharma has said in a press release. Religious congregation/assembly is strictly prohibited. No new idols will be permitted to be set up within the temple premises. Erection of shamianas and placing of idols in front of both public and private temples has been prohibited. The Executive Officer (Temples), Karaikal, will form teams to supervise adherence to the guidelines, the release said. Also, distribution of prasadam in temples has been strictly prohibited. No cultural events or special programmes are allowed to be conducted as part of the celebrations. The Public Works Department, municipalities and police and sub-divisional magistrates have been instructed not to issue no-objection certificates for such public events, according to the press release.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mettur receives 15,000 cusecs inflow||The inflow into Mettur dam was 15,000 cusecs on Thursday morning. According to Public Works Department officials, the water level at the dam stood at 97.42ft against the total scale of 120 ft. The inflow to the dam was 15,000 cusecs and outflow to Cauvery river was maintained at 10,000 cusecs of water. The inflow at Biligundalu was 18,000 cusecs. The inflow reduced to 11,000 cusecs on Wednesday night and the inflow at Biligundalu was 14,000 cusecs. The water level at the dam was 97.31ft and the stored capacity was 61,410 mcft. According to officials, the dam has received over 33 tmc of water in the past one week.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corpn. gears up to face monsoon||The corporation has geared up to mitigate the impact of monsoon by clearing blockades to ensure free flow of flood water. Recently rains have led to overflowing of drainage channels in the city causing hardship to residents and the road users. As part of its monsoon preparedness, the civic body had begun desilting Pallapatti canal. As part of anti-dengue measures, workers removed tyres dumped along the road in the city.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DMK dismisses MLA Selvam from party||This is being seen as an obvious attempt to prevent attraction of disqualification from the Assembly under the anti-defection law. Asked about the status of Mr. Selvam in the Assembly since he has been expelled from the DMK, Assembly sources said a decision would be taken by the Speaker after getting intimation from the DMK leadership. "It is for the Speaker to decide," the sources said when asked whether Mr. Selvam would be treated as an "unattached member" in the House.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till August 13   Persons tested +ve so far: 7,884 Indigenous cases: 7,846 Imported cases: 38 Active cases: 1,923 Persons recovered: 5,805 Deaths: 156    Persons tested +ve so far: 1,379 Persons recovered: 896 Active cases: 446 Deaths: 37
14 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Police stop farmers from laying siege to Ramesh Jarkiholi’s house||The police stopped members of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene who tried to lay a siege to district in-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi’s home in Gokak, by breaking through police barricades on Thursday. The farmers were protesting against amendments to the APMC Act and the Karnataka Land Reforms Act. They said that these measures would completely privatise farming and farm markets and reduce independent farmers into working for large corporations. They also demanded that the criminal cases filed against farmers by the successive governments be withdrawn. A group of farmers gathered on the road in front of the Jarkiholi residence and began marching to his house. The Town Police, who knew about the protest, had erected barricades on the road at a distance from the main gate of the house. The farmers got into an argument with the police at the spot, stating that they would hold a peaceful protest in front of the Minister’s house. They raised slogans accusing the government of enforcing anti-farmer rules and policies. They tried to push down the barricades and jump over them to reach the Minister’s house. However, the police stopped them half way. And, instead, the police allowed the farmers to hold a protest rally on the road. Leaders Choonappa Pujari and Basavaraj Patil addressed the protesters. They urged the government to withdraw the Ordinances amending the APMC Act and the Land Reforms Act.
14 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Outflow from Almatti dam increased||Irrigation officials have increased outflow from the Lal Bahadur Shastri reservoir in Almatti to reduce flooding in the Krishna basin. Outflow from the reservoir on the Krishna rose to 1.26 lakh cusecs against the inflow of around 1.26 lakh cusecs. The balance would ensure that the reservoir does not impound any more water than the current levels of 116.34 tmcft of water at a height of 519.2 metres. The “zero impounding” technique would be abandoned if the inflow drops to more than half the current levels, an irrigation officer said. The maximum storage in the dam is 123 tmcft at a height of 519.6 m. Rainfall has abated in most places, and in Khanapur taluk, it has subsided reducing inflow into most reservoirs. However, rainfall in some south Maharashtra districts led to water release into the Krishna and its tributaries. Water release from Maharashtra stood at the rate of 98,000 cusecs, nearly half of the release in the first week of August. Inflow into the Hidkal dam forced officers to release around 10,000 cusecs into the Ghataprabha by opening all 10 gates. The dam now has 29 tmcft of water against its gross capacity of 37.3 tmcft.
14 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||140 patients discharged||As many as 140 persons were discharged from the district designated COVID-19 hospital here on Thursday. COVID-19 tests revealed 288 fresh cases on Thursday. This takes the number of active cases to 3,599. Of the confirmed 6,640 positive cases, 113 have died of COVID-19 related causes. Test results of 281 are awaited.
14 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||HESCOM office sealed||A branch office of HESCOM near the railway station was sealed after two employees tested positive for COVID-19 in Belagavi on Thursday. The office will re-open on Monday, after sanitisation of the premises, said a release.
14 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 cases cross 2 lakh mark in State||With a total of 6,706 new COVID-19 positive cases reported in Karnataka on Thursday, the total number cases detected in Karnataka has crossed the 2 lakh mark. As of Thursday, as many as 2,03,200 COVID-19 cases are reported in the State. Karnataka recorded its first COVID-19 case on March 8 and breached the one lakh mark on July 27. Increased testing It took four-and-a-half months for the first one lakh cases to be detected from March 8 to July 27. However, in just 17 days, the number of cases increased from 1 lakh to 2 lakh. Sources in the Department of Health and Family Welfare attributed the rise in number of cases to increased testing. Nodal officer for COVID-19 testing in the State C.N. Manjunath attributed the rise in number of cases to increased testing. He said the focus should be on detecting more positive cases and reducing fatalities. On Thursday, the highest number of tests – 55,999 – in a single day were performed. Of these, 27,296 were rapid antigen tests. Of the 2.03,200 cases recorded so far, 1,21,242 patients have recovered, taking the recovery rate in the State to 59%. According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare’s media bulletin, as many as 8,609 patients were discharged on Thursday. This is the highest number of recoveries in a single day. Total toll Meanwhile, 103 new COVID-19 deaths were reported on Thursday, taking the total toll to 3,613. Of the total 78,337 active cases in Karnataka, 727 patients are in intensive care units. Of the 6,706 cases reported on Thursday, 1,893 were in Bengaluru. Eight other districts in the State have reported more than 200 new positive cases.  As many as 55,999 tests, the highest number in a single day, were performed on Thursday.
14 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Volatile political dynamics played a part in D.J. Halli riots?||The rioting that broke out at D.J. Halli in east Bengaluru over a derogatory post against Islam, which left three killed in police firing on Tuesday night, seems to have more political than communal undertones, say police officials, local residents, and political activists. “Those who were rioting and those standing with the police trying to pacify the mob were both Muslims. Some volunteers even formed a human chain around a temple to ensure it is not attacked,” pointed out a senior police official. Multiple people argued that the violence was “both spontaneous and organised” in the sense that while the anger against the post was spontaneous, it was harvested to political ends, especially in the backdrop of the impending civic polls. The adjoining Assembly constituencies of Sarvajnanagar, Pulikeshinagar, and Shivajinagar have large concentrations of minority communities, mostly poor. With all three segments represented by Congress, the area is largely represented by the party in BBMP Council as well. However, the political dynamics have been volatile in recent years. Pulikeshinagar MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy, whose house was gutted in the violence, had won from JD(S) in 2013 but later defected to Congress. R. Roshan Baig, former MLA for Shivajinagar, now suspended from Congress, once had an iron grip over the minority vote in the region. Rizwan Arshad is now the MLA for Shivajinagar and B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan, MLA for Chamarajpet, has made inroads into the Muslim community in this belt as well. “A political leader who has lost power in the region also seems to be making a comeback bid and fishing in troubled waters,” said a senior police official. In the mix is the Social Democratic Party of India (whom Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said had a role in rioting), which is fast emerging as a player with a strong cadre in this area. “With Muslims being disillusioned with Congress, people have begun to slowly come to us with grievances. Our style of assertive and committed leadership for the community’s interests has attracted people,” said Ilyas Mohammed Tumbe, State president, SDPI. He denied their involvement in violence, arguing that their local leader Muzammil Pasha (now a prime accused and arrested) had taken the lead in lodging a complaint against the post but had tried to pacify people once violence broke out. He alleged that the violence was a deliberate effort to drive a wedge between Muslims and Dalits. “There is a contest for the minority vote in the region, as to who represents the interests of the community better. With the recent Citizenship Amendment Act and Ram Mandir bhoomi pujan, there is an angst in the community that is being manipulated by some radical elements, making liberal secular leadership less attractive to a section. The derogatory post was an opportunity that has been misused,” argued one Congress MLA. He claimed there was a “motivated campaign” to suggest the party did not stand by the community. A division of minority votes will only help BJP make inroads into the area, he pointed out. A resident of Kaval Byrasandra, who wished to remain anonymous, said everyone in the area knew that the MLA and his sister, whose son made the derogatory post, were estranged for nearly a decade. “Despite this, the MLA’s house being torched suggests a conspiracy to instigate the minority community against the MLA,” he said. “The riots on Tuesday night were a direct fallout of the fast changing political dynamics of this belt. It is likely to remain volatile and the poor residents vulnerable to manipulation till the situation stabilises,” said a senior police official.
14 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||T rain to airport from city railway station on the anvil; fare Rs. 30||If all goes as planned, air passengers and employees working at the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) will soon be able to travel from Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna City Railway Station to the airport. What’s more, the ticket will be priced at just Rs. 30. South Western Railways (SWR) is planning to introduce express train services to KIA, once the Central government allows resumption of services. Ongoing construction work of the halt station on the boundary of the airport is likely to be completed by September. E. Vijaya, Chief PRO of SWR, told The Hindu that the service to the airport will be prioritised once operations are allowed to resume. “There is a plan to introduce an express train service from Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna station to the airport during peak hours. The timings will be finalised after consulting with Bangalore International Airport Limited.” Time and money saved The express train will be operated via Yeshwantpur and the travel time will be around 30 to 35 minutes. The distance between Majestic and KIA is around 35 km. This will come as a relief to commuters. During peak hours it takes more than an hour to reach the airport by road, and people are saddled with a huge fare at the end of the journey. Currently, a passenger wishing to travel to KIA from Majestic has to pay as much as Rs. 235 for a ticket on BMTC’s Vayu Vajra. Operating a train service to the airport has been a long-pending demand. For over a decade, a majority of air passengers and employees have been relying on taxi and private modes of transport to travel to the airport. After persistent demands, the authorities decided to build the halt station on Yelahanka–Kolar section. Hundreds of people in Bengaluru Rural and Kolar districts, who commute to the airport campus every day, will benefit. Yelahanka to KIA for Rs. 10 Ms. Vijaya said already six scheduled trains from Yelahanka to Kolar will have a stop at the new halt station. It will cost only Rs. 10 to travel from Yelahanka to KIA once the services become operational. The new halt station is located between Devanahalli and Dodajala stations. “Work is likely to be completed by September 20. BIAL is building the station at a cost of Rs. 3 crore, and it will have all the basic amenities,” she said. BIAL has agreed to provide a shuttle service for the air passengers from the station to the airport and it will take eight minutes to reach the airport terminal from the point. “The service is also expected to help a large number of employees working inside the airport campus that include in cargo and other sectors,” said Ms. Vijaya.
14 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||FIR says police fired in self-defence as mob was intent on ‘killing’ them||The FIR filed by the D.J. Halli police for the riots that broke out on Tuesday night, where police inspector Keshava Murthy is himself the complainant, alleges that those who had gathered outside the police station raised slogans that they would kill policemen, even as they pelted stones at the police station. The FIR quotes Mr. Murthy as saying that some of them even “snatched a firearm from the reserve policemen” and he had to fire warning shots in the air when the mob did not disperse. When persons in the mob “tried to kill policemen” using the firearms snatched from the police personnel, they resorted to firing in self-defence. Teams formed Three special teams have been formed to analyse footage from various sources — CCTV, police recordings and media footage —to identify the miscreants and track them down. Several others from the area, apart from those arrested, have also been questioned. The city police deployed Rapid Action Force, which took out a flag march in the violence-hit areas on Thursday, even as prohibitory orders are still in force. Meanwhile, the arrests of those alleged to have been involved in the riots have continued. According to police sources, the number of people arrested has crossed 180. Meanwhile, Pulikeshinagar MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy, whose house was vandalised and set ablaze in the riots on Tuesday night, visited the spot with his family on Thursday morning. Mr. Murthy broke down down saying: “I don’t know what wrong I have done for my house to be burnt down. I don’t think my voters will do this to me. I want the government to provide my family and me protection and conduct a thorough investigation by either CCB or CBI.” He refused to comment on his nephew, whose derogatory post triggered the riots.  I don’t know what wrong I have done for my house to be burnt down. I don’t think my voters will do this to me. I want the government to provide my family and me protection and conduct a thorough investigation by either the CCB or CBI. R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy  Pulikeshinagar MLA
14 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||This year, Independence Day celebrations will be low-key||In the backdrop of the pandemic, the government on Thursday held a dress rehearsal for low-key Independence Day celebrations on August 15. The pared down ceremony at Field Marshal Manekshaw Parade Ground will have no cultural programme or aerial flower shower. Instead, 75 corona warriors and 25 citizens, who recovered from COVID-19, will feature as special invitees. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will hoist the flag at 9 a.m. on Saturday. “He will address the people of Karnataka followed by the National Anthem, Nada Geethe, and Raita Geethe. The whole programme will get over in around 45 minutes,” said N. Manjunath Prasad, Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) after the dress rehearsal. The stretch between B.R.V. junction and Kamaraj Road junction on Cubbon Road would be blocked from 8.30 to 10.30 a.m. on Saturday. Personnel from Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP), Karnataka Industrial Security Force (KISF), Border Security Force (BSF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), civil police, traffic police, women police and mounted police personnel will be part of the parade along with four bands. However, there will be no parade inspection by the Chief Minister. To ensure adequate social distancing, the guest list has been limited to 500 invitees, including senior officials, defence personnel, elected representatives and corona warriors. The celebrations will be held amidst tight security. “Around 680 police personnel, including 9 DCPs, 14 ACPs and 31 inspectors will be deployed,” said Police Commissioner Kamal Pant. One Garud Commando Force unit, 10 KSRP platoons and 10 KSRP battalions will be at the venue. Security across the city has been stepped up.
14 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||VTU final semester exam, COMED-K to go on as HC declines to interfere||Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) can go ahead with the 8th semester examination for engineering courses as per schedule from August 24 by following guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC), as the Karnataka High Court on Thursday did not interfere in the varsity’s decision to hold the exam. However, the court directed the State government to designate an officer to redress the grievances of students who will be coming to Karnataka from other States to appear for the exam and resolve their difficulties in coordination with the VTU Registrar. Justice S. Sunil Dutt Yadav passed the order while hearing a petition filed by some engineering students who questioned the conduct of exam in the present COVID-19 situation. The students had sought a direction to the varsity to hold exam online. As the VTU said that it is contemplating to give special chance to students who can’t write exam in view of the pandemic, the court asked the varsity to explore the possibility of holding “special chance exams” in online mode, in addition to offline mode after consulting experts, students and other stakeholders. While directing the university to take all measures to protect the interests of students appearing for the exam, including those under quarantine, as per SOP, the court adjourned further hearing till September 25, while directing the VTU to submit a time-frame to conduct “special chance exams”. COMED-K on Aug. 19, 20 Meanwhile, a Division Bench declined to interfere with the conduct of COMED-K entrance test to be held on August 19 and 20 for selecting candidates for medical and engineering courses under management quota seats in private colleges in the State. Taking note of the orders passed by the court on petitions related to conduct of SSLC and Common Entrance Test-Karnataka, the Bench asked the Consortium of Medical, Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka (COMED-K) to take all measures to protect the safety of students appearing for the test.
14 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC seeks NIMHANS response on union’s plaint||The High Court Karnataka on Thursday asked the National Institution of Mental Health and Nuero Sciences to clarify whether all labourers engaged in sanitary work have been provided with N-95 masks. Also, the court directed BMCRI, which manages the affairs of Victoria Hospital, to respond to the complaints about non-payment of wages to housekeeping staff appointed on contract basis and non-supply of PPE kits to them. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition filed by All-India Central Council of Trade Unions.
14 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rajnath Singh inaugurates Skill Development Centre||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday virtually inaugurated the HAL-IISc. Skill Development Centre on the IISc. campus in Challakere in Chitradurga. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Singh said a skilled workforce is a basic necessity for innovation and creativity. The SDC is a sound example of synergistic collaboration between the country’s flagship aerospace giant and the premier academia. Chairman and Managing Director of HAL R. Madhavan said the SDC will impart skills to various beneficiaries ranging from local community members to high-end engineering professionals to usher true “Make in India.” G. Rangarajan, Director, IISc., said the goal of the SDC was to create a large pool of trained personnel to address vital skill development gaps in India. On Wednesday, two Light Combat Helicopters (LCH) produced by HAL were deployed for operations at high altitude (Leh sector) at short notice to support IAF missions. “It is the lightest attack helicopter in the world designed and developed by HAL to meet the specific and unique requirements of Indian Armed Forces reflecting the crucial role of HAL in Atmanirbhar Bharat,” said Mr Madhavan.
14 August 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||129 new COVID-19 cases||As many as 129 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Hassan on Thursday. So far, 2,190 have been discharged and 1,807 are undergoing treatment. As many as 502 people were discharged on Thursday. Among the active cases, 52 are in the intensive care unit. As on Thursday, 118 people have died of the total 4,115 people infected.
14 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Farmers opposing land reforms changes to stage protest on Independence Day||Terming the recent amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act as a deathblow to the farming community, Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha and Hasiru Sene have decided to stage a State-wide agitation on Independence Day. Addressing a press conference here on Thursday, presidents of the district units of Belagavi and Dharwad Basavaraj Bijjur and Raviraj Kambali, respectively, and other office-bearers condemned the amendment in strong words. “By permitting people other than farmers to buy farmland, the farmers have been cheated,” they said. Mr. Bijjur said that under the earlier Land Reforms Act the farming community had protection as people other than farmers were barred from purchasing farmland. “The Act prohibited purchase of farmland by people other than farmers. It also had restrictions on those with higher income purchasing farmland and provision for punishment for people who purchased land on fake certificates and declarations. It also had barred transfer of farmland to those other than farmers. But all these have now become useless due to the recent amendments,” he said. He said that the amendments were nothing but a ploy to allow multinational and corporate companies to purchase fertile land from small and marginal farmers by offering them more money and subsequently, pushing the farmers to the streets. Mr. Kambali said that KRRS and Hasiru Sene would urge the government to immediately withdraw the amendments. He said that on August 15, KRRS would observe Farmer Martyrs Day at Alagavadi village in Navalgund taluk of Dharwad district and after the flag-hoisting and Independence Day celebrations, they would stage a protest seeking fulfilment of their demands. Their demands include farmers loan waiver in nationalised banks, withdrawal of amendments to APMC Act, pension for farmers aged over 60, hike in assistance under Kisan Samman Yojna to Rs. 15,000.
14 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Speedy justice for families of two rape victims promised||In the wake of two ghastly incidents of rape of minor girls in Dharwad, the chairperson of Karnataka State Commission for Women R. Prameela Naidu visited the houses of the families of the victims on Thursday and consoled the family members. In Bogur village, where a minor ended her life after being raped, Ms. Naidu spoke to the girl’s mother and father and assured them of ensuring speedy justice to them. The girl’s mother appealed to Ms. Naidu to ensure that strict punishment was given to the accused. Speaking to presspersons, Ms. Naidu said that the commission and the State government would stand with the families of the girls of Bogur village and Madanabhavi village who were victims of heinous crimes. “We are with the families of the victims and will provide them all necessary legal help. We will also take steps to boost their morale by providing them counselling,” she said. Ms. Naidu also appealed to the families of the victims not to lose hope as they would stand by them till the case met its logical end. Security Superintendent of Police Vartika Katiyar said that the police would provide adequate security to the families of the victims. She said that while the accused in the Bogur case had been arrested, one person had been arrested in connection with the Madanabhavi incident. Steps were on to arrest the others involved in the case, she said. Cheque Ms. Naidu handed over a cheque of Rs. 10,000 towards emergency expenses to the parents of the Bogur girl. The former MLA Seema Masuti, Deputy Director of Women and Child Development Bharati Shettar, Deputy Superintendent of Police Ravi Naik and others accompanied Ms. Naidu. It may be recalled that the Bogur crime was reported on July 30 and the next day, the Class VIII student took the extreme step. The accused in this case who was identified as Basheer Gadadnavar is from the same village.
14 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Severe action sought against accused in Bogur rape and Madanabhavi rape-murder cases||Various organisations have demanded severe action against the accused in the rape of minor girls in Dharwad district, while Congress members staged a demonstration seeking capital punishment for the accused in both the cases. Led by presidents of the Dharwad rural and urban district units of the Congress Anil Kumar Patil and Altaf Hallur, respectively, and other office-bearers, and Zilla Panchayat president Vijayalakshmi Patil, Shanthamma Gujjal and Deepa Gouri, the Congress workers, including several women, staged a demonstration in front of the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad on Thursday. The protestors said that while in Bogur village, the minor girl ended her life after being raped, in Madanabhavi village, the accused had raped and murdered the minor girl. Terming both as heinous crimes, the protestors sought capital punishment for the accused men in both the cases. The protestors alleged that it was because of the failure of law and order that such crimes had occurred. They also sought action against the Police Sub-Inspector of Garag Police Station, who, they alleged, had declined initially to register the complaint given by the father of the Madanabhavi girl who had been raped and killed. Submitting a memorandum addressed to the Chief Minister, the protestors sought immediate compensation to the families of the victims and also speedy justice to the families. Meanwhile, members of the Association of Protection of Civil Rights, Dharwad, and Jamat-e-Hind, Dharwad, jointly submitted a memorandum to the Chief Minister through the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad on Thursday strongly condemning the crimes. Both the organisations also sought the administration to act against individuals and organisations that were trying to give communal colour to the crimes and use them for political gains. They demanded capital punishment for the accused within six months and also action against those trying to misuse the incident for their benefits. All India Mahila Samskrutika Sanghatane, All India Democratic Youth Organisation, Raita Krishi Karmikara Sanghatane and other organisations too condemned the incidents and sought impartial investigation and punishment to all those involved in the crime.
14 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||MP slams officials for lethargic approach||Member of Parliament Umesh Jadhav has expressed unhappiness over the delay by officials of the Public Works Department in releasing the department’s share for the construction of railway underbridge near Kulaki in Afzalpur taluk in Kalaburagi district. Chairing a District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (DISHA) review meeting in Kalaburagi on Thursday, Mr. Jadhav slammed the department officials for their lethargic approach in releasing Rs. 15.67 lakh, 2 % share, for the construction of the underbridge. Though the Centre has released Rs. 7.84 crore for the construction work, the department has failed to release its share. The Assistant Engineer of the department of Afzalpur Division was asked to submit the details of funds released through the department for the project immediately. Mr. Jadhav and MLA and Chairman of the Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB) Dattatreya Patil Revoor also expressed dissatisfaction over the slow pace of work on the railway overbridge near Biddapur Colony on the outskirts of the city. When the officials of the Public Works Department and the Railways failed to give specific reason for the delay, it was confirmed that the lack of cooperation and coordination between both the departments has hindered the pace of work. The officials said that the much-awaited railway overbridge near Jewargi Road would be completed by the end of September or in the month of October.  RT-PCR lab Mr. Jadhav criticised the Central University of Karnataka for delay in setting up a RT-PCR test laboratory at the university even after the equipment was made available. “The Centre sanctioned Rs. 32 lakh to the university in February; even after four months, the university has not established the laboratory. It would have helped the district administration to screen likely COVID-19 cases in Aland and Kalaburagi taluk if the university had informed about the availability of laboratory equipment earlier,” Mr. Jadhav added. He instructed university Pro-Vice-Chancellor G.R. Naik to keep the district administration updated of the activities being taken up at the university and also update the letters received from the Ministry of Human Resources Department.  Night-landing facility To a query, Kalaburagi Airport Director Gyaneshwar Rao said that the airport is fit in all respects for night-landing of flights. The airport would start the facility by July 2021, he added. Zilla panchayat Chief Executive Officer P. Raja received appreciation for effective implementation of MGNREGA Scheme, by issuing 40,000 job cards to daily wage workers during COVID-19.
14 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Writer Gavish Hiremath passes away||Writer and theatre person Gavish Hiremath (74), who was suffering from kidney-related ailments, died at a hospital in Bengaluru on Thursday. He is survived by his mother, wife, son, brothers and sisters. Family sources said that his last rites would be carried out at his native village of Bisarahalli in Koppal district. Mr. Hiremath began his professional career in the Department of Library in Dharwad and later moved to Kalaburagi in 1970 to serve in Gulbarga University’s library wing till his retirement in 2004.
14 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Vehicular movement banned on Huvinadagi, Sheelahalli bridges||Raichur Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar has directed officials to prohibit vehicular movement on Huvinadagi and Sheelahalli bridges as they will submerge once the water level in the Krishna increases owing to heavy discharge from Basavasagar reservoir in Narayanpur in Yadgir district. He was addressing a preliminary meeting here on Thursday with the NDRF team, police and other department officials to discuss how to tackle the flood situation in the district. Mr. Kumar pointed out that Huvinadagi bridge and Sheelahalli bridge will submerge if 2.25 lakh cusecs and 1.5 lakh cusecs was released from the reservoir. The Huvinadagi bridge, which was constructed across the Krishna near Huvinadagi-Kollur villages, connects Raichur district with Yadgir and Kalaburagi and Sheelahalli bridge connects Hanchinal village with five villages in Lingsugur taluk. The road connectivity through both Huvinadagi and Sheelahalli has been cut off and traffic movement diverted through alternate routes. Recalling the 2009 floods, the Deputy Commissioner said that the NDRF team rescued stranded people during the floods and now, they have already arrived to help people. Superintendent of Police Prakash Nikam said that the district will face floods when the Krishna and Bhima are swollen after heavy water discharge. Officials should have communication with the NDRF team continuously for rescue operations. Inspector of NDRF Diwakar Singh also spoke and asked officials to provide information about the places which are facing the threat of floods.
14 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||264 more test positive||As many as 264 persons tested positive for COVID-19 and 420 patients were discharged in Raichur and Yadgir districts on Thursday. Of the 264, 181 are from Raichur taking the number of positive cases to 4,531. In Yadgir, with the 83 fresh cases, the number of positive cases touched 3,421.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||38,896 international passengers used KIA between April and July||Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) handled 174 evacuation flights and 186 ‘Vande Bharat Mission flights’ between April and July. During the period, 38,896 international passengers (14,857 passengers from India to various destinations abroad and 24,039 arrivals to India) transited the airport. A release states that the highest number of evacuation flights (87) were operated in July. Flights were also operated to 11 new cities, including Auckland, Baku (Azerbaijan), Baghdad, Cairo, Incheon, Rome and Stockholm. The airport handled 71,406 metric tonnes (MT) of cargo, including 6,194 MT of perishables and 2,300 MT of pharmaceutical supplies during this period. “Several airlines commenced ‘cargo-only’ flights using passenger aircraft to bolster depressed global airfreight capacity and drive a spike in cargo demand. About 40% percent of BLR airport’s cargo during the period was transported by passenger flights ferrying cargo,” states the release. The airport also handled ‘Live Human Organs’ shipment during the COVID-19 lockdown. The release states that Lufthansa Cargo carried the shipment, which included human blood stem cells and bone marrow to Bengaluru from Frankfurt in Germany on May 1, and a similar package was exported back to the same destination on May 16.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CfB against public meet on PRR on August 18||Citizens for Bengaluru (CfB) wants the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) to scrap the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) and public consultation for the Peripheral Ring Road (PRR) on August 18, and present a new scheme for public review with a change in the alignment, as mandated by the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act. CfB said PRR has been proposed without due process and proper public consultation. “This is a project costing over Rs. 15,000 crore, 33,000 trees face the axe, is 65 km long, covers water bodies, catchment areas and reserved forests,” the release said. The initial EIA report was deemed erroneous and rejected by the National Green Tribunal, as the BDA had claimed that only 200 trees were to be axed. “At the same time, the Horticulture and Forest Department submitted to the NGT that 16,685 trees would have to be felled. Despite BDA’s protestations, the Supreme Court ruled that a fresh and accurate EIA be prepared, which brought to light that over 33,000 trees would be felled,” CfB has said. CfB wants the BDA to change the alignment and render it a new project as per the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act. “The current EIA is null and void. It cannot be used to evaluate the new project,” the release said. It has also criticised the decision to hold a public consultation in the midst of a pandemic.
14 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||72 fresh cases in Alappuzha||The district registered 72 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday. The fresh cases include 59 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, five Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel at the Nooranad unit and four persons each who came from abroad and other States. Of the total contact cases, at least 16 were reported from Thumpoly, 10 from Alappuzha and nine from Cherthala. Containment zones Wards 5 and 10 in Perumbalam, wards 2 and 9 in Thiruvanvandoor, ward 8 in Kanjikuzhy, ward 9 in Thanneermukkom and ward 8 in Punnapra North grama panchayat and ward 36 (western side of national highway) in Kayamkulam and ward 43 in Alappuzha municipality were designated containment zones. Meanwhile, 70 people who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 tested negative. The number of active cases in the district stands at 1,234 cases.  70 people who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 test negative
14 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Mild tremors in Chengannur||Mild tremors were felt in parts of Thiruvanvandoor grama panchayat in Chengannur on Thursday. According to officials, tremors occurred in wards 4 and 12 in the panchayat around 11.50 a.m. A few houses in the region developed cracks, said an official.
14 August 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Missing man found dead||A 20-year-old youth, who went missing from his home, was found dead in a tank adjoining the Koyyode Chembilode Juma masjid mosque on Thursday. The deceased identified as Habibi, son of Shihab, a resident of Chembilode went missing from his home since 10.30 p.m. on Tuesday. He could not be found despite a search. Following this, a case was registered at the Chakarakal police station. The body was sent for post mortem after the inquest.
14 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||West Kochi situation still grim||The increasing spread of COVID-19 in West Kochi remains a concern as the district administration on Thursday decided to strengthen curbs while urging people in the region to cooperate with the authorities in ensuring containment measures. Nearly 375 persons in West Kochi have been infected till Thursday. It was 356 till Wednesday. The density of persons tested positive is higher in wards 2, 3, 5, 20, 23 and 26. In ward 2 alone, the number of affected persons is 90. The number of positive cases in West Kochi is higher compared to Chellanam, according to official estimates. V.S. Sunil Kumar, Minister for Agriculture, said that stringent containment measures would be in place in West Kochi. Shops selling essential items would be permitted to function in containment zones. “We have been receiving requests from certain quarters for opening all the other shops. This cannot be allowed,” he said. The authorities said that the situation in Nellikuzhi panchayat in Kothamangalam remained critical while the situation in Aluva had improved considerably owing to the stringent restrictions imposed in the affected wards. They said that testing process in West Kochi had been stepped up. About 4,000 tests were conducted in West Kochi alone as on Thursday morning. The number of tests would be increased to 6,000 in the district. Over 100 cases As many as 115 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Thursday. Of this, 113 got infected through contact. Those tested positive belonged to Aayavana, Edakochi, Kizhakkambalam, Kunnathunad, Kottapadi, Kottuvalli, Chellanam, Thammanam, Thirvuankulam, Thiruvaniyoor, Thrikkakara, Pattimattom, Puthrika, Fort Kochi, Mattancherry, Muzhavannur, Vaduthala, Vazhakulam, Vennala, Kumbalam, Vengola and Vadavucode. A 73-year-old native of Thaikattukara in Aluva who was admitted at Govt. Medical College, Ernakulam, after being tested positive died on Thursday. His swab sample was sent to NIV, Alappuzha, to confirm that the death occurred due to COVID-19. Seven persons continued to remain critical in the intensive care unit of the hospital, according to an official release.
14 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Demand for link road to metro’s terminal station in Thripunithura||Road connectivity must be established from Hill Palace Road for the Kochi metro which is slated to be extended from SN Junction to near the Thripunithura railway station, the Thripunithura Rajanaragi Union of Residents' Associations (TRURA) has demanded. This could be done if a 250-metre-long road was built from the southern side of the Thripunithura railway overbridge, up to the metro’s terminal station that has been proposed on the south-western side of the railway station. This road was crucial to ensure patronage for the metro from people living in places such as Thalayolaparambu, Chottanikkara, Piravom, and Muvattupuzha. In the absence of such a road, they would have to travel all the way up to SN Junction, where parking space would be minimal, said V.P. Prasad, chairman of TRURA. Already, the KMRL had planned a 16-m-wide road from SN Junction to the metro’s terminal station. All that was needed is to extend this to Hill Palace Road, thus hewing out a road parallel to SN Junction-East Fort Junction Road. This would in turn decongest the bottlenecked SN Junction and East Fort Junction. The other alternative for commuters from Hill Palace Road to reach the metro station would be through the access road to the railway station. The Railway has placed a boom barrier to regulate movement of vehicles through this stretch that it owns. Getting the Railway's permission to open the road for commuters of other modes might be tough. Moreover, the two-lane road would be insufficient to cater to commuters of both trains which halt and the station and metro-rail commuters, he said. The TRURA has submitted a memorandum in this regard to KMRL, the Chief Minister, the Minister for Public Works G Sudhakaran, and M. Swaraj, Thripunithura MLA. The president of the Railway Station Road Residents’ Association, P.M. Boban, spoke of how a road from Hill Palace Road could be realised easily since the area was largely marshy and has only a couple of buildings. Sources in the KMRL said that it was too early to comment on the demand raised by TRURA. This had not been discussed officially. “We are getting many suggestions regarding extension of the metro beyond SN Junction and allied matters,” they said. In the meantime, the metro agency is in the process of laying survey stones to demarcate the extent of land needed for the proposed viaduct. “The process picked up pace three weeks ago,” said Jayan, a land owner residing on the stretch.
14 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Major accident averted as lorry catches fire||Timely intervention by Fire and Rescue Services personnel averted what could have been an inferno as a lorry that was carrying empty LPG cylinders caught fire at Neerpara, near Arayankavu, on the Ernakulam-Kottayam border. The entire driver cabin and engine compartment of the lorry were gutted. The fire is said to have been triggered by a short circuit in the lorry’s electrical network. “We received a call about the fire at 10.15 a.m. and we reached the site at 10.30 a.m. We had carried adequate amount of foam since even empty LPG cylinders could blast if continuous contact is made with fire. Our personnel led by Assistant Station Officer K.K. Surendran tried their level best to prevent the fire from spreading to the cylinders and the lorry’s diesel tank. They succeeded and the fire was brought under control in another 35 minutes,” said sources at the Fire and Rescue Station, Mulanthuruthy. The lorry driver parked the vehicle on to the side of the road, near Assisi Mount School, on coming to know of the fire and hearing unusual sounds from the engine. The incident caused an hour-long traffic hold-up on the Ernakulam-Thalayolaparambu Road. Personnel from Mulanthuruthy, Vaikom and Thripunithura stations were sent to the spot since most personnel of Kaduthuruthy station, which is closer, were in quarantine.
14 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Four women, minor girl held on theft charge||The Central police have arrested four women and a minor girl who allegedly broke into a closed five star hotel near South railway station and stole appliances, including television, and utensils. The arrested were identified as Jyothi Raghavan, 25, Mithra Jaswin, 21, Ammu Vinod, 20, and Selphy Suresh, 20. All were residents of Coimbatore. The accused broke into the hotel that was closed down after being sealed by the Kanayannur tahsildar. They were intercepted by police while spiriting away the loot. On interrogation, they reportedly confessed to have stolen the materials. Following this, women police personnel arrived at the scene and arrested them. They had allegedly conducted more thefts in the past and police recovered the articles they had sold at various shops. They were produced in court and remanded. The arrest was made by a police team led by Inspector S. Vijayasankar and sub inspectors Vipin Kumar, Thomas Pallan, and Arul.
14 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Kanayannur taluk office to remain closed||The Kanayannur taluk office and village offices in Ernakulam, Amballur, and Kaipattur will remain closed till August 19 after two officials at the Kanayannur taluk office were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. However, online services would continue, said Beena P. Anand, Tahsildar. A deputy tahsildar and an official of the election wing were tested positive. The village offices in Ernakulam, Amballur and Kaipattur were closed as the deputy tahsildar had visited there as part of official duty. Tests were conducted for all the employees of the Kanayannur taluk office. Forty-one of the 42 employees were tested negative while the sample of one employee was sent for further tests. Treatment centres The first-line treatment centre at Adlux Convention Centre in Angamaly has been elevated into a second-line treatment centre. Two hundred beds have been set up there. Second-line treatment centres will have facilities like ICU and emergency equipment to treat patients. The district now has seven first-line treatment centres with 934 beds. A total of 705 persons have been admitted in these centres. ‘Prefer online banking’ Guidelines for containing the spread of the disease will be strictly implemented in banks across the district. Police officials in Ernakulam and representatives of banks held a meeting in this regard to ensure compliance of rules and regulations. Customers have been requested to avoid visiting banks to the maximum extent possible and carry out transactions online.
14 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Consumerfed gears up for Onam sales||The Consumerfed is aiming at overcoming the pandemic blues during this Onam through an estimated sales worth Rs. 150 crore by leveraging its cooperative markets. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate online the State-level launch of Onam markets on the evening of August 23 in the presence of Cooperation Minister Kadakampally Surendran. The launch of the new items, including coconut oil, wheat flour, and tea to be marketed under the Triveni brand, will be done by the Chief Minister on August 18. Around 1,850 markets will be operated across the State during the Onam season from August 24 to August 30. Price reduction Apart from making available subsidised items at 10% to 30% lower than the market prices, other essential articles and fast-moving consumer goods will also be available at the outlets.
14 August 2020||Kollam,KERALA||Good catch after a 64-day lull brings no cheer to fishermen||Instead of the festive hubbub it was all confusion and chaos at the Neendakara harbour as trawlers returned with their first catch after an extended break of 64 days on Thursday. Though the boats hauled to shore a fairly good catch, the newly imposed curbs kept agents and exporters away on the first day, much to the disappointment of fishers. “We had touched waters after an unusually long period due to the outbreak of COVID-19 and the monsoon trawling ban. Many of us had not ventured into the sea since lockdown due to logistical issues. Now we are unable to find buyers. They have left us no option to survive,” says Wilson, a fisher from Kollam. Export quality shrimp Though several boats brought back crates full of ‘karikkadi,’ the export quality marine shrimp, there were few takers. “Now there is no provision to peel and clean them, which also leaves several women jobless.” According to the boat owners, the new restrictions have made it impossible for them to sell the catch at a reasonable price. “Entry is restricted and our usual buyers have been denied access and provision to transport the crates. Usually, we finish the business within a couple of hours, but today we are struggling to sell. Small boats have no provision to store the fish, so we will have to sell at a much lower price or dump our first catch,” says Robert from Kavanad. ‘Impractical system’ Usually exporters who buy huge volumes of the catch have their own system of loading and transporting the merchandise. “But now the department has introduced a new system that is not practical. We had ventured into the sea with high expectations, but it seems there is no end to our misery,” he adds. Many curbs At present, odd and even number boats will be allowed to go to sea on alternate days and a token system has been introduced in all auction halls. “Trawlers have been instructed to return to their base after a 24-hour window. We usually return after 2-3 days and quite a few boats come to the harbour only once in a week. Asking nearly 200 boats to return at the same time instead of 50 or 60 will result in crowding at harbours, making physical distancing impossible. While we are denied our right, boats from other States are plundering our sea. The new restrictions are unscientific and they are taking a toll on our livelihood,” says Peter Mathias, president, All Kerala Fishing Boat Operators Association.
14 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Vocational courses by Keltron centre||Keltron Kollam Knowledge Centre has invited applications for its vocational courses. The courses offered include Advanced Diploma in Digital Media Designing and Animation Film Making, Professional Diploma in Logistics & Supply Chain Management, Professional Diploma in Retail and Logistics Management, Certificate Course in Advanced Graphics Designing and Certificate Course in Graphics and Visual Effects. For details, contact the centre at Shankar Towers, Apsara Junction or call 9567422755, 9847452727, a press release said.
14 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam reports 74 new cases||The district reported 74 new cases of COVID-19 and 73 recoveries on Thursday. The patients include 64 contact cases, two persons from abroad, and eight others who had travelled from different States. While eight persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 from Kalluvathukal, Kulathupuzha reported six cases. Kollam currently has 7,418 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 35,500. While 418 persons completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 8,302 primary and 2,130 secondary contacts of the new cases.
14 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||2 health workers among 53 cases in Kottayam||As many as 53 persons, including two health workers at the Government Medical College in Kottayam, were among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. According to officials, 42 persons contracted the virus through local contact while eight persons came from other States. The lone remaining patient landed from abroad. At the same time, 18 persons who recovered from the disease were discharged from the various treatment centres. Among the local contact cases, Athirampuzha and Thiruvarppu panchayats reported four cases each while Ettumanur municipality reported three cases. With six cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of local contact cases. 538 active cases Kottayam currently has 538 active cases and 9,002 persons under surveillance. Meanwhile, monitoring committees have been constituted in all major market places, including fish markets, in the district to ensure adherence to COVID-19 protocol. The committees, comprising representatives of the traders, headload workers, the police, and the tahsildar, will have the secretary of the respective local body as its convener. Stern action will be initiated in case of violation of COVID-19 guidelines.
14 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Postpone local body elections: NSS||The Nair Service Society (NSS) has approached the State Election Commission (SEC) seeking the postponement of local body elections at least for this year in view of the outbreak of COVID-19. In a letter to the SEC, NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair said the move to conduct the elections to the local self-government institutions ignoring the crisis was deplorable. “The elections are hardly six months away from the Assembly election, which is due in May 2021. Political parties , despite a slew of restrictions, curbs and prohibitions as part of the COVID- 19 protocol imposed by the Central and State governments, are gearing up for the elections with all their might as the local body elections were crucial in the run-up to the Assembly elections. Once the election process sets in, COVID-19 protocols will be breached with impunity,” the letter said. Chance of malpractice The NSS also raised concerns over the possibility of manipulations in the democratic exercise if conducted during the pandemic. “The move to let senior citizens vote through postal ballot raises serious concern of free and fair election. The current situation justifies the postponement of election in public interest,” the letter stated.
14 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||98 fresh cases in Kozhikode||The Kozhikode district administration has claimed to contain the spread of COVID-19, focussing on the testing-tracing-quarantine-treatment method even as 98 fresh cases were reported on Thursday. The authorities claimed that expert treatment was being provided to infected persons after identifying them through extensive tests. The second phase involves preparation of contact list. They are being quarantined and given guidelines through the tele-medicine facility. Cluster care system is being set up in places with high incidence of cases. The number of patients is being brought down in large clusters such as Nadapuram, Vadakara, Olavanna, and Eramala. Ninety persons were tested positive for the virus in Olavanna, and 23 are under treatment. In Vadakara, only eight of the 78 patients are under treatment, eight of the 66 in Nadapuram, and 13 of the 61 in Eramala. All patients have recovered in Thooneri, another cluster. The number of daily tests has gone up to 5,000. The District Medical Officer said 80 of the new cases were through local transmission. The source of inf!ection in four others is not known, and the rest had returned from abroad or other States. Eleven cases were reported from Purameri, nine in Cheruvannur, eight in Feroke, and seven in Chorod. The number of active cases in the district is 1,228. Eight healthcare workers at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, have been asked to go into quarantine after they came into contact with infected persons.
14 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Concern over spike in cases among migrant labourers||The Kozhikode Corporation authorities are reportedly concerned over the rise in COVID-19 cases among migrant labourers who return to work from their home States. According to the Health Department data, of the 655 cases reported so far from the corporation limits, 115 are migrant labourers. Of the 19 SARS-CoV-2 positive cases reported on Thursday, eight were migrant workers. Twenty-three cases were reported from employees in one firm alone. On Wednesday, of the total 23 cases reported within the corporation limits, 17 were migrant labourers. Corporation health officer R.S. Gopakumar said tests were conducted on all those who return to work. Only those who test negative are given passes to resume work. This follows an order issued by the District Collector recently, he added. Earlier, boat owners at the Beypore fishing harbour were asked to submit a list of labourers working under them to the Fisheries Department ahead of the lifting of the trawling ban. There were apprehensions that the arrival of a large number of labourers from other States could lead to a spread of the infection here. The labourers are also being asked to undergo the mandatory 14-day quarantine. On alert The marine enforcement wing is reportedly on alert to locate those arriving by sea without passes. Though there has been no spike in cases among fish workers, some were tested positive for the virus. Cases are being reported from those working in hotels and restaurants too.  Tests are conducted on all those who return to work. Only those who test negative are given passes to resume work R.S. Gopakumar Corporation health officer
14 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Pvt. firm shut down for flouting protocol||The Mukkom municipal authorities on Wednesday shut down a private industrial firm and its two branches for their alleged failure to comply with the COVID-19 protocol. Action was taken on the basis of a Health Department report that there were more than 10 labourers who had contracted COVID-19, and that the owner of the firm had allegedly failed to comply with the protocol. A notice was served on the owner explaining the failure on his part to furnish details of migrant labourers employed at various sites. It was also alleged that the labourers were denied proper financial support for their medical treatment and other facilities for safe quarantine. Tests delayed The municipal authorities said there had been suspected attempts to delay the precautionary medical tests on the workers by hiding their actual number. Though the owner claimed that there were only 40 labourers, a verification by officials on Thursday found that there were 60 workers. Meanwhile, a municipal official said the owner had produced the complete list of 60 labourers on Thursday in response to the legal notice. “It has been found true, and we will complete the COVID-19 test on the remaining labourers on Friday,” he added. The official also made it clear that the units would be allowed to resume operations only after reviewing the health condition of all the migrant workers.
14 August 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Malappuram, Palakkad districts register 202 cases each||As many as 202 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Thursday, taking the total number of patients currently under treatment to 1,867. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said the source of infection in 26 of them, including four health workers, could not be traced. While 186 of the cases contracted infection through local contact, six came from other States and 12 from abroad. The district saw 61 recoveries on Thursday. While 4,217 persons were infected in the district in the last five months, 2,327 recovered from the disease. The disease claimed 20 lives. In Palakkad In Palakkad district too, 202 persons tested positive for the disease on Thursday. While 136 were infected through contact, the source of infection in 23 cases could not be identified. Among the local transmission cases, 82 are in Pattambi and neighbouring areas. While 22 cases came from other States, 21 returned from abroad. There were 67 recoveries in the district on Thursday. The number of infected cases currently under treatment in the district has risen to 860. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 79 persons tested positive for the virus on Thursday. While 72 persons contracted the virus through contact, four came from abroad and three from other States. In Kannur In Kannur, 27 persons tested positive on Thursday. Of them, 21 contracted infection through contact, while one arrived from abroad and four from other States. One infected case is a health worker. In Thrissur Seventy-five cases were reported in Thrissur district on Thursday. They include 73 who were infected through contact. Raising concerns for the Health Department, 15 health workers at Amala Institute of Medical Sciences tested positive on Thursday. The out-patient wing of the hospital has been closed for a week. There are 471 active cases in the district, while four recovered on Thursday. In Wayanad Twenty-seven persons tested positive for SARS-CoV- 2 in Wayanad on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 977.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Kasaragod, Kannur and Wayanad bureaus)
14 August 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||MBBS students ousted from online class||MES Medical College, Perinthalmanna, expelled a group of first year MBBS students from its online class on Thursday for delay in payment of next year’s tuition fee. Over a dozen students were removed from the anatomy session, and they were denied attendance as well. The students said they had lost Thursday’s class examination too. They said they faced the wrath of the college authorities as they could not pay fee in time. While a couple of students could not make the payment as they were held up in containment zones, a few NRI students had not paid the special fee. Sheela Sivan, head of the department of anatomy, said the students were expelled for a day. “We have rectified it. We have added them back,” she added. MES Medical College dean Girish Raj did not respond to telephone calls from this paper. “However, Dr. Raj reportedly told some parents who contacted him that he was involved “only in academic matters”. ‘Students informed’ College administrator Hameed Fazal said some students might have been warned for failure to pay fee. “Unlike other institutions, we run the medical college only with fee collected from students. It is from the fee that we give subsidised treatment to patients,” he added. However, Dr. Fazal said none would be expelled for delaying fee payment. “We would definitely consider the cases individually. We are willing to allow some cases to pay in part, and also at a specific date later. Such persons should contact us individually. We cannot afford fees delay by a large group,” he said.
14 August 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Walayar dam shutters opened||Three shutters of the Walayar dam were raised by 1 cm on Thursday as the water level in the reservoir rose to 200.86 metre. The dam can contain a maximum capacity of 203 metres of water. Officials said that the inflow into the reservoir continued steadily in spite of less rain in the catchment areas.
14 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Sharp rise in cases in Pathanamthitta||After witnessing a fall in new cases for days, the district reported a sharp rise in the number of COVID-19 patients on Thursday with 75 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of the new cases, 46 persons contracted the virus through local transmission while 17 persons came from other States. The remaining 12 persons are foreign-returnees. Kumbazha reported six cases, followed by Eraviperoor where five persons, including a one-year-old child, tested positive. A 26-year-old health worker at a private medical college in Thiruvalla too was among those infected through local transmission. Of the local cases, the source of infection of at least five cases were yet to be traced. Under control Meanwhile, COVID-19 clusters at the Pathanamthitta AR Camp, Kottangal and Kuttapuzha were declared under control with none of them reporting any fresh case over the past week. The district currently has 258 active cases and 7,862 persons under surveillance.
14 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital’s cases remain high at 434||The COVID-19 graph continued to climb in the capital district with 434 persons being diagnosed with the disease on Thursday. Barring an imported case, all of the fresh cases have been attributed to local transmission. The official death toll also went up to 24 with a 55-year-old woman from Mukkola, who died on August 7, testing positive for the viral infection posthumously. While 428 people contracted the infection through local transmission, five health workers also tested positive. The sources of infection were unknown in 15 cases. With 197 persons recovering from the disease, the number of those being treated in the district stood at 3,347. Relief-camp residents Twenty-one persons who tested positive are residents of a relief camp opened for people from sea-erosion-hit coastal areas, including Valiyathura. The cases emerged when 43 residents of the camp at Government Upper Primary School, Vallakkadavu, were tested. In coastal areas Numerous cases have been reported along the coastal belt where testing has been increased in the past few days after a lull. Thirteen persons were diagnosed with COVID-19 from among 75 subjected to tests at Vizhinjam. While 100 persons from Kovalam and nearby areas were subjected to tests, 10 tested positive. Cases were also reported from Anchuthengu (12) and Karumkulam (5). Besides the 42 new cases at the Poojappura Central Prison, some other cases were reported in the region. Nine persons, including an autorickshaw driver, were diagnosed with the disease when 50 persons were tested in the Kunnu Bungalow colony, Mudavanmugal. Vamanapuram MLA D.K. Murali has gone into quarantine after the Pullampara grama panchayat president who took part at a function with him a few days ago tested positive. Other parts of the district that reported fresh COVID-19 cases include Neyyattinkara (nine), Kallikad (seven), Kattakada and Palode (three each) and Pangode and Anad (two each). Vending machine Mayor K. Sreekumar inaugurated a vending machine for masks, gloves and sanitisers at the city Corporation main office here on Thursday. The machine has been set up under the auspices of the city Corporation and SmartCity. Masks will be available for Rs. 10, gloves for Rs. 15, and sanitiser for Rs. 50. Besides cash, Google Pay or QR code scanning can be used to make payment. Such machines would be set up at five other places in the city, the Mayor said.
14 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister fears heavier caseloads||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has called upon people from all walks of life to volunteer themselves to be part of the State’s COVID Brigade and help the government in containment activities. Appearing in a live Facebook address, Ms. Shylaja spoke about the precarious situation that the State would be going through as the COVID-19 pandemic progresses. She exhorted people to actively take part as volunteers in hospitals and COVID first-line treatment centres as the State would need many hands to fulfil the medical and non-medical tasks in its fight to keep COVID-19 in check. Ms. Shylaja said the epidemic was scaling the peak and that according to experts it was very much possible that the daily case numbers could escalate to 10,000-20,000 cases. This would mean that the number of deaths would also rise proportionately. It is thus essential that the disease transmission is checked and not allowed to flare up, which would be possible only if the entire community follows the universal safety precautions and maintains physical distancing strictly. Protocols vital Health-care workers and those in the sector would have to work to ensure that COVID-19 protocols are not violated. In this context, there are a lot of medical and non-medical responsibilities that will need to be taken care of. The Health Department would need human resource in a major way to handle various aspects of care and people management. Call to join brigade She appealed to all medical graduates in modern medicine, Ayush, dental specialities, nurses, lab technicians, and pharmacists to join the brigade. Ms. Shylaja said the brigade would need non-medical people too as volunteers, especially those with MSW and MBA qualifications, to manage various aspects of containment. Those willing to volunteer should register themselves at the COVID Jagratha portal so that they can be selected to be part of the brigade.  People should volunteer to work in hospitals and first-line treatment centres
14 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NIA probing ‘immunity’ angle||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has reportedly evinced interest in finding out how the accused in the gold smuggling case had repeatedly obtained immunity from Customs “examination and assessment” of air cargo consignments they had imported from Dubai in the name of the UAE consulate here during the 2019-21 period. Customs officials reportedly told the NIA that shipments addressed to diplomatic missions rarely came under the scanner of the Customs Risk Management System (CRMS). The CRMS allowed countries to exchange information on illicit trade and the likely movement of contraband via air, land, and sea.  “Queue” of shipments Moreover, officials pointed out that any “foreign representation” in the country could import goods below the value of Rs. 20 lakh without the prior approval of the “Protocol Special Section” of the Union Minister of External Affairs and the State Protocol Officers. Such consignments would rarely come in the “queue” of shipments assigned for scrutiny by the Customs at air, land, or sea border checkpoints. Customs officials said they believed that the accused had forestalled Customs inspection by parcelling contraband gold in consignments of everyday goods of minimal value. They conducted dry runs and graduated to the bulk import of gold illegally. Customs move In a parallel bid to find whether any entity had abetted the smuggling operation, the Customs on Tuesday sought details of duty exemption certificates granted by the State Protocol Officer to the UAE consulate during the 2019-20 and 2020-21 period. Investigators also asked the details of the consulate officials or their nominees who had sought duty exemption certificates from the State government. They had also sought the specimen signatures of UAE diplomats who worked in the consulate during the period the accused had committed the crime. The Customs issued the notice under Section 108 of the Customs Act, 1962. The State Protocol Officer has to provide the documents by post or in person before August 20. Non-compliance with the directive will entail prosecution under Sections 193 and 198 of the Indian Penal Code, the notice received by the Joint Secretary, General Administration Department, from the Customs Department said.
14 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Waste near airport: SHRC takes case against Corpn.||The State Human Rights Commission has taken a case against the city Corporation for failing to clear the waste dump near the compound wall of the airport here. Birds feed on the dump and bird hits pose a threat to aircraft operation. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic has sent a notice to the Corporation Secretary to take steps to remove the waste within 30 days and submit a report. At various spots The commission said waste was lying piled up near Pathnarekaal Mandapam, NS Depot and Bangladesh Colony. Hundreds of families lived here. Birds that came to feed on remains of poultry and other slaughter waste pose a risk to aircraft. The mounds of garbage were also leading to spread of diseases such as chikungunya, a petition by human rights activist Ragam Rahim said.
14 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Row over UAE food kits getting shriller||The controversy regarding the acceptance of food kits from the UAE consulate here for distribution to needy families during Ramzan appeared to get shriller on Thursday. The political wrangle also seemed to get closer to the government with Kerala Lok Ayukta Cyriac Joseph and Upa Lok Ayukta A.K. Basheer issuing notice to K.T. Jaleel, Minister for Higher Education, Welfare of Minorities, Wakf, and Haj pilgrimage. The judges said they were not inclined to admit a complaint that Dr. Jaleel had misused his position as a public servant and unauthorisedly and unlawfully received a foreign contribution from the UAE consulate. They were also not predisposed to investigate the petition that the Minister had violated the provisions of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act without allowing Dr. Jaleel to respond to the accusations. Hence, the judges ordered that Dr. Jaleel submit copies of “all the communications between the Minister and Consul General or his office in connection with the distribution of the food bags” as part of their preliminary probe into the matter. A Youth Congress leader had filed the complaint.  Minister’s stance Dr. Jaleel told The Hindu that he had acted within his constitutional bounds as Minister. He had received 32 packets containing copies of the Koran from the consulate. “If the State Protocol Officer says I have violated the diplomatic etiquette, the holy books will be returned to the UAE consulate. The packets remain unopened and can be inspected by any agency.” The diplomatic mission had imported it with the prior approval of the Customs Department and the Union Ministry of External Affairs, he said. He had transported the books to Malappuram for distribution in a government vehicle carrying study material without imposing any additional cost on the exchequer. Dr. Jaleel said he had also accepted provision packets from the consulate for distribution to needy families during Ramzan as Minister for Minority Welfare and Wakf.
14 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cluster formation fear at Poojappura prison||The Poojappura Central Prison has begun to show signs of a rapid spread of COVID-19 with 41 more inmates and an assistant prison officer testing positive for the infection on Friday. In all, 101 prisoners have been diagnosed with the viral infection in three days, sparking fears of a cluster development in the confined facility. The fresh cases were diagnosed when 98 prisoners were subjected to antigen tests. Testing has been intensified in the central prison after a 71-year-old inmate was diagnosed with the disease. Fifty-nine inmates tested positive when 107 prisoners were tested on Wednesday. In 7th block While cases have so far been limited to the seventh block which houses aged prisoners, antigen testing was extended to the 10th block, housing inmates suffering from mental illness, on Thursday, sources said. While the sources of their infection are yet to be identified with none of the prisoners having any recent travel history, prison officials point out several possibilities. The infection could have reached the prison through jail officers who return home after duty, officers manning the ‘freedom food’ units at the Government Medical College Hospital and other government-run hospitals here or prisoners involved in the functioning of the Food for Freedom cafeteria. Since the COVID-19 outbreak, visits by prisoners’ kin have been restricted and their family members have been permitted to interact through voice and video calls. There are roughly 1,000 prisoners in the central prison.  According to official sources, all who tested positive, except the first patient who has co-morbidities, are asymptomatic. They are currently being treated in the hospital on the prison premises.
14 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nominees file papers for RS poll||Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate M.V. Shreyams Kumar and United Democratic Front nominee Lal Varghese Kalpakavady filed their nominations for the election for a Rajya Sabha seat to be held from the State on August 24. The seat fell vacant following the death of socialist veteran M.P. Veerendrakumar. With 89 LDF members, it would be cakewalk for Mr. Kumar. Though the UDF has 43 members, a split in the Kerala Congress (M) may embarrass the UDF. Equally significant are the votes of Independent member P.C. George and lone Bharatiya Janata Party member O. Rajagopal. After filing the nomination, Mr. Kumar told reporters that he would uphold the fight of the Left and secular forces in Parliament. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and Kerala Pradesh Congress president Mullappally Ramachandran, who met reporters with Mr. Varghese, said the UDF was putting up a symbolic fight to register its protest against the anti-people policies of the State government.
14 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State’s response to CBI probe petition sought||The Kerala High Court on Thursday directed the State government to respond to a plea for a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe in a case registered in connection with the alleged custodial death of Mathai, a farmer in Pathanamthitta. Mathai was found dead in a well on his farm on July 28 after being taken into custody by forest officials. He was picked up by forest officials to be interrogated in connection with the destruction of a camera set up by the department for animal-spotting. Interfering in probe In her petition, Sheeba Mol, wife of the deceased, said her husband died while under the illegal custody of the Forest Department officials of Chittar forest station. The petitioner said that the accused forest officials were interfering in the the police investigation, using their clout among the political and forest officers association office- bearers. The forest officials had taken into custody her husband without complying with the mandatory procedure and without explaining any offences allegedly committed by him.  No custody memo  No custody memo or inspection memos were prepared by the forest officials when he was taken into custody. She pointed out that the police were yet to mention any cognizable offences in the first information report (FIR). The police had not made any effort to secure evidence in the case. The police were not conducting a fair investigation. The flaws during the investigation would affect trial, she said.
14 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,076 rain shelters planned in State||As many as 1,076 rain shelters having a combined area of one lakh square metres will be established across the State by August-end. This is part of the efforts to step up vegetable production in the State, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday. So far, 440 rain shelters had been established. The government was providing subsidies to the tune of 75% (up to Rs. 50,000) for setting up these facilities. Cattle feed Farmers supplying milk to dairy cooperatives would be provided cattle feed at Rs. 400 per sack.
14 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Shredding unit to aid waste management||The city Corporation has arranged a mobile shredding unit to give a fillip to biodegradable waste management in the city. Mayor K. Sreekumar inaugurated the unit at the Manacaud market here on Thursday. The unit would go round the 25 health circles of the city Corporation on specific days as per a calendar, the Mayor said. The mobile shredding unit will help speed up processing of palm fronds, small branches, and plantain leaves that take time to degrade. The unit will also help shred, reduce the quantity, and speed up decomposition of organic waste in public places and roadsides in the city. The city Corporation purchased the mobile unit from Regional Agro-Industrial Development Cooperative of Kerala Ltd. at Rs. 8.55 lakh by including it in its annual Plan for 2019-20.
14 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree Bazaar opened at Overbridge||Minister for Local Self Government A.C. Moideen inaugurated a Kudumbashree Bazaar near Overbridge, Thampanoor, on Thursday. Kudumbashree’s initiatives such as Janakeeya restaurants and COVID first-line treatment centres were laudable and the Kudumbashree Bazaar launched by the district mission would prove to be yet another asset, the Minister said. Besides bringing Kudumbashree microenterprise products under one roof, the bazaar also provides a permanent venue for their sale, and raises the entrepreneurs’ income, a statement said. Nearly 2,000 entrepreneurs are expected to benefit from the bazaar.
14 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Class at Balbhavan||Registration for online classes at Jawahar Balbhavan has begun. The classes will get under way at 9 a.m. on August 17. For details, call 9447582678, 9495468016, and 0471-2316477 or visit the Facebook page of Jawaharbalbhavan, MLA V.K. Prasanth’s Facebook page, or the website www.vkprasanth.in
14 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Hunger strike||The Senior Citizens Friends Welfare Association’s office-bearers will stage a hunger strike at their residences on August 20 in protest against the Union government’s neglect of their demands, including increasing the old-age pension from Rs. 200 to minimum Rs. 5,000 and special schemes for protecting their health during the COVID-19 pandemic.
14 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chennithala flays CM||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Thursday said the government had infringed on the right to privacy of citizens by empowering the police to check their call details on the pretext of tracing primary and secondary contacts of infected persons. At a press conference here, Mr. Chennithala said the government had acted as an authoritarian State. It had violated various judgments of the Supreme Court regarding the right to privacy. Mr. Chennithala, a former Home Minister, said the police could access the call data record of citizens only if they were accused in severe crimes or cases affecting national security. He accused Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan of having established police-ruled surveillance State in Kerala. State Police Chief Loknath Behera had overreached his authority by instructing telecom service providers to hand over the call data record of their customers without any magisterial sanction or a formal request cleared by the Chief Secretary.
14 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chandy calls for more nursing seats||Congress Working Committee member Oommen Chandy has urged the government to increase the number of seats for nursing courses by 20% to meet the demand. In a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, he said the number of applicants this year far exceeded the seats available in the State. “The pandemic situation has made it impossible for students from Kerala to join courses elsewhere. With Malayali nurses in demand all over the world, the government should create an environment for more students to take to this profession,” he said.
14 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Hill highway to get green cover||The Forest Department is rolling out a project to plant avenue trees along both sides of the proposed hill highway. The first phase of the project named Thanalveedhi will be implemented on the Anchal-Kulathupuzha stretch of the highway in Kollam district as a joint initiative by the Public Works and Local Self-Government departments and the Social Forestry division. Forest Minister K.Raju is scheduled to inaugurate the project at Alanchery junction, Anchal, on Friday.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Before the D-Day||
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Marking a milestone||
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Festival succour||
14 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Incentivising ‘good public behaviour’ during pandemic||The district administration has decided to relax the ‘lockdown’ norms from Friday by allowing shops to remain open from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. every day and removing the curbs imposed on vehicular movement in the city. In a strategy to ‘replace punishment with incentive’, the administration has decided to infuse a sense of responsibility towards public health and minimising spread of COVID-19. It has come up with the idea of letting businessmen and traders offer discounts to customers, who diligently follow the COVID safety principles of wearing masks, keeping six-foot distance, using sanitiser and spending least possible time in the markets. Discounts galore If you are buying a pair of shoes without resorting to trial at a showroom, you get a discount of 15% and a similar reduction in the final bill is promised by cloth merchants and shop owners, Collector Gandham Chandrudu told The Hindu . If you buy a new cellphone, the screen guard and pouch/case will be offered free. The most crowded part of the city is the vegetable wholesale market near Ananthasagar tank bund and now flex banners have come up there, announcing free transport to all retailers anywhere in the city if they followed the COVID-19 protocol. Some medical shops have already put up banners announcing an additional 2% discount for ‘good behaviour’. Meeting on SOPs While relaxing the travel restrictions, the municipal corporation and the district police held a meeting with representatives of trade organisations to explain the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). Municipal Commissioner P.V.VS. Murthy and Deputy Superintendent of Police G. Veeraraghava Reddy dealt with what they expected from the trading community and how instead of penalising them, they would like to see the customers incentivised helping the traders grow their business volumes in an orderly manner. Mr. Reddy said even the barricades on the thoroughfares would be removed till evening allowing free flow of traffic so that physical distance was maintained.
14 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||No Ganesh pandal or huge idol in Chittoor this year||The Vinayaka Chavithi festivities in Chittoor district will be confined to households this year as the police have imposed a ban on the celebrations at public places in view of the sharp spike in coronavirus cases. So, no huge Genesh pandals or giant idols this time. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar held a meeting with the Deputy SPs of Madanapalle, Chittoor, Palamaner and Puttur on Thursday and reviewed the measures launched to create awareness among the people on the prohibitory orders issued concerning the festival. “Sale of Ganesh idols above the height of two feet has been prohibited. The police personnel have been instructed to make arrangements at the outskirts of the municipalities and corporations. A ban has been imposed on erection of pandals and giant idols,” said Mr. S. Senthil Kumar. However, the administration has relaxed the curbs imposed on public movement in view of the festival. Crubs relaxed Mr. Senthil Kumar said that the lockdown timings would be relaxaed between 6 a.m. and 7 p.m on the eve of Vinayaka Chaviti on August 21 to allow people to make purchases. He instructed the police to enforce the COVID-19 norms such as wearing masks and maitaining social distance at markets and shops. No procession Referring to the idol immersion, the SP said that taking out the idols in procession would not be allowed. He sought cooperation of the people to ensure smooth immersion of idols at the nearest water bodies in the respective localities.
14 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman’s cries for help go unheard amid COVID fear||In a moving incident, a woman clutching to the body of her elderly father had to plead with passersby for a couple of hours for her help, with none coming forward for entrenched fear of COVID in public psyche. At last, the police had to intervene and arrange the shifting of the body to their village for funeral. The incident took place at Palamaner town, 40 km from here, on Thursday evening. According to the Palamaner police, Venkataramaiah (73) of Kalagatur village of Gangavaram mandal was asleep in front of his house in the early hours of Saturday (August 8), when a cow from the neighbourhood accidentally stamped on him in darkness, and fractured his ribs, as it was found later. As he complained of acute pain, his daughter Hemalatha took him to the Government Hospital at Palamaner. From there, she was reportedly directed to a private hospital. In the absence of a scanning facility there, the doctor is said to have advised that the patient be taken to Tirupati. Died midway On Wednesday, when the woman was getting ready to take the patient to Tirupati, he developed convulsions and was rushed to a private hospital at Palamaner in an autorikshaw, when he breathed his last. The auto driver reportedly dumped the body on the roadside and left. Police respond The daughter kept pleading for help but in vain. “The fear due to the prevailing COVID-19 situation resulted in no help reaching the helpless woman. When we got the information, a team of Blue Colts police rushed there and shifted the body to their native village Kalagatur nearby. It was the police who had arranged the vehicle for shifting the body,” sub-inspector (Palamaner) K. Nagaraju said.
14 August 2020||DEVIPATNAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Water level surges in the Godavari||Authorities of the Irrigation Department have taken all steps to avoid untoward incidents following a surge in the inflows into the Godavari. In an alert issued on Thursday morning, the department said that the discharge of flood waters was 4.05 lakh cusecs at the Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage at Dowleswaram. The water level at the Coffer Dam of the Polavaram project was put at 24.750 metres. “Communication has been sent to all the flood monitoring teams to stop boats from venturing into the Godavari until further orders. The boats engaged for collection of sand have also been stopped to avoid untoward incidents,” R. Mohana Rao, Executive Engineer (Irrigation - Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage), told The Hindu . ITDA - Chintoor Project Officer A. Venkata Ramana said, “We have already evacuated 30 pregnant women to the ‘birth waiting rooms’ as flood waters from the Sabari and the Godavari are expected to inundate more tribal hamlets in the Agency area.” Roads inundated “As many as six main roads, including the Chintoor, V.R. Puram and Yetapaka stretches, have been inundated. As a result, many tribal hamlets remain cut-off from the mainland. The village secretariats have been roped in to cater to the needs at the ground level,” Mr. Venkata Ramana said. Control room The ITDA has deployed officers at strategic locations to keep the authorities abreast of the flood situation. At least 15 VHF communication sets and five wireless sets have been given to those monitoring the flood situation at the ground level in the Chintoor and Devipatnam mandals. A 24 x 7 control room has also been set up at the ITDA-Chintoor office. Meanwhile, officials stored essential goods and commodities enough for three months.
14 August 2020||G.P. ShuklaTirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to shift parakamani outside main temple complex||As part of its plans to decongest the inner precincts of the temple of Lord Venkateswara, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has resolved to shift its ‘parakamani’ — the process of sorting out of offerings received from the ‘hundi’ — to outside the main complex. At present, the parakamani is organised in a very limited and rather congested foyer- like narrow hall behind the sanctum sanctorum inside the temple. About 250 personnel enter the temple through the restricted exit gate (biometric gate) to attend parakamani duty daily, and 300 bags of coins are shipped out through the same means frequently interrupting the movement of the darshan lines. This apart, the exteriors of the present parakamani hall are totally primed with glass panes and sans minimum ventilation, exposing the staff to skin and lung-related maladies. The non-availability of proper space for segregation of valuables, which resulted in piling up of coins worth several crores during past couple of years, besides inaccessibility to rest rooms and dress changing rooms have impelled the authorities towards its shifting. The gargantuan vessel used as hundi is replaced at least 12 times in a day which speaks volumes about the amount of offerings received and the space required for sorting.  Rs. 8.9 crore complex Taking the above facts into consideration, the TTD decided to construct a new parakamani complex on the East Mada Street a few hundred yards away from the main temple opposite the Anna Prasadam complex at a cost of Rs. 8.90 crore. The bhoomi puja for the new complex, which shall come up in a sprawling area of about 14,962 sq. ft would be constructed with the state-of-art technology with a high degree of security and ventilation equipped with an in built provision for attached rest rooms, will be performed on Friday. According to TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy, the shifting would also facilitate free movement for the shipping of coins, gold/silver and other precious proceeds besides giving vast scope for installation of sophisticated machinery, if required, given the availability of abundant space. An ardent devotee, K. Muralikrishna from Bengaluru, has come forward to bear the entire cost of the building which shall be covered with bullet-proof glass from all the sides enabling devotees witness the entire process of sorting, counting and handing over of the proceeds to the designated bankers. The interesting feature is that the entire proceedings will be under the watch of public eye giving no room for any kind of pilferage.
14 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Post responsibly on online platforms’||In an attempt to sensitise people on cybercrimes, a webinar on ‘Digital Shakti-Responsible Online Behaviour’ hosted by the AP CID, in association with the Cyber Peace Foundation, on Thursday. Participating inthe programme, AP Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma said the online platforms have become a place for abuse and trolling. She appreciated the APCID for launching the awareness initiative. Additional DG (CID) P.V Sunil Kumar said every social media platform has their own rules regarding abuse, harassment and inappropriate posts. He also discussed the dos and don’ts to ensure safe use of online platforms. Janice Verghese, Manager Communications Cyber Peace Foundation, said people should not trust everything posted online.  Workshop A workshop will be conducted on ‘CPC Volunteer Workshop (DIGITALHealth, wellness, Avoiding Addiction)’ by cybercrime experts On Friday. People can watch the webinar by clicking the link https://m.youtube.com/ channel/UC9HKNl3zt EyKgSq8DcnLHMQ.
14 August 2020||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lemon and amla sell like hotcakes||The trade of lemon and amla (Indian gooseberry) in Chittoor district received a major boost domestically in the past couple of months, while arrivals from Tenali market have been dwindling, owing to heavy demand for the produce, thanks to the COVID-19 pandemic. Chittoor district, with COVID-19 hospitals at Tirupati, Chittoor, Kuppam and Madanapalle, is witnessing heavy demand for the citrus fruits for three months, with the latest tally inching close to the 20,000-mark and 200 casualties. Generally, sale of lemon remains stable in Chittoor between May and June, and in winter months due to the village festivals, Karthika month and Ayyappa deeksha. Except for a sizeable demand for pickle-making and from catering units, these citrus fruits find little scope for raw consumption. However, COVID-19 outbreak has generated a great demand for them. Small traders in Chittoor procure lemon from Kadapa and Nellore districts. The bulk stocks to Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are directly sent from Tenali market, with small arrivals in Chittoor district. Officials in the Horticulture Department observed that huge demand for lemon has led to considerable fall in the arrivals in Chittoor from other districts. This has turned into a golden opportunity for local farmers raising lemon crops, though in very negligible stretches. The small-sized fruit is now selling like hotcakes. “Before COVID-19 pandemic, I used to supply the produce to local traders in Srikalahasti, Tirupati, Satyavedu and Chittoor in small quantities and with negligible profits. Since April, the demand is growing from all over the district. I am also sending three bags a week to Chennai,” said Prabhakar Naidu, a lemon farmer in B.N. Kandriga mandal. Seshagiri, a native of Srikalahasti, who procures lemon stocks from Gudur and Venkatagiri, said that unlike the previous years, the yields this year remained good thanks to congenial climatic conditions. “Because of bumper crop, the high demand is met everywhere,” he said. Additional Director (Marketing) P. Gopi told The Hindu that the lemon and amla plantations were in very small stretches in Chittoor. “Previously not cared for, now they are doing brisk trade. The amla stocks are now exported to various parts of Tamil Nadu. This is something unusual for the citrus fruit here,” the official said. Meanwhile, amla, due to its high concentration of C-vitamin, is only to be found in very less quantities at a few places in the eastern mandals, while bulk stocks are being sent to neighboring States. “A kg of amla sold at Rs. 60 a kg last year is now selling at double the price in Chittoor district, while its three times the cost in Chennai,” a trader from KVB Puram mandal said.
14 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 Maoist Dalam members surrender||Two members of the Azad Protection Team and the Charla Local Organisation Squad of Sabari Dalam of the banned Maoist party surrendered before East Godavari Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi on Thursday. The duo, a 19-year-old man from Chintoor mandal and a 19-year-old woman from Yetapaka mandal in East Godavari district, belong to the Gutti Koya tribe. Mr. Nayeem Asmi told the media, “The duo were recruited by the Charla Area Committee of the Maoist party in December 2019. However, they did not involve in any offence. The man and the woman served as guards in the Sabari Dalam and the protection team of Azad (State Committee Member) of the banner Maoist party”. They decided to lead a normal life in the mainstream and surrendered to the police, he said.
14 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tricolour hoisted on 65-foot mast||Kakinada Member of Parliament Vanga Geetha on Thursday hoisted a huge national flag on a 65-foot mast at Jagannadhapuram bridge, an entrance of Kakinada city from Rajamahendravaram in East Godavari district. The Kakinada Municipal Corporation (KMC) came up with the idea of installing the Tricolour as a part of beautification of Kakinada city. The KMC spent Rs. 9 lakh for the flag project.
14 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 fishermen go missing off Uppada coast||Four fishermen belonging Uppada Ameenabad have been missing since Tuesday evening, reportedly after the engine of their boat developed trouble nearly 50 km off the Uppada coast. The fishermen have been identified as Vanna Sanjeev, Vanka Veeranna, Vanna Durga Rao and Pikki Kasi. On Wednesday, the fishermen, stranded near Bhyravapalem on their boat informed about their situation to a group of fishermen over phone. The communication was sent to Uppada Ameenabad, from where the locals rushed to the spot in two boats, but their boat was not traced by Wednesday. Meanwhile, the stranded fishermen have lost contact with the search teams. On Thursday, the Uppada Ameenabad locals sought help from the Fisheries Department that alerted the Indian Coast Guard in rescuing the fishermen. Joint Director (Fisheries-East Godavari) P. Koteswara Rao said the the ICG had launched a search.
14 August 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Darshan for public at Srisailam temple commences today||The darshan of the presiding deity at the Sri Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Devasthanam at Srisailam will resume on Friday (August 14) for the general public. According to a press release from the temple, the general public need to register their names on the website:www.srisailamonline. com, for gaining entry into the temple. According to the temple management, all COVID-19 protocols would be stringently followed during the time the temple was open and all devotees must use sanitisers, wear masks and maintain physical distance. Circles have been drawn for the physical distancing. The temple was reopened on June 11 after the lockdown, but again closed last month when the entire temple area was declared a containment zone following several people turning COVID-19 positive. “The temple has been removed from the Containment Cluster/Zone purview following the number of cases coming down drastically and the management expects to admit at the most 6,000 devotees per day,” said temple Executive Officer Karanam S. Rama Rao.
14 August 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toll mounts to 267 as 12 more die in Nellore, Prakasam districts||Twelve more patients succumbed to coronavirus in south coastal districts of Prakasam and Nellore, while 1,363 persons were tested positive during the last 24 hours. The toll rose to 267 with the six deaths each being reported from both the districts. As many as 146 patients in Prakasam and 121 patients in Nellore have died till date, said a health bulletin released by the government on Thursday. Meanwhile, the number of patients recovered during the period outnumbered new cases by 375, as 1,738 patients—1,433 in Nellore and 305 in Prakasam were discharged from the hospitals and other COVID facilities during the period. Reviewing the situation in Nellore along with his cabinet colleagues P. Anil Kumar Yadav and M. Goutham Reddy, Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas said that the government had earmarked Rs. 350 crore per month for the measures in place to check the spread of the virus. Mr. Srinivas, who presented a cheque for Rs. 5,000 each to plasma donors here, urged the patients to donate plasma within three months of their recovery.  “There are no side-effects of donating plasma. The health officials must gear up to ensure the challenges as the caseload has been projected to go up in the next two months,” he said. The patients undergoing treatment in COVID-19 facilities expressed satisfaction over the healthcare services being offered to them when the Minister interacted with them through video conferencing app. Nellore Collector K.V.N.Chakradhar said that 17 of the 40 ambulances operating in the district were engaged on COVID duty. “As many as 1.80 lakh people have been tested in the district till date at the rate of 5,000 a day,” he said. Contact tracing Meanwhile, Prakasam Collector P. Bhaskar asked the health officials working at the grassroots level to identify all primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons. “The death rate in the district stands at 1.37% and it is relatively low when compared to the same of other districts. Around 240 beds with oxygen facility have been arranged to treat the patients with comorbidity conditions and those in the need of critical healthcare services.
14 August 2020||P. Sujatha VarmaVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus fuelling ‘loneliness’ epidemic||Ever since the lockdown was imposed with a ‘stay at home’ order, the number of calls on Motukuri Venkateswara Rao’s phone have increased manifold. The callers are senior citizens who are shut in, alone and eager to know when life will become normal. “Many of them call me because they are lonely and apprehensive about what is in store in the days to come,” rues Mr. Rao, who is the associate president of A.P. Senior Citizens’ Welfare Association. He says social distancing has made things worse for this section. “Old couples at least have each other for company, but there are single persons who have outlived their spouse and their children are away, settled in big cities. The shutdown is pushing them further into isolation,” says Mr. Rao. “Avoiding others is OK when you choose to do it, if you want to go home and rest. But when you are forced to do it, when you are locked out of places, it’s a sad experience,” shares 78-year-old Eedara Venkateswarlu, a retired veterinary doctor. The isolation has become another compounder for those with chronic, underlying health conditions. Given the fact that the elders are the most susceptible to the virus, the Senior Citizens’ Welfare Association conducted a series of awareness programmes educating the fraternity on the need to exercise caution. Mr. Rao says that there has been a steady rise in the instances of violation of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007. “In the absence of public transport facility, the victims are unable to reach the tribunal offices to report these violations,” says Mr. Rao, informing that the association has suggested constitution of mandal-level mediation centres to facilitate solution to the senior citizens’ problems at the local-level. Recognising that this section is at higher risk due to age-related chronic health issues, volunteers of HelpAge India, an organisation focussed on the concerns of elders, have been doing their bit to assist them wade through this difficult phase. Healthcare “Accessing health care is a major challenge for the elderly in the pandemic times. Small clinics have closed . Only COVID-19 hospitals are open. There is a massive loss of livelihood among this section. More than 65 % of the elderly work for their livelihood. Now, they are unable to go to work and their jobs are at stake,” says Mrinal Lankapalli, Liaison Manager for A.P, HelpAge India. A helpline 18001801253 has been launched to reach out to those in need of help.
14 August 2020||P. Sujatha VarmaVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A leg-up for collaborative research between U.S., India universities||Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University-Kakinada (JNTU-K) and the University of Missouri, a public research university in Columbia, will collaborate to undertake advanced studies in blockchain technology and Artificial Intelligence. The project is being funded by the United States Mission to India through its programme called ‘2020 US-India Higher Education Research Collaboration Initiative.’ Started last year (2019), this initiative, implemented through the University of Nebraska, Omaha, aims at promoting collaborative research between the universities in the United States and India. JNTU-K and the University of Missouri will receive a grant of $44,000 to pursue this joint research. “The process is very competitive and JNTU-K is the only university in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Odisha to receive this grant,” said Annavarapu Kumar, Overseas Education Coordinator of the State government, based out of Atlanta. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Kumar said many universities were interested in collaborating with Andhra Pradesh in the higher education sector. He said the joint venture was a step towards realising Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s dream to raise the educational standards to international level. He said this particular project was a year-long collaboration but research works would continue for almost next five years. Wider choice “There are many misconceptions in the minds of people with regard to pursuing higher education in the U.S. There is a dire need to educate the young aspirants and help them chase their dreams,” says Mr. Kumar, pointing to the fact that a large number of students go to the U.S. to pursue their higher studies but a majority of them join only the ‘bracketed’ 12 universities. “The choice is much wider. There are some 2,700 universities with most of them offering financial aid and fellowships,” he said.
14 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials focus on plasma therapy as tally goes up||With the coronavirus cases crossing the 12,000-mark in Srikakulam, the district administration has laid its focus on giving a wide publicity to plasma therapy to ensure quick recovery of patients. Two youth—Prasanth and Krishna Vamsi— who recovered from the infection recently donated plasma at the Indian Red Cross Society’s blood bank. The plasma was administered to two patients. IRCS chairman P. Jaganmohana Rao said special training was imparted to a team to ensure safe collectiong of plasma from the COVID-19 patients who have recovered from the infection recently. Collector J. Nivas, who attended a blood donation camp organised by Lions Club here on Thursday, urged the club and other organisations to create awareness on the benefits of plasma therapy. Club president Chintada Krishnamohansaid they would organise plasma donation camps. Club former president Natukula Mohan said the association would take help of the village volunteers for collecting details of the recovered patients and convince them for plasma donation. Meanwhile, the district administration has set a target of conducting 5,000 COVID-19 tests per day.
14 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||49 patients discharged from SVIMS hospital||As many as 49 COVID-19 patients in the need of critical healthcare services, who were admitted to the Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS), were discharged after they were tested negative for the infection on Thursday. Of the patients, 40 belong to Chittoor district, six to Kadapa, two to Kurnool and one to Nellore district. Sixteen of them are women. Similarly, fourteen patients were discharged from the Ruia Hospital, a district COVID facility. Around 170 patients with mild symptoms were also discharged from the Srinivasam Complex.
14 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dalit youth tonsures his head||A Dalit youth, K. Murali, got his head tonsured at the Ambedkar Circle here on Thursday, protesting against the police shaving the head of a Dalit youth in East Godavari district recently. The youth, under the banner of Tirupati Dalita Yuvatha, staged a demonstration along with community members at the circle and got his head shaved in full public view. He flayed the government for being a mute spectator to the spate of incidents of harassment and humiliation meted out to the community members and demanded action against the perpetrators.
14 August 2020||VELERUPADU (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Flood alert sounded in tribal hamlets||Officials have given a flood warning in many tribal hamlets in the Agency area as the water level has been increasing in the Godavari. Official sources said that the flood level reached 35.60 feet at Bhadrachalam, 25.900 metres at the coffer dam and 11.400 metres at Polavaram by 6 p.m. on Thursday. The flood level may increase further as heavy rain is forecast in the catchment areas, according to the officers monitoring the situation. Personnel drawn from the departments of Revenue, Irrigation, Medical and Health, AP-Transco, Police, Panchayat Raj, ITDA, and expert swimmers have swung into action in the villages. Police pickets set up West Godavari Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik said the police were prepared and on alert. “Pickets have been set up at Kondrukota causeway, Kothur low-level bridge, Koida, Yedduvaagu and other causeways as flood water is overflowing. The police have been instructed to patrol the area to prevent any human and animal loss,” Mr. Naik told The Hindu . K.R. Puram ITDA Project Officer R.V. Suryanarayana said instructions had been given to the Tribal Welfare and Irrigation officers to do patrolling along the river-bund to prevent breaches. “Five boats have been kept ready at the overflowing causeways and at villages in Velerupadu, Polavaram, and Kuknoor mandals. Ten more mechanised boats will be pressed into service to meet any emergency from Friday,” the PO said. Polavaram MRO Shah, Velerupadu MRO Ramesh, and Polavaram DSP M. Venkateswara Rao were monitoring the flood preparedness in the villages. Continuous downpour in many villages was effecting the flood relief works, the officers said.
14 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Implead petition: HC orders probe by retired SC judge||A two-Judge Bench of the High Court comprising Justices M. Satyanarayana Murthy and K. Lalitha Kumari directed that the allegation made by S. Ramakrishna, a magistrate from Chittoor, that some retired judges were behind the writ petition filed against the High Court with vested interests, be inquired into by Supreme Court retired judge R.V. Raveendran. Reports in four weeks The court ordered that the CBI and Central vigilance officials should extend cooperation to the former apex court judge, and that the inquiry report must be submitted in four weeks. The court order was in response to an implead petition which Mr. Ramakrishna filed in the High Court recently requesting that he be heard on a writ petition by BC, SC, ST, Minority Student Federation member J. Lakshmi Narasaiah of Kurnool. In his petition, Mr. Narasaiah sought directions to the State government to declare the High Court premises as a red zone for controlling COVID, and the Union Ministry of Home Affairs and Department of Law and Justice of Government of India to order a probe by Central/neutral agencies into the incidents that led to the untimely death of High Court Registrar-General B. Rajasekhar. Mr. Ramakrishna’s contention was that the doubts cast on the COVID containment measures taken by the High Court were mala fide and it was at the behest of the government that some persons who became pawns in its hands, were dragging the court into litigation. He said the precursor to the writ petition filed by Mr. Narasaiah were serious allegations made by All India Backward Classes Federation against sitting judges of the High Court, including the Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari.
14 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to take part in I-Day celebrations in Vijayawada||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will take part in the State-level Independence Day celebrations at Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation Stadium in the city on Saturday. At 12 other districts, Ministers, including a Deputy Chief Minister, will unfurl the tricolour flag and receive the guard of honour. The Department of General Administration has issued orders listing the Ministers selected to take part in the celebrations. Ministers Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao will hoist the flag in Srikakulam, Velampalli Srinivasa Rao in Vizianagaram, K. Kannababu in Visakhapatnam, Dharmana Krishna Das in East Godavari and Perni Venkataramaiah in West Godavari will hoist the flag. In Guntur, Minister Ch. Sri Ranganadha Raju will hoist the flag. Viswarupu Pinipe in Prakasam, Balineni Srinivasa Reddy in Nellore, P. Anil Kumar in Kurnool, A. Suresh in Kadapa, Botcha Satyanarayana in Anantapur and Mekapati Goutham Reddy in Chittoor district will unfurl the flag. Meanwhile, DGP D. Gautam Sawang inspected the IGMC Stadium the venue for State-level celebrations. He witnessed a dress rehearsal of the guard of honour parade and other activities. The DGP also inspected the security arrangements.
14 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Speed up efforts to get Centre’s nod for Disha Act, says Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed the officials to get the Central government’s nod for the A.P. Criminal Law Amendment Act, 2019 (Disha Act) at the earliest and take steps for speedy establishment of special courts for its implementation. In a review meeting on Thursday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the government needed to move fast on obtaining the Union Home Ministry’s clearance for the Disha Act and the Andhra Pradesh Special Courts for Specified Offences against Women and Children Act so as to punish those committing grave offences on women and children. The Chief Minister nsisted that special public prosecutors be appointed in right earnest, and ordered that details of the Disha Act be prominently displayed at the ward and village secretariats and other public places to spread awareness among the public. The Chief Minister further said that forensic laboratories should be set up for foolproof implementation of the Acts and called for monthly stock-taking at the district level. Patrol vehicles Officials told the Chief Minister that Disha patrol vehicles would be launched soon and arrangements were being made to set up cyber security kiosks and Disha helpdesks in all the police stations to facilitate the lodging of complaints by the aggrieved. So far, 390 cases were booked under the Disha Act. Of them, 74 ended in conviction, three persons were sentenced to death, and life imprisonment was awarded to five persons. Home Minister M. Sucharitha, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney and Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang were among those present on the occasion.
14 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No action against ‘real culprits’ in tonsuring case, alleges TDP||The TDP has asked the State government to explain why it has not taken any action against the “real culprits” in the Dalit tonsuring case till date. Addressing the media here on Thursday, senior party leader Nakka Ananda Babu said 90% of Dalits had voted for the YSRCP and raised slogans such as ‘Jagan ravali’ (Jagan should come) in the 2019 elections. “The scenario has changed now as the Dalits are being chased and beaten up. The victim of Sitanagaram in East Godavari district, Vara Prasad, was allegedly dragged out of his house and taken to the police station where he was beaten up and tonsured. Social Welfare Minister P. Viswarup should explain why no action has been taken against the real culprits,” Mr. Ananda Babu said. Soon after the incident, the Minister had promised to ensure the arrest of the guilty in 24 hours, but no efforts had been made in the last 24 days to arrest YSRCP leader Kamala Krishna Murthy, who was allegedly the prime accused, the TDP leader said, and added that it was a good omen that the President had ordered an inquiry by a special officer into the case. ‘Discrimination’ Mr. Ananda Babu called upon the Dalits to agitate against the atrocities being committed by the YSRCP and its leaders. “Dalits are being discriminated against even in aspects such as according compensation in accidents. While Rs. 1 crore was announced for the victims of styrene vapour leak in Visakhapatnam and Rs. 50 lakh for the next of kin of the deceased in the Vijayawada fire accident, only Rs. 10 lakh was announced for the Dalits who were killed in a road accident in Prakasam district,” he alleged.
14 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain alert issued||A low-pressure area has been formed over north-west Bay of Bengal off north Odisha and West Bengal coasts under the influence of cyclonic circulation over northwest and adjoining West-central Bay of Bengal off Odisha-north Andhra Pradesh coasts on Thursday. Due to this, Krishna district is likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy rainfall in the coming two days, according to India Meteorological Department's weather warning. In view of the warning, Krishna District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz asked the officials concerned to alert the public in low lying and flood-prone villages. A district helpline, 0866-2474805- at the Collector's camp office has been set up. People can also call 0866-2574454 at Vijayawada Sub-Collector's office, 08656-232717 at Nuzvid Sub-Collector's office, 08672-252486 at Bandar RDO's office and 08674-243697 at Gudivada RDO's office for any information and help.
14 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Keep Vidya Kanuka kits ready, says Minister||Education Minister A. Suresh has asked officials to make sure that the ‘Jagananna Vidya Kanuka’ kits are ready by the time the schools reopen. Reviewing the programme that envisages free supply of kits comprising uniform cloth, notebooks, bag, shoes and a belt, to the students, the Minister enquired with the officials about the supply target and how much of it had been met so far. When informed that 35% of the notebooks, 46% of school bags and 38% of shoes had been despatched to the respective districts, the Minister reiterated that 100% stocks should be ready when schools reopen. With regard to safeguarding the kits, the Minister said extra care should be exercised in view of the rains. He said instead of piling them up at the mandal recourse centres, the kits could be sent to the schools, and the respective headmasters be made responsible for them. For schools that were being given a facelift under the Nadu-Nedu programme, the officials should look for an alternative place to safeguard the kits. Biometric attendance The Minister further asked the Department of Higher Education to implement the Aadhaar-enabled Biometric Attendance System (AeBAS) in all colleges for staff and students. Explaining the process involved, the Minister said finding the current status of implementation and requirement of the devices should be followed by procurement and installation of the devices. One-time registration of students and staff and then integration and real-time data transfer to the Jnanabhumi portal should be expedited.
14 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. staff for review of HC order on pay||The A.P. Government Employees’ Federation has stated that it will urge the High Court to review its orders to the government to pay the withheld salaries and pensions of the employees and retired staff with 12% interest within two months.
14 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||931 new cases reported in district||As many as 931 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Visakhapatnam district, taking the cumulative tally to 22,929. Six persons from various areas succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 156 in the district. As many as 887 persons have recovered from COVID-19 in the district in the same period. As per the COVID-19 bulletin released by Special Officer for COVID-19 P.V. Sudhakar, the number of active cases in the district is 6,305 while the number of discharged persons stands at 16,468. There are a total of 851 clusters in the district, of which 149 are classified as ‘very active’. The number of active and dormant clusters are 234 and 459 respectively. Review meet Collector V. Vinay Chand on Thursday said that the district would have 42 additional Primary Health Centres (PHCs) soon to cater to the medical needs of patients, and said that recruitment is being taken up. He added that 54 old ambulances are getting repaired and they would make use of them. Mr. Vinay Chand was speaking to the Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Rajesh Bhushan, who conducted a video-conference with officials of Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra to review the COVID-19 situation, here on Thursday. The Collector said that the district is following guidelines stringently for international arrivals at the Visakhapatnam airport and is ensuring that the passengers are abiding by quarantine protocols. ‘Increase testing capacity’ Earlier, Mr. Bhushan asked officials to increase testing capacity and asked them to take care of doctors and paramedical staff and make sure that they are not affected by COVID-19. He also stressed the usage of PPE kits and their proper disposal. Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Lav Agarwal, stressed the need for surveillance of COVID-19 patients who are under home isolation. He said that if they do not take proper precautions, there are chances of the virus spreading to their family as well as others. Principal Secretary (Health & Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy from Vijayawada said that Andhra Pradesh has been conducting the most number of tests and added that recruitment of medical staff is also taking place on a large scale. He mentioned that the State has launched 1,088 new ambulances.
14 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2020 a forgettable year for wedding card printers||The year 2020 will easily go down as one of the worst ever for wedding card printers. Never would they have thought that they would be staring at mounting losses just halfway through the year. The COVID-19 pandemic has dealt such a blow to their businesses that it will be difficult to recover, they say. The season of March to June is crucial for wedding card printers. The COVID-19 lockdown, restrictions in containment zones and the government’s bar on marriage attendance has taken a severe toll on their finances. A number of workers involved in the business for a long time are now out of work due to a lack of orders. Six months after the COVID-19 outbreak, things are now totally different for the printers. People who used to come with orders of 500 to 1,000 cards are now giving orders only for a maximum of 20 cards due to the restrictions imposed by the government on the number of guests who can attend a wedding. “During the marriage season, we used to see 15 customers daily with print orders of 300 to 1,000 wedding cards. Now, we are getting only two to five customers a day, and they ask us to print not more than 30 cards. We were closed from March 21 to June 17. I fear that my total losses will amount to at least Rs. 8 to 9 lakh. We used to have 21 staff, but now, there are only nine,” said A.V.S Nani of Vaibhav Wedding Cards near Rama Talkies. Mr. Nani said that from October, the marriage season resumes. “We expected that there will be a decent footfall of customers from August. But the COVID-19 pandemic shows no signs of stopping, and as a result, we just had five customers from August 5 to 11,” he said. Mr. Naga Ratnam, who runs another medium-scale wedding card printing business in Gajuwaka, said that generally they refuse to print fewer than 50 cards. But due to the present situation, they are ready to print even 15 cards. “Generally, we take orders in 50s, 100s, or 150s, but things are different now. Customers are few and far in between and printing has also gone down, so has the turnover. We are not able to pay salaries to our employees,” he said. Another wedding card printer named Suresh said that people have now switched over to using social media to invite people due to the COVID-19 situation. “Not just for weddings, people used to order cards for birthdays, anniversaries and other functions. But thanks to COVID-19, invitations are going fully digital now,” he said, adding that he has incurred a loss of over Rs. 2 lakh. G. Arjun, a resident of Sheela Nagar, said that he used a few portals on the internet to prepare a wedding card of his own, which he shared with his family and friends. Wedding cards were given only to 40 close relatives, he said.
14 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tracing the glorious past of the District Collector’s office||On Saturday, the entire nation will be celebrating the 73rd Independence Day and the tricolour will be hoisted at all government offices and parade grounds, where the official State Independence Day programme will be held. Here in the city, the State programme will be held at the Police Parade Grounds, but before that, the tricolour will be hoisted at the District Collector's office, the seat of the district administration. The National Flag is hoisted every day at the Collector’s office, but August 15 has a unique significance. It was on this day, exactly 107 years ago on August 15, 1913, that the building was inaugurated and occupied by the then District Collector L.T. Harris. Little did the British know that on the same day, 34 years later, we would achieve our freedom and hoist our own National Flag on the same flag post, INTACH member and history buff V. Edward Paul said. Mr. Paul, who has extensively researched the history of Vizag, says that on August 15, 1947, the Union Jack was brought down from the flag post for the first time since the building was inaugurated and our National Flag hoisted by the then District Collector A.H. Southern, who was also a Britisher. A few old-timers who were present on that day on the porch of the District Collector’s office recollected that the atmosphere was vibrant with national pride and people openly rejoiced on the streets outside the Collector’s office. As per senior citizens who had earlier spoken to The Hindu , sweets were distributed for free and people marched on to the road soon after Nehru’s rousing midnight speech ‘Tryst with destiny’ concluded on the radio broadcast. Though the official programme was held at the police parade grounds back then, the Collector’s office was the epicentre for the celebrations as it was considered to be the seat of power during British rule. The city of Visakhapatnam went into the hands of the British as per the firmans issued by Mughal Emperor Shah Alam II in 1756 and by the Nawab of Hyderabad, Mir Nizam Ali Khan, Asaf Jah II in 1758. Visakhapatnam district was formed in 1803 and L.G.K. Murray was the first Collector of the district.
14 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||20 persons pledge bodies on World Organ Donation Day||Twenty persons pledged to donate their bodies after their death, on the occasion of World Organ Donation Day on Thursday. They handed over their consent letters to Comrade Jyothi Basu Deha Dana Protsahaka Samastha, pledging their bodies to the Andhra Medical College (AMC). The Samstha was formed in 2013, drawing inspiration from Communist leader Jyothi Basu, who had pledged his body for the benefit of medical science. Trust president and secretary M. Annapurna and V. Prabhavati said that the donors included 72-year-old Rangala Adinarayana. They said that 13 bodies have been donated by the trust to the AMC so far. The trust has received 80 consent letters in the past and 20 more were received on Thursday. She called for greater awareness on organ donation, blood donation and eye donation among the public and said that the trust would conduct more programmes to sensitise the public in this regard.
14 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Implement GO 77, 78 in district: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) on Thursday urged the State Government to set up a task force to ensure that GOs 77 and 78 are implemented by private hospitals in the district. Party leaders said that COVID -19 cases are on the rise in Visakhapatnam district, with the number of cases crossing the 21,000 mark. They said that taking advantage of the situation, private hospitals are charging exorbitant rates from patients. Speaking to The Hindu , CPI(M) State Secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao said that the government issued GOs 77 and 78 on July 8, directing the corporate and private hospitals to follow the norms as stated in the GOs. “As per GO 77, the government specified that the charges for a bed per day, should not be more than Rs. 3,250. In critical cases, where ventilator facility is required with a special room, it should not be more than Rs. 10,388.” “But a majority of corporate hospitals are charging close to or even more than Rs. 50,000 per day for per bed. Even after charging such enormous fees, they are admitting COVID patients with high recommendation or else they are simply refusing by saying that no beds are available without giving a valid reason, despite the dashboard showing that beds are available,” Mr. Narasinga Rao alleged. He pointed out that despite charging such huge fees, the corporate hospitals have not increased the salary of the nurses and sanitation staff. They also claimed that Aarogyasri and YSR A.H.C.T schemes are not being implemented in the corporate hospitals for the poor. “Though the GO says that the list of charges must be displayed at the reception counter at the concerned hospitals and availability of beds should also be displayed, it is not being followed. We demand that in all the hospitals the list of charges should be displayed in public. The DM&HO is authorised to inspect the hospitals,” said Mr. Narasinga Rao, adding that it is time for the corporate and PSU sector to chip in by opening up their hospitals to the public.
14 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pay arrears of Kalyana Mitras: CITU||CITU has demanded immediate payment of remuneration arrears of ‘Kalayana Mitras’, who are working under the YSR Kalayana Lakshmi scheme. The Kalyana Mitras are facing several problems due to the non-payment of remuneration for the past 16 months. Their services were utilised by the officials online even during the lockdown, leaders alleged. ‘Promise not kept’ The Chief Minister had assured that their remuneration would be doubled but no orders were issued to that effect, CITU district leader V.V. Srinivasa Rao and Sramika Mahila Committee convener S. Aruna said in a statement on Thursday. They submitted a memorandum to the Collector and the DRDA Project Officer seeking immediate payment of remuneration arrears. A poster was also released demanding immediate payment of arrears, provision of job security and doubling of remuneration, as promised by the Chief Minister.
14 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Design, erection defects led to crane crash: report||The committee comprising Andhra University professors and R and B superintending engineer, led by the Visakhapatnam urban RDO, which probed the crane crash at the Hindustan Shipyard Ltd, has submitted its report to Collector V. Vinay Chand on Wednesday. The committee reportedly came to the conclusion that the accident had occurred due to design and erection defects and levelled charges against the Mumbai-based firm to which the initial contract was given. At least 10 people, including four HSL employees, died in the incident on August 1, when load trial run was being done.  The work on the crane reportedly commenced in 2009, when the contract was given to Mumbai-based Anupama Industries. The company left the work midway in 2012. As per sources in HSL, the work recommenced this year by another contracting firm, Greenfields Corporation, and Lead Engineers and Squad 7 were also involved in the work.  Meanwhile, reacting to the report, the Left parties said that the HSL management was also to be blamed for the accident. For eight years till the work was resumed, the crane was left neglected without maintenance and this was also one of the reasons for the accident, said Ch. Narasinga Rao, CPI (M) State Secretariat member.
14 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Koyya suspended from YSRCP||The YSRCP has suspended Koyya Prasad Reddy from the party for allegedly indulging in illegal land deals by misusing the official machinery and using the names of MP V. Vijya Sai Reddy and the district Collector. The party warned of action against misuse the name of the YSRCP, or its leaders, for “land deals and illegal transactions.”
14 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yoga classes at AU from Aug. 17||The Department of Yoga and Consciousness (Yoga Village), AU will conduct regular online yoga classes - general yoga class, weight reduction yoga class, women general yoga class, beginners yoga class from August 17. Head of the department Dr. K. Ramesh Babu said that the classes will be held under the supervision of senior yoga instructor P. Pratap. Contact 8919639492 or 0891-2566640 for registration.
14 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land to be acquired for airport approach road||The government has released Rs. 110 crore for fresh land acquisition in the Bhogapuram airport areas as it has to construct an approach road providing connectivity to the NH. Although the government acquired 2,700 acres two years ago for the project, the same was not done for the approach road. The distance between the actual airport area and NH-26 is around 5 km.   Meanwhile, former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju has asked the government to utilise the entire 2,700 acres for the purpose of airport. He objected to allocation of only 2,200 acres of land for the airport and utilisation of remaining 500 acres for industrial needs.
14 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New Joint Collector for Vizianagaram||Vizianagaram District Revenue Officer J. Venkata Rao on Thursday took charge as Joint Collector (Asara and Samskshemam wings) of Vizianagaram. Mr. Rao, who had been working as DRO for the last two years, had earlier worked as RDO of Vizianagaram and Parvatipuram. District officials greeted Mr. Rao. The incumbent Joint Collector R. Kurmanath has been transferred as Project Officer of Parvatipuram ITDA.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Working capital incentive sought for Dalits, women||Picking holes in the new industrial policy announced by the government recently, TDP leader S.V. Ramana Madiga on Thursday alleged that no provisions were made to extend working capital facility to small and medium entrepreneurs belonging to Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and others. Mr. Ramana Madiga, the former Director of Leather Industries Development Corporation of Andhra Pradesh also expressed concern over the reduction in investment subsidy. “Investment subsidy up to Rs. 75 lakh was being offered during the TDP regime, which has been reduced to Rs. 50 lakh in the new policy. The power subsidy has also been slashed. These two factors will discourage Dalit and women entrepreneurs,” he claimed. He added that there was no mention of service sector in the industrial policy.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 6,270-cr. annual credit plan released||Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal released the annual credit plan of Rs. 6,270 crore for the 2020-21 financial year here on Thursday. Mr. Jawaharlal sought the support of the bankers for the effective implementation of the welfare schemed introduced by the government.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Test run||
14 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Affordable Favipiravir launched||MSN Group (MSN), a leading generic pharmaceutical company, announced the launch of the most-affordable Favipiravir, marketed under the brand name ‘FAVILOW’. The medicine will be costing Rs. 33 with a recommended dose of 200 mg and will be available in all pharmacies across the country. For mild cases MSN successfully developed the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) and the formulation for FAVILOW through its in-house R&D team. The medicine can be used for the treatment of mild to moderate COVID-19 patients. “We are glad to launch our product during the current tough times as COVID-19 cases in India are increasing like never before. We as a company always believe that quality medicine has to be accessible and available to everyone. We are confident that our product will nurture hope in patients as it is both effective and affordable at the same time,” said CMD Dr. MSN Reddy on Thursday. DCGI approved ‘Favipiravir’ has been granted approval by DCGI for the treatment of suspected or laboratory-confirmed cases of COVID in adults and children, hospitalised with severe symptoms of the disease. FAVILOW (Favipiravir) will be available in 200 mg tablets that can be purchased from all pharmacies with a prescription by a healthcare practitioner. MSN had earlier launched Oseltamivir 75 mg capsules, another anti-viral medication under the brand name ‘OSELOW’, and will be launching FAVILOW 400 mg very soon in the market as part of the COVID treatment range, a press release said. For details, contact 9100591030 or email to customercare@msnlabs.com.
14 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Moazzam Jahi Market gets a facelift||Nearly 867 days after conservation work began on the Moazzam Jahi Market, the historical market is set to be repurposed as a cultural hub. “It’s Aug 15 !! Renovated #MJMarket will be opened for us all … (Today’s pic),” tweeted Arvind Kumar, Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration and Urban Development. More than two years earlier, on March 26, 2018, Mr. Kumar had tweeted: “Based on the advice of Minister @KTRTRS, I am adopting #MJ Market for its complete #heritage restoration..seen below is it’s present condition! My time frame is 3-4 months. Seeking suggestions & participation of #Hyderabadis in this effort.” The sombre structure in stone now has a new lease of life as people stop to have a second glance when it is lit up in the night or during daytime when the clock strikes the hour. Transformed inside out During the course of the renovation work, the building has been transformed from inside out. In the process, the ceiling, the flooring, wiring, signages and ducting have got a complete makeover. A large tricolour now flutters from the middle of the irregular triangular space. The path to the renovation has not been smooth. “My mother runs a pot stall for more than 5 decades but today we got a warning to remove the stall overnight or else they want to damage the pots stock which is worth more than 50k. Pls do justice,” wrote the son of one of the tenants in the market. The rent in the market range starts at Rs. 900 and most of the tenants have shops inherited from their parents and grandparents. Fruit vendors who have rented space believe in stocking their goods outside for display. How this shopping area, with dozens of shopkeepers with competing pulls of business, turns into a cultural complex remains to be seen.
14 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Half of 11,000 toilets will be for women||GHMC has embarked upon construction of a total of 7,200 public toilets in the city, far exceeding the earlier target of 3,000 toilets. Of these, construction of a total of 1,536 toilets has already been completed, while work is on at a brisk pace for 4,271 more. Construction is under process for the remaining 1,393 toilets, a statement from GHMC informed. These will be part of over 11,000 public toilets the department of MA&UD aims to construct, of which 8,000 are expected to be ready by August 15 (Independence Day). Half of these toilets will be for women. Of the total, 3,850 toilets are under way across the urban local bodies other than GHMC. Instead of calling for tenders, the government has authorised the district collectors to empanel agencies to take up construction of toilets at Standard Schedule of Rates as determined by a committee of engineers with members drawn from Roads & Buildings, Panchayat Raj, and the urban local body concerned. A pet project of MA&UD Minister K.T. Rama Rao, this is claimed as the largest drive in public toilets anywhere in the country, and Hyderabad will be by far the only city with more than 10,000 toilets inclusive of the latest addition, officials informed. Cost of each toilet varied between Rs. 60,000 and Rs. 1.5 lakh depending on design. The decision with regard to the design has been delegated to district-level authorities, as per the GO.
14 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pvt. hospitals agree to keep 50% beds under govt. control||In a significant decision that would go in tune with the High Court’s suggestion, the managements of private or corporate hospitals in the State have offered to hand over 50% of their total bed capacity to the State government for COVID treatment and collect only the charges decided by the government for those beds. A delegation of corporate hospitals’ management held a meeting with Health Minister Eatala Rajender on Thursday, where it was also decided that patients for the 50% beds would be allotted by the government. Allotment of beds in private hospitals would be made with the help of a mobile app. Thanking the private managements, the Minister suggested the delegation to have a meeting with Director of Public Health Dr. Srinivasa Rao for formulating guidelines for the purpose. Secretary (Medical & Health) S.A.M. Rizvi and Director of Medical Education Dr. K. Ramesh Reddy also attended the meeting along with expert committee members – VC of Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences Dr. Karunakar Reddy and Dr. Gangadhar. The Health Minister’s office stated that he had been requesting private hospitals to join hands with the government in the fight against COVID. The State government had fixed charges for COVID treatment in private hospitals and directed them to implement it. However, several private hospitals have been indulging in unfair practices and collecting exorbitant charges. Following receipt of complaints on fleecing of patients for COVID treatment by private hospitals, the government had issued showcause notices and taken action against some hospitals. However, private hospitals said that they did not agree to any terms yet.
14 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Plea for graveyard for Christians||A delegation from the Christian community belonging to different Catholic and Protestant denominations met the Scheduled Castes Development and Minority Welfare Minister Koppula Eshwar on Thursday here with a plea to immediately allocate land for a graveyard for COVID victims. The delegation led by Roydin Roach, Telangana State President, All India Catholic union, and comprising over a dozen clergy from different churches in the State brought to the Minister’s notice the shortage of graveyards in twin cities and elsewhere. It was decided during the meeting that a committee be appointed with members representing all the churches in the ratio of 70% Protestant community and 30% Catholics. The delegation also brought to the Minister’s notice the registration of Christian marriages as per the Christian Marriage Act 1872. Every Episcopal Church priest is an ex officio marriage registrar and is the authority, the Registrar needs to attest the said document as per the Act. “We have only Hyderabad and Rangareddy District following the Act. Hence, all district registry need to follow the same,” Roach said. The Minister responded positively to the plea. Other representatives, who attended the meeting included Rev. T. Bhasker, Vice President, Church of South India, Medak Diocese, Bishop John Gollpally, Free Methodist Church, Rev. Calab Raypati, Harvest Ministry, Rev. Jonathan Kalwala, The Evangelical Mission, Rev. Dr. Y. Mohan Babu, President, Sion fellowship and Rev. Chiranjeevi, Baptist Churches. The Catholic churches were represented by Rev. Fr. Joseph Arlagadda, Rev. Fr. Raju Alex and Rev. Fr. V. K. Swamy.
14 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bhatti Vikramarka faults KTR||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka has sought clarity on reports that IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao conducted a Cabinet meeting in Pragati Bhavan on Wednesday in the absence of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. If the reports are true, it is a serious issue and raises serious questions over the reasons for the absence of the Chief Minister, and the government should give a clarity on this, he said in a statement here. “We are concerned and surprised over such meeting.” he said. Mr. Vikramarka asked when the pandemic is frightening people and is spreading in the State, why was a review held on issues like food processing and logistics policy. Moreover, the meeting was held in the place designated for Cabinet meetings and that too calling the Chief Secretary, Government Advisor, State Planning Board vice chairman and other Ministers, he claimed.
14 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre takes note of demolition of Secretariat mosques||The Central Waqf Council (CWC), a statutory body under the administration of the Ministry of Minority Affairs and headed by Union Minister Syed Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, has taken a note of the demolition of the two mosques in the Secretariat complex. In a letter to the Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB), the CWC invoked Section 295 of the Indian Penal Code and requested the Muslim endowments panel to take appropriate action. “As per the provisions of Section 295 of the India Penal Code (IPC), injuring or defiling or damage to any place of worship of any class or person is an offence cognizable and non-bailable in nature. Therefore, you are requested to look into the issue and take immediate appropriate action under intimation to the applicant and this office,” an excerpt reads. The CWC was acting on a complaint filed by Majlis Bachao Tahreek leader Amjed Ullah Khan which was forwarded by CWC member Haneef Ali. Complaint In the complaint, Mr Khan alleged that apart from the two mosques, a temple in the Secretariat complex too was demolished. He further alleged that the demolition of the places of worship was a ‘pre-planned act’ and that the State authorities did not take any action against this demolition. When contacted, TSWB Chief Executive Officer Mohammed Khasim said, “We have received the letter yesterday. We are collating documents so that a file can be prepared and a response to the CWC will be sent shortly.” The demolition of the mosques sent shockwaves in the community. Several Muslim leaders including the Jamiat-e-Ulama Hind Telangana president Maulana Hafiz Peer Shabbir, noted cleric Maulana Mufti Abdul Mughni Mazaahiri and others expressed concern over the incident. Maulana Jafar Pasha, another religious leader, in the recent past said that a delegation would attempt to take stock of the situation by visiting the site of the demolition. The All India Muslim Personal Law Board and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen-backed panel United Muslim Forum had demanded that the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government construct new mosques at the site of the demolition.
14 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Chinese national, 3 others working for online gambling company held||A Chinese national and his three associates from New Delhi were arrested by Hyderabad police on Thursday for organising online gambling. The arrest came after the Income Tax Department launched a probe into money laundering against several Chinese nationals. During the course of investigation, the sleuths of Central Crime Station found that the online gambling was organised by various companies under the blanket of Beijing T Power Company, a firm based out of China. The arrested are Yah Hao, a Chinese national, and head of operations for South East Asia, Beijing T Power Company, and three directors -- Dheeraj Sarkar from Gurugram, Ankit Kapoor and Neeraj Tuli from Delhi. A case was registered after two people from city, who were cheated by the gambling website of Rs. 97,000 and Rs. 1.64 lakh respectively. The total value of inward transaction on the two bank accounts traced so far is nearly Rs. 1,100 crore and majority transactions took place this year. “Most of the remittances have been transferred to different other accounts which are being traced and some of the accounts are overseas. Total overseas remittances known as of now is nearly Rs. 110 crore. The group was planning to register a company in Cayman Islands,” said Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar. However, the officers could freeze only Rs. 30 crore, which is parked in various bank accounts in the country. Online gambling is banned in Telangana. Cloud-based “The domain name servers of the gaming websites are based out of China and the data hosting services is Cloud-based in the US, which is operated from China. The entire technical operation is run by the China-based directors/partners of these companies,” Mr. Kumar said. According to him, the payments were being routed through India-based payment service providers or gateways and in this case it was Paytm. The bank Accounts and payment gateways were linked to the companies named Linkyun, Dokypay and SpotPay and several others. Mr. Kumar said that the effort of the group is to constantly establish new companies and more operations from one company to other. Under the umbrella of Beijing T Power Company, several companies – Growing Infortech Pvt Ltd, Sily Consulting Services Pvt Ltd, Pan Yun Technology Services, Linkyun Technology Pvt Ltd, Dokypay Technology Pvt Ltd, SpotPay Technology India Pvt Ltd, Daisylink Financial Pvt Ltd and Huahuo Financial Pvt Ltd-- are organising online gaming by cheating people. The games were organised by initiating prospective gamers through Telegram groups and the entry is by ‘reference only’ and members who introduce a certain member of new members were paid commissions. “Admin of the groups will usually indicate the websites on which the registered members can play games and place wagers/bets. These websites would be changed on a daily basis. In this particular format it was found that players would place bets on colours in a game called Colour Prediction,” the Police Commissioner said. There are nearly 28 complaints from different States, and the respective State police will be informed about the arrests for action from their end, Mr. Kumar said.
14 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Plasma donation camp from Aug. 15||The Professionals’ Solidarity Forum, a group working across sectors in the State, will organise a blood and plasma donation drive from August 15 to 22 to help COVID patients recover. According to PSF president Abdul Jabbar, the drive will be organised at locations in Banjara Hills, Saidabad, Malakpet and Golconda, among others. Speaking to the media, Mr Jabbar said, “We are constantly in touch with some potential donors and we will get them on board to donate. More concerted efforts will be made to bring on board a larger number of people.” “Thalassemia patients need blood frequently. Several were finding it very difficult to find donors. This is one of the reasons why we are also focussing on blood donation,” he said. The forum has collaborated with different NGOs, and NTR blood bank, including seeking support from the City Police and GHMC, for the successful execution of the campaign. Steps will be taken to ensure social distancing. Temperature checks and sanitisation of the premises will also be done, Mr. Jabbar said. Those interested to donate can contact 9299655133 and 9030616250 for details.
14 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Heavy rain forecast||Heavy rain has been forecast for the twin cities and the entire Telangana for the next few days with the South west monsoon being very active coupled by a low pressure area over the northwest Bay of Bengal. Very heavy rain occurred at a few places in B. Kothagudem and at isolated places in J.Bhupalpally and heavy rain occurred at most places in Mahabubabad, at isolated places in Khammam and Warangal-rural districts, the Met Office said on Thursday. Burgampadu (B. Kothagudem) 17 cm, Venkatapuram (J. Bhupalpally) 15 cm, Palawancha (B. Kothagudem) 14 cm, Bhadrachalam 13 cm, Mulakalapalle (B. Kothagudem) 12 cm, Yellandu (B. Kothagudem) 12 cm, Tekulapalle (B.Kothagudem) 11cm, Kothagudem (B. Kothagudem) 10 cm, Julurpad (B. Kothagudem) 10 cm, Mahabubabad (Mahabubabad) 10 cm, etc., received heavy rain. The city has experienced continuous and steady drizzle in almost all of its locations, throughout the day on Thursday. While there was no downpour, about two centimetres of rainfall was recorded at locations such as Sardar Mahal, Rajendra Nagar, Asif Nagar, LB Nagar, Malakpet, West Marredpally, Khairatabad, Begumpet, Ramantapur, Kapra, Malkajgiri and several other areas as recorded at the weather monitoring stations across the city.
14 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Missile test equipment launched||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh launched Konkurs Missile Test Equipment and Konkurs Launcher Test Equipment, which have been indigenously designed and developed by Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL), on Thursday. The Konkurs Missile Test Equipment is designed for checking the serviceability of Konkurs - M Anti-Tank Guided Missiles. Konkurs Launcher Test Equipment is designed and developed for checking the serviceability of Konkurs – M Missile Launchers.
14 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Condolence meeting for ex-MLA today||The CPI (M) district committees of both Khammam and Bhadradri-Kothagudem will jointly organise an online condolence meeting on August 14 to pay tributes to former Bhadrachalam MLA and Adivasi Adhikar Rashtriya Manch (AARM) vice-president Sunnam Rajaiah, who died of COVID-19 on the intervening night of August 3-4 in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. A host of senior leaders of the CPI (M) and its frontal organisations including party politburo member B.V. Raghavulu, State committee secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram, veteran Adivasi leader of the party and a three-time MLA of Bhadrachalam Kunja Bojji, will address the online condolence meet slated to be held at 6 p.m. on Friday. The meeting will be streamed live on https://www.facebook.com/CPIMTelangana/ and the Khammam district committee - https://www.facebook. com/cpimkhammam/.
14 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Nip it in the bud is mantra in Nalgonda||District Collector Prashant J. Patil on Thursday said that the strategy to fight COVID in Nalgonda would be specific, aimed at localised areas from where positive cases were being reported. “The plan will be to treat areas from where they are arising, while also defining that area as a containment zone. Places reporting more cases will be treated as hotspots,” he said. Mr. Patil was discussing the strategy with officials from the District Medical & Health Office, the District Hospital and representatives from the State medical and infrastructure development corporation. It was decided that a dedicated medical team will be formed, one each for the 564 gram panchayats, which will comprise a panchayat secretary, Anganwadi teacher, gram sarpanch, an Accredited Social Health Activist worker and an auxiliary nurse midwife. In the seven urban local bodies, Nalgonda’s 48 wards will also get one team each, and in Miryalaguda, Devarakonda, Halia, Nandikonda, Chandur and Chityla, each team will take care of two wards. Officials said teams will conduct door-to-door survey starting from Friday, 9 a.m. to 2 p.m., covering up to 100 houses per day. The team will be equipped with thermal scanners and oximeters to evaluate health issues such as influenza-like illnesses, fever and breathing problems. “Suspects will be given home isolation kits, and Rapid Antigen Tests will be conducted then and there. To protect families from being infected, COVID patients will be treated at government buildings or hostels in the locality,” he said. “Critical patients will be shifted to intensive care units at area hospitals and oxygen will be provided under the supervision of duty doctors,” he added.
14 August 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Tahsildars shuffled in Suryapet||District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy on Wednesday signed orders shuffling several tahsildars. The development was disclosed to media persons on Thursday. Kodad Tahsildar Md. Mahmood Ali was transferred to Chintalapalem mandal, and Srinivasa Sharma, presently Tahsildar of Chilkur, with its additional charge, was transferred to Kodad. Atmakur (S) in-charge tahsildar B. Jawaharlal was posted as Naib Tahsildar of Nadigudem.
14 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram grapples with waterlogging woes again||In one of the heaviest rain this monsoon, Gurugram received around 90 mm of rainfall, with maximum 150 mm in Patadui area on Thursday, causing waterlogging at several points. Narsinghpur, Khandsa and Bilaspur Chowk on NH-48 were also flooded. The police sent across a series of traffic alerts in the morning from its Twitter handle, informing about waterlogging at Basai Road, Mata Mandir Road, IFFCO Chowk, Himgiri Chowk and Sector 46 traffic signal. Many residents took to social media to express their anguish over power cuts and waterlogging.
14 August 2020||Mumbai,||Heavy showers pound parts of Mumbai||Heavy to very heavy rain lashed isolated parts of Mumbai and neighbouring Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts in the last 24 hours, the MeT department said on Thursday. It predicted more showers in the Konkan region and some areas of central Maharashtra over the next one day. Some isolated places in Mumbai received heavy downpour in the range of 70 mm to 100 mm during the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 a.m. on Thursday, a senior India Meteorological Department (IMD) official said. Besides, some isolated areas in Thane experienced very heavy rainfall of more than 120 mm, while the observatory at Matheran hill town in Raigad reported 161.4 mm rain during the same period, the IMD said. “Mumbai recd isol hvy RF, 70-100 mm in last 24 hrs. Thane as expected recd very hvy falls ({gt}120 mm) at isol places. Rest was mod to hvy,” IMD Mumbai centre’s deputy director general K.S. Hosalikar tweeted. “As per model guidance, there could be increase in RF over Konkan & Ghat areas of Madhya Mah in nxt 24 hrs. Nandurbar Dhule possible intense spells,” he added. According to the IMD, the Dahanu weather station in coastal Palghar reported 90.1 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours, while the Thane Belapur Industries Association observatory recorded 57.2 mm rain. The Santacruz weather bureau, representative of Mumbais suburbs, recorded 42 mm downpour, while the Colaba observatory in south Mumbai reported 17.8 mm rainfall. Jalgaon district in north Maharashtra received 25.5 mm rainfall and Parbhani district in Marathwada region saw 20 mm showers, the IMD said. Water released in Pune With the catchment areas receiving a good spell of rain, water is being released from the Khadakwasla reservoir, which is filled to its capacity, an official from the Irrigation department said on Thursday. Rain has been pummelling Pune and adjoining areas since Thursday morning. “As the Khadakwasla reservoir reached its capacity of 1.97 TMC, 11,704 cusecs water has been released from the dam,” the official said.
14 August 2020||Mumbai,||Can’t allow Jain temples to open for Paryushan, State informs HC||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Thursday that it cannot allow Jain temples to open for Paryushan from August 15 to 23 in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Pune. A Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and Madhav Jamdar was hearing two petitions filed by Ankit Vora and Shree Trustee Atma Kamal Labdhisurishwarji Jain Gyanmandir Trust. They both sought directions to the State, Chief Secretary, department of Revenue and Forests, Disaster Management, Relief and Rehabilitation department, and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to allow the members of the Jain community to visit the Jain temples to perform puja and offer prayers, particularly during the holy period of Paryushan. The State informed the Bench that it had rejected the demand of the petitioners in view of the existing COVID-19 guidelines, and submitted an order passed by the secretary of the State Disaster Management, Relief and Rehabilitation department on August 12. The order  said, “If temples are allowed to be opened for performing religious activities, there is an imminent danger of spreading the virus, which may be life-threatening and may even result in loss of life of the entire family. Allowing the claim of applicants by imposing conditions is not a practical feasible option.” Government pleader Poornima Kantharia said the August 12 decision further said, “If the prayer made in the representation is granted, certainly there will be similar requests for allowing to celebrate these festivals and other numerous festivals of various religions, castes and communities, which will ultimately result in spreading the virus quickly and will open floodgates of novel coronavirus patients.” Ms. Kantharia said the State’s machinery is overburdened and it can expect the responsible citizens not to make such demands and, therefore, it cannot allow the situation to become so critical that it goes out of hand. Justice Kathawalla said, “Let us wait for a few days. God is with you and within you. This is a sensitive issue. We have ensured that you get a hearing and get a say from the government. We have the highest regards for every community in the nation.” On March 23, the State had issued a notification thereby enforcing a lockdown in the entire State and prescribing regulations and measures during the period. Under the guidelines, it was ordered that “all religious places of any denomination shall be closed by issuing suitable prohibitory orders.” On May 30, the Ministry of Home Affairs issued an order to open the religious places and places of worship for public on and from June 8. Then on June 4, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) on preventive measures to contain the spread of COVID-19 at religious places. It was argued by the petitioners that though the State from time to time issued orders easing the restrictions and allowing opening of spas, gyms, beauty parlours, barber shops, liquor shops, malls and market complexes, and also allowing certain number of people to attend marriage gatherings and funeral ceremonies with some restrictions, the members of the public have till date been prohibited from visiting religious places and places of worship. That not permitting opening of the religious places with necessary SOPs in Maharashtra despite the Union of India permitting the same, whilst on the other hand allowing the opening of commercial establishments, is arbitrary, unreasonable and without any basis, they said.
14 August 2020||Mumbai,||Transferring Sushant death case to CBI violates State’s rights: Raut||The Shiv Sena on Thursday said handing over the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is an encroachment on the rights of Maharashtra, and the State government is fighting in the Supreme Court to safeguard the federal structure. Speaking to reporters, Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut denied any rift within the Maha Vikas Aghadi government and said the government is not unstable. “As per the Constitution, maintaining law and order is the State subject. There has been no unprecedented situation in the State whereby investigation of a case needs to be given to a Central agency. This is the violation of constitutional rights of Maharashtra and it has happened before in West Bengal,” he said. Mr. Raut said the State government’s fight in the SC is to save the federal structure. “We are not scared of anything or of any inquiry. Had we been scared we would not have come forward to form the government in the first place.” Commenting on Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar snubbing his grandnephew Parth Pawar by calling him immature, Mr. Raut said it is the NCP’s internal matter. “I would not comment on its internal matter. But this will have no impact on the stability of the State government,” he said. Mr. Parth Pawar had demanded a CBI inquiry into the Rajput case. Mr. Pawar’s snub to Mr. Parth Pawar is also seen as a clear indication to his father and State’s Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. “Mr. Parth Pawar is neither a senior leader nor the spokesperson of the NCP. Just like any patriarch in the party, Mr. Pawar too advised him publicly,” the Sena MP said, adding this government will complete its five-year term. On Wednesday, Mr. Raut held a meeting with the NCP chief. Later, Mr. Ajit Pawar and NCP State president Jayant Patill too met with Mr. Pawar.
14 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘Waiting for govt. nod to run Ganapati special trains’||The Central Railway (CR) said on Thursday that it is ready to run special trains to the coastal districts of Maharashtra for the Ganesh Chaturthi festival, but the State government has not yet given a final nod. It was ready to run trains to Konkan by following all the norms, including social distancing, but the State asked to put the schedule on hold, it claimed in a statement. On July 23, it asked the State government to convey its view about running special trains amid the coronavirus pandemic, and the number of such trains and dates, the CR said. The director of the Maharashtra government’s disaster management unit on August 7 informed that Ganapati special trains “may be scheduled”, it said. So it immediately prepared a schedule and sent it to the Railway Board which instantly approved it subject to the standard operating procedure of the Ministry of Home Affairs and inter-district travel norms of the State, it said. “However, senior officials of the State informed on telephone on the night of August 8 to keep the schedule on hold....as the matter is under re-consideration of the Maharashtra government,” it said. “Since then Railway administration, both at (Railway) Board level and zonal level, is in continuous touch with Maharashtra government officials and has been waiting to go ahead,” the CR said. Every year, lakhs of devotees travel to their native places in Konkan for Ganesh Chaturthi — which falls on August 22 this year — from Mumbai and other cities of the State.
14 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||10 hospitals in Navi Mumbai get show cause notices for violations||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation, acting on people’s complaints, has issued show cause notices to 10 private hospitals within its jurisdiction for flouting the directives related to COVID-19 treatment issued by the State government on May 21. “The show cause notices were issued on Wednesday, giving them 72 hours to respond,” additional commissioner Sujata Dhole said. While some of the complaints were about excessive billing, some said every patient was charged for a PPE kit during consultation while either the attending doctor would be without a PPE kit or wearing one that was used while attending to the previous patient. “Some patients have complained that while the doctor continued to wear the same PPE kit, every patient had to bear the expenses of a new kit. The notices were issued after inspecting the complaints. Depending on the response by the hospital, action would be taken,” the NMMC PRO said. The 17 directives issued to all private and charitable hospitals said that every COVID-19 hospital should get registered with the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yogna, along with a rapid antigen facility on its premises. As much as 80% of beds will be regulated by the rates provided by the State, which should be displayed at the main entrance lobby. The hospitals are supposed to update the real time bed occupancy data on the NMMC dashboard. The hospitals have also been asked to not take any deposit from the patient. No walk-in-patients with less than 95% oxygen saturation should be denied admission and if there is lack of availability of beds, the patient should be stabilised and shifted to an ambulance with an oxygen facility till the availability of the bed. Violation of any of the directives will be considered an offence punishable under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.
14 August 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi witnesses heaviest rainfall this monsoon||The Capital witnessed the heaviest rainfall in 24 hours this monsoon, resulting in waterlogging and slow traffic movement at different parts of the city on Thursday .  As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Safdarjung weather station recorded 68 mm rainfall in 24 hours till 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. Rainfall of intensity below 15.6 mm is considered “light”, between 15.6 and 64.4 mm “moderate”, and 64.5 mm and above is “heavy”. Ayanagar station recorded 99.2 mm rainfall, Palam station 93.6 mm, and Ridge station 84.6 mm rainfall till 8.30 a.m. “Generally cloudy sky with one or two spells of moderate rain/thundershowers,” reads IMD’s forecast for the city on Friday. Cloudy skies and rainfall are predicted every day in the city till Wednesday and the city has been placed in yellow alert till Monday. “Waterlogging reported on Raja Garden flyover and Mayapuri flyover both carriageways,” Delhi Police said in a tweet on Thursday morning. Waterlogging and tree felling were reported in several parts of the city.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Members of civil society, scribes hold press meet||Members of civil society and journalists on Thursday held a press conference over alleged assault on scribes while covering a story in north-east Delhi. The meeting was held at the Press Club of India here and was attended by senior advocate Prashant Bhushan, Arundhati Roy, Anand Sahay, Shahid Abbas and Hartosh Singh Bal. The journalists, attacked by a mob in north-east Delhi, narrated their ordeal and inappropriate behaviour of the police when they approached them with a complaint. Mr. Bal read out a statement issued by The Caravan’s woman staffer , who was sexually harassed and assaulted on August 11 in North Ghonda neighbourhood while reporting with two of her colleagues on a story concerning Delhi riots. The police were to take action against the people involved in the attack. Mr. Bhushan said even after the complaint was registered, the police did not register an FIR. He said it shows complete breakdown of the system.
14 August 2020||New Delhi,||Three injured in Bhalswa landfill collapse||A few people, engaged in ragpicking and cattle rearing, were injured when a portion of the Bhalswa landfill in north Delhi collapsed on Thursday morning. A North Delhi Municipal Corporation spokesperson said that three ragpickers had been buried under the garbage. AAP leader Vikas Goel attacked the BJP-ruled corporation over the matter arguing that similar incidents had taken place in the past and alleged that inadequate efforts had been made to rectify the issue.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Woman held for impersonating as ASI||A 20-year-old woman was arrested for allegedly impersonating as Delhi Police Assistant Sub Inspector and issuing fake challans for not wearing masks, police said on Thursday. DCP (West) Deepak Purohit said that the accused has been identified as Tamanna Jahan, a resident of Shiv Vihar in Nangloi. She was arrested on Wednesday. She confessed that due to weak financial condition, she resorted to posing as police official.
14 August 2020||Shoumojit Banerjee Pune,||Amid COVID-19, an ‘infrastructure census’||While the COVID-19 pandemic has put the brakes on rural infrastructure development works in most districts of Maharashtra, and the country’s rural hinterland, it has kept its pace in Pune’s rural areas under the APJ Abdul Kalam PURA (Providing Urban Amenities in Rural Areas) initiative. Headed by zilla parishad Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Ayush Prasad, the Pune rural administration carried out a gap analysis and an innovative ‘infrastructure census’ to plan rural works in a transparent manner while also coping with the pandemic. Mr. Prasad, who is also the acting Pune District Collector, roped in the Maharashtra Knowledge Corporation Limited (MKCL) to take on this challenging task. “Often, budgets are made without knowing actual demand for works or the relative demand between works. Hence, funds for a scheme often go unspent. Development planning processes at the Centre, State, district and even gram panchayat level face a common problem when it comes to demand generation,” Mr. Prasad told The Hindu . Mr. Prasad went about implementing PURA by cutting through the red tape often dogging several rural projects, reducing corruption, and eliminating the imbalance in amenities prevailing in villages. “We identified the 30 types of works we [Pune Zilla Parishad] do, and asked the gram panchayats to conduct a ‘census’ of available infrastructure. We identified gaps in each village and ward within each village and categorised them into three categories — infrastructure not available and not needed, infrastructure not available and needed and infrastructure available but not in sufficient capacity. The gram panchayats were then asked to identify available lands and check for a clear title and clear possession deeds,” he said, explaining the implementation process. Mr. Prasad said that typically, just 20-25% of the public representatives are fully aware of all schemes, while the rest moved proposals in some schemes only. “Generally, the better-aware public representatives allocate more funds for developmental works in their constituencies, leading to an imbalance in amenities in different villages,” he said. “Sometimes, the same work may get approved by two or more heads of accounts, resulting in confusion and inefficiency. This also added to the paperwork, reduction of which is one of the aims of implementing this initiative,” he said. Given that most of the development works are allotted to contractors, they at times push for works and allocation of budget through local cartels. “So, there is a lack of transparency in the work approval processes. After our gap survey, an online system was created on the ZP website where members can log in with their mobile numbers. Members can access two systems now, material purchase to combat COVID-19 and the PURA system,” Mr. Prasad said. The PURA system will eventually transform into a dashboard showing the status of public works suggested by the ZP members. “Members can click and see all projects proposed by the gram panchayat. They can add new projects which may not have been set by the gram panchayat in their infrastructure census,” Mr. Prasad said. They can then set ‘priority’ for all workssuggested by different gram panchayats in their constituency. The ‘highest priority’ works will come before the subject committee at the ZP as a neat list, thus helping the committee in approving the budget.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Spirit of patriotism||
14 August 2020||Wilmington,||Biden, Harris vow to ‘rebuild’ America||Joe Biden and Kamala Harris launched their joint White House bid on Wednesday, with the newly-minted vice presidential nominee saying Americans are “crying out for leadership” to overcome the triple crisis of a pandemic, racial injustice and a ravaged economy. Making their first appearance as running mates, before a small crowd of reporters and staffers at a Delaware high school closed to the public due to COVID-19 concerns, the Democratic duo vowed to end Donald Trump’s presidency and, in Mr. Biden’s words, “rebuild this country.” “Everything we care about,” said Ms. Harris. “It’s all on the line.” A formidable 55-year-old U.S. Senator from California and a daughter of immigrants, Ms. Harris has already made history as the first woman of colour tapped for a major party presidential ticket. Describing a country at the crossroads, she left little doubt of her determination to go on the attack, saying Mr. Trump “just isn’t up for the job” and has left the nation “in tatters.” “America is crying out for leadership, yet we have a president who cares more about himself than the people who elected him,” said Ms. Harris. Despite the awkwardly intimate setting, a far cry from the typical campaign rollout featuring an audience of thousands, Ms. Harris appeared telegenic and confident in her first speech as vice presidential nominee -- for which she and Mr. Biden both arrived wearing facemasks. ‘Failures of leadership’ “The case against Donald Trump and Mike Pence is open and shut,” said the former California Attorney General as she assailed the President’s “failures of leadership” on containing the deadly pandemic and an economy hobbled by measures to fight the contagion. The daughter of Indian and Jamaican immigrants to the U.S. sought to tap into the nationwide upheaval over police violence and racial disparities. “We’re experiencing a moral reckoning with racism and systemic injustice that has brought a new coalition of conscience to the streets of our country demanding change.” For Mr. Biden — who leads Mr. Trump in most national polls and in swing States like Florida and Wisconsin despite conducting the campaign mostly from his Wilmington, Delaware home — his vice presidential reveal marks a crucial moment as he aims to build a broad coalition of voters to defeat Mr. Trump. Mr. Biden spoke of why he chose Ms. Harris as his partner, stressing she was a tough and experienced legislator who is “ready to do this job on Day 1.” ‘America’s story’ And he said that Ms. Harris’ story as the child of immigrants and a woman of colour, who fought her way to the top ranks of U.S. legal and political circles would inspire the country. “Her story’s America’s story,” Mr. Biden said. “She’s worked hard (and) she’s never backed down from a challenge.”
14 August 2020||Minsk,||Belarus detains hundreds more||Police in Belarus said on Thursday they had detained hundreds more protesters as demonstrations continued against strongman leader Alexander Lukashenko’s disputed re-election. Four nights of unrest since Sunday’s vote have seen thousands arrested, dozens wounded and two people dead as police used stun grenades, tear gas, water cannon and, in at least one case, live fire to disperse protesters. Mr. Lukashenko’s opponents accuse him of rigging Sunday’s election to defeat his main rival, popular opposition candidate Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, who left the ex-Soviet country on Tuesday for neighbouring Lithuania. Prominent Belarusians including Nobel Prize-winning author Svetlana Alexievich have condemned the violence and urged Mr. Lukashenko, who has ruled Belarus with an iron grip since 1994, to step down. For the second day in a row on Thursday, dozens of women, many dressed in white and holding flowers, formed a human chain in the capital Minsk to condemn police violence. ‘Illegal gatherings’ The Interior Ministry said 700 more people had been arrested for taking part in illegal gatherings on Wednesday, bringing the total number detained since Sunday to more than 6,700. The Ministry said there had been fewer demonstrations on Wednesday than on previous nights but that “the level of aggression towards members of law enforcement remains high”. It said 103 members of law enforcement had been injured in the unrest since Sunday, with 28 hospitalised. After large-scale gatherings in Minsk and other cities on Sunday, the protests have become scattered and smaller as police cordoned off city centres and shut down public transport. Riot police used rubber bullets and stun grenades to break up protests.
14 August 2020||Jamaica,||Kamala: a shining star of Jamaica||Kamala Harris’s boundary-breaking run at the U.S. vice presidency has inspired hope and dreams in her father’s native Jamaica, where locals claimed her as their own. She might have been born in California to an Indian mother, but it was her Jamaican roots and historic candidacy that got people in Kingston excited on Wednesday. “My heart is soaring for all the kids out there who see themselves in her and will dream bigger because of this,” said Felicia Mills, a 36-year-old executive secretary. “This means a lot for every little girl who has ever dreamed an impossible dream,” she said, describing Harris as an “honorary Jamaican”. Ms. Harris was the first black Attorney General of California and the first woman to hold that post, while she was also the first woman of South Asian heritage elected to the U.S. Senate. The 55-year-old made history on Tuesday when she secured Democratic party’s vice presidential ticket. Her father, Donald Harris, served as an economics professor at prestigious Stanford University in California, where he taught and carried out research. He served as a consultant to Jamaica’s government and its PMs. Her father and mother, breast cancer researcher Shyamala Gopalan, separated when Ms. Harris was about five years old and she and her sister Maya were raised by her mother, who died in 2009. Popular Jamaican political commentator Kevin O’Brien Chang said Ms. Harris’s candidacy shined a positive light on the island. “She has spoken positive about Jamaica in the past, she is aware of her heritage and proud of it,” he said. “It shows greatness, and it translates well, that the daughter of two immigrants born in the U.S. could aspire to the second most powerful job in America,” Mr. Chang added.
14 August 2020||DUBAI,||UAE, Israel reach agreement to establish diplomatic ties||President Donald Trump said on Thursday that the United Arab Emirates and Israel have agreed to establish full diplomatic ties as part of a deal to halt the annexation of occupied land sought by the Palestinians for their future state. The announcement makes the UAE the first Gulf Arab state to do so and only the third Arab nation to have active diplomatic ties to Israel. Mr. Trump tweeted a statement from the countries, acknowledging the deal. He then told reporters in the Oval Office that it was “a truly historic moment”. “Now that the ice has been broken I expect more Arab and Muslim countries will follow the United Arab Emirates,” he said. The recognition grants a rare diplomatic win to Mr. Trump ahead of the November election. For Israel, the announcement comes after years of boasting by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu that his government enjoys closer ties to Arab nations than publicly acknowledged. Mr. Netanyahu has sought to build settlements on lands sought by the Palestinians and embraced a Trump proposal that would allow him to annex large parts of the occupied West Bank while granting Palestinians limited autonomy in other areas. For the UAE, it further burnishes its international campaign to be seen as a beacon of tolerance in West Asia despite being governed by autocratic rulers. Joint statement A joint statement from the U.S., the UAE and Israel was issued immediately after Trump’s tweet. It said delegations would meet in the coming weeks to sign deals on direct flights, security, telecommunications, energy, tourism and health care. The two countries also will partner on fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. “Opening direct ties between two of the Middle East’s most dynamic societies and advanced economics will transform the region by spurring economic growth, enhancing technological innovation and forging closer people-to-people relations,” said the statement by Mr. Trump, Mr. Netanyahu and Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed, the day-to-day ruler of the UAE. It said the leaders had a three-way call discussing the deal.
14 August 2020||BEIRUT,||Lebanon Parliament declares a state of emergency in Beirut||Lebanon’s Parliament approved on Thursday a state of emergency in the capital, Beirut, in its first session since the tragic explosion last week, granting the military sweeping powers amid rising popular anger and political uncertainty. The blast that killed more than 170 people and injured at least 6,000 others changed the face of the capital and forced the government to resign. Before resigning, the government declared a state of emergency in Beirut that granted the military sweeping powers, including the power to declare curfews, prevent public gatherings and censor media as well as refer civilians to military tribunals for alleged security breaches. ‘Silencing dissent’ The move has been criticised by rights groups and other critics who say the civilian government was already operating with increased powers because of the pandemic. Some pointed to the heavy military crackdown on protesters last week, fearing extended power could lead to increased use of force to silence dissent. Parliament is convening outside its regular location to observe social distancing and because of protests outside the Parliament building by angry Lebanese, who want the entire political class to step down. The session opened with a moment of silence for those killed in the blast. It then moved to discuss the resignation of nearly a dozen lawmakers who quit last week in protest of the government’s handling of the August 4 blast. A major Christian party bloc is boycotting the session.
14 August 2020||Gaza City,||Israel attacks, sanctions Gaza||Israel attacked targets of Islamist group Hamas in Gaza and halted fuel supplies to the enclave Thursday in the latest retaliation against fire bombs suspended from balloons that have been released from the Palestinian territory. Israeli warplanes and tanks struck overnight in the fourth military attack in last week, causing no reported casualties on Thursday but leaving one unexploded missile inside a UN-run school’s compound in a refugee camp.
14 August 2020||Paris,||France reinforces naval forces in Mediterranean||France said on Thursday it was “temporarily reinforcing” its military presence in the eastern Mediterranean Sea amid tensions between neighbours Greece and Turkey over recently-discovered gas reserves. The French military said two Rafale jets would arrive on Thursday on the island of Crete for a stay of “several days”, after having taken part in a military exercise in Cyprus earlier in the week. The assault helicopter carrier Tonnerre (Thunder), en route to deliver aid to Beirut after last week’s deadly port explosion there, was joined overnight by the La Fayette frigate, previously deployed to Cyprus, and they took part in an exercise with the Greek navy. “The purpose of this military presence is to strengthen the autonomous assessment of the situation and to affirm France’s commitment to free movement, to the security of maritime navigation in the Mediterranean and respect for international law,” said a Ministry statement. Relations between France and Turkey have been icy as President Emmanuel Macron has accused Ankara of violating the sovereignty of Greece and Cyprus — claims Turkey rejects.
14 August 2020||OAKLAND,||FB ups efforts against wrong information||Beginning Thursday, U.S. Facebook users who post about voting may start seeing an addendum to their messages — labels directing readers to authoritative information about the upcoming presidential election. It’s the social network’s latest step to to combat election-related misinformation on its platform as the November 3 election nears. These labels will link to a new voter information hub. The labels will read, “Visit the Voting Information Center for election resources and official updates.”
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Schools without freedom||If a house needs repairs, and the repairs are delayed for a long time, the house develops a force to haunt its inhabitants during adversity. This analogy applies to the state of children’s education. Decisions pertaining to it are dependent on structures designed to overlook local factors. These structures were forged to ensure total compliance, no matter how vast the system became and how diverse remained the demands served by it. Decentralisation was routinely favoured, but it did not touch the core aspects of education as a system. Craving for a modest amount of autonomy unites principals and teachers from across the sharply divided segments of our vast network of schools. For those serving in government-run schools, there is no provision in the rule book for freedom on any count that matters. Since British days, the bureaucracy views school functionaries with the deepest suspicion, both in their capacities and integrity. No matter how senior you are, your job is to silently follow the orders and circulars issued by the directorate and the examination board. In private schools, you notice additional players who keep principals and teachers under a fat thumb. For school owners and managers, the professional knowledge and experience of the principal and the teachers count for little. Management committees and parents generally support the regimented approach of directorates and Boards. Endorsement of school-based capacity-building has been in fashion, but the reality has taken the opposite direction. All major processes that affect life at school have stayed firmly under centralised exercise of authority, and exam boards have tightened their grip further. COVID-19 chaos Now arrives the novel coronavirus pandemic. The virus has spread across the country, but its impact in different regions is uneven. The metro cities have been affected far more than others, but it is now reported to be spreading in many district towns. No specific data are publicly available on villages. India has over six lakh villages. No single picture can cover their diverse geography and economics. Health standards and facilities differ, and so does the impact of COVID-19. Why the virus has not affected the rural hinterland as much as it has affected cities is far from clear. Many experts think that the uneven spread is merely a matter of poor reporting from villages. They smile if you tell them that many Panchayats are actively guarding their territories. It is not surprising that the awareness and resilience demonstrated by many villages is largely ignored in the media. It is an example of the general bias that pervades urban perception in all spheres of life. No separate consideration of village needs seems possible in the current crisis. That is why all schools, urban and rural, have stayed closed since the last week of March. Cooked mid-day meals served to children at school have been replaced in many States by the distribution of grain and money to their children. If village schools had some autonomy, many would have found local conditions good enough to allow children to come for their meals and spend some time studying. Decisions regarding the daily time span and class size might have been taken in accordance with distancing norms by schools’ heads and teachers. Learning outdoors Not all learning has to occur in the classroom. Ideologues of minimalism are arguing that foundational literacy and numeracy are what we need to focus on in order to improve quality. A new coinage is ‘learning loss’ which supposedly occurred in April and May due to the lockdown. Online teaching was mooted to compensate for this loss. Smartphones and laptops are new, but the idea that children’s basic educational needs are literacy and numeracy is certainly quite obsolete. Child psychology has generated sufficient evidence to say that in its formative stages the human mind needs opportunities to observe natural phenomenon, represent it in different forms and analyse it. Village schools are in a far better position to do so than city schools. The monsoon creates great opportunities for noticing, recording and examining nature. Egrets and other large birds tread at leisurely paces in wet paddy fields, looking for food. They are a joy to watch and sketch in their different postures. Ants come out of their subterraneous homes when the rainwater floods them. Butterflies migrate in this season. These are just examples; there are a hundred things to observe in plants and trees. Village teachers can bring great energy into their pedagogy by encouraging children to spend time outdoors for assigned observation. If some children have acquired a smartphone to receive online instruction, they can visually record what they notice. Observation and reflection are good for promoting numeracy and literacy too. In fact, mathematics is learnt best when you are excited about something and find it worth counting. The same is true of writing and reading. But we live in a time when learning outcomes are pre-defined and their attainment needs to be clerically proved, with tests. The search for technical fixes is not new, nor is the cult of controlling teachers and children. The hope that communications technology can improve pedagogic quality sustained interest in the radio, then in television and the Internet. I can recall some wonderful colleagues who dedicated their lives to educational technology. One was Dr. Vijaya Mulay who never tired of reminding officials that the real success of technology comes when it motivates and enables people to solve their own problems. For her, the danger of educational technology leading to centralised decision-making was as great as the attraction that it would bring life into the classrooms. The idea of cracking a general whip on our vast school population during a pandemic would have horrified her. The daily images of hapless children peering into a tiny screen are distressing indeed. Some of the poorer States are toying with a software that will tell the teacher what to do next for improving a child’s performance on a test. Ideas like that appeal to officials and others who have been led to believe that our core problem has to do with teachers. Curiously enough, technology enthusiasts have seldom spoken about the absence of basic learning equipment in our schools. Something as small and simple as a magnifying glass is alien to our primary schools. Aren’t these also a part of educational technology? Great expenditure is made on purchasing technology for schools, but it does not cover binoculars or microscopes. There is a way to make sense of this. If watching egrets in a paddy field is not worth the time it will take, why should schools have binoculars? An experience that might expand or deepen a child’s interest and understanding does not count as learning whereas the ability to crack a test item does. All this fits in the larger picture, but it signifies a colossal loss of national imagination and talent. The system has failed to retain the momentum and gains that accrued to it from modest reforms because autonomy and professional competence were denied to teachers. If our schools fail to nurture a free, thoughtful mind among the young, one reason is that schools themselves have no freedom. And if pandemic compulsions guide broader decisions, teachers’ bondage will get worse. Krishna Kumar is a former Director of the National Council of Educational Research and Training
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Should early child care centres be opened sooner?||The world is still struggling to come to terms with the unprecedented impact that COVID-19 has had on every aspect of human life. The pandemic has forced cities and towns to go into lockdowns. The attendant side effects — including the rather sudden withdrawal of certain social support services — have affected large groups of people. For a good proportion of the working population, work from home is not an option and they have been summoned to their workplaces. And, the usual structures that would keep their young children safe while their parents are at work — schools, anganwadis and balwadis — are not operational. In this context, parents have made the fervent appeal to open up early child care centres. Two experts, Maya Gaitonde and K. Shanmugavelayutham, discuss key issues concerning the area of early child care, in a discussion moderated by Ramya Kannan . Edited excerpts:  The disruption that this pandemic has achieved is historic. Can we look closely at the particular problems in the field of early child care and development in this context? Maya Gaitonde (MG):If you look at early childhood and you start literally from the time when mothers are pregnant, there are health, nutrition issues. We know the criticality of the first 1,000 days, which takes care of the child in the womb as well. And then, of course, I would say that whatever problems did exist in early childhood care seem to have now escalated because of the pandemic. And, this affects every segment of society; those accessing the anganwadis are a huge segment, but the issue has affected mothers across the board. The problem is one of care and development, providing the right stimulation at the right time to children. It is affecting institutions, wherever the child is. Everybody is in a quandary when it comes to questions on school education and early childhood care. K. Shanmugavelayutham (KS):The pandemic has affected all sections of the population and the ramifications will be across sectors — health, nutrition, support services, rehabilitation, even education. It is also true that this is a very peculiar disease that keeps evolving. However, it is not just a medical problem. If we open child care centres tomorrow, will people send their children? There is a great deal of fear and panic. It is essentially an issue that has definite social-political-economic angles. Some private schools in the country are struggling to stay afloat; as far as anganwadis are concerned, workers are now distributing take-home rations and eggs [in Tamil Nadu]. Those who are able to use devices are managing to catch up with their lessons through the web, but in anganwadis, that is not possible. We have not been able to provide the stimulation that is necessary at this stage for children. What is your recommendation? Can child care centres be opened early? Is it a pure medical decision? What factors should be considered? MG:We cannot say it is a pure medical decision because where early childhood is concerned, there are multiple inputs. Of course, there is the safety aspect — of the mother and the child. It is true that children do get the infection, and there is an aftermath too, which we need to consider. We are talking about social, physical distancing. But in early childhood, physical proximity, closeness is very, very important for the children. We are having that problem even in our orphanage where we are not able to tell the little ones to stay away [from each other]. Also, children with disabilities might have to access various therapies. There might be a need for contact there. KS:We have discussed this question with members in our network, anganwadi worker unions, and experts in early child care, the general answer is NO [the centres cannot be opened now]. First, infants are particularly vulnerable to the infection, and there is a possibility of contact and transmission in a public place. Second, it is very difficult to insist that young children (those below six years of age) follow the recommended precautions — wearing a mask, social distancing and other hygiene practices. It might be possible in older children, but we all agree that in the younger group, it will be very difficult to enforce. Third, what we do have to factor in is that it is not the case of just one individual child, the whole family will be involved. Under the National Education Policy 2020, early child care has been made a part of the school system. Going by that logic, child care centres should be opened only around the time schools are opened. We can take a decision when the pandemic begins to subside and the numbers come down. But, before that, we need guidelines that will have to be communicated to parents, staff members and administrators of these centres. We need to be prepared for an opening. I agree that certain sections of the population have been affected by the closure, but we must remember safety is paramount. Do you think that the decision, whenever it is taken, to open these institutions must be the result of a consultative process with all stakeholders? KS:We need consultations, definitely. There is a lot of panic and fear in the minds of the people. There is a need for consultation, we can open up stage by stage. Various stakeholders have to be involved. MG:I would agree with him that consultation is very important because people right on the ground can give you advice based on experience. You cannot take a decision based just on what the medical professionals tell you. It was interesting to note what happened when we followed the Supreme Court directive of sending all children who live in institutions back home, or to their guardians… The children went home, but now the big problem is they [the guardians] are saying that they cannot continue to take care of the child. And we could not bring them back here, during the lockdown period, with the restrictions in place. We hear that the very fulcrum of early child care — admission of children into homes and adoptions — are nearly at a standstill. How does this affect destitute babies, and those in foster care? MG:In adoption, maybe the total number is not so many. Children are continuing in the institution rather than being at the homes where they were placed. However, one area which we may need to really talk about is abuse and abandonment. Children are being abandoned. They are in distress, whether it is because of cyclones or any other natural calamity. This has a very strong, traumatic effect on the mental health of the child, quite apart from their physical health. The lack of nutrition, lack of health care, comes at a very vulnerable time, when it is very difficult for them to even seek out help. So, I think it is an enormous problem if you just see the number of children that are going are affected by this, globally. We are very lucky wherever these children are in safe places. But many children are not, they are just abandoned. I don’t know if we have even researched this or whether we have any kind of statistics to know how awful the situation is. KS:One side effect of the COVID-19 pandemic is that funding for a large number of institutions has been affected. Financial commitments have not been coming in, many institutions find it difficult to keep open their premises, pay their staff even. It is a major issue. The government should announce a special rescue package for child care institutions. Another issue is that all statutory institutions — the Child Welfare Committee, the Juvenile Justice Board, and the Commission for the Protection of Child Rights — have been rendered inactive. They need to be revived, so that we can continue to help children in distress. We do have to factor in the situation of the workforce in the early child care sector. Have they been out of work? How have they sustained their families? What precautions must they take in future, to stay safe themselves and to make sure their wards stay safe? MG:We, at Bala Mandir, have been very particular about following protocols. We have had some very good advice from epidemiologists — on topics like implementing some simple measures. So, we have very slowly opened up the institution. We are lucky that we are able to pay our staff, even those who are not able to come. We have got our staff to wear full sleeves, just even a shirt on top of regular clothes because, at this age, children come running to you and you can’t keep them aside. Our children, interestingly, are getting used to masks, with the caregiver [also] wearing masks. If the caregivers are coming from outside, then we measure temperature and do whatever is to be done as per the protocol. One issue that we continue to have is the lack of public transportation — not everyone can afford an auto, or taxis. Also, where the workforce is concerned, I do believe that there is a lot of fear, even if there are people who are willing to go forward and get on with it. Their families are apprehensive too, because it is not only what they do in the workplace, it is also what they might bring back into their respective homes. KS:The staff are really very important functionaries in early child care; earlier they used to get their salaries, even if wages were low. Now, they have been deprived of that income also. Some of them will be forced to quit the sector, and this is a very unfortunate fallout of COVID-19. Would a training module of sorts help before we open up? MG:We are doing some outreach programmes, through mobile phones, for children who need intervention, but also on the precautions that can be taken to keep safe. We tell our staff, apart from the training on early childhood or what to talk to the parents, about how to follow the rules, how a mother can take care of her baby by following these protocols. We are sharing the modules we have developed with others. KS:Yes, there is a need for a model to be developed by experts in the field. At present, there is a division as far as we can see — in the well-off section, learning is going on. In the poorer sections, there is no education; instead, there is isolation, boredom, and lack of proper stimulus. What should the government do? As they do for children studying in the older classes, they can run a half hour slot of educative videos on television, that would help parents provide the right kind of stimulus to the children at that age.  We do have to factor in the situation and safety of the workforce in the early child care sector K. Shanmugavelayutham, Convenor, Tamil Nadu Forum for Creche and Child Care Services
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The challenges in counting the dead||Compared to other diseases, COVID-19 is highly transmissible. The long-term sequelae of infection are unravelling only now. The only goal is to prevent as many deaths as possible. The proportion of deaths due to COVID-19 (about 2%) is lower than that of SARS (about 9%) or the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (34.4%) and probably higher than that of influenza (0.1%). However, the task of counting deaths attributed to COVID-19 is full of complex challenges. Assessing fatalities Globally, the disruption of health services during a pandemic results in the underestimation of any health indicator, including the assessment of fatalities. For estimating death rates, the total number of deaths are usually in the numerator; it is choosing the denominator that is the difficult aspect. The case fatality proportion uses reported deaths in the numerator and reported cases in the denominator; this helps in assessing and comparing clinical severity and effectiveness of clinical outcomes. Delayed reporting of deaths from hospitals, and incomplete and inaccurate reporting of COVID-19-related deaths will affect the numerator. It is recognised that case fatality will not reflect the deaths from COVID-19 as it varies with test rates and strategies used. The infection fatality rate (IFR) due to COVID-19 uses the same numerator. The denominator comprises the total number of infections, derived from seroprevalence studies in the total population. IFR provides real estimates of COVID-19 death rates, including the presence of unreported infections in the denominator. However, differences in sampling strategy and methods of seroprevalence studies, demographics and healthcare resources will result in incomparable seroprevalence estimates. As we witnessed in India, testing, provision of healthcare and treatment improve progressively. This too will change both the numerator and denominator over time. In addition, we can estimate the crude mortality rate by having the number of people in the area in the denominator. Generally expressed as deaths per million, this provides the probability that any individual in the population will die from the disease. This too is affected by incomplete and inaccurate reporting of COVID-19 deaths. Finally, all-cause excess mortality can be estimated by calculating the number of deaths above expected baseline levels, regardless of the reported cause of death, and provides an overall impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The seroprevalence surveys are useful to obtain an unbiased estimate of deaths due to COVID-19. Global evidence indicates that the IFR is less than 1% of total infections. We can estimate this only when we have realistic data on total infections in the country, obtained from repeated nationwide seroprevalence surveys. In the absence of IFR, deaths per million is an alternative estimate. The table shows the deaths per million in the capital cities of the nations that have more than 1,00,000 confirmed cases. The deaths per million population roughly correlates with a higher proportion of persons above 65 years. The exceptions are Peru and Brazil, which are known to take delayed action. An honourable exception is Germany, which has the best preventive and curative services compared to the rest of the countries. Registering deaths It is important to get baseline estimates of deaths to estimate the excess mortality. Currently, although mandatory, only about 86% of the deaths get registered, which has increased from 66.9% in 2009, indicating that 14% do not get registered in India independent of the COVID-19 crisis. The annual crude death rate in India is 0.73 per 100 persons. The deaths attributed to COVID-19 in 2020 are 0.028 per 100 persons, which varies from 0.21 in Delhi followed by Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Puducherry and Karnataka. This is mostly a function of better death reporting, with three of these States having 100% death registration and two States registering more than 90% of deaths. The registration system has further challenges with a high proportion of unclassifiable deaths, long delays and irregular publication of statistics. In addition, lack of training, resources and systematic screening results in making medical ascertainment of every death far from practical in India. Once efforts are made to register every death, the government should invest in establishing the cause of death, linking the data to electronic health records and coding the data.  The deaths attributed to COVID-19 in all the South Asian countries are comparable and lower than the developed countries. We will know the actual number of deaths when all the deaths are compiled by the Civil Registration System, perhaps more than a year from now. Once known, attributing the cause of death, although difficult, can provide delineation of causes and excess mortality due to COVID-19 in India. As per the ICMR-IHME-PHFI’s India disease burden study, non-communicable diseases-related deaths caused by cancer, diabetes, cirrhosis, etc. constitute 72.5% of deaths, while 27.5% of deaths are caused by HIV/AIDS, injury, suicide, etc. Deaths cannot be hidden in the case of COVID-19; sooner or later, they get reported due to a vigilant media and an active civil society. Due to such efforts, at least five cities in India have reconciled the death numbers. To obtain unbiased, reliable estimates, nationally representative verbal autopsy surveys such as the Million Death Study can be helpful. In the meantime, India has to adopt a strategy of transparency in data flow and reporting, with increased investments in innovations for improving data collection and reporting. Due to these inherent challenges, India and other countries with low mortality are subject to increased, and welcome, scrutiny. However, commentators should not be tempted to use estimates beyond the range that can be inferred by evidence. The assumptions about undercounting deaths should be realistic. With no supporting evidence such as a surge in numbers from burial grounds or in the neighbourhood, it is counter-intuitive to assume that we have under-counted thousands of deaths. Alas, counting the deaths is a deadly challenge out there. Giridhara R. Babu is a Professor of Epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health, PHFI, Bengaluru
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Independent but not alone||It has been nearly thirty years since I graduated from the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst. Much has changed but the highlight of any visit remains a tour of the British Indian Army Memorial Room. There, amongst artefacts recalling two centuries worth of Indian sacrifice, you’ll find the centrepiece. An immense stained-glass window of an Indian sepoy standing sentry in a jungle above one word: Burma. For India, August 15 is first and foremost Independence Day. But, as we in the U.K. mark 75 years since peace was achieved in Asia, this is also our opportunity to thank you for your immense contributions and, in particular, the campaign in Burma. From Asia to Africa, the Mediterranean to the Pacific, millions fought for freedom in the six-year long struggle to rid the world of the tyranny and evil of Axis aggressors. Those who served in that vast Pacific theatre are often referred to as the “Forgotten Army” but we must never let the memory of their sacrifices and achievements slip from our minds. Largest all-volunteer force The statistics alone are staggering. On land, at sea and in the air, Indians formed the largest all-volunteer force in the world, with over 2.5 million fighting in Europe, North Africa, Singapore, Hong Kong and, Burma. What is more, India provided almost 200 million tonnes of coal, six million tonnes of iron ore and more than one million tonnes of steel to the Pacific war effort, and countless Indian non-combatants secured supply lines. Those numbers can’t possibly do justice to their bravery. At Imphal, Indian forces fought even after the siege was lifted. Rao Abdul Hafiz Panwa became the youngest Indian recipient of the Victoria Cross — overrunning Japanese positions despite mortal wounds. At Kohima, an Indian-British force numbering 1,500 men held its own against 15,000 enemy troops for two weeks despite phosphorous bombardments and ferocious infantry attacks. The celebrated “Black Cat” 17th Infantry Division of the Indian Army were in continuous combat during the three-year long Burma Campaign. In total some 87,000 Indians paid the ultimate price. But their efforts also turned the tide of the war. No wonder the commander of the 14th Army in Burma, Field Marshal Slim, described his Indian divisions as “among the best in the world”. Today’s challenges are different and our relationship has also evolved. But we face shared dangers, whether from pandemics or piracy, extremism or enemies operating below the threshold of conventional conflict. We hold shared values and commitments to justice, stability and free markets. We are on the same side and have a mutual interest in standing together – it is our alliances that give us the ultimate edge. And the India-U.K. partnership has plenty of room to grow. We already have seven Royal Navy vessels operating in the Western Indian Ocean. Our Armed Forces exercise together biannually and our Defence and International Security Partnership is opening up collaborations in everything from jet engines to cyber technology. And, as you pursue your Atmanirbhar Bharat vision you will find Global Britain is eager to work together in a range of areas from defence modernisation to maritime technology. We are determined to elevate our partnership to the next level. We are living through a new era of uncertainty but eight decades ago, our great forebears showed us the way ahead. Seventy-five years on, India is a proud independent nation but you are emphatically not alone. Our common history proves that we are stronger facing adversity together and now is the time to write our shared future in the interests of peace, purpose, and prosperity. Ben Wallace is the United Kingdom’s Secretary of State for Defence
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Historic ratification||The welcome decision by the Kingdom of Tonga to outlaw the worst forms of child labour is the first time in the International Labour Organization (ILO)’s 101-year history that a labour standard has been universally ratified. Convention 182, which was adopted in the 1999 annual international labour conference, prohibits the sexual exploitation of children, trafficking, deployment in armed conflict and other conditions that compromise their overall well-being. The Convention complements the ILO’s efforts under the 1973 Minimum Age Convention to prevent the employment of children below a lower age threshold. Under the influence of both these ILO standards, millions of young boys and girls have been rescued from hazardous conditions of work. Concomitantly, these have resulted in significant increases in enrolments in primary education. The landmark ratification, however, does not detract from the enormity of the challenge that remains. An estimated 152 million are trapped in child labour and 72 million of them are engaged in hazardous work. If anything, current efforts would have to be stepped up significantly to achieve the ambitious goal of total abolition of the scourge of child labour by 2025. But the COVID-19 pandemic is threatening a reversal of recent gains, with widespread job losses, deterioration in conditions of work, decline in household incomes and temporary school closures. The historic first universal ratification of a global labour standard may be an occasion for celebration; it is nonetheless a moment for sober reflection. The two instruments on child labour are among the eight core ILO Conventions regarded as embodying the spirit of the 1998 declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work. Instruments relating to the freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining and the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation are among the others. These conventions provide the necessary framework to counteract the predominance of informality in the conditions of work and ought to be a priority for governments. Though belated, India has signalled its legal commitment to the elimination of child labour with its 2017 ratification of Convention 182 and the instrument prescribing the minimum age of work for children. As the world prepares to designate 2021 as the year to abolish child labour, governments must seize the moment to instil hope in the future generations.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Right by birth||The latest decision of the Supreme Court on the right of Hindu daughters to ancestral property corrects an obvious anomaly in the interpretation of a crucial 2005 amendment to the Hindu Succession Act, 1956. The verdict settles the question whether the coparcenary right of daughters comes into effect only if the father through whom they claim that right was alive on the day the amendment came into force. The apex court has now categorically ruled that the daughters’ right flows from their birth and not by any other factor such as the existence of their fathers. In other words, it has rejected the common misinterpretation that only daughters of coparceners who were alive on that day could get an equal share in property. The court has rightly recognised that the amendment conferred equal status as a coparcener on daughters in Hindu families governed by Mitakshara law, and this right accrued by birth. The change came into effect from September 9, 2005, but with a provision that partitions or testamentary disposition that had taken place prior to December 20, 2004 — the date on which the amendment Bill was introduced in the Rajya Sabha — will remain valid and unaffected by the change. This led to the interpretation that the daughters’ coparcenary rights, being prospective, would not come into effect unless both the coparcener father and his daughter were alive on September 9, 2005. This position was crystallised in a 2015 judgment of the Supreme Court in Prakash and Others vs. Phulavati . This judgment now stands overruled. The court’s reasoning is unexceptionable. First, it locates the origin of the coparcenary right in one’s birth. Second, it finds that there is no necessity for a predecessor coparcener to be alive for one to acquire that status, as what is relevant is birth within the degrees of succession to which it extends. In that sense, the legislation, even though it comes into effect on a prescribed date, is retroactive in its application as it is linked to birth, an antecedent event. It also underscores that the legislation makes it clear that the daughter’s rights are the same “as that of a son,” and “as if she had been a son at the time of birth”. The coparcenary status given to daughters has been a subject of reform in many States, particularly in south India, long before the UPA regime brought in the amendment for the whole country. Kerala had introduced legislation in 1975, Andhra Pradesh in 1986, Tamil Nadu in 1989 and Maharashtra and Karnataka in 1994. The legislative aim was that a flagrant discrimination between sons and daughters in entitlement to an equal share in coparcenary property, that is property inherited from one’s father, grandfather or great-grandfather, should be done away with. It is indeed welcome that the apex court has sought to give full effect to this intent by setting at rest doubts arising from varying interpretations.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Limits of racial politics||Among the numerous Indian-American politicians I spoke to as the U.S. correspondent of this newspaper, including for example Washington State’s Pramila Jayapal and Maryland’s Kumar Barve, there is a distinct sensibility around race and politics — that the substance of policy, performance in office and vindication of vision matter more for a political career than the race card. In this regard, it is odd that the ascension of Kamala Harris, Democratic Senator from California, to echelons of the vice-presidential nominee has thrown many even amongst liberal groups into a state of confusion over her biracial background. Is she African American, or South Asian, or a leader who genuinely carries elements of both cultures? What does her record in office say about who she is? It can sometimes be a complex business explaining — especially to the likes of Dinesh D’Souza, an Indian-American far-right author, who has hyperventilated on this point — that Ms. Harris is African American despite not descending from the lineage of survivors of human trafficking from Africa to America. Her father was a Stanford economics professor who migrated to the U.S. from Jamaica for higher studies. One can equally pertinently then ask, was former President Barack Obama African American, given that his father too was a Kenyan economics professor who moved to the U.S.? Criminal justice reform If association with an ethnic community is based on substance, then it matters more in the case of Ms. Harris that as a public servant — District Attorney and then Attorney General in California — she fought quietly but hard for criminal justice in areas such as domestic violence and youth sexual abuse, and then for reform in these fields as Senator. She has been outspoken on hate crimes and other forms of racism in recent years too, especially on police brutality resulting in the deaths of African Americans. Ironically, biracial U.S. politicians are shown no love from the other side either, as it is apparent in the case of Ms. Harris. Some Indian media outlets have already opined that Indian Americans may be muted in welcoming her nomination because of what they allege is “Hinduphobia” — although of whom and to what effect, it is patently unclear. In Ms. Harris’s case there is another potential source of friction: her views on many issues concerning India are in line with those of outspoken Democratic Indian-American leaders such as Ms. Jayapal and Kshama Sawant, who have questioned the policies of the Indian government, including on Kashmir and the Citizenship Amendment Act. For instance, Ms. Harris was unapologetic about criticising the decision of Foreign Minister S. Jaishankar to abruptly cancel a 2019 meeting with members of the U.S. Congress. Mr. Jaishankar had called for Ms. Jayapal to be barred from the proceedings. This sharp focus of Democrats of all hues on pluralism and religious tolerance could be a thorn in the foot of India’s ruling dispensation. While the history of Indian-American politicians is a colourful tapestry of breaking barriers and incrementally building up the profile of an ambitious community, what they do when they are in power will always matter more than the colour of their skin or the cultural moorings of their antecedents.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Cairo and the Guerillas||It is not surprising that the Palestinian guerilla organisations based in Syria, Jordan and Lebanon have rejected the American cease-fire plan and sharply increased their raids on Israel. Even if Israel were to give up all the gains of the 1967 war, the “Palestine problem” would not be solved since the minimum demand of the guerillas is a unitary State of Palestine, incorporating Israel, in which Jews, Christians and Muslims would have equal rights and the exiled Palestinians would reclaim their original homes and lands. All the guerilla organisations taken together cannot, however, muster more than 20,000 armed men and even with the support of the Arab governments, they can do no more than launch hit-and-run attacks on the Israelis. They may cite the example of Vietnam, but Arab guerillas do not flourish inside occupied territory like the Viet Cong. The Israelis know all about anti-guerilla warfare having once engaged in guerilla war themselves. The refusal of the Palestinian commandos to accept the ceasefire has brought them into conflict with the United Arab Republic which has banned the operation of two of their radio stations.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Letters to the Editor||While an impassioned pitch for environmental protection by a politician is rare, one cannot miss the inauthenticity in Sonia Gandhi’s article (“Stop the dismantling of environmental rules”, August 13). She did not mention the Gadgil Committee’s report on the Western Ghats. The yearly floods and landslides in Kerala are largely thanks to the previous Congress-led UDF government’s decision to ignore Madhav Gadgil’s recommendation to classify 64% of the Western Ghats as Ecologically Sensitive Area zones and instead accept the watered down recommendations of the Kasturirangan Committee. V.N. Mukundarajan,  Thiruvananthapuram    The choice of Kamala Harris as Joe Biden’s running mate has electrified the hitherto lacklustre democratic campaign for the 2020 presidential race (“Kamala Harris to be Biden’s running mate”, August 13). Given that she is a biracial child of immigrants, Ms. Harris truly represents the diversity of the U.S. Generally, running mates don’t matter much in the campaign, but in this case, it looks like Ms. Harris has the potential to change the game for the party. Kosaraju Chandramouli,  Hyderabad Kamala Harris is a worthy choice as running mate. However, she may not be the fillip that will help Joe Biden cross the finish line. Despite the Trump administration’s gross mismanagement of the pandemic, the American electora is by nature quite traditional in its voting habits. The moderate voters of the suburbs and the working class white voters are likely to vote for Donald Trump. It remains to be seen whether swing states such as Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin, which Mr. Trump won in 2016, will support Mr. Biden this time. G. Parameswaran, Coimbatore   Kanimozhi is right in flagging the issue to the higher-ups in the CISF, but it is high time the Dravidian parties rethink their stand on the language policy(“CISF to deploy personnel with ‘working knowledge of local language’ at airports”, August 12). For those relocating from Tamil Nadu to northern States, not knowing Hindi puts them at a disadvantage. The powers that be need to stop looking at the language issue only through the ideological lens; Hindi is the most useful language to know if one is travelling to north India. V.V. Koushik, Chennai    It is dismaying that a delay in hospital admission is a possible reason for the girl succumbing to her injuries (“Sexual assault victim dies in Hyderabad”, August 13) . Such cases need immediate medical intervention. Hospitals should not insist on paperwork when life is at stake. It is also sickening that orphanages are not safe for girls. Deepika Jain, Delhi
14 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Volvo Eicher to acquire Volvo Bus India in Rs. 100-crore deal||Volvo Eicher Commercial Vehicles Ltd. (VECV), a subsidiary of Eicher Motors Ltd., has signed definitive agreements for acquisition and integration of Volvo Buses India business into itself for a cash consideration of Rs. 100.5 crore, Eicher Motors said in a filing with stock exchanges. A new bus division will be formed at VECV to house both Eicher and Volvo bus businesses. It will be headed by Volvo Bus Corporation’s Akash Passey, who will repatriate to India and move to VECV. The bus manufacturing plant of Volvo at Hoskote in Karnataka and its 500 employees would be transferred to VECV. The deal would benefit both the companies, with Volvo getting access to VECV’s wide domestic sourcing as well as after sales network, while Eicher will get access to Volvo’s technology and global sales reach, the companies’ executives said. The focus will now be to tap the mid-premium bus segment priced in the range of Rs. 30 lakh-Rs. 1crore, they added. The agreements will cover the manufacture, assembly, distribution, and sale of the Volvo Buses in India, and other rights forming part of the business.
14 August 2020||MUMBAI,||States’ sales tax receipts may rise up to 9% in FY21||Sales tax collections by States on petroleum products (such as petrol and diesel) is likely to recover sharply, driven by a rebound in volume, the full impact of increase in Central and State taxes, and firmer crude oil prices, Crisil Ratings said in a report. “If these drivers sustain, there could be a 7-9% on-year rise in sales tax receipts to Rs. 1.96 lakh crore, despite an expected 25% fall in collections in the first quarter on-year,” it said. “The first quarter saw petrol and diesel sales volume plunging by a third year-on-year because of the COVID-19 induced lockdown,” said Manish Gupta, senior director, Crisil Ratings. “But with the economy slowly unlocking and industrial and commercial activity clawing back, vehicular traffic has started to improve.” The combined monthly volume of petrol and diesel sales almost doubled from 43% (of volumes a year earlier) in April to 85% in June, though it dipped marginally in July to 83%. If economic activity rebounded to pre-pandemic levels by November, the annual volume decline may be restricted to 11-12% this fiscal, the agency said. Crude oil prices, which averaged more than $60 per barrel last year and fell to $30 in Q1, have rebounded to $40. A $10 increase in crude oil price provides an additional Rs. 1 per litre of fuel sold, to the State exchequer, it said.
14 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Grasim Q1 net profit declines 67% to Rs. 621 cr.||Grasim Industries Ltd. said first-quarter consolidated net profit declined 67% to Rs. 621 crore. Revenue from operations dropped 32% to Rs. 13,621 crore. “The results should be seen in light of the unprecedented disruption in economic activities due to the COVID-19 induced lockdown in all the major markets during the quarter and the resultant demand and supply chain disruptions,” the company said Board nod for capex For the current year, the board has approved capital expenditure worth Rs. 1,615 crore, considering the temporary disruption in earnings. Grasim said it had initiated various measures to optimise operations across plants, reduce fixed costs and conserve cash as part of its comprehensive business continuity plan. “The company continues to maintain a very comfortable level of liquidity to navigate an uncertain business environment,” it said. Grasim said with its inherent financial strength, operational excellence, and diverse product portfolio (cement, financial services, viscose and chemicals), it is well poised to withstand temporary disruptions and sustain leadership position.
14 August 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Selling EVs sans battery compromises warranty’||Mahindra Electric, a market leader in battery powered electric vehicles (EVs), has questioned the Centre’s decision to allow the sale and registration of EVs without batteries and said the move would end up compromising the warranty that EV manufacturers provide. “No country in the world allows registration of EVs without battery,” said Mahesh Babu, MD and CEO, Mahindra Electric. “We will explain to the government that this notification has caused confusion.” The Centre’s move is aimed at cutting the cost of electric two- and three-wheelers since batteries account for about 30-40% of the vehicle’s cost.  “Up to sales, the OEM is responsible for the safety of the vehicle. A vehicle is tested, manufactured and sold as an integrated vehicle and the OEM is responsible for the warranty,” he said. . “This move has not been thought through and the industry has not been consulted,” Mr. Babu added. ‘Adopting flexibility’ However, Jeetender Sharma, founder of electric two-wheeler maker Okinawa, said, “It is motivating to see the government working towards accelerating adoption of electric mobility. “The policy widens the scope for manufacturers and buyers both. We are swiftly adopting the much-needed flexibility and comfort in the EV ecosystem.”
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||IndiGo adds share as air traffic drops 82% in July||At a time when passenger demand continues to remain weak, IndiGo has been able to consolidate its position further by cornering 60% of the domestic market share in July, monthly data from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) show. Pre-COVID-19, IndiGo’s market share had hovered between 42% in January 2019 and 48% in February 2020. Together, Indian carriers ferried 21 lakh passengers last month — an 82% decline from July 2019. However, last month’s numbers were marginally better than in June, when the total number of passengers was at 19.84 lakh. With the government regulating air fares and fixing maximum and minimum ticket costs that airlines can levy, the reason for IndiGo’s higher market share is likely to be its large number of aircraft in operation — nearly 150 out of the total 256. Its ability to keep its aircraft flying despite poor sales in the industry is also likely to be an important factor. Of the total unique passenger trips, IndiGo accounted for 12.72 lakh. It was followed by SpiceJet (15.7%) in the second spot. Air India, which the Centre is trying to privatise, saw its share dropping to 9.1% from 12% pre-lockdown. AirAsia ferried 6.2% of the total passengers, Vistara 4.2% and GoAir 3.8%. A large number of seats continued to fly empty. SpiceJet sold 70% of its seats on average, IndiGo 60.2%, AirAsia 56.2%, Vistara 53.1% and GoAir 50.5%.
14 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Biological E. in vaccine pacts with J&J, Baylor||Biological E. (BE.) has entered into separate agreements with Janssen Pharmaceutica NV and Baylor College of Medicine for COVID-19 vaccines. The agreement with Janssen Pharmaceutica, one of the pharmaceutical companies of Johnson & Johnson, is for creation/enhancement of manufacturing capacities for drug substance and drug product for Johnson & Johnson’s COVID-19 vaccine candidate, Ad26.COV2.S. The vaccine candidate is currently undergoing clinical trials, BE. said. “Given the magnitude of the COVID-19 pandemic, our ability to mount an effective response will be predicated on the ability to supply the vaccine globally and in significant quantities. This is best achieved through collaboration,” said Mahima Datla, MD, BE. Baylor College of Medicine and BE. have signed a licensing agreement for development of a COVID-19 vaccine, the company said. BE. has licensed the recombinant protein COVID-19 vaccine candidate developed at Baylor.
14 August 2020||Chennai,||Ramco Cements aims to be debt-free in 3 years||The Ramco Cements Ltd., the fifth-largest cement manufacturer in the country, plans to become debt-free in the next three years, a top executive said. “FY21 is going to be another challenging year for the cement industry,” A.V. Dharmakrishnan, CEO, Ramco Cements, said in a note to shareholders. “While the initial few months were impacted by COVID-19 related lockdown, the remaining months would see slower pick up as majority of Government spending gets channelised towards healthcare and supporting weaker sections of society,” he added Mr. Dharmakrishnan said that strong cash flows of Rs. 1,102 crore and low debt equity ratio of 0.61 as on March 2020, provided sufficient headroom for growth and cushion to resist any shocks. “Our priorities will be to efficiently market products and to become a debt-free entity in the next three years,” Mr. Dharmakrishnan added.
14 August 2020||Chennai,||CUB Q1 profit drops 17% on provisioning||Private sector lender City Union Bank Ltd.’s (CUB) standalone net profit for the first quarter ended June, contracted by 17% to Rs. 154 crore on account of higher provisioning. Net interest income rose 4.8% to Rs. 437 crore. Gross non-performing assets (NPAs) rose to 3.9% from 3.34% and net NPAs to 2.11% from 1.89%. The bank raised provisions and contingencies towards NPAs to Rs. 202 crore from Rs. 166 crore. An additional ad hoc provision of Rs. 100 crore was made towards meeting future contingency measures arising out of COVID-19, it said.
14 August 2020||New Delhi,||MF SIP inflows hit 22-month low in July||Investments in mutual funds through Systematic Investment Plans (SIPs) hit a 22-month low of Rs. 7,831 crore in July amid market volatility. Inflows through SIP have slowed down in the past four months, but experts believe the route still continues to be the preferred one for retail investors to invest in mutual funds as it helps them reduce market timing risk. Besides, equity mutual funds, which mainly depend on SIP for flows, saw a withdrawal of Rs. 2,480 crore, data from Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi) showed.
14 August 2020||New Delhi,||Tata Steel posts Q1 net loss of Rs. 4,648 crore||Domestic steel major Tata Steel on Thursday reported a consolidated net loss of Rs. 4,648.13 crore for the quarter ended June, mainly on account of reduced income. The company had posted a consolidated net profit of Rs. 714.03 crore a year earlier, Tata Steel said in a filing. Total income dropped to Rs. 24,481.09 crore, from Rs. 36,198.21 crore earlier. The company’s expenses also fell to Rs. 27,892.09 crore from Rs. 34,447.42 crore in the April-June period of the preceding fiscal.
14 August 2020||New Delhi,||Zydus Cadila launches generic version of Remdesivir at Rs 2,800 per vial in India||Zydus Cadila said it has launched a generic version of remdesivir, used for treating patients suffering from severe COVID-19 symptoms, at Rs. 2,800 per 100 mg vial in the Indian market.PTI
14 August 2020||LISBON,||Dramatic win for PSG||Paris Saint-Germain scored two late goals, including a stoppage-time winner from substitute Eric Choupo-Moting, to beat outsider Atalanta 2-1 and end the Serie A side’s Champions League dream in their quarterfinal on Wednesday. Despite boasting only a fraction of PSG’s spending power, Atalanta was more than equal on the pitch and went ahead when an exchange of passes ended with the ball falling to Mario Pasalic who curled his shot past Keylor Navas. Squandering it The first half was all about Neymar who had four good chances but squandered them all as the French side failed to find the equaliser. Berat Djimsiti should have increased Atalanta’s lead after the break but sliced the ball wide and the game turned when PSG introduced striker Kylian Mbappe, who had not started because of an ankle injury. Mbappe and Neymar were both denied by Marco Sportiello but, as PSG ramped up the pressure, Atalanta finally cracked. Choupo-Moting’s cross found Neymar and he touched the ball to Marquinhos to fire home from close range. Minutes later, Neymar sent Mbappe down the left and his low cross was turned in by Choupo-Moting. Atalanta had a chance to equalise but Luis Muriel, after breaking clear, ran the ball out of play and his teammates slumped to the ground in despair as the final whistle went. The win ended the Qatari-backed team’s embarrassing run of recent quarterfinal and round of 16 exits and send it into the last four for the first time since 1995.  The result: Paris Saint-Germain 2 (Marquinhos 90, Choupo-Moting 90+3) bt Atalanta 1 (Pasalic 27) .
14 August 2020||LSIBON,||Messi holds the key for Barca||Lionel Messi might never have been faced with a more daunting task at Barcelona than engineering a victory against Bayern Munich here on Friday. The only surviving former winners of European club football’s greatest prize — with five titles each — meet in a heavyweight Champions League quarterfinal behind closed doors at the Estadio da Luz. It is not often that Messi’s Barcelona comes into such a big European tie as the underdog, but it has this time, with Quique Setien’s team having lost to Real Madrid in the Spanish title race while Bayern appeared flawless on the way to winning a German league and cup double. Messi is now 33, yet Barcelona appears more reliant on him than ever. He scored twice against Bayern in the quarterfinals in 2009 when Barcelona went on to triumph. under Pep Guardiola. He hit four against Arsenal the following year and five against Bayer Leverkusen in 2012 but on both occasions, Barca was the favourite. Messi also sank Real Madrid at the Santiago Bernabeu in 2011 with a double in the first leg of the semifinal, including one of the finest goals the competition has ever seen. Great comeback And he was part of perhaps the tournament’s greatest comeback, the 6-1 destruction of Paris Saint-Germain in 2017 after Barcelona lost 4-0 in the first leg of that last-16 tie. Yet this time threatens to be different. With Luis Suarez and Antoine Griezmann alongside him, Frenkie de Jong and Sergio Busquets behind him and Jordi Alba out wide, Messi should not be on his own. Even in defence, Gerard Pique still has a claim to be the best defender in La Liga and Marc-Andre ter Stegen is among the most impressive goalkeepers in the world. Special effort But the sense remains that Messi must perform if Barcelona is to defeat Bayern, widely seen as the favourite to lift the trophy on August 23. It will take something very special not only to lift his own team out of the doldrums but also to neutralise an opponent that many believe are the most complete side in Europe.
14 August 2020||KOLKATA,||Camp for archers from Aug. 25||The National archery camp is all set to resume at the Army Sports Institute (ASI), Pune, after the Army allowed the women archers to stay inside the ASI campus due to the prevailing Coronavirus outbreak. The camp — comprising 16 recurve archers, including eight men and as many women, four coaches and two other support staff — will begin on August 25. They will undergo 14 days mandatory quarantine inside the ASI campus, a Sports Authority of India (SAI) release said on Thursday. The campers will undergo the COVID-19 test, which has been made mandatory at all National camps conducted by SAI across the country. According to sources, a request was made to the ASI to accommodate the women archers inside its campus because of the virus outbreak. “Since Pune is badly affected by the virus, asking the women archers to stay outside the campus (like they did during earlier camps) is never an option. The green signal for the camp came after the women were allowed to stay on the ASI campus,” said a source. Top names Tarundeep Rai, Atanu Das, B. Dhiraj, Pravin Jadhav, Jayanta Talukdar, Sukhmani Babrekar, Kapil, Vishwas, Deepika Kumari, Ankita Bhakat, L. Bombayla Devi, Ridhi, Madhu Vedwan, Himani, Pramila Baria and Tisha Sancheti will be part of the camp. Some of them, including Army’s Tarundeep, Vishwas and Jadhav, have been training at the ASI since the beginning of the lockdown period. India has bagged Olympic quota places in women’s individual and the men’s team events. Guidelines of the Union Health Ministry, the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) of the SAI, along with guidelines of the Maharashtra state government will be implemented during the training.
14 August 2020||KOLKATA,||Right time to reduce foreign players in ISL: Westwood||The Indian players have shown remarkable improvement in the last seven years and are “ready to manage with one less foreigner,” feels coach and commentator Ashley Westwood. Hailing the Indian Super League’s (ISL) move to reduce the number of foreigners in a side from 2021 and looking to increase the number of games a side plays in the league stage to 27, Westwood felt that the “dynamics” brought about by ISL was creating a better football ecosystem. “ISL has definitely produced an atmosphere that is creating a buzz around Indian football. It has brought about a different dynamic attracting more expensive foreigners. Even the Indian players are making more money than what they did in the I-League,” said Westwood, who guided Bengaluru FC to two I-league titles, and is now a football expert with ‘Matchnight Live’ in Sony Ten 2. “Indian players have improved so much in the seven years that it is the right time to bring the number of foreigners down. Martin Bain, who is in charge of the ISL, is doing a good job. He is aware that the league is there to improve Indian football. Now the Indian boys are ready to manage with one less foreigner because the standard of Indian football has improved.” Overseas contracts The English coach was hopeful of Indian players bagging overseas contracts. “The time will come for sure if the culture and standards keep getting better. At this moment it is difficult for Indians to go out and play bigger leagues because in Europe the kids start at the age of five or six and play football seven days a week. They have far more opportunities to play. [But] things are improving in India. We can hope it happens soon.”
14 August 2020||Paris,||Djokovic to play the US Open||Novak Djokovic confirmed on Thursday he will play at the US Open, ending speculation about his presence at the first Grand Slam tournament since the coronavirus restart. “I'm happy to confirm that I'll participate at #CincyTennis and #USOpen this year,” Djokovic tweeted. “It was not an easy decision to make with all the obstacles and challenges on many sides, but the prospect of competing again makes me really excited,” the 17-time Grand Slam winner added. The US Open is due to get underway behind closed doors in New York on August 31. It is preceded by the Western and Southern Open, which is normally played in Cincinnati but has been moved to New York this year. Djokovic's decision to take part in the US Open is a major boost for the tournament after a host of headline names pulled out. The list of absentees includes four-time champion Rafael Nadal and woman's world number one Ashleigh Barty.
14 August 2020||SOUTHAMPTON,||Pakistan’s top-order crumbles||Pakistan lost three quick wickets, after a sedate start, to be reduced to 126 for five in 46.5 overs when rain stopped play on the opening day of the second Test at the Rose Bowl on Thursday. Resuming at 85 for two after tea, Pakistan quickly lost opener Abid Ali who rode his luck for a dogged 60, Asad Shafiq for five and Fawad Alam, playing his first Test in 11 years, without scoring. Sam Curran, Stuart Broad and Chris Woakes picked up a wicket each after James Anderson had struck the first two blows. Earlier, Anderson picked the first two wickets — trapping Shan Masood for one and then removing the struggling visiting captain Azhar Ali for 20, with Burns holding onto a chance at second slip. The teams managed only 10.1 overs in the afternoon session before rain forced them off the field.
14 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Rescheduling of IPL will affect domestic season preparation||Rescheduling the Indian Premier League (IPL) due to the COVID-19 pandemic has not only resulted in a truncated domestic season but is also bound to hit a majority of teams hard when it comes to preparing for the season, especially for the shortened limited-over leg. The BCCI is hoping to start the domestic season with the Mushtaq Ali Trophy on November 19, after the IPL final in the United Arab Emirates on November 10. As a result, domestic teams’ preparation will be severely affected ahead of the season, even if you don’t take into account India regulars. Quite a few State teams are unsure whether their seniors will be able to participate in the inter-State T20 tournament, since they may be asked to be in quarantine after returning from the IPL. The defending champion Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Mumbai, Gujarat, Punjab and Saurashtra are set to miss their captain for the preparatory phase. Add to that the absence of some of the performers on the domestic circuit who are being flown to UAE as net bowlers and the domestic teams suffer even more.  In fact, Gujarat and Uttarakhand are going to have to deal with a double blow since their head coach will be away in UAE. Former Test cricketer Sairaj Bahutule, who has taken over as Gujarat’s head coach, is the assistant coach of Rajasthan Royals, while former India opener Wasim Jaffer is Kings XI Punjab’s batting coach and the head coach of Uttarakhand. “It is going to be challenging but I have been keeping in touch with the cricketers and the assistant coach over video-conferencing and will continue to do so from UAE. Since it usually rains in Dehradun much longer than most other regions, hopefully, the boys can resume outdoor nets soon, pandemic permitting,” Jaffer told The Hindu .
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sudeva FC not to recruit foreign players now||The newly inducted I-League team, Sudeva Delhi Football Club, wishes to play its matches at the historic Ambedkar Stadium, bringing the action closer to the fans. Dream come true Addressing a media conference on the web, co-founders of Sudeva Anuj Gupta and Vijay Hakari, said it was a “dream come true”, to have a team representing the Capital.  “We grew up watching East Bengal, Churchill Brothers, Mohun Bagan playing at the Ambedkar Stadium. “Now we will be playing such clubs at the Ambedkar Stadium,” said Gupta. “We want to be part of the merged league, ISL in three or four years. Next year is important for us. We want to be in the top five,” said Gupta. “No foreign players now. We need to give more match-time to the young talent in the right positions. Our aim is to give many good players to the national team,” he said. Hakari pointed out that the focus would be on improving the quality of football, which would automatically attract fans to the ground. “We are planning to have academies in Uttarakhand and Kolkata. Next year, we hope to have five grounds in Delhi,” Hakari said.
14 August 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Princepal Singh positioned to do well’||NBA G-League president Shareef Abdur-Rahim has high hopes for Princepal Singh, who recently became the first NBA Academy graduate to sign with the the league. Princepal will play for the G-League select team, a developmental basketball team outside the league’s team structure. “A regular G-League team will have its own priorities, while being part of the select team will allow us to take a more direct interest in Princepal’s growth. He is positioned to do well in his professional career,” Rahim said in a web press conference on Thursday. The 19-year-old Princepal will compete in exhibition games with and against other elite prospects in his age-group. He joins highly-rated youngsters Jonathan Kuminga, Jalen Green, Isaiah Todd, Daishen Nix and Kai Sotto in the select team. Former NBA All-Star Rahim stated that select team players have the chance to use the big scouting interest — from NBA franchises, among others — to further their professional careers.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen escapes to victory against Ding||Magnus Carlsen just about managed to slip out of the tightening grip of Ding Liren and escaped to a 3.5-2.5 victory in the fourth set for a 3-1 triumph in the semifinals of the $300,000 Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour Finals on Wednesday. Before Carlsen entered the final, with a set to spare, against Hikaru Nakamura for the best-of-seven-set title-clash beginning on Friday, Ding checkmated the World No. 1 in the second rapid game and then made his rival suffer in three games. Finally, Carlsen pulled off a stunning win in the second blitz game after Ding appeared close to forcing the deciding set.  Carlsen won the first rapid game after punishing Ding in the Anti-Moscow Gambit. The strongest Chinese in the game bounced right back by checkmating Carlsen after pulling out the black king to the centre of the board. In the third and fourth rapid games, Ding continued to dominate Carlsen. Though Carlsen was finding it tough to stay in the fight, Ding somehow failed to land the knockout punch. Carlsen felt he was a shade better in the third game as compared to his “completely lost” position in the fourth.  The results: Semifinal: Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Ding Liren (Chn) 3-1 [ Set Four, Rapid, Game one: Carlsen bt Ding; Game two: Ding bt Carlsen; Game three: Carlsen drew with Ding; Game four: Ding drew with Carlsen; Blitz, Game one: Carlsen drew with Ding; Game two: Ding lost to Carlsen].
14 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||HCA says ‘no to cricket’ till November||The Apex Council of Hyderabad Cricket Association, which met at the Rajiv Gandhi Stadium here on Thursday, resolved not to show any haste in resuming cricketing activity before November. Chaired by president Mohd. Azharuddin, the meeting decided that there was no way to step forward in this direction for the next couple of months given the grim scenario on the pandemic front. “Though we felt that some sort of activity could be had, since the BCCI had announced the Ranji calendar, Azhar emphasised the safety issue. He says there is no way the HCA can make a move which could expose players and staff to any risk as there are a lot of procedures need to be in place before thinking of even starting coaching camps,” HCA secretary R. Vijayanand told The Hindu . “Effectively, any cricketing action is unlikely till November,” he said. The meeting, however, took some other decisions like appointing a Constitution Committee comprising three club secretaries to study on the possible amendments to the HCA Constitution within the purview of the Justice Lodha panel guidelines. “The annual general meeting (virtual) is tentatively fixed for the third week of September where some of the decisions will be debated and approved,” he added.
14 August 2020||New Delhi,||INOX is Indian Olympics team sponsor||The INOX group will be the official sponsor of the Indian team for the rescheduled Tokyo Olympics, the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) announced on Thursday. “We are honoured and privileged to be able to support India’s Olympic dream through this prestigious association with the Indian Olympic Association,” INOX Group director Siddharth Jain said. IOA-secretary general Rajeev Mehta said: “We are happy to announce this partnership with INOX Group which will be beneficial for all our athletes and the organisation.” The INOX Group has supported various sporting events, teams and leagues.
14 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sikki Reddy and physio Ch. Kiran test positive||India’s women’s doubles specialist shuttler N. Sikki Reddy and physio Dr. Ch. Kiran, attached to the SAI-Gopi Chand Academy here, have tested positive for COVID-19. It is learnt they have undergone a second test on Thursday, the results of which are yet to come in. However, training will continue at the academy with all safety norms and precautions implemented strictly as set out in the Standard Operating Procedure of the Sports Authority of India. It may be mentioned here that Olympic probables, including World champion P.V. Sindhu, men’s singles players B. Sai Praneeth and former World No. 1 Kidambi Srikanth, along with Sikki Reddy began training at the Gopi Academy on August 7. The COVID-19 tests were conducted on August 12, and all others tested negative except Sikki and Kiran. For the record, Sindhu has been having separate training sessions from 6.30-8.30 am, accompanied by her father P.V. Ramana. The others’ sessions begin after Sindhu is through with her schedule.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||India gave me the belief I could win: Sheikh Ahmed||It was a rare insight into the secrets of Athens Olympics double trap gold medallist Sheikh Ahmed Almaktoum, as he interacted with fellow champions Danielle Di Spigno, Ronjan Sodhi, Moraad Ali Khan and London Games gold medallist Peter Wilson on the Manav Rachna Happy Times webinar. Sheikh Ahmed said that India brought happy memories as he won his first international medal in trap in Delhi, 2000, and later won the Olympic quota with the World Cup gold in 2003. “If you organise the Olympics, I will come back and shoot. The first time I believed I could win was in India. I feel at home in India, am close to the people and love the food,” said Sheikh Ahmed, who took up the sport when he was 34 after hunting was banned. Giving a glimpse of what went into winning UAE’s first Olympic medal — gold — Sheikh Ahmed said that if he shot about 40,000 cartridges for trap during training, he shot about 150,000 in double trap. “I trained three or four times a week for trap. For double trap, I trained for five to six days a week, and shot 300 cartridges in six rounds. “In trap, you concentrate when your turn comes to shoot. In double trap, you are concentrating even when others are shooting,” he said.
14 August 2020||PUNE:,||Tributes paid to Sir Dorabji Tata||The State Olympic sports fraternity paid tributes of Sir Dorabji Tata, considered the founding father of India’s Olympic movement, at a function to mark the Indian Olympic Association’s (IOA) centennial celebrations. It was Tata’s inspirational speech at the Deccan Gymkhana here in 1919 that sowed the seeds for IOA’s formation a year later. Besides, he also sponsored India’s contingent for the 1920 Antwerp Olympics and the following edition in Paris. The function was organised by the Pune District Athletics Association.
14 August 2020||BENGALURU,||RCB’s Indian players expected to arrive today||Indian players and staff members of IPL franchise Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB), including captain and star player Virat Kohli, are expected to arrive in Bengaluru on Friday to start their quarantine period.
14 August 2020||CHENNAI,||CSK’s Indian players to land in city today||The Indian contingent of Chennai Super Kings will arrive in two chartered flights here on Friday for a six-day camp ahead of the IPL to be held in the UAE from September 19 to November 10. While one batch will reach from Pune, the other will be from Ranchi. Meanwhile, all the net bowlers and staff of the TNCA who will be busy at the MAC Stadium during the camp were tested for COVID-19. All the tests returned negative.
14 August 2020||Monaco,||Lyles bids to banish COVID woes||American sprint star Noah Lyles will bid to put his aggravated psychological problems to one side as he heads a stellar line-up of athletes when competitive track and field resumes in Monaco on Friday in a season almost wiped out by the coronavirus pandemic. Following exhibition events in Oslo and Zurich in June and July, the Diamond League meeting in Monaco will mark the start of the competitive season. Meetings in Eugene, London, Paris, Rabat, Gateshead and Shanghai have all been cancelled. Six more Diamond League meets are currently scheduled, in Stockholm, Lausanne, Brussels, Rome, Doha and a yet-to-be-decided venue in China, running from August 23 until October 17.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 07:44 IST,||Sudoku - August 14, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Handing down memories||More than a decade ago, when Guneeta Bhalla visited the Hiroshima Peace Memorial, she came across documents of people sharing their stories of the atomic bombings. These accounts helped her understand the suffering and hardships that survivors had to go through. It was then that the idea of documenting the stories of India-Pakistan’s Partition occurred to her. From a family that migrated from Lahore to Amritsar, Bhalla had grown up hearing terrifying stories of Partition from her grandmother, who fled with her three children. “She spoke of her train journey to India, watching bodies strewn along the tracks. Initially, these were just stories to me and my family, until I realised the importance of documenting them for generations to come,” says Bhalla. Her project, 1947 Partition Archive, documents the oral history of Partition from the survivors. Started in 2009, the project has a repository of over 9,300 stories, collected by a team of 600 people. Several organisations in India are now waking up to the importance of archiving oral history to shed light on the events that happened in 1947. Presenting stories of the past with modern storytelling skills, initiatives such as The Citizens Archive of India and Museum of Material Memory are bringing personal stories to the public domain. These stories have a large readership online, as they highlight the non-academic aspect of Independence and Partition. “There is now a sense of urgency as most of the people who lived through those times are getting old. Not all of them have a vivid memory of the events, so it has been a race against time for us,” says Bhalla. The Citizens Archive Of India began with a basic motive of keeping memories alive. “The founder, Rohan Parikh, wanted to bring forward India’s lost and neglected stories from 1947 and before. So together we started recording videos of people telling us about their early life,” says Malvika Bhatia, the archive director of the organisation.Of the 242 tales that they have recorded, Malvika loves the one of Mithoo Coorlawala who turns 103 in September this year. “From an affluent family, she attended Newnham College at the University of Cambridge in 1938 for her Master’s. On completion of the degree, while her male counterparts got a convocation, the women were given a polite letter congratulating them for graduating. Several years later, Cambridge University decided to change it and summoned all the women students for a convocation ceremony. In 1998, almost 60 years after she graduated from college, Mithoo went back to collect her Master’s certificate,” says Bhatia. Another organisation that believes in archiving old tales is the Museum of Material Memory. Run by author Aanchal Malhotra and Navdha Malhotra, the digital archive documents history through the memory of things. “Though we do not specifically write about Independence and Partition, every story from that era has been impacted by these events in some way or the other,” says Aanchal, who penned Remnants of a Separation: A History of the Partition Through Material Memory . Started in 2017, the website has stories from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal and Myanmar. It crowdsources stories from people who reach out on social media. “People write to us with basic information about a commodity they discover, and then we guide them to find more about it by interviewing the people around them. You will be surprised to know the stories people have discovered by trying to trace the ownership of briefcases, cutlery, clothing and worn-out documents,” says Navdha, narrating the story of Rashi Puri who set out to find details about her great-grandmother Savitri Devi Bhalla, after discovering a dupatta that belonged to her. Rashi reached out to her grandfather, Savitri Devi’s eldest son Joginder Bhalla, who narrated how Savitri Devi, a widow with three children, made her way from Lahore to India. Before Partition was announced, families had already started migrating. A Muslim family from India arrived at Savitri Devi’s doorstep in Lahore and moved into the house. The two families lived together before the Bhallas moved to India. “All of this came to light only because Rashi wanted to know more about her great-grandmother and her dupatta ,” says Navdha.  Museum of Material Memory has stories from India, Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh and Myanmar
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Acts of valour||The National Army Museum (NAM), London, joins forces with the Royal Air Force Museum, the National Museum of the Royal Navy, and the Commonwealth War Graves Commission to mark the 75th anniversary of VJ (Victory over Japan) Day, August 15, 1945. Free online talks and events on August 15 mark the event. At 2 p.m., join historians from the four partner organisations as they explore the road to Victory over Japan and discuss how it is remembered in myth and memory through the stories of armed forces personnel, many of them Indian, who were engaged in bitter fighting in Asia. This panel will be hosted by journalist and author Shrabani Basu. At 4 p.m., join Second World War veterans, the 100-year-old Captain Sir Tom Moore, who was in the news recently for raising funds for the National Health Service, and Private Joseph Hammond in conversation with Peter Johnston of NAM. Both fundraisers are also military veterans of the Second World War campaign in Burma. Their stories will be coloured by objects and photographs from the NAM’s collection. At 7 p.m., author-explorer Levison Wood discovers the story of his grandfather’s wartime service in Burma and of many other soldiers who fought in the ‘Forgotten War’ through family memorabilia and NAM archives.  For details, www.nam.ac.uk/series/vj-day-75
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Being different Freak family||Story so far: The freezing winters did not seem to dampen Shorty’s spirit. He was busy making his group grow in numbers.  ‘Silly Willy, Silly Willy,’ the weaver birds flapped their wings and chanted, as Willy, a tiny yellow baya weaver, struggled to weave a nest. ‘Willy can’t weave, Willy’s not a weaver! That’s no beak, that’s scissors!’ Instead of the grass coming together, Willy’s crooked beak tore the blades of grass apart.  ‘It’s already way past nesting season, and my home isn’t ready,’ sobbed Willy. ‘Where will I go?’ ‘Come with us,’ said Crow. ‘In the place we’re going to spend winter, various species of birds come together from all over the world. Everyone’s welcome there,’ said Shorty. ‘Of course!’ quacked Drax. ‘First, there was Shorty. Then, Crow came along. Now, Silly Willy. We’re the freak family!’ ‘Ignore them,’ said Shorty, who was used to their hurtful taunts. Best friend ‘Yes,’ said Crow, who was tired of being judged for being different. ‘They’re just jealous because we’re different and can do things they can’t. For example, I can make birds fall off trees and scare animals away with my song.’ ‘Then I can shred even the strongest rope with my sharp beak,’ replied Willy, for the first time feeling a sense of pride in himself. ‘And I...I...’ mumbled Shorty, searching for his own redeeming quality, when Crow and Willy chirped together, ‘You are the best friend anyone can ever have.’ ‘Really!’ beamed Shorty, his feathers all fluffy with pride. It didn’t matter he had one short wing. After a long, tiring day of flying, Drax and the flock of ducks were relieved to see a beautiful lake and descended upon a large vacant spot in the middle. What Drax was unable to see in the twilight was a hunter’s trap. ‘Oh no,’ quacked the ducks. ‘We’re all dead ducks.’ ‘Help! Help!’ called Drax, hoping Shorty and his friends would hear him. Instead, the hunter’s dog, Tiger, heard Drax calling. Seeing him approaching, the ducks flapped their wings frantically, only to get more tangled in the net. ‘Drax, you’re the strongest. Save us,’ cried one of the ducks, as Tiger’s white fangs closed on her slender neck. ‘Drop her,’ Drax quacked. Surprisingly, Tiger released the duck and pounced on Drax. He was about to rip Drax’s head off when he heard a ear-splitting song. Tiger dropped Drax and shoved his paws into his ears. ‘Thank you, Crow,’ said a grateful Drax. He’d never been so happy to see Shorty, and his new friends. His ears still ringing, Tiger chased after Crow who cleverly led him away from the ducks, giving Willy enough time to use his sharp beak to cut a large hole in the net. ‘Willy, super-beak,’ cheered the grateful ducks, as they emerged from the net. Hearing the commotion, the hunter picked up his gun and rushed to the lake. But before he could fire, the birds flapped their wings and flew off. Thereafter, whenever Drax or the ducks came across a unique bird, they always appreciated its special skill instead of making fun of it.  The End.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||In turbulent times||This is as good a time as any to delve into books about Indian Independence. Now, seven decades and more later, the bravery and valour seems to have lost its poignancy. But, these books will evoke in us again the grit and determination that won us our freedom.   A Flag, A Song And a Pinch of Salt by Subhadra Sen Gupta  features 19 Indian freedom fighters including Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar and Lokmanya Tilak. She has also featured Abul Kalam Azad, Annie Besant and more, providing a rich tapestry of people who put their country first, stood firm in their beliefs and remained undeterred, despite the threat of prison sentences and police batons. They stood against the biggest colonial empire in the world at that time and achieved their dream of flying the Tricolour.  The Teenage Diary of Rani Lakshmi Bai by Tanushree Podder  Not enough can be written about this firebrand queen. This is a fictional diary of the Rani of Jhansi’s teenage years. Intelligent and spirited, Manikarnika is the daughter of a poor priest in Bithoor, a small town at the court of Baji Rao, the exiled Peshwa of Poona. At the court, she is trained in horse riding, sword fighting and getting an education along with Tantia Tope and Nana Saheb. Married to Gangadhar Rao at 13, she quickly assumes her role as queen and rules alongside the king. When the British hatch plans to take away her kingdom, they find the rani an able opponent.  Neela: Victory Song by Chitra Banerjee Divakurani  It is 1939. A day after Neela’s sister’s wedding, her father goes to Calcutta to join a protest march organised by the Congress, saying he will be back in a week’s time. However, days become weeks, and there is no sign of her father. Neela disguises herself as a wandering minstrel and travels from her village, Shona Gram, to Calcutta. There she meets Bimala, the daughter of a judge, and her cousin, Samar, a freedom fighter Neela had earlier rescued from the police in her village. Through various sources they discover that Neela’s father is in jail and is to be deported to the Andaman Islands in a few days. Will they be able to free him? Can a 12-year-old girl stand against the mighty British empire?  A Beautiful Lie by Irfan Master  The story of Bilal and his need to protect his father goes beyond the key event of the time, the Partition. Bilal knows that if his dying father hears that his beloved country is to be divided up, it will break his heart. So, with his friends Chota, Manjeet and Saleem, he devises a scheme to head off any potential visitors. His effort to keep his father isolated proves difficult when his estranged elder brother, a political activist, believes that their father must be told the truth. The growing tension and chaos in the town makes it almost impossible for Bilal to maintain his “beautiful lie”.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||India’s midnight tryst||Long years ago we made a tryst with destiny, and now the time comes when we shall redeem our pledge... At the stroke of the midnight hour, when the world sleeps, India will awake to life and freedom.”  Thus said Jawaharlal Nehru at the Constituent Assembly on August 15, as India became free from British colonial rule. We celebrate the day as Independence Day but, remember, it was also the day India was partitioned. Let’s take a look at the immediate events that led to this day. By the time World War II ended in 1945, the British government had lost support — both at home and internationally — for its rule in India, where the movement for independence had also gained strength. On February 20, Clement Atlee, the British Prime Minister, announced that India would be granted full self-governance by June 1948. But given the struggle between the Congress and the Muslim League, Lord Mountbatten, the Viceroy of India, felt that any interim government would collapse. So he decided to bring forward the date and chose August 15, 1947, for the transfer of power. Why August 15, 1947? Because it was the second anniversary of the Japanese surrender that finally ended World War II. The boundaries between India and Pakistan was the Radcliffe Line, named after Sir Cyril Radcliffe, the joint chairman of the two commissions that decided which districts of Punjab and Bengal went to India and which to Pakistan. The details of the Radcliffe Line were published on August 17, after India and Pakistan had come into being and still serves as the Indo-Pakistan border in the west and the Indo-Bangladesh border in the east. Independence and partition went in hand in hand and both countries saw a great deal of violence and bloodshed as Muslims, Hindus and Sikhs crossed the newly created borders. Jawaharlal Nehru became the first Prime Minister of independent India and Lord Mountbatten stayed on to be the first Governor General. Gandhi did not participate in the official celebrations. He undertook a 24-hour fast on the day to encourage peace between Hindus and Muslims.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||A miracle and a mystery||The old house was on Maya’s way to school. Two-storeyed, with a red-tiled roof broken in places, its windows lit up every time the sunlight fell at a certain angle. No one lived there any longer. A decade ago, a freedom fighter had lived there, whose last wish was to have the old ancestral house converted into a primary school. But, five years had gone by, and nothing had happened. The morning was overcast, and Maya was on her way to school, lost in thought. The district collector had been invited to her school’s Independence Day celebrations. Maya hoped he had received her email. A school was urgently needed, she had written, for the one five km away was terribly overcrowded. The footbridge over the Indravati always flooded over in the rains. Maya hardly noticed the first raindrops. But the rain was soon sharp on her face, making things shimmer before her, and she stopped hurriedly. On her right, was the old house. She noticed the gap in the crumbling grey-stoned wall. A light flickered through the straggly bushes along the path. Maya ran down towards the portico and into an old sitting room. In the corner was a study table. A rickety three-legged lamp stood near. A brown cat came up and rubbed against Maya’s legs and bounded up a spiral staircase. Curious, Maya followed. Inspiring sight The stairs emerged into a library of sorts, wooden glass cases stacked by the wall. At a far window, an old lady looked out sadly, holding a familiar piece of cloth. She turned and smiled. “I am glad someone’s here. We simply have to put the flag up today.” Maya nodded, and reached for the flag. “Thank you. The flag used to be seen for miles around. Pandit Nehru was here once, and he said the fluttering flag was an inspiring sight.” The steps narrowed, as Maya neared the attic. The cat stayed close, mewing encouragement. The attic had an old worktable stacked with old newspapers, and a typewriter. A stepladder led to the open skylight and Maya saw the pole, its halyard moving in the wind. The hooks were a bit rusty, but the flag sailed up easily and fluttered open, as she shook the halyard. As she looked around, there were no rain clouds, and far away, a bullock cart trundled slowly on the old bridge. “You must come again,” the woman said, her eyes misty, but Maya had little time to ask who she was. She had spotted the helicopter in the school grounds and knew she was late. As she entered the hall, Maya heard the collector say, “The chopper reached only because of the flag. We saw it on the old house from way off. I am glad it’ll be a school after all. We decided some days ago.” He told them about Maya’s email and she walked self-consciously to the stage, to great applause. “It’s strange about the flag,” said the principal later. “Someone from the school always did it because the flagpole was up on the roof. And there it was again, so many years later. Quite a mystery, isn’t it?” Maya remembered the gentle sunshine on her face, as she looked through the roof. And the old woman. Miracles, magic and a mystery on Independence Day.  The old woman held out a familiar piecec of cloth and Maya reached for it.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Freedom of all sorts||Happy Independence Day, people! How are you celebrating India’s 74th Independence Day? Is your school having a flag hoisting on Google Meet? Are you going to sing or recite a poem for a special August 15th Assembly on Zoom? I bet your history teacher is making you write an essay about the struggle for independence! (I still think that’s better than having to write about the history of pandemics!) Here’s a fun fact I learned during my history paper research — did you know that 62 countries have gained independence from the United Kingdom alone? That sounds like a Guinness Book of World Records record. Here’s another one: did you know that Jana Gana Mana became the national anthem only in 1950? That’s right, we spent the first two-and-a-half years as an independent nation without a national anthem. Talk about submitting your homework late. I’d really like to know how they got away with that. Oh, and Mahatma Gandhi didn’t attend the first celebration of Independence Day. Apparently, he was upset about the India-Pakistan partition and decided to sit it out. There’s a lot to learn from the Mahatma. I can’t even get out of a quarantine haircut, so I’d like to know how he pulled this one off. Don’t flag off If you’re thinking of making your own flag, don’t. You could go to jail. Apparently, khadi is the only material our flag should be made of and, if you’re caught flying a flag made of anything else, you could end up counting bars. I’ll just shelve my idea of a dry-fit flag then, shall I? I liked learning about all these things, but I think Independence Day celebrations should be more about the future. We know how we got freedom from the British, but how are we going to become free of all the terrible things in our lives right now? Like COVID-19? And single-use plastics? Fake news? Bad roads? The British have been gone for over 70 years, but all these problems are here right now. So, maybe, this August 15, each of us could do one thing — just one — that tried to help us get freedom from the problems that we face now. You could tell someone that the forward they shared is fake. You could ask people to install cheap aerators on their taps and help save water. You could get masks and gloves for the people who work in your building. You could write a letter to your Corporator about fixing the road outside your house. ONE THING. And keep doing it. Till something changes. Till there are other freedoms we can celebrate.  Did you know that 62 countries have gained independence from the United Kingdom alone?
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Diverse, that’s me||Name: India, officially, the Republic of India.  I like to describe myself as: A sovereign, socialist, secular democratic republic.  Where you can find me: In South Asia, surrounded by my neighbours (Pakistan, China, Bhutan, Nepal, Myanmar, Maldives, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh) and three water bodies (Arabian Sea, Indian Ocean and Bay of Bengal).  The best day of my life: August 15, 1947, when I emerged as an independent nation  My biggest asset: My incredibly diverse people — I have more than 1.3 billion of them.  Talk to me in: Any language you like. Though I officially have 22 languages, my people speak thousands of languages and dialects.  My best feature: My stunning landscape — mountains, plateaus, plains, rivers, deserts, beaches, and more.  My favourite food: From butter chicken to biryani, from dhokla to dosa, from vada pav to sambhar – I have an appetite for anything that is spice-packed, flavourful and fragrant.  My richest treasure: Biodiversity. I am home to over 45,000 species of plants and 91,000 species of animals. In fact, I am the only country known to have both lions and tigers in the wild.  My lifeline: My transport system. The Indian railway system is the largest in Asia, and transports around 23 million passengers every day.  One thing I love to do: Celebrate! I have a large variety of festivals that are colourful, cheerful and soulful.  My gifts to the world: Zero, Ayurveda, Chess, Snakes and Ladders, Yoga, and so much more.   What keeps me going: My reliance on my rich history and my belief in my promising future.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||A game for freedom||Movie: Lagaan (2001)  Genre: Sports drama It is 1893 and India is under British occupation. Near the small village of Champaner in Gujarat, the commanding officer of the cantonment, Captain Andrew Russell, doubles the tax in the villages when people are struggling to make ends meet because of an on-going drought. A group of men from the village, along with the young, charismatic Bhuvan, try to meet the Raja at the cantonment for help. There, they see the British playing cricket and Bhuvan mocks the sport, angering Captain Russel. The men consult the Raja, but he is unable to help them. A challenge Captain Russell, who hears them, offers a way out. He challenges Bhuvan and his men to a game of cricket, which the Indians know nothing about. If the Indian team wins, the entire province won’t have to pay taxes for three years. If they lose, they will have to pay triple the amount. Bhuvan immediately agrees, which irritates the villagers. Not only does Bhuvan form a team but also finds an ally in Captain Russell’s sister, who believes they deserve a fair chance and agrees to secretly teach them the game. Will the team be able to put aside their differences and defeat the British? The story showcases the resilience shown by Indians while they were under the British rule.  Trivia:  Lagaan was the third Indian film to be nominated for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film.  The film’s first was seven hours and 30 minutes long.  It was the first Indian film to première in China.  Paul Blackthorne, who plays Captain Russell, spent six months learning Hindi for his role.  Many people in the crowd seen cheering during the match were actual villagers from the place where the movie was filmed.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Rediscover India||From the Green Revolution to the National Action Plan on Climate Change, the book chronicles significant green missions in India since 1947. Interspersed with lots of trivia, tales of eco-heroes and humorous cartoons, this easy-to-read account uncovers the story of a past with the hope that we will rewrite India’s future. India is incredible, unmatched, unlimited. It is also fun, as this new series shows. Each book is designed around a theme such as food, festivals and celebrations, historical places and eco victories, and includes word-searches, crosswords, multiple choice quizzes, picture quizzes, jokes and riddles, art and craft, recipes, puzzles, and more. The books currently available are Fascinating Food , Amazing Historical Places and Festivals and Celebrations . Election time in India is like a festival — there is the same colour, excitement and celebration! And the voter is king! This book helps you understand why elections are important and how to be better equipped to perform the all-important task of choosing a government to the world’s largest democracy. This book also outlines the election process; how it evolved over the years, new methods of casting a vote, and the importance of agencies like the Election Commission. India is always bursting at the seams with awe-inspiring achievements, fantastic feats, inspiring inventions and terrific triumphs. Bringing together the most fascinating and useful facts from the iconic Limca Book of Records, the book tells you all about India’s firsts, mosts, and more. With snack-sized information, photographs and activities, this book is your smart route to better GK.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Independence Day||ACROSS 2. The Prime Minister hoists the flag here (3,4) 5. ____ Guru, freedom fighter (3) 6. Year of Indian Independence: Nineteen ____ Seven (5) 7. The British ___ India Company landed in India in 1608 (4) 8. Zamindar means “____ owner” (4) 10. ____bhai Naoroji, the Grand Old Man of India (4) 11. The Cellular Jail is located here (7) 13. Pingali Venkayya designed the national ____ (4) 16. ___ Swaraj: Book written by M.K. Gandhi (4) 18. B.R Ambedkar was also known as ____saheb (4) 19. _____ Besant, supporter of Home Rule (5) DOWN 1. Tagore was also known as ___dev (4) 2. _____ Prasad, first President of India (8) 3. Independence Day falls on the _____ of August (9) 4. ___ Tope led the troops in the War of 1857 (5) 9. The Salt March ended at this place (5) 12. ____ Mohan Malaviya, freedom fighter (5) 14, ____ Lajpat Rai, freedom fighter (4) 15. Vasco da ____ discovered a sea route to India (4) 17. Army established by Subhash Chandra Bose, abbr. (3)
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||When were computers first invented?  Between 1833 and 1871, English engineer and mathematician Charles Babbage invented all the parts that are now used for a modern computer. But it took another 120 years for the first ‘modern’ computers to be invented. Konrad Zuse was the inventor of the first computer in the world in 1936, and he named it the Z1. In 1939, he also created the Z2, the first electro-mechanical computer in the world.    Whydoes our national flag have three colours?  The modern flag of the Republic of India, designed by Pingali Venkayya, has three colours placed horizontally. Each colour has been used to signify specific aspects of our country. At the top is saffron, which signifies sacrifice and patriotism, and the strength and courage of our country. In the middle is white, which stands for truth in word and actions and purity in thought. At the bottom is green, which stands for fertility, growth and auspiciousness of the land. It is also called the tiranga or tricolour.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Saving history as it happens||Archiving is a relatively new concept in India. It may be about preserving your grandmother’s heirloom sari or the costumes of a dance luminary like Uday Shankar or just documenting one’s artistic journey. What it requires first is intent, then technique and, increasingly now, technology. When Deepthi Sasidharan, director of Eka Archiving Services and co-author of Treasures of the Deccan, realised that the headdress she had found in an archive had an Indian connection (it belonged to the trustees of the Ram Gopal Estate), she looked some more, and found pictures of the legendary dancer Ram Gopal in performance wearing the same headdress. “Scattered across archives and visual museum databases (in the U.K. and elsewhere) is the story of Indian dance,” says Deepthi. “Pictures may be somewhere, the story somewhere... but collections of Indian dance objects are predictably not accessible in India.” In fact, possibly one of the best archives of Indian dance is to be found in Jacob’s Pillow dance centre and performance space in Massachusetts, U.S. Deepthi was talking at a session on ‘Archiving the Performing Arts,’ organised by Shreya Nagarajan Singh Arts Development Consultancy. She went on to speak of a veteran Indian dancer who, she discovered, had used lycra under her costume during her heyday to make it easier to move. Every dancer has his or her own secrets to reveal, unseen belts and hooks perhaps, and each such insight adds significant bits to the history of dance. Having worked with the Kalakshetra Museum in its documentation and conservation project, Deepthi is aware of the value of a historical archive. Everything matters Dancers must record their journey and their unique contributions. As Deepthi points out, it is individual efforts that can build a historic archive. Even two cupboards of material can disseminate information about a dancer’s practice and preserve it for the future. While artistes indeed hold the paraphernalia of their art, the actual process of archiving must ideally be undertaken either by the state or by art philanthropists. In India, this has been sadly neglected. NCPA in Mumbai is a good example of a serious private archive in India, supported by a trust, while the government-run IGNCA and Sangeet Natak Akademi have also made some efforts in the area. Chennai’s Kalakshetra museum is another good example. Archives can also be private efforts like the Mohan Khokar collection (see box), now acquired by the IGNCA in Delhi; or the extensive archive for dancer Chandralekha that is coming up in Chennai. The process Archiving is a process of collecting, assessing, prioritising, sorting, organising, storing and maintaining anything unique, of historical or other value. The main highlight of a formal archive is that it is not just a collection. The pieces must be identified, photographed and dated, and their location and ownership established. The collection should be valued, stored and insured, if necessary. A good archive, for Deepthi, is one where something is traceable in four to five minutes from among lakhs of pieces. Once tabulated, collections become accessible and can even be monetised in many ways. Artistes are often not aware of what can go into an archive. The list is endless: paper documents (handwritten notes, sketches, manuscripts, diaries, ephemera such as tickets, etc), photographs (albums, negatives, films, recordings on VHS tapes, etc), digital material (pen-drives and phones), costumes, props, jewellery, instruments and other memorabilia. Deepthi’s advice is to start small, say with a drawer, a shelf or an envelope. If objects are fragile, like yellowing newspaper cuttings, it is best to digitise them or bring in a professional. It is important to use gloves to protect old photographs or to protect oneself when handling old, deteriorating material. Expert help How one preserves archival material is crucial and that is why one needs expert advice. Organic material like paper and cloth absorb moisture, so they have to be preserved in places where temperature and humidity is controlled. The adverse effect of light on paintings, textiles and photographs is well known; as is the damage done by air pollution. Some of the methods used to safeguard old things are just common sense, but it’s easy to go wrong. Deepthi gives the example of a well-intended maintenance measure that proved destructive some years ago. Miniature paintings in a big museum in India were placed in varnished frames, and the fumes from the varnish crept into the paintings and destroyed many of them in one go. For home archives, conservators recommend archival-grade boxes, sleeves and acid-free tissue. Alongside storage, it is important to maintain information about each artefact. In 20 years, artistes are unlikely to remember the details they recall clearly today. Maintenance is vital. Two factors cause damage: environmental factors such as dampness, humidity, variation in temperature; and biological factors such as insect and fungal attacks due to foodstuff brought into storage areas, poor ventilation, damp walls, or basement storage rooms. Going digital One of Deepthi’s co-panellists was Shaleen Wadhwana, an independent arts and heritage professional, who marries virtual reality techniques to traditional archives. Shaleen speaks of the challenges of creating a satisfying online experience, especially when you have to get noticed in the visual overload online. The initial focus will probably be directed towards creating new income models, creating virtual residencies, exploring virtual ways of practising the arts, and recreating classrooms and festivals online. Some important digital initiatives already exist, for example, the Creative Commons Public License. Shaleen spoke of how artistes share their work under this licence, making it part of a collective ownership that allows it to be used freely with some conditions. There is also the online ‘Museum of Material Memory’ where people share personal memorabilia and stories. For dancers, the storage of costumes is of particular interest. Deepshikha Kalsi, materials conservator and consultant and founder of Textile Conservation Studio, suggested in her talk that costumes be stored flat, with crease lines supported by rolls of archival tissue. The whole should then be wrapped in tissue and covered with unstarched cotton and stored in special boxes. “This will give it a shelf life of about 50 years, but storage material will not last more than two years if humidity is high,” said Deepshikha. Archiving technology has gone far ahead in the West, while we remain indifferent about preserving the past, preferring instead to wallow in sentimental nostalgia. Serious archiving requires not just intent but also funding. As Deepthi points out, “There are many 16mm recordings of old dancers lying unseen because digitisation is too expensive.” The country possibly has mountains of material on dance, but what we don’t have is an understanding of the value of archiving it.  The Chennai-based author   writes on classical dance
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The sarod and guitar converse||Instrumental music intrinsically has an earnestness that probably comes from its wordless-yet-plainspoken musicality. And the music of strings produces just such an endearing blend between the manmade and the organic — a naturally occurring material is held taut between two points which, when struck with intent, produces vibrations that can “heal this world through spiritual nourishment,” as Ustad Amjad Ali Khan puts it. ‘Strings for Peace’ replicates this blend through a cross-cultural collaboration between the sarod and the guitar. The Ustad, his sons Amaan and Ayaan Ali Bangash, and the Grammy-winning guitarist, Sharon Isbin, have combined their formidable musical forces for this album to find common ground in ragas and medieval modes and achieve a cross-fertilisation between two different sounds and techniques. A studio offshoot of material performed during a successful 2019 tour, the album invokes Behag, Mishra Bhairav, Pilu, and Yaman, letting the guitar access it via the Ionian, Phrygian, Dorian and Lydian. Through four pulsating yet pensive pieces, composed by the Ustad and scored for guitar by Kyle Paul, the album seems to explore the serenity latent within natural rhythms and markers. As the titles ‘By the Moon’, ‘Love Avalanche’, ‘Romancing Earth’, and ‘Sacred Evening’ suggest, these are pieces geared to coax the listener out of their digital distractions and into a contemplative mode anchored on the refreshingly mundane. Healing power of music “When we started out, little did we know that this creation will come to fruition at a time when humanity will need to consider meditation and contemplation more than ever,” says Amaan Ali. Sharon concurs, admitting they “could never have imagined that [the album] would be released at a time the world would be convulsed, when people would need healing and comfort from music more than ever”. Classical musicians may need comforting of their own, with COVID-19 threatening to choke their mainstay — live concerts. Not so hopeful of a resumption of live music in the U.S. any time this year, Sharon still believes that countries with “good leadership will have a better opportunity to explore scaled-down performances,” observing that chamber performances professionally streamed from concert halls are working for some. Ayaan Ali sees sponsored digital concerts coming into their own in the coming months. Amaan’s outlook is even more sanguine — acknowledging the suspension of live concerts as “an interval in the planet,” he feels the “second half will be even more magical and breathtaking, god willing”. At any rate, the prolific Sharon has two releases to her credit this season, including Affinity , a solo project of premières composed for her in the form of a multi-cultural world-embrace of music from South America, Cuba, China, Persia, and America, including a jazz and Middle Eastern-influenced concerto for guitar and orchestra by Chris Brubeck that pays homage to his father and jazz legend Dave Brubeck, whose centennial is celebrated this Fall. When the bill of fare lists the virtuosic likes of the Bangashes and Sharon, among the pre-eminent guitarists of our time, you know that skill is a given. Amit Kavthekar’s tabla provides the compositions with the trademark Hindustani gait and crescendos. But the album’s standout is its performative camaraderie — a delicate and elegant give-and-take. “I have always felt that this collaboration is about letting go of what [one] is best at and more about getting the best out of the other person,” says Ayaan. The sarod and the Spanish guitar are both plucked stringed instruments that have a “shared gypsy heritage that evolved many years ago”. But one is fretted and more suited for polyphonic harmonisation, while the other is unfretted and produces a more contiguous sound conducive to raga-based melodic exposition. How do you make them work together? Well, Isbin’s slides and melismatic filigree natural to the guitar create a virtual bridge. And when the sarod leads, Sharon chips in with chords and bass notes that flavour each spoonful of the melody with a fresh spice. The chordal backdrop hardly distorts the raag, instead playfully asking each note, ‘What if I dressed you in these ornaments today?’ The note seldom demurs. The album, produced by Zoho Music, is available for streaming on Spotify, Google Play and YouTube Music, while CDs and digital copies can be ordered on Amazon.  Never imagined that the album would be released at a time when people would need healing more than ever Sharon Isbin
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||BACK from the BRINK||Sometimes the accolade an artiste receives serves to highlight an art form that might otherwise go unrecognised. The selection of Thiyyadi Raman Nambiar for the Kerala Folklore Academy’s Fellowship turns the spotlight on the vanishing art of Ayyappan Thiyyattu. Once staged in temples and Namboodiri illams or homes as an offering, the art form is a powerful example of thouryatrika, a combination of geetha (music), vadya (instruments) and nritta (dance). Scholars describe it as a holistic art form because, apart from the above three, it also demonstrates painting and abhinaya. References to Ayyappan Thiyyattu are found in the ancient Vadakkan pattu (the ballads of Malabar) and sanghakkali, the hybrid art performed by Namboodiris. The practitioners of Ayyappan Thiyyattu are Thiyyadi Nambiars, a community of ambalavasis (temple-dwellers) found mainly in central and north Kerala. Less than 200 members from eight ancestral families are still around, of whom fewer than 10 practise the art, which is part of their kuladharma or family vocation. Four-part performance The rituals involved in Ayyappan Thiyyattu are complex and lengthy, and the remuneration low, making it impossible for descendants of traditional families to continue the practice. They have moved on to higher education and full-time jobs. Raman Nambiar too had a day job in BPCL for 35 years, before he resigned a few years ago to focus fully on the practice. The day-long performance begins with the construction of the shamiana and continues till the grand denouement late in the evening. There are four main segments — kalam, pattu, koothu and komaram. A kalam, drawn on the floor under the shamiana, provides a sort of spatial orientation to the performance. Five natural colours are used: white, black, green, yellow and red, all obtained from nature. The agility with which the figure of Ayyappan in different moods is drawn is breathtaking, and the finished kalam looks three-dimensional. Ayyappan is generally drawn on a white horse, a tiger, or accompanied by his wife Prabha and son Sathyaka. The elaborate exercise takes up an entire day. After the kalam is ready, the pattu or music begins, with the leitmotif essentially being the life story of Ayyappa. The music, in the sopana style with traces of ragas such as Sankarabharanam, Sahana, Paadi and Puranira, is accompanied by the para, a variant of the chenda drum, as well as by the chenda and cymbals. In Koodiyattam style The next stage has much in common with Koodiyattam, where the performing Nambiar wears the make-up of Nandikeswara while donning the headgear and prishtom (waist cloth) worn by the Chakyar. The narration is mainly through mudras in the typical Koodiyattam style. The most interesting aspect of this is watching the Nambiar get into costume and make-up in full view of the spectators, which adds to the experience. The last stage of the performance is the dramatic entry of the komaram or oracle, often the most popular part of the event. The oracle jumps boisterously on to the kalam , sword in hand, accompanied by a flourish of drums to create an out-of-body ambience. He then proceeds to destroy the carefully painted kalam as well as the shamiana erected over it in what can be interpreted as a homage to transience. A member of the Mulakunnathukavu Thiyyadi family, Raman Nambiar has been enacting this four-part performance for the past five decades. Trained by his father and other veterans, Raman is, perhaps, the only artiste today who is well versed in all the departments of Ayyappan Thiyyattu such as Udayasthama Koothu, Pantheerayiram, Kanalattam, etc. Realising that the art form is nearing extinction in his own community, Raman has enrolled two students from other communities. In fact, his commitment is such that he retired early only to write Ayyappan Thiyyattu, the only available treatise on the art form, which was published by Kerala Bhasha Institute in 2013. He has taken the performance to many secular platforms across universities and institutions worldwide. The fellowship from the Folklore Academy is a richly deserved recognition for a man without whose single-minded dedication this art form would have faded into oblivion. The writer and culture critic is a trained musician  Scholars describe it as a holistic art form because, apart from music, dance and instruments, it also demonstrates painting and abhinaya
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Notes of classicism||Amidst the crisis of livelihood that the pandemic has created this year for nagaswaram players, many of them in the Delta districts, a couple of inspiring moments stand out. One such was the award of the Padma Shri to star performers Sheik Mahaboob Subhani and Kaleeshabi Mahaboob, known for their bhakti-laden music steeped in classicism. To celebrate the award, the South Zone Cultural Centre of Thanjavur, part of the Ministry of Culture, presented Sushira Vadyotsav, an online screening of their nagaswaram concert held recently at the Tiruvarur temple. January has always been special both for the couple and their admirers. You could unfailingly spot them at the annual Tyagaraja Aradhana in Tiruvaiyaru. Year after year, this writer has seen them leading the nagaswaram sessions just before the Pancharatna rendering begins. Kaleeshabi Mahaboob, beautifully dressed in bright silks and jewellery, and husband Sheik Mahaboob Subhani play each kriti exquisitely, soaking the audience in the mood and the ambience. A huge crowd gathers unfailingly for the duo’s evening concert at Tiruvaiyaru on the banks of the Cauvery. People of all communities come from the nearby villages along with their families to enjoy the notes of the nagaswaram. And the marquee becomes a picture of integration of people whose only focus is the music. Mahaboob Subhani and Kaleeshabi, who hail from Kurnool in Andhra Pradesh, live in Srirangam. In an interview, Mahaboob said, “We hail from a long line of musicians who played the Chilakluripet bani.We are the eighth generation and our son Sheik Ferose Babu is being trained to take the legacy forward. We consider this award a recognition of our lineage.” Their music reflects the grand tradition of their guru, Sheikh Chinna Moulana. Improvisation technique The pure classicism of their Tiruvarur concert proved again how nagaswaram artistes’ improvisation of ragas and rendering of alapanas have influenced many vocalists. And how this instrument, which is usually played at marriages and temple festivities, undergoes a transformation when it reaches the concert stage. Mahaboob Subhani began the concert with a brief flourish of Ritigowla raga as a precursor to Papanasam Sivan's ‘Tatvamariya Tarama’ in praise of Lord Ganapati. ‘Mgrgm’ began the kalpanaswara, first played by Mahaboob Subhani with Kaleeshabi coming up with a fitting response. Brisk and riveting swaras flowed from the instruments with the interlude ending in a korvai. An alapana of Kannada followed. In the phrases, Mahaboob Subhani touched the upper gandhara, and the higher stayi prayogas enveloped the atmosphere in the raga’s beauty. The kriti chosen was ‘Sri Mathrubhootham’ by Muthuswamy Dikshitar. The sedate pace accented the nuances of the words in praise of Siva as Mathrubhootheswara. The central presentation was the Kiravani that they played in turns, with impressive phrasings on the upper Rishabha. This was followed by the kriti ‘Devi Neeye Thunai,’ and detailed swaraprasthara. The thavil duo accompanying them, Thirupungur T.G. Muthukumaraswamy and Dharapuram V. Ganesh, made sure that they gave their best to showcase the beauty of an age-old tradition.  The author is a trained   classical musician   We hail from a long line of musicians, who played the Chilakluripet bani. We consider this award a recognition of our lineage.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||In search of the lone dancer||A few years ago, on a balmy afternoon, sitting in the elegant rehearsal space of her Natya Dance Theatre company in Chicago, Hema Rajagopalan desperately began to search for herself among the many bodies moving in unison. “I suddenly missed the solo dancer as I watched my students perform. The images of those years when I held the stage alone gripped my mind. I began to wonder why I had allowed the independent dancer to vanish even as I was exploring the world of group choreography,” she says. Hema has not been able to stop thinking about it since. “I kept creating ensemble pieces but last year I decided to curate a festival that would trace the path of the solo artiste and highlight the beauty of the margam.” Hema titled it Parampara, because it celebrates the tradition of individual creativity in Indian classical dance. At the festival, six master-teachers, Ratna Kumar, Ramya Harishankar, Catherine Kunhiraman, Lata Pada, Mythili Kumar and Hema Rajagopalan and their students explore the Bharatanatyam solo performance format, presenting a picture of the past and how it has evolved over the years. The first session of the festival was held on August 7 and 8. The next session will be held on August 15 and 16. “A solo performance is not as simple as it appears; there are many aspects to it. All these are being analysed and interpreted for the contemporary audience through performances, workshops and panel discussions,” says Hema, whose dancer-daughter Krithika has co-curated the festival. Dream project Though it was originally planned to be held over a day at an auditorium in Chicago, the pandemic made the mother-daughter duo take to the digital medium. “We even contemplated postponing, but I didn't want to further delay this dream project. The senior artistes who feature in the festival too agreed to reach out through this new medium. Like we have accepted changes in the art, we have also to come to terms with this new normal.” Hema, who moved to North America almost 45 years ago, has put together several collaborative productions. “Marriage brought me here. And when I decided to get back to dancing, I soon understood that organisers, both American and Indian, preferred group works over solo performances. The invitation to participate in a festival was always for a company and rarely for an individual. Even at the Chicago Tyagaraja Utsavam, most of the dance performances are group productions. So I got down to choreographing pieces that could be mounted on an ensemble. This challenged me to view dance differently.” It wasn’t easy. It required a rethink of approach and to open her eyes to new influences. She had to project pure dance as theatre. “I was used to looking at a composition from my perspective and visualising it on my body, but now I had to imagine how a group would share the aesthetics, space and time structure. It was no less exciting. And I happily embraced this new phase.” She expanded her oeuvre by moving on to cross-genre productions. “It was a natural progression. As you begin to interact with people with different cultural moorings, it reflects in your art’s narrative. These elements broaden the dimensions of your work and reach it to a larger audience. “The five senior Indian Bharatanatyam dancers who have long set up schools here have wonderfully struck a balance by not giving up the values of their roots even while adapting to Western sensibilities,” says Hema, who wanted to present this amalgam at the festival with a special focus on their solo careers. “They bring to the stage and workshops their training in the traditional repertoire, refreshing interpretations and the ability to evolve through one’s art.” According to Hema, it is important that millennial dance enthusiasts, wherever they are based, understand dance first as soloist. “It’s heartening that in India a solo performance still draws a sizeable crowd. It’s a format that teaches you how to own the stage and be in control of your moves and emotions. It lets you enter the minds of the audience and stay there,” says Hema.  I began to wonder why I had allowed the independent dancer to vanish even as I was exploring the world of group choreography   The festival traces the journey of a Bharatanatyam dance and highlights the beauty of the
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Raindrops and film reels||That even a freak drizzle can be potent in reviving memories dawned on me early this week when I was caught in an unexpected downpour. Much as I would have liked to seek refuge under the colourful umbrella of a sweet something, there was nobody in sight for me to relive my college days. We have all been influenced by the innumerable umbrella songs from movies. Hema Malini and Shashi Kapoor’s ‘ Ek chhatri aur hum hain do’  from a little-known movie Maan Gaye Ustad has played on our minds as has Shankar Jaikishan’s memorable composition ‘ Chhatri na khol, ud jayegi’ from the Moushami Chatterjee-Vinod Mehra starrer Do Jhoot or the on-screen umbrella romance between Raj Kapoor and Nargis from Shree 420 immortalised in the song ‘ Pyar Hua Iqrar Hua Hai’.  Awaiting the monsoons while sitting on my second-floor balcony, I could not resist playing back the songs that made me remember the rains. There is a tinge of raga Megha and Malhar in all of us, whether or not we realise it. Poets from Kalidasa to Gulzar have lent words to our feelings. From agony to ecstasy, from the romantic to the erotic, poetry evokes a range of emotions linked to the rains. Noted lyricist Shailendra expressed his longing for rains as a prayer ‘ Allah megh de pani de’ in the classic film Guide . Gulzar added on an economic imperative as he improvised the lyrics into ‘ Allah megh de pani de, pani de gud dhani de’ (God, give us rain, and grain) in the otherwise eminently forgettable film Palkon ki Chhaon Mein . ‘ Dukh bhare din beete re bhaiyy a’ by Shakeel Badayuni from the classic Mother India remains a perfect thanksgiving song on the rains. Myriad expressions Feelings of desolation and sadness too have found many expressions in popular rain songs. ‘ Ab ke baras bhejo bhaiyya ko babul’ from Bimal Roy’s Bandini remains memorable for the pain Asha Bhosle invokes in Shailendra (lyrics) and S.D. Burman (composer) classic song. I am also reminded of Shailendra’s imagination from Gaban , a film based on Munshi Premchand’s novel of the same title, rendered by Shankar-Jaikishan: ‘ Tum bin sajan barse nayan jab-jab badal barse’ . Both songs are stellar examples of interpreting ‘rain’ as a metaphor for nostalgic longing. Love, longing and hope are but emotive expressions to invoke the value of rains in our life. For instance, I believe ‘ Barkha rani zara jam ke barso mera dilbar ja na paye’ is an invocation for bountiful rain in the guise of holding back the beloved. This lyrical composition by Saawan Kumar from Sabak is played on the radio each year just before the onset of the monsoon. As innumerable rain songs play in my mind, I wonder why we do not consider rains as being a phenomenon beyond a mere meteorological event.  If Raga Malhar can indeed beckon rain clouds, can rain simply be seen as precipitation? Music thinks otherwise, giving linguistic expressions that align with the rhythms, patterns and sounds of falling rain. Songs are a way of listening to the rain, attentively and with pleasure. Noted musician Salil Chowdhary composed a memorable song for the screen adaptation of the book Usne Kaha Tha, with the same film title, a classic love story in the backdrop of war by Chandradhar Sharma Guleri. It captured all that rain does to an ecosystem — ‘ Aaha rimjhim ke ye pyare pyare geet liye’ . It is one song that makes you instantly realise why drenching in the rain can be such a joyful and emotional moment.  Songs are a way of listening to the rain, attentively and with pleasure.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||When classical music meets cinema||For this generation, K.L. Saigal’s ‘Diya Jalao’ composed by Khemchandra Prakash in raga Deepak for Tansen (1943) might be just a meme, but it speaks of a time when film music had many elements of dhrupad. The news of Chaitanya Tamhane’s Marathi film, The Disciple, being selected for the Venice International Film Festival and Anand Tiwari’s Bandish Bandits dropping on an OTT platform have brought classical music back into popular culture. Both film and serial deal with how to preserve a tradition that demands time and unwavering devotion, in a fast-moving world fuelled by instant gratification. Screenwriters often use classical music and its proponents as a symbol of an old world that is stuck in vilambit alaap. Does it represent that disciplinarian father who won’t allow his daughter to fall in love with his student, as in Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam and Mohabbatein? Or is it the personification of Malhar who makes Aditi break her marital resolve in Astitva?  Or is there more to it, as seen in the Tamil classic Thillana Mohanambal or Mahesh Dattani’s Morning Raga, where the life of Carnatic musicians became metaphors for the rigid orthodoxy they have to give up to embrace new beginnings. Then there is the timeless quandary: Does every emotion need to be felt before it is expressed? Right from Baiju Bawra to Rockstar and Bandish Bandits , this aspect has been explored in Indian cinema with varied success. In Baiju Bawra , the tale of rivalry between an unknown singer and Mian Tansen, Guru Haridas tells Baiju that practice alone will not suffice, he will have to go through heartbreak to become a true musician. This was almost copied in Rockstar . But in Bandish Bandits , when the disciple and grandson, untouched by romance, doesn’t get a thumri right, Pt. Radhey Mohan Rathod tells him that by that measure then, he has to kill somebody to get hold of the raudra rasa. It is another matter that the serial descends to the same froth that it questions. Difficult roles Playing a classical musician is not easy, as one saw when even a perfectionist like Naseeruddin Shah fumbled as Pt. Rathod. Perhaps his image as Mirza Ghalib in Gulzar’s popular series or as ghazal singer Gulfam Hasan in Sarfarosh was too strong to dissolve. Bharat Bhushan, who featured in many musicals including Baiju Bawra , Basant Bahar, Sangeet Samrat Tansen, and Sohrab Modi’s Mirza Ghalib, was often saved by Naushad Ali’s compositions as his was too genial a face to reflect all the rasas a classical stalwart could express. Compare that with J.V. Somayajulu in K. Viswanath’s Sankarabharanam  or Ashok Kumar in  Meri Surat Teri Aankhen . Years later, Shabana Azmi gave goosebumps as a Carnatic musician in  Morning Raga . She trained for almost a year under Ranjani Ramakrishna before lip-syncing to singers Bombay Jayashri and Sudha Ragunathan. Similarly, Kiron Kher was a delight as Sardari Begum, bringing Aarti Ankalikar’s singing to life in the Shyam Benegal film. One could see her face contorting and vocal chords stretching with each note. Behind the scenes, classical musicians have always received special attention from filmmakers and composers. From K. Asif paying Bade Ghulam Ali Khan what was then a whopping Rs. 25,000 to sing ‘Shubh Din Ayo’ as Tansen in Mughal-e-Azam to Sandesh Shandilya pursuing Ustad Rashid Khan for months to get him to lend his voice to ‘Aaoge Jab Tum Sajna’ ( Jab We Met ), the industry is full of stories where composers went out of their way to accommodate a classical musician. Always in awe Playback singers also used to be in awe of the stalwarts. Manna Dey, despite being a classically trained singer, refused to believe that he could beat Pt. Bhimsen Joshi in a musical duel on screen. As he admitted in an interview, it took a lot of convincing to make him sing ‘Ketaki Gulab Juhi’ ( Basant Bahar ) with the Kirana gharana stalwart. Instrumentalists have also played a huge role. The rapport between sitar exponent Raees Khan and composer Madan Mohan is well documented. Remember the lilting strain of ‘Naino Main Badra Chhaye’ ( Mera Saya )? Muzaffar Ali roped in famed instrumentalists to fill the background score of Umrao Jaan . Film songs also help classical musicians broaden their fan base. Audiences seek Channu Lal Mishra after listening to ‘Saans Albeli’ from Aarakshan; and fans demand that Begum Parveen Sultana end her concert with ‘Humen Tumse Pyar Kitna’ ( Kudrat ) while Pt. Hariprasad Chaurasia is still sometimes cajoled to play the Hero tune. With Rahul Deshpande roped in for Katyar Kaljat Ghushali; Pt. Ajoy Chakraborty for Bandish Bandits and Aneesh Pradhan for The Disciple , the strong tradition continues.  Manna Dey, despite being a classically trained singer, refused to believe he could beat Pt. Bhimsen Joshi in a musical duel on screen   Manna Dey, despite being a classically trained singer, refused to believe that he could beat Pt. Bhimsen Joshi in a musical duel on screen
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||New Vande Mataram video||Tomorrow, to celebrate the 73rd Independence Day, violin maestro Dr. L. Subramaniam will digitally launch a five-minute video, ‘Vande Mataram’, which can be viewed on YouTube and on his Facebook page from 8 a.m onwards. “It will be a joy to see two months of our hard work come alive through this video. It brings together 73 musicians and features 150 tracks of orchestral arrangement that were specially recorded in Europe for this piece,” says Subramaniam, speaking over the phone from his Bengaluru residence. Two aspects make this video special: It is the first time since the lockdown that 57 instrumentalists have come together live for a special orchestral recording. The video features the Subramaniam family — wife Kavita, children Bindu, Ambi and Narayana, and grand-daughter Mahati Subramaniam. “Kavita has always been a part of my major projects and in ‘Vande Mataram’, she has handled the lyrics apart from singing. I have composed the piece, a blend of orchestral symphony and vocals,” says Subramaniam.  How different is ‘Vande Mataram’ from his recent collaborative work, ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’, released online two months ago? “After my tour of Australia and New Zealand, the lockdown was announced and we were confined to our homes. That’s when I thought how the whole world seems like one family. I used the London Symphony Orchestra with the Bharat Symphony-Movement 4 theme that I had composed earlier. The uncertainty continues. My tours for collaborations and live performances for Independence Day celebrations in the U.S. were cancelled. So I decided to come up with something special.” Subramaniam wrote each note for the score that was e-mailed to the conductor for him to plan the orchestral arrangement. “I am thankful to Irish-American music director and conductor Derek Gleeson for his involvement in the recording during such a crisis,” says Subramaniam.  The music team ‘Vande Mataram’ has actor-politician Hema Malini singing as well as performing abhinaya for the lyrics. Actors like Mohanlal and Juhi Chawla have sung a few lines. Besides these, the video features renowned singers S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, Kumar Sanu, Hariharan, Sonu Nigam and Shreya Ghoshal as well as leading instrumentalists Ronu Majumdar (flute), Debashish Bhattacharya (slide guitar) Tanmoy Bose (tabla), and Sanjeev Nayak and Ambi (violin). The piece is based on raga Kirvani, chosen for the flexibility it offers to move from one pitch to another.  It’s the first time since the lockdown that 57 musicians have come together to produce 150 tracks live for a special orchestral recording
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I grab challenges with both hands’||Giridhar Udupa literally grew up surrounded by the sound of percussion. His father, Ullur Nagendra Udupa, was a mridangist who taught extensively. Giridhar began training in mridangam at age four, switched to ghatam at nine and subsequently, began accompanying his father at his concerts. When he saw T.H. Vinayakram in action, he was fascinated, finding the technique unlike anything he had seen before. In 1998, at age 17, a friend connected him to Bengaluru-based Sukanya Ramgopal, Vinayakram’s senior-most student. “Then began my life,” he says. “She taught me every technique and nuance I know today. It was complete relearning. It took me over six months to just get the sound right in the Manamadurai ghatam.” Rigorous practice The biggest challenge was switching to that ghatam from the Bangalore ghatam he had used earlier. “The Manamadurai ghatam (industry standard now) weighs between 6-12 kg while the Bangalore ghatam is hardly 2-3 kg.” He would practice for about seven hours daily to get used to it and to elicit the necessary tonal quality. His parents were fine with his taking up music as a career. “In fact, my father wanted me to take it up professionally.” Around 2001, he received a CCRT scholarship through which he learned from V. Suresh, who offered more dimension and perspective to Giridhar’s training, drawing his attention to immense possibilities in sound texture. Giridhar’s playing for the Mysore Brothers (in 2001) proved a turning point. “They looked at music very differently from what I had been exposed to until then.” Says Mysore Manjunath, “Our most memorable concerts have usually included Udupa. His creative approach and sense of laya are outstanding, assuring the greater success of a concert. It does not take long to establish rapport on stage with him.” In 2002, Giridhar played with L. Subramaniam for the first time. He has played at many shows with him since. In 2003, he went on his first tour to the U.S., with Jayanthi Kumaresh, Ganesh and Kumaresh. Jayanthi notes his sensitivity in playing for instrumental concerts, “acquired from his father”. Giridhar admits that on-stage dynamics differ significantly based on whether co-artistes are seniors, contemporaries or juniors. “I don’t compromise on what I play, no matter who is on stage, but I always respect elders and maintain vadhya dharma . While playing, it is important to keep in mind the audience and the overall music.” Playing for Hindustani artistes Giridhar has performed with many Hindustani musicians. “I grab a challenge with both hands.” He mentions the 2018 concert with Ustad Amjad Ali Khan at the Gateway of India, Mumbai. There was no tabla in the concert that had percussion solos in between. . Another concert he remembers is that with Anantha R. Krishnan and Subhankar Banerjee. “I truly enjoy these explorations. Anything that you enjoy becomes easier.” He credits his interest in Hindustani to playing with Dr. L. Subramaniam in jugalbandis. He engages in a lot of cross-genre collaborative music too. Giridhar has played for flamenco in Andalusia and started a band called IndiaLucia featuring flamenco dancers, the cajon, the bass guitar and, occasionally, the flute. He is part of another band called Saagara in Europe and the Bengaluru-based Layatharanga that features five core and four guest musicians. Giridhar’s father stopped performing in 2012 due to deteriorating health. In 2015, Giridhar started the Udupa Foundation to take music to people like his father who are unable to attend concerts. Carefully curated, the Udupa Festival features top artistes and the money he raises from this event defrays the costs of the free concerts that Giridhar organises every month for the differently-abled, the aged and others. Says Jayanthi Kumaresh, “What Udupa plays is not what he has learned but what he has absorbed in his journey, the many patterns, sound textures, climaxes. He knows how to play to reach out to the audience.”  While playing, it is important to keep in mind the audience and the overall music
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Critical collection||No discussion on archiving the performing arts is complete without the mention of the Mohan Khokar Dance Collection (MKDC), started by Mohan Khokar, dancer from Kalakshetra, scholar and author. The first Head of Department of Dance at M.S. University, Baroda, Khokar also served as secretary, Sangeet Natak Akademi. From 1940 to 1999, Khokar collected first edition books, photographs and advertisements featuring dance, newspaper clippings, letters, paintings, costumes, masks, artefacts, anything and everything to do with dance. The MKDC has about 1 lakh photographs, 180,000 press clippings, and 5,000 books, put together in what is possibly India’s single largest such collection. These objects have now found a home in the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) in New Delhi. Mohan Khokar’s son, Ashish, is furnishing the archival information and classifying the pieces. The collection includes rare bronzes, personal effects and costumes of great dancers, postage stamps, dolls, films, audio and video recordings, and more.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Barkha Ritu’ celebrates monsoon ragas||Banyan Tree will present the 19th edition of ‘Barkha Ritu’ online. The annual festival celebrates the beauty of the monsoon through ragas associated with the season. It will stream concerts of eminent artistes recorded at a studio, on August 15, 16, 29 and 30. The festival will raise funds for ‘Meri Kala Meri Pehchaan,’ a project created to support folk artistes. Tickets are available on www.bookmyshow.com The series begins on August 15 with the concerts of Ronkini Gupta (vocal) and Pt. Hariprasad Chaurasia (flute). On August 16, Debasmita Bhattacharya (sarod) and Pt. Venkatesh Kumar (vocal) will perform. Prasad Khaparde (vocal) and Ustad Shujaat Khan (sitar) will perform on August 29. The festival will draw to a close with the concerts of Vivek Sonar (flute) and Ustad Rashid Khan (vocal) on August 30. Watch the series on www.bookmyshow.com. at 6 p.m. Tickets are priced Rs. 200 (per day’s concert) and Rs. 500 (season pass).
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Margazhi festival goes online||The much-awaited annual Margazhi festival that defines the cultural ethos of Chennai goes online this year. The festival is not just about music, dance and namasankeerthanai, it is more about the unique ambience in which the performances are held. Rasikas enjoy the experience of sabha hopping through the day, attending one concert after another and taking time out in between to taste the delicious spreads at sabha canteens. This year, the pandemic has forced a change. The Music Academy and the Federation of City Sabhas have decided to present the December season on the digital platform. Though they feel it would be risky to allow rasikas to congregate at concerts, they also do not want them to be deprived of the annual treat. Hence they are working towards coming up with a comprehensive line-up and curtailing performance duration, besides getting the best technological support to present the concerts.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Centenary celebration||The birth centenary of Pudukkottai Sanjeevi Bhagavatar will be celebrated on August 17. Sanjeevi Bhagavatar, and his father, Pudukkottai Gopalakrishna Bhagavatar, started the annual Lakshmi Narasimha Jayanti Mahotsavam in Pudukottai.  Sanjeevi Bhagavatar travelled across the country propagating sampradaya namasankirtanam.  The Shodashopachara puja format that was followed by the father-son duo came through in their music too.  Their followers would throng Pudukkottai to participate in the annual utsavam, conducted in a grand manner even today. Sanjeevi Bhagavatar’s sons — Narasimha Bhagavatar and Ravi Bhagavatar (now Sri Ramananda Saraswathi) — are carrying forward the family’s legacy.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||e-course on Vedic scriptures||Upanyasaka Dushyanth Sridhar has launched Abhinava e-Patashala that offers a comprehensive course, Bhāratiya Sāra Bodhani. The course offers 40 e-lessons of 60 minutes each on Vedic scriptures (Vedas and Vedangas, Nyaya and Mimamsa, Vedanta and Bhagvad Gita, the Mahabharata, the Ramayana and Puranas), the ancient sciences (Ayurveda, astronomy, astrology, mathematics, biological sciences, metallurgy and management) and ancient art and culture (architecture, Sanskrit and regional language literature, classical music and dance, influence of Hinduism in South East Asia and comparative religion). The course is open to all and will be in English. With his rich experience of delivering over 3,000 Vedic discourses in 23 countries in two languages, Dushyanth Sridhar (www.desikadaya.org/about) wishes to make this a movement that will inculcate an understanding of the country’s rich culture. He also plans to introduce more courses that can provide in-depth Vedic knowledge.
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Virtual is the new normal||The life of most music and dance lovers revolves around the cultural calendar. They keep close track of performances and festivals, and travel far and wide to catch presentations and shows. The pandemic has completely changed all that. There’s no travel and the annual dance and music events have all gone digital. “Despite the crisis, we were keen to reach out to rasikas and not disappoint the many youngsters whom we offer a platform in our annual series,” says ‘Mridangam’ Shankaranarayanan. The 100th concert of his academy featured Vivek Sadasivam’s vocal performance in an online format. Sustaining art Veteran Kathak dancer Uma Dogra, whose Samved Society of Performing Arts hosts Raindrops and the Pt. Durgalal Festival every year in memory of her guru, has also taken to the digital platform, inviting both young and senior artistes to participate. “Digital or real, I believe we have to encourage the practice of pay-and-watch. How else can we sustain art and help artistes pursue their creative work,” asks Uma. “I know the experience will not be anywhere close to watching a live performance in an auditorium, but I have prepared myself mentally to accept the new normal and move on,” she says. Both Raindrops and the Pt. Durgalal Festival will feature artistes who had performed in earlier editions. “I have asked them to send a new or pre-recorded piece from a recent performance. Though we need not step out to put together events for the digital platform, it is not easy at all. It requires perfect tech inputs to make performances look sleek.” Odissi exponent Daksha Mashruwala and her disciples at Kaishiki Nrityabhasha presented the annual Guru Poornima programme online this year. “These youngsters are learning to rediscover space. I told them to perform in their homes and link the pieces into a cohesive whole,” says Daksha. Says senior dancer-guru Lata Surendra, who is known to curate performances that bring together artistes from diverse genres, “I have always tried to project the connect between dance and life through unique themes in my annual festivals.” Shifting focus ‘Ode to Humanity’ was the first mega virtual festival she curated during the lockdown. “With over 80 dancers and varied dance forms from across the world, I sought to define the human spirit and its ability to go beyond limitations,” says Lata, who presented the popular EKAM festival too on the digital platform. EKAM, featuring veteran andyoungartistes, was a blend of dance, music and poetry. Though senior Odissi dancer-guru Jhelum Paranjape has decided to postpone her annual Sanjukta Panigrahi festival held every August, she along with her disciples paid homage to the late exponent with a nearly 12-hour performance. “We need funding to organise such festivals. With very few sponsors and many artistes undergoing financial crisis, I decided to reschedule the event,” says Jhelum. “The pandemic has forced us to shift our focus to more urgent issues such as raising money for indigent artistes and offering solace to those feeling lonely and disturbed by the lockdown.” Tech help Well-known harmonium artiste Sudhir Nayak is thankful to technology for bridging the artiste-audience gap during the lockdown. Along with a few other enthusiasts, Sudhir has been presenting events under the aegis of organisations such as Kala Coast and Village Music Club. “The huge number of online events is taking away from the true purpose of art during a global crisis. We need to offer something beyond the routine. People now have the time to understand the intricacies of an art, so why not do something to that effect,” says Sudhir. He feels offering a decent honorarium to the performers is equally important, but appears difficult in this situation. “Let us contemplate on these issues to bring about necessary changes,” he adds.  The Mumbai-based author writes on music and dance   Digital or real, I believe we have to encourage the practice of pay and watch. How else you think we can sustain art and help artistes pursue their creative work Uma Dogra   The digital medium has opened up avenues for young musicians and senior artistes alike in this pandemic. They use the space for hosting their annual festivals
14 August 2020||August 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Before sunrise at the Sabarmati riverfront||Two young women, Krishna and Alia, walk around the streets of Ahmedabad on Navratri, opening up about their worldviews, childhoods and fears. They met for the first time the same evening, and through the night, discover each other’s personalities and beliefs. It’s perhaps their only night together, as one of them leaves for the airport the following morning. Aarti Neharsh’s short film, The Song We Sang, captures an instant connect between two people and builds up to the question of what could have been. It’s among the handful of contemporary Indian queer films that refrain from using sexuality as conflict in the narrative. Despite being set in a culturally vibrant and familiar setting of Navratri, the world in the film seems almost fantastical, where two women can kiss on the streets unfettered. Their sexual orientation is never addressed, let alone used as a conflict point. “With a love story between two women, we didn’t want to have an external antagonist. We didn’t want a parental backlash but wanted the conflict to be more internal, about their own fears, vulnerabilities and finding a connection,” says 24-year-old Neharsh. The 20-minute short, which won the Best Indian Narrative Short Film at the recently concluded 11th Kashish Mumbai International Queer Film Festival, is currently playing at the International Film Festival of South Asia in Toronto. The film had its European Premiereat London Indian Film Festival in June. Narrated in one night, the film, which is a bit rough around the edges, is largely centred around the various conversations between Krishna and Alia, as they stroll along the Sabarmati riverfront, away from the Navratri celebrations. “Conversational films is something my co-writer Chintan [Bhatt] and I are a fan of,” informs Neharsh. The narrative builds up to a finale, where the characters speculate over the uncertainty of their future together, while the audience is left to wonder about the verisimilitude of their encounter. “Considering there have been so many love stories in the conversational genre, we wanted to do something new with the treatment, we wanted the butterfly effect. We wanted to create a chemistry [between the two] which is so strong, that there is a certain heartbreak you feel if you think they didn’t actually meet [at all],” explains the filmmaker. Neharsh, who was born and raised in Ahmedabad, opted to situate the film against the city’s Navarati festivities to bring out a feeling of freedom. “Growing up, I’ve always found Navaratri [to be] the one time when this otherwise conservative and rigid city loosens up and comes to life. I was not a big dancer but I enjoyed walking on the streets, there’s no curfew, and people are flirting, and it stands for liberation and its a perfect setting,” she shares. The festival enables Krishna and Alia to explore the possibility of love, in an almost parallel reality than the one we occupy.
14 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana govt. nod to DPR for Gurugram metro line||The Haryana Cabinet on Thursday accorded approval for the final Detailed Project Report (DPR) of metro rail connection from HUDA City Centre to various important locations in Gurugram at a cost Rs. 6,821.13 crore. An official statement said the total length of the corridor will be about 28.80 km, consisting of 27 elevated stations with six interchange stations. “This link would start at HUDA City Centre and move towards Sector 45, Cyber Park, District Shopping Centre, Sector 47, Subhash Chowk, Sector 48, Sector 72 A, Hero Honda Chowk, Udyog Vihar Phase 6, Sector 10, Sector 37, Basai village, Sector 9, Sector 7, Sector 4, Sector 5, Ashok Vihar, Sector 3, Bajghera Road, Palam Vihar Extension, Palam Vihar, Sector 23 A, Sector 22, Udyog Vihar Phase 4, Udyog Vihar Phase 5 and finally merge into the existing metro network of Rapid Metrorail Gurugram at Moulsar Avenue station near Cyber City,” said the statement. It added that the Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) project will facilitate maximum part of the Millennium City. “It will interchange with MRTS corridor at Subhash Chowk, with bus stand at Sector 10, with railway station at Sector 5 and with Rapid Metro at Moulsar Avenue station. MRTS Corridor at Subhash Chowk will interchange with Yellow Line at HUDA City Centre and therefore, will provide direct connectivity to a large part of Gurugram with Delhi. It will also interchange with RRTS stations at Hero Honda Chowk and Sector 22 and will provide connectivity up to Sarai Kale Khan in New Delhi and on Shahjahanpur, Neemrana and Behror, Rajasthan, on the other side,” it said. Projected ridership The daily ridership on the corridor for the years 2025, 2031 and 2041 is expected to be 5.34 lakh, 7.26 lakh and 8.81 passenger trips respectively. The Cabinet, which was chaired by Chief Minister Manohar Lal also decided that the monsoon session of Haryana Assembly will start from August 26.
14 August 2020||New Delhi,||Testing begins for migrants coming back to the Capital||As many as 956 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 1,49,460, according to a health bulletin released by the government on Thursday. Of the total cases, 1,34,318 people have recovered and there are 10,975 active cases, which is showing an upward trend. Of the total cases, 1,34,318 people have recovered and there are 10,975 active cases. Testing migrants The Delhi government on Thursday started testing migrant workers — who are coming back to the city — for COVID-19 at their drop-off points, said officials. “On Thursday, workers arriving at Anand Vihar bus terminal were tested using rapid antigen testing. We will start testing at a drop-off point near Wazirabad in north-west district from tomorrow,” an official told The Hindu . Of the 100 workers tested at Anand Vihar on Thursday, only one person tested positive for the virus, said District Magistrate (Shahdara) Sanjeev Kumar. “We will keep testing the workers for a couple of days more,” the official added.  The number of new cases has been less than 1,500 for the past 28 days, which is less compared to June. On June 23, daily new cases touched almost 4,000 — highest so far — and since then it has been dropping. Though Delhi has a capacity to do around 11,000 RT PCR tests in a day only 6,478 such tests were done in the past 24 hours. Of the total 15,356 tests done in the past 24 hours, over 57% of the tests were rapid antigen tests, which have shown a low positivity in the city compared to RT PCR tests. Testing comes down This is the lowest number of tests in the past nine days. The positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive, has also dropped from 12.2% to 6.2% compared to July 1. The number of containment zones in the city was 513 as on Thursday.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Infant rescued after being trafficked multiple times||After an overnight raid was conducted across several locations in the city, a two-and-a-half-month old girl, who was allegedly sold multiple times, was rescued by the Delhi Commission for Women and Delhi Police on Thursday. According to the DCW, the infant’s father had sold her to a trafficker in Jaffrabad after being “disappointed” to have a third girl child. Police said that the matter was reported to them early Thursday morning and during further enquiry, it was found that Amanpreet had sold his daughter for Rs. 40,000. “This was his third daughter. He already has two, who are both differently abled. He sold the child to buy medicine for other children and he also wanted a better life for the infant,” DCP (North) Monika Bhardwaj said. The women’s panel said that on receiving the information through its Mahila Panchayat, a rescue team was formed and the team visited Jaffrabad. “A team was formed immediately and the girl’s father was made to accompany them to Jaffrabad, where he sold his daughter to a woman called Manisha,” the DCW said. According to the police, the child was given to Manisha, who further sold her to one Sanjay Mittal as he wanted a girl child. “Mittal paid Rs. 80,000 to Manisha and the transaction was made through two women identified as Manju, his neighour, and Deepa,” the DCP said. Four arrested Multiple raids were held and the child was recovered from Huaz Qazi where Mittal resides. The infant’s father Amanpreet, Mittal, Manju and Manisha have been arrested while teams are working to nab Deepa. A case under Section 370 (buying or disposing of any person as a slave) of the IPC has been registered, police said. “This case is another example of poverty leading to trafficking. The child is now with her mother,” Ms. Bhardwaj said. DCW chief Swati Maliwal said, “ I would appeal to Delhi Police to reach the bottom of this matter as this can be a part of a bigger racket.” Ms. Maliwal added that the women’s panel is planning to rehabilitate the infant and her two sisters.
14 August 2020||New Delhi,||Heat stress, increased dependence on AC upset energy budget: study||The overall electricity demand in Delhi had dropped during the first phase of the lockdown, but recovered quickly to almost near-normal levels. This trend was largely driven by the heat stress and cooling demand in the residential sector, due to poor designing, according to an analysis by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), a research and advocacy organisation in Delhi. “Higher heat stress this summer combined with thermal discomfort in poorly designed buildings and increased dependence on air conditioning upset the energy budget,” says the CSE analysis. The lockdown occurred during the summer and increased thermal discomfort hiked the demand for active cooling or air conditioning, the analysis said. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director-research and advocacy of CSE, said, “Understanding this connection is critical, as climate change will increase the frequency and intensity of heat waves in the future. If the built environment is not designed for thermal comfort, heat stress will increase cooling demand and use of energy-intensive mechanical cooling systems, thus undoing the carbon savings from other energy efficiency measures.” Peak demands The CSE said that the expectation was that the overall peak electricity demand during this summer would remain much lower than the peak demand of the previous summers. But in reality, though the average electricity demand through different stages of Lockdown and Unlock in 2020 was less compared to previous years, the margin reduced with increase in temperature. For instance, in the first phase of lockdown the average daily mean electricity demand was lesser than 2018 and 2019 by 40-41%; the same was 35-37% during Lockdown phase 2 and 31-34% and 17-23% during phases 3 and 4. “Every degree rise in heat index resulted in 187 MW increase in electricity demand during lockdown – this was 6 per cent higher than in 2019,” the CSE said in a statement. “There should be a lot of attention to decrease the thermal load on buildings. We should encourage people to opt for adaptive thermal comfort such as good ventilation and reduce air conditioning hours,” Ms. Rowchowdhury told The Hindu . The CSE said that architectural designs should be optimised to reduce heat load. This needs a quick operational framework to enable architectural design solutions, appropriate material, thermal load management, strategic and selective use of active cooling approaches and demand management measures to reduce the overall air-conditioned hours. Adopting guidelines, building byelaws, building-related energy regulations and good practices for an integrated approach are needed, it said. Ms. Roychowdhury also said that India’s Cooling Action Plan, a policy document, has mentioned ‘thermal comfort for all’, but it has to be implemented by the government.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Death of 3 sisters: 2 years on, father still missing||Two years after three minor sisters died of starvation and their father went missing in east Delhi’s Mandawali in July 2018, the hunt is still on. The residents there continue to live in pitiable conditions and their children are prone to diseases. Police sources said the inquest proceedings into the starvation deaths of Mansi (8), Shikha (4) and Parul (2), are complete but the missing case of Mangal Singh, a rickshaw puller, is still open. “All the paperwork required for inquest proceedings is complete but it is yet to be submitted to the Sub-Divisional Magistrate. The missing report, however, is still being probed. Beat officers and the investigating officer occasionally visit the area to ask about him,” said a senior officer. The final autopsy report received in November 2018 stated that the girls died of malnutrition. Sources said there have been no leads as yet. However, the children’s mother, who was said to be mentally unfit at the time and was shifted to IHBAS, was taken back to her hometown in West Bengal in December 2018. On visiting the place where the girls died in a single-room accommodation and where Mangal’s close friend Narayan lived, The Hindu found out that the friend left the place three months after the incident. Narayan was Mangal’s friend for over 25 years and he searched him for a month after he had gone missing.  No bathrooms The living conditions of the alley where the deaths happened and nearby areas remain as they were at the time of the incident — overflowing drains, a garbage dump and cattle walking all around. There are two toilets for 15 families living in the alley and no bathroom. The women cook and take bath in the same room, said the residents. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, at the time, called the incident a result of “system failure”. “If the deaths happened due to poverty or if it happened due to starvation or any other disease, it is the failure of our system,” he had said. “There are mosquitoes here all round the year because of the garbage dump. This place is never cleaned. There are all sorts of animals roaming around here as well and the overflowing drain due to the rain adds to our woes. We fear for our children but what can we do? We can’t move because rooms are expensive at other places,” said Aisha Thakur, a resident. She added: “The authorities cared about us only till the case was in limelight”. An anganwadi, which was functioning right opposite the alley, has moved to the next lane. “It’s shut these days but they send dry ration for children every month,” said Savitri. The room where the girls died is now empty but has been rented out several times in the last two years.  The paperwork for inquest proceedings is complete but it is yet to be submitted with to the SDM. The missing report, however, is still being probed. sENIOR OFFICER
14 August 2020||New Delhi,||DDA told to pay Rs. 50L fine for water contamination||The Delhi High Court has ordered the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to deposit with the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), an environment damage compensation of Rs. 50 lakh imposed on it for alleged water contamination of storm water drains on the Samalkha-Dwarka Road here. The High Court’s order came on DDA’s plea challenging the DPCC’s July 10 decision to impose environment damage compensation of Rs. 50 lakh on the land owning agency for allegedly spoiling the water quality in the storm water drains. The court clarified that the deposit would be subject to outcome of the plea moved by the DDA and posted the case for further hearing on November 20. The urban body contended that the July 10 order of the DPCC was “illegal, arbitrary and unreasonable” as it does not have the jurisdiction to take such a decision. It contended that unless there was a specific provision in the statute enabling the authority to levy a penalty, it cannot levy any penalty or damages with reference to the general powers provided under the Environment Protection Act. “It is respectfully submitted that in the present case, the respondent [DPCC] has levied the environmental compensation upon the petitioner [DDA] under the Environment Act, read with the provisions of the Water Act,” the petition also said.
14 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Majoritarianism is not nationalism, says Thapar||In her first live online lecture, renowned historian of ancient India Professor Romila Thapar said on Thursday that arguably the country was on the edge of becoming a Hindu nation. Prof. Thapar addressed viewers on a Facebook Live session organised by a Delhi University students-led initiative, Karwaan, focusing on the writing of history over the past 200 years, from the colonial authors to the nationalist school of the early 20th Century and beyond. Speaking about nationalism, Prof. Thapar said: “Nationalism is the reflection of how people in a society think about their collective self. The collective means that everyone that constitutes the nation should be included as equal citizens. But when nationalism is defined by a single identity, which can either be language or religion or even ethnicity, then nationalism gets derailed into majoritarianism. And majoritarianism is not nationalism.” She further said that the struggle for Independence had an “all-inclusive nationalism of Indians opposed to British rule”, however, the insistence on two nations by the British led to a nationalism defined by religion that found acceptance among some Indians.
14 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Arunachal groups push for 6th Schedule status||The revival of the demand for two autonomous councils has made political parties and community-based groups call for bringing the entire Arunachal Pradesh under the ambit of the Sixth Schedule or Article 371 (A) of the Constitution. The Frontier State bordering Bhutan, China and Myanmar is under the Fifth Schedule that “does not provide special rights for the indigenous communities” unlike the Sixth Schedule. The Sixth Schedule currently includes 10 autonomous district councils in four northeastern States — Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura. Nagaland, on the other hand, is governed by Article 371 (A), which says that no Act of Parliament shall apply in the State in several areas unless the Nagaland Assembly so decides by a resolution. These include administration of civil and criminal justice involving decisions according to Naga customary law and ownership and transfer of land and its resources. “The demand for autonomous councils does not hold water as Arunachal Pradesh is a Fifth Schedule State. Some States in the northeast have autonomous councils because they are under the Sixth Schedule,” said Gicho Kabak, State unit chief of the National People’s Party.
14 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC rejects plea on masks, sanitisers||The Delhi High Court on Thursday rejected a petition seeking directions to the Centre to include masks and hand sanitisers in the list of essential commodities during COVID-19 pandemic. The court also declined the plea to reduce the GST applicable on mask and hand sanitisers, noting: “Which items are to be included under the Essential Commodities Act is a policy decision. This court will be extremely slow in interfering with a policy decision of the Government of India.” “If in the opinion of the government, masks and hand sanitisers are easily available, then there is no need to regulate supply of such commodities,” it added.
14 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||56 juvenile home inmates test positive||Fifty-six inmates and a home guard of a juvenile observation home in Lucknow have tested positive for COVID-19, the Uttar Pradesh government said on Thursday. The home run by the Women and Child Development Department has inmates from three districts — Lucknow, Unnao and Raebareli. While it has a sanctioned capacity of 100, the home currently has 153 inmates lodged in it, the government said. As per the COVID-19 control room, as on August 11, 56 inmates and one home guard tested positive and were asymptomatic. At present, all inmates are healthy and none of them has developed symptoms of COVID-19, said the government, adding that the positive cases have been shifted to a railway hospital for treatment. The District Magistrate has instructed that the home be sanitised within three days.
14 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Cong. protests against ‘scams’ in Haryana||Haryana Congress leaders and workers on Thursday held protests at various places in the State against the ruling BJP-JJP government on the issue of corruption. State party chief Kumari Selja, leading a protest rally at Nuh, alleged that there was rampant corruption under the present government’s and nothing was being done to curb it. “Several irregularities and scams had been exposed in the last six years of the BJP’s rule — be it the liquor or the registry scam. Efforts were constantly being made to suppress these scams. There should an investigation by a sitting judge of the High Court,” she said. Party members, after staging protests in many districts submitted memorandums to Deputy Commissioners, addressed to the Haryana Governor, seeking to get corruption cases investigated.
14 August 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- kite brief||With Independence Day around the corner, electricity discoms on Thursday issued advisories cautioning people against flying kites near electrical establishments and overhead power lines. Entanglement of especially metal-coated kite strings or manjha could interrupt power supply, warned Tata Power-DDL. Tripping of just one 11 KV overhead line can disrupt services to up to 2,500 residents of an area, it added.
