14 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nepal passes amendment on new map||The Lower House of Nepal's Parliament on Saturday unanimously voted for the Second Constitution Amendment Bill, which guarantees legal status for the new political map of the country that includes part of Indian territory in Uttarakhand. The voting in the House of Representatives came after day-long discussions, which included praise from co-chair of the Nepal Communist Party Pushpa Kamal Dahal “Prachanda” for the Nepalese democracy, which, he said, is reversing centuries of diplomatic humiliation. Not tenable: India Responding to the development, the Indian Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said it had “noted” the legislative process. “The artificial enlargement of claims is not based on historical fact or evidence and is not tenable. It is also violative of our current understanding to hold talks on outstanding boundary issues,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. The territorial dispute stems from the fact that Nepal claims the land to the east of river Kali, which forms the country’s western border. As per Kathmandu’s understanding, the river originates from Limpiyadhura in the higher Himalayas, giving it access to a triangular-shaped land defined by Limpiyadhura-Lipulekh and Kalapani. India opposes the notion and says the origin of the river is much further down, which reduces Nepal’s territorial demand. Saturday’s amendment was approved through a voice vote, following which all the members of the House of Representatives (Pratinidhi Sabha) gave individual signatures to the Bill which completed the voting process. The voting showed that members from all the political parties of the Pratinidhi Sabha voted in favour of the motion moved by the government of Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli. Apart from the ruling Nepal Communist Party, the amendment received support of the Nepali Congress and the newly formed Janata Samajvadi Party-Nepal.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 impacts two premier health institutes||Two premier health institutes in the city — National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) and Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences — have been affected by COVID-19. While six staffers at NIMHANS tested positive on Saturday after they handled a 34-year-old female patient with mental health disorder last week who later tested positive, 13 staff members at Jayadeva have been quarantined, as a cardiac patient who died in the hospital on Friday tested positive on Saturday. Last week, the psychiatry emergency services ward at NIMHANS was sealed for fumigation and sanitisation after a patient brought there tested positive for COVID-19. Psychiatry emergency services were shifted to an adjacent building for two days. Thirteen in-patients from the ward and 36 staff members were identified as high-risk contacts of the patient and quarantined. According to K.S. Meena, Additional Professor and Head of the Department of Mental Health Education, NIMHANS, six female staffers who were under quarantine tested positive on Friday. All of them have been shifted to the COVID-19 ward in Victoria Hospital. At Jayadeva, a 74-year-old heart patient who was brought with complaints of chest pain and breathing difficulty on June 11 died in the ICU on June 12. “Although she had long-standing cardiac issues, we tested her for COVID-19 after her death in our in-house COVID-19 lab and her oxygen saturation was low. She tested positive on Saturday,” said C.N. Manjunath, institute director. Following this, five doctors, two Group ‘D’ workers and six staff nurses have been quarantined. “Although our ICU staff work with N95 masks and face shields, we have quarantined them as a precautionary measure. We have also shifted patients on two beds on either side of the cubicle of the positive case to an isolation ICU. Family members have also been quarantined,” Dr. Manjunath said. He asserted that it was important to test even the dead, if they had SARI/ILI symptoms. 308 new cases Meanwhile, Karnataka reported 308 new cases and three deaths on Saturday. Bengaluru Urban saw 31 cases on Saturday. The new cases included a three-member family of an orthopaedist. According to the bulletin, the death toll has now touched 81. One death in Chickballapur that occurred a few days ago has now been identified as a non-COVID case. With 308 new cases, the total number of positive cases has touched 6,824 and this includes 3,648 who have been discharged. Among the new cases, Kalaburagi reported the highest with 67 cases. Yadgir and Bidar had 52 and 42 cases, respectively. Udupi reported 14 new cases and with this, the total cases in this coastal district touched 1,005. According to sources, although a total of nine deaths have been reported in the city in the last 24 hours, the State health bulletin has recorded only three deaths, of which two are from Bengaluru and one from Dharwad. According to sources, although a total of nine deaths have been reported in the city in the last 24 hours, the State health bulletin has recorded only three deaths, of which two are from Bengaluru and one from Dharwad. Sources said apart from those in the bulletin, five deaths have been reported in Victoria Hospital from Friday till Saturday afternoon. Another 60-year-old male died at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases on June 12 and his report returned positive on Saturday. This is apart from the death at Jayadeva. These deaths do not figure in the bulletin. A senior health official said only those deaths that had been reported by the BBMP surveillance officers had been added to the bulletin. Although the NIMHANS positive cases were admitted to Victoria Hospital on Friday night and Saturday morning, they do not figure in the bulletin either.
14 June 2020||New Delhi,||To increase testing, ask ICMR to change guidelines: AAP Minister||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said that to increase the number of people being tested in the city, the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will have to be changed. The statement came a day after the Supreme Court asked the Delhi government to explain a dip in COVID-19 testing. “If you want to increase testing, then request ICMR to change its guidelines. Testing can be done only as per the ICMR guidelines and they clearly mention who should be tested and who shouldn’t. You can tell the Central gove-rnment or the ICMR to open it for all, but if you allow everyone, one lakh people may come for testing in a day and your number will come after a month,” said Mr. Jain. People can get tested for COVID-19 if they fall under different categories mentio-ned in the ICMR guidelines. The Delhi government had on June 2 issued fresh guidelines on COVID-19 testing, tweaking the ICMR guidelines issued on May 18, reducing the scope of people who can be tested. Now the government is saying that it cannot go beyond the ICMR guidelines to test more categories of people. ‘States can tweak’ Asked about the flexibility of the guidelines, Delhi Medical Association president Girish Tyagi said, “In consultation with the ICMR, States can tweak them.” Mr. Jain’s party colleague and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said he has written to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, urging him to do away with stringent guidelines. “I have requested the Health Minister to provide more licences to pathological labs and more testing kits to State governments. If a person feels they have symptoms, they should immediately go to the nearby lab and get tested,” he said. The daily tests in the Capital had dropped to 3,700 and have now picked up to above 5,000. The 40 labs in the city can conduct 8,600 COVID-19 tests per day, the Delhi government had said recently.
14 June 2020||Srinagar,||Two militants killed in gunfight with security forces in Kulgam||Two militants were killed in an operation in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday. “During a search operation in village Nipora Zadoora, the hiding terrorists were given an opportunity to surrender. However, they opened fire and lobbed grenades on the search party. Both were killed in the retaliatory fire,” said Vijay Kumar, Inspector-General of Police, Kashmir. The police said the bodies were recovered from the site of the gunfight. The identity and the affiliation of the terrorists were being ascertained. Arms and ammunition were recovered, they said. Fourteen militants were killed in three operations in Shopian earlier this month. With Saturday’s gunfight, the number of militants killed, so far, this month has rose to 16. IED defused The police said an improvised explosive device was detected and defused in north Kashmir on Saturday. A road opening party of the CRPF’s 3rd Battalion spotted the IED, fitted to a gas cylinder, on the roadside at the Lawdara Crossing near Nadihal on the Bandipora-Srinagar Highway. He said a bomb disposal squad of the police, the Army and the CRPF was pressed into action to defuse the IED. “Preliminary investigation reveals that it was planted to target the convoys of security forces passing through the area,” the police said.
14 June 2020||New Delhi,||China border situation under control, says Army chief||Indian and Chinese troops are “disengaging” in a phased manner from the stand-off areas along the border following a series of ground talks and a lot of disengagement has happened in the Galwan river valley, Army chief Gen. Manoj Naravane said on Saturday. This is the first time the Army has officially acknowledged that stand-offs had taken place at several areas, including Galwan river. “The situation along our borders with China is under control. We are having a series of talks that started with Corps Commander-level talks on the 6th of this month. This has been followed up by a number of meetings of the local commanders of equivalent rank. As a result of this, a lot of disengagement has taken place,” Gen. Naravane said, speaking to the media at the Indian Military Academy in Dehradun. “Both sides are disengaging in a phased manner. We have started from the north from the area of Galwan river, where a lot of disengagement has happened.”
14 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,||J.C. Prabhakar, son arrested||Former Tadipatri MLA and Telugu Desam Party leader J.C. Prabhakar Reddy and his son J. Ashmit Reddy were arrested from their Jubilee Hills residence on Saturday and produced before a judge, who remanded them in 14 days judicial custody. Based on complaints from Transport Department officials that the accused had produced fake documents while registering lorry-trailers, the Anantapur police, led by Tadipatri DSP A. Srinivasulu, conducted searches in their house for two hours from 2 a.m. and shifted them in a car to the Anantapur I Town police station by 11 a.m. The Transport Department had filed 27 FIRs with the police, pertaining to the purchase of 154 BS-III-compliant lorry-trailers in scrap from Ashok Leyland and getting them registered as BS-IV vehicles at Kohima in Nagaland by producing fake invoices, insurance certificates and police no-objection certificates. Anantapur Deputy Transport Commissioner N. Sivaram Prasad had filed complaints against the directors of Jatadhara Industries Private Limited, J. Ashmit Reddy and J.C. Uma Reddy (wife of Mr. Prabhakar), and C. Gopal Reddy & Co. director Gopal Reddy. “As part of investigation, the police found that the ‘Police NOC’ provided by the representatives of the companies were fake and produced by some persons on demand from Mr. Prabhakar and Mr. Ashmit Reddy. Based on the assertions of those people, the police registered cases of cheating and forgery and arrested the duo,” Deputy Superintendent of Police G. Veeraghava Reddy told The Hindu .
14 June 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. has numbers in Rajasthan: Pilot||The Congress is more than comfortable in terms of numbers to ensure the win of two of its nominees in the upcoming Rajya Sabha polls, Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot said on Saturday. In an exclusive interview with The Hindu , Mr. Pilot, who also heads the party in Rajasthan, said the BJP may have approached Independent MLAs, but ruled out that “there was ever a crisis in the Congress camp”. “The fact is that the two candidates were chosen by Ms. Sonia Gandhi and as the Rajasthan Congress chief, it is my duty to get them elected, no matter what,” Mr. Pilot said. He said while the Congress needed only 101 votes to get its members elected, the party had 107 MLAs of its own. The 12 Independent MLAs supporting the government will only add to the ruling party’s strength. Last Wednesday, Mahesh Joshi, Chief Whip of the Congress in the Rajasthan Assembly, went to the Anti-Corruption Bureau, alleging that MLAs were being “lured with money to topple the government”. ‘More factions in BJP’ While the Central leadership rushed Randeep Surjewala and All India Congress Committee Rajasthan in-charge Avinash Pande to Jaipur, the MLAs were moved to a resort outside to prevent “attempted poaching”. Hitting back, BJP State chief Satish Poonia dared the Congress to prove its charge and blamed the division between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and the Deputy Chief Minister. Countering the BJP’s charge of internal divisions within the Congress in Rajasthan, Mr. Pilot said the BJP should first put its own house in order. “As far as the BJP is concerned, there are more factions in the State BJP than I can count on my hands. And the sidelining of Vasundhara Raje is obvious and apparent,” Mr. Pilot said, avoiding a direct reference to his reported differences with the Chief Minister, Mr. Gehlot.
14 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear Vinod Dua’s plea today||A three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court will assemble on Sunday to hear an urgent plea made by Padma Shri awardee and senior journalist Vinod Dua to quash a “bogus” FIR registered by the Himachal Pradesh police, accusing him of sedition. Justices U.U. Lalit, Mohan M. Shantanagoudar and Vineet Saran will hear the petition at 11 a.m. through virtual proceedings. The Himachal Pradesh police had appeared at Mr. Dua’s residence on June 12 and ordered him to be present at the Kumarsain police station, at least a 20-hour drive from Delhi, at 10 a.m. the next day (June 13).
14 June 2020||ERODE,||Tying himself in knots to see a prospective bride||People are desperate to travel between districts and States after lockdown restrictions were lifted and employ several tricks to get the elusive e-pass, but not everyone gets past the barriers. A 35-year-old van driver of Kurichi village, located nearly 30 km from Erode, learnt this the hard way. He had tried three times to visit Thoothukudi during the lockdown to meet a prospective bride chosen by his parents, but failed to get a pass. In the fourth attempt, he submitted an application attaching a fake printed wedding card and found himself summoned for an inquiry at the Erode Collectorate. The wedding “invitation” was used to bolster his case to go from Erode to Thoothukudi, although the purpose was only to explore the marriage alliance. Alert officials found that not everything added up, thanks to a detail in the card. An official at the Thoothukudi Collectorate noticed that the man from Bhavani taluk gave the place of wedding as Chennai in the invitation, but sought to travel to Thoothukudi for the wedding ostensibly scheduled for the next week. Erode Collectorate sources said the driver and his friend used an Internet centre at Kuruppanaicken-palayam village three days ago and applied for the e-pass. On Thursday, he got a call from an official at the Thoothukudi Collectorate, who had verified his details. “When will I get the e-pass,” the applicant asked the official, to which he got an instant reply: “You have submitted a fake wedding invitation as a supporting document.” An order to appear for inquiry at the Erode Collectorate on Friday followed. At the inquiry, the driver told officials that the idea behind the invitation came from the staff of the Internet centre. When he explained his predicament and said he had already tried thrice, he claimed they told him that only if he submitted a marriage invitation would he get an e-pass for Thoothukudi. The applicant claimed the staff at the browsing centre appeared to have prepared a fake invitation and uploaded it, and that he had no knowledge about it. His three failed applications had given the reason as “travel for looking for marriage alliance”. As he was frustrated, his friend had encouraged him to seek the help of the browsing centre.
14 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Dr. Reddy’s, two others to make Gilead’s Remdesivir||Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories on Saturday said it has signed a non-exclusive licensing agreement with Gilead Sciences to register, manufacture and sell the U.S. biopharmaceutical firm’s antiviral drug Remdesivir that has emerged as a potential treatment for COVID-19. Biocon firm Syngene and Zydus Cadila Healthcare have also entered into similar agreements with Gilead, under which they get to manufacture the product for distribution in 127 countries. They join Hetero Labs, Jubilant Lifesciences and Mylan, who had signed the agreement last month with Gilead. An investigational antiviral therapy, Remdesivir has received Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) to treat COVID-19. Phase 3 clinical studies to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the drug are underway. In India, the Union Health Ministry had recently cleared Remdesivir for treatment of COVID-19 patients under emergency use. As part of the agreementsthey have signed, the drugmakers receive technology transfer of the manufacturing process for Remdesivir and get to set their own prices for the generic product they produce, Gilead said. The licenses are royalty-free until the World Health Organization (WHO) declares the end of the Public Health Emergency of International Concern regarding COVID-19 or until a pharmaceutical product other than Remdesivir or a vaccine is approved to treat or prevent COVID-19, whichever is earlier, Gilead said. Stating that it will receive technology transfer for manufacturing Remdesivir, Dr. Reddy's said it needs to do the manufacturing scale up as well as obtain regulatory approval for marketing it in respective countries.
14 June 2020||GUNTUR,||Atchan brought to GGH||Tekkali TDP MLA K. Atchannaidu was brought to the Government General Hospital here on Saturday, a day after his arrest in the ESI scam, for treatment amid tight security. Mr. Atchannaidu was taken to the casualty for treatment and no one else was allowed. Two special battalions of police were posted at the hospital. Sources said that Mr. Atchannaidu had undergone a surgery on Thursday and had been under treatment since then. Naidu denied entry Meanwhile, high drama unfolded at the GGH as party president N. Chandrababu Naidu was not allowed to visit Mr. Atchannaidu. Mr. Naidu was stopped at the main gate by the police and told they he couldn’t go in without magistrate’s permission. Mr. Naidu later spoke to GGH superintendent Sudhakar, who told him that all medical care was being given to Mr. Atchannaidu.
14 June 2020||WARANGAL,||No personal visits: leaders||In the backdrop of TRS MLA of Jangaon Muthireddy Yadagiri Reddy testing positive for COVID-19, the Ministers, MPs, MLAs and other leaders here issued a joint appeal to the public not to meet them personally, but contact them or their staff over phone 24x7 for redressal of their grievances. The appeal was issued from the venue of a meeting where Panchayat Raj Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao, former Deputy CMs Kadiam Srihari and T. Rajaiah, MPs, MLAs and leaders gathered. They were there to discuss arrangements for the visit of Information Technology Minister K.T. Rama Rao to Warangal on Wednesday. The venue was crowded with TRS leaders, workers and the public who were anxious to know the programmes of Mr. Rama Rao in the town. The police and the VIPs had a tough time keeping the crowd at bay in a bid to follow physical distancing norms to stay free of coronavirus. Faced with a situation where the VIPs could not say no to the crowd any further, they discussed how best to avoid such scenes in future and arrived at a unanimous decision to keep away from public contact but address their problems over phone. The VIPs underscored that they will not shirk the responsibility of addressing the problems of public. “We are all available round the clock over phone and anyone can contact us in case of any emergency. There is no need to worry,” said Mr. Dayakar Rao. It was decided that they will observe self-discipline while making themselves available to the public round-the-clock to hear their grievances and address them. They also alerted their staff to attend to the phone calls. The VIPs appealed to the public to see sense in their decision. It was not their intention to cut off from public life, but to take preventive steps to guard against contracting the dreaded virus.
14 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS records 253 COVID cases in a day, highest till date||The highest number of COVID-19 cases in a day in Telangana was recorded on Saturday as 253 swab samples tested from Friday evening to Saturday evening were found positive for coronavirus. The total cases in the State stands at 4,737. Eight more COVID-19 patients died taking the toll to 182. Of the 253 cases, 179 are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 24 from Sangareddy, 14 from Medchal, 11 from Rangareddy, four from Mahabubnagar, two each from Warangal Urban, Warangal Rural, Karimnagar, Nalgonda, Mulugu, Sircilla, Mancherial, one each from Siddipet, Khammam, Medak, Nizamabad, Nagarkurnool, Kamareddy and Jagtial districts. On the whole, 4,737 cases were recorded till date. Of them, 2,203 are active cases, 2,352 were discharged and 182 have died. From June 1-13, 2,039 cases were recorded. In comparison, the first 2,098 cases were recorded from March 2 to May 27, which is 87 days. This clearly indicates that cases are shooting up at an exponential rate. Senior officials in the Telangana Health Department said that the cases are estimated to rise further in the coming months.  Relentless growth  From March 2 to May 31 Cases – 2698 Deaths – 82  From June 1 to 13 Cases - 2039  Deaths -100
14 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||85 new cases in the State||Kerala reported 85 cases of COVID-19 and 46 recoveries on Saturday, taking the total number of active cases in the State to 1,342. Of the new cases, 71 are imported cases of infection diagnosed in people who have come to the State from abroad, while 14 are cases of local transmission acquired through contact with known or unknown sources of infection. The cumulative number of those who have tested positive for COVID-19 since the outbreak began in Kerala is 2,407.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||A lesson on BJP policies||Amid the political slugfest over the alleged attempts to poach legislators ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls, Congress MLAs attended a workshop on the BJP’s policies on Saturday. The MLAs, staying at a private resort, were shifted to a hotel in Jaipur. The workshop covered the COVID-19 lockdown, the crisis faced by migrant workers, the state of the economy, the weakening of democratic institutions, promises made to farmers and price rise.page 7
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Indian freed by Nepal police||The Indian national detained by the Nepal Armed Police Force on June 12 from the border in Sitamarhi district of Bihar was released on Saturday. “Lagan Kishore Rai was released early on Saturday,” said IGP of Sashastra Seema Bal, Patna frontier, Sanjay Kumar.page 7
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Virtual guidance||
14 June 2020||new delhi,||Over 2,000 COVID cases for second day in a row||Delhi breached the 2,000 mark for the second consecutive day on Saturday with 2,134 new COVID-19 cases being recorded in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 38,958. L-G Anil Baijal has empowered officials to impose fine on people violating norms.
14 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam govt. may reimpose lockdown||The Assam government may reimpose lockdown depending on the outcome of 50,000 COVID-19 tests to be conducted in Guwahati, Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Special task force to be set up for Bengaluru||The State government aims to tackle the rise in COVID-19 cases in the city and is set to constitute a special task force that will oversee all activities in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts.
14 June 2020||RAICHUR,||‘Recovery rate has improved in State’||Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar has said that the percentage of recovery from COVID-19 has improved. Of the 6,516 confirmed cases in the State, 3,440 (52.8%) have recovered, he said.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Changes to land reforms Act will hit farmers: Cong.||Karnataka Congress has strongly opposed the BJP government’s decision to introduce amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, saying it would spell doom for the marginal and small land-holders.
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. reports 1,989 fresh cases of COVID-19||Tamil Nadu on Saturday reported another 1,989 cases of COVID-19 and 30 deaths. Three persons who died were in their 20s. The State’s death toll rose to 397, while the overall tally surged to 42,687.
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,||CM invites global consumer firms to State||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has written to five global consumer goods companies, inviting them to explore opportunities in Tamil Nadu, which has an “excellent ecosystem” for manufacturing of goods. In a tweet on Friday night, the Chief Minister said he wrote to companies such as Kate Spade, Fossil Group, Nike, Adidas AG and Mattel Inc. to look at opportunities to set up their manufacturing units in the State.
14 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. taxing people with fuel prices: Sibal||The Congress on Saturday accused the Centre of profiteering at the cost of the common man and claimed that it earned Rs. 2 lakh crore since early March by imposing high taxes on petrol and diesel. Addressing an online press conference, former Union Law Minister Kapil Sibal said that while international crude oil prices were at the lowest level in 15 years, retail prices of petrol and diesel were going up and the common people were suffering under the Narendra Modi government. Instead of passing on the benefit of lower crude prices to consumers, petrol and diesel prices were hiked for the seventh day in a row on Saturday. “The government earned as much as Rs. 44,000 crore in the last six days due to hike in petrol, diesel prices. Since March 5, the government has earned as much as Rs. 2.5 lakh crore by way of increasing petrol, diesel prices. “If the government had even the slightest feelings for the common man, instead of benefiting the companies and the government, the Prime Minister would have helped the common man with reduced fuel prices,” Mr Sibal said. The Congress leader also reminded how Mr. Modi used to taunt the UPA government over fuel prices but had been consistently increasing them after coming to power. According to a report by Care Ratings, he said the hike effectively meant that the Central government was collecting around 270 per cent taxes on the base price of petrol and 256 per cent in case of diesel. The former Union Minister said petrol was selling at Rs. 71.41 in Delhi on May 1, 2014, when international crude oil price was $106.85, while on June 12, 2020, the price of petrol was Rs. 75.16 when the crude oil was at $38. He said the central excise and VAT cumulatively accounted for 69 per cent of the tax on fuel in India which was higher than anywhere else in the world. “The tax on fuel in the U.S. was 19 per cent, Japan 47 per cent, the U.K. 62 per cent, France 63 per cent and Germany 65 per cent,”he said.  Centre has earned as much as Rs. 2.5 lakh crore from rising petrol, diesel prices Kapil SibaL Congress leader
14 June 2020||New Delhi,||India may have undercounted cases||The findings of a serological survey by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) from 69 districts across 21 States indicate that an estimated 7,00,000 people could have been infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus in these districts even in early May. The number indicated by the survey is twenty times higher than the 35,000 confirmed cases of COVID-19 reported as of early May in the entire country, suggesting that the actual COVID-19 count overall could be underestimated by a factor of at least 20. Confirmed infections have since swelled to more than 3,08,000 as of Friday (June 12), with more than 8,900 people having died of the disease. Tested for antibodies According to a research paper published in May in the ICMR's in-house Indian Journal of Medical Research describing the methodology of the survey, blood samples of 24,000 adults were examined for antibodies produced specifically for SARS-CoV-2 via an ELISA test . On Thursday, Director General of ICMR Balram Bhargava at a press conference said 0.73% of the “population in the districts surveyed had evidence of past exposure to the virus.” In other words, the survey revealed that 0.73% of those sampled showed evidence of IgG antibodies. The survey began around May 12 and given that it takes an average of two weeks for IgG antibodies to be detected, April 30 was considered to be the date on which the individuals were likely infected by the virus. The adult population of these districts, according to the 2011 census was 60% of the overall population (160 million) and this works out to around 96 million persons. If the results of the survey are extrapolated to the adult population of these districts, the total number of people likely to have been infected adds up to 7,00,000; the numbers could be even higher if the growth of the population in the last nine years is factored in. The Hindu corroborated these findings with a scientist, who didn't want to be identified, but was part of the survey design and analysis. Antibodies produced in response to being infected by the virus confer immunity but are also evidence of being exposed to the infection. Because they rely on blood samples and are only an indirect evidence , they aren’t as accurate as PCR tests. Academic literature has suggested that there is a higher chance of “false positives” being reflected in serological surveys if there is a low prevalence of the disease. The survey measured prevalence in regions that had highly variable incidence of the disease and 7,00,000 infections is an average of a wide range — the details of which, again, aren’t yet available — of infection values. The scientist The Hindu spoke to said while the prevalence percentage accounted for the limitations of this test, 7,00,000 was an “accurate estimate” of the level of infection in these districts. The ICMR is expected to detail, in the coming days, the results of its sero-survey.    Another expert familiar with serology said, “Twenty cases for every single confirmed one is reasonable for a country's India’s size and does show a fair degree of containment. However, these true infection numbers ought to have been disclosed by the ICMR.” The Hindu reached out to Dr. Bhargava, but couldn’t get a response.
14 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Chennai’s tally breaches 30,000-mark||On a day when Tamil Nadu reported another new high of 1,989 cases of COVID-19, the State’s death toll rose to 397 with 30 more fatalities including three persons in their 20s. Eight more COVID-19 patients died in Telangana, taking the toll to 182 on Saturday. Andhra Pradesh witnessed two more deaths and 222 fresh cases. Karnataka reported 308 new cases and three deaths. Kerala reported 85 cases and 46 recoveries on Saturday, taking its number of active cases to 1,342. Of the new cases, 71 were imported cases of infection diagnosed in people who came from abroad, while 14 were cases of local transmission. The cumulative number of those who tested positive in Kerala is 2,407. So far, recoveries are at 1,045. The confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 infection in an assistant terminal manager at Calicut International Airport, Karipur, led to apprehension among expatriates and their relatives who use the airport. About three dozen people, including the airport director, were asked to go into quarantine. All had interactions with the airport official who tested positive. He was one of the eight persons who were confirmed to have acquired the virus through primary contacts on Saturday. The Malabar Development Forum on Saturday alleged that there was a deliberate attempt to tarnish the image of Karipur airport. . Andhra Pradesh had 222 fresh cases, a new single-day high. Of the total fresh cases, 186 were of local residents reportedly due to community transmission. The death toll rose to 82 and the tally mounted to 5,858, the Health Department said. With the recovery of 94 more patients, the number of recovered patients stood at 3,185 and the active cases at 2,591. Telangana recorded 253 positive cases, its highest daily number yet. The total cases stood at 4,737. Of the 253 cases, 179 were in Greater Hyderabad. Karnataka reported 308 new cases and three deaths. Bengaluru Urban saw 31 cases on Saturday, including a three-member family of an orthopaedic doctor. Of the 30 fatalities in Tamil Nadu, seven deaths that had occurred in May and early June in private hospitals were notified as part of the ongoing reconciliation of death data. The discharge of 1,362 persons took the total number of recoveries to 23,409, while the number of active cases stood at 18,878. With the fresh cases, the State’s overall case count increased to 42,684. Chennai reported 1,487 new cases, its tally on Saturday being 30,444 COVID-19 cases and 316 deaths. A total of 17,911 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested to 6,91,817.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus )
14 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre for early use of HCQ||The Health Ministry on Saturday said the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) should be used as early as possible in the course of COVID-19 treatment to achieve meaningful effects and should be avoided in patients with severe disease. A 22-page national clinical management protocol provides for the management of cases based on the clinical severity of mild, moderate or severe, the Ministry said. The new protocol includes use of remdesivir and off-label use of tocilizumab and convalescent plasma therapy on specific groups of patients. Also, while HCQ will continue to be in use, antibiotic azithromycin is no longer a part of the treatment protocol. The Ministry said patients are reporting symptoms like fever, cough, fatigue, shortness of breath, among others. “Loss of smell (anosmia) or loss of taste (ageusia) preceding the onset of respiratory symptoms has also been reported,” the protocol said. It added that older people and immune-suppressed patients in particular may present with atypical symptoms such as fatigue, reduced alertness, reduced mobility, diarrhoea, loss of appetite, delirium, and absence of fever. Children might not have reported fever or cough as frequently as adults.
14 June 2020||JAIPUR,||Congress MLAs attend session on BJP policies||Amid the political slugfest over the alleged attempts to poach legislators ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections, the ruling Congress MLAs, holed up in a luxury hotel here, attended a workshop on the BJP’s policies on Saturday. Senior Congress leaders accused the BJP of damaging the country’s social fabric by its “criminal mismanagement” during the last six years in power. The MLAs, who were earlier staying at a private resort on the outskirts of Jaipur, were shifted to JW Marriott Hotel. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Deputy CM Sachin Pilot, camping in the hotel since Friday, devised a training programme for legislators and finalised a mock drill for polling for the three Rajya Sabha seats from the State. The arrival of leaders such a Deepender Hooda, Rajeev Satav, Qazi Nizamuddin and Devendra Yadav at the hotel and their participation in the workshop indicated the significance being attached by the party’s central leadership to the Sachin Pilot camp. The half-day workshop covered the subjects of COVID-19 lockdown, crisis faced by migrant workers, present state of economy, weakening of democratic institutions, promises made to farmers and price rise. Congress national spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said the BJP had adopted the policy of “maximum government, zero governance” at the Centre. “All major decisions, such as demonetisation, GST implementation and lockdown, were taken by an individual, bringing misery to the people,” he said. Independent MLAs supporting the State government were also staying at the hotel. Mr. Gehlot has claimed that the two Bharatiya Tribal Party MLAs had promised to support Congress during the June 19 Rajya Sabha polls.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Theatre group invites thespians for video series on future of drama||Spectator arts, mainly theatre, have been decimated by the pandemic. With uncertainty over when they can resume staging plays, leading thespians in Kannada theatre are mulling over how the stage may have to reinvent itself to adapt to a new normal. Samudaya, a reputed theatre group in Karnataka, has been hosting a series of video talks, ‘Samudaya Ranga Chintana’, by directors, actors and playwrights on the way ahead. Theatre person Prasanna, who was one of the leading lights of the Samudaya theatre movement, delivered the inaugural talk. He said “social distancing” was inimical to theatre, which brought people together. “Though we are forced to practise distancing due to COVID-19, social distancing is in itself a disease that has ruined our society. Theatre has the potential to bring society together again,” he said. “None of us should stop theatre. If we are unable to begin staging plays again in the near future, we need to reinvent ourselves. Maybe, we can begin by staging plays at homes with a handful of spectators...,” he said. Meanwhile, theatre groups have taken to streaming plays online. Rangashankara, the leading theatre group in the city, hosted a series of soliloquies by noted actors on their social media handles, and is even hosting their annual ‘Mango Party’ online on June 14. Professor Purushottam Bilimale, Kannada Language Chair, Jawaharlal Nehru University, said theatre practitioners need to reinvent theatre to reflect the uncertainty that migrants face and bring to the stage the unseen vagaries of life in the country today. The series is aimed at helping the community reflect on the challenges ahead, said J.C. Shashidhar, of Samudaya, which is hosting the talks on YouTube.
14 June 2020||Srinagar,||Shops open in Srinagar after 83 days||A semblance of normality returned to Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir’s summer capital, on Saturday as the administration allowed 50% opening of shops after 83 days of lockdown enforced to contain COVID-19. Shoppers rushed to Nowhatta, Kukar Bazaar and Lal Chowk, the city’s main markets. The police were monitoring the adherence to standard operating procedures (SOPs), including wearing of masks and maintaining of physical distance. “I have come to buy toys and self-reading material for my children. It has been tough for them to stay within the confines of home for almost three months,” said Sajida Khan, a shopper, at Nowhatta. The Srinagar administration has come up with a calendar for shopkeepers to open phase-wise and sector-wise during ‘Unlock I’. “We are running short of cash now. We would sell goods and earn daily and the money ran the family. But it has been so many days without any business,” said Nazir Ahmad, a crockery shop owner, at Kukar Bazaar. Restaurant owners have welcomed the government’s decision to allow takeaways in the first phase. “It is a considerate decision to allow takeaways. The restaurant and cafe owners are duty-bound to follow COVID-19 guidelines. People should realise that economic activities are important, but they should not spread the virus,” said Jammu and Kashmir Hotelier Club member Tariq Ghani. He urged Deputy Commissioner Shahif Iqbal Choudhary “to take immediate steps for reopening of hotels so that tourism starts as the earliest”.
14 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear Vinod Dua’s plea today||A three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court will assemble on Sunday to hear an urgent plea made by Padma Shri awardee and senior journalist Vinod Dua to quash a “bogus” FIR registered by the Himachal Pradesh police accusing him of sedition. Justices U.U. Lalit, Mohan M. Shantanagoudar and Vineet Saran will hear the petition at 11 a.m. through virtual proceedings. The Himachal Pradesh police had appeared at Mr. Dua’s residence on June 12 and ordered him to be present at the Kumarsain police station, at least a 20-hour drive from Delhi, at 10 a.m. the next day (June 13). June 12 was the day when the Delhi High Court stayed an earlier “bald and frivolous” FIR registered by the Delhi police against Mr. Dua for his telecast comments on the northeast Delhi riots and the COVID-19 pandemic. The Himachal Pradesh police made their presence known to Mr. Dua shortly after the High Court’s stay order. “It is rather astonishing since the police station is 20 hours away from Delhi and they were here in 12 hours,” Mr. Dua said. His pleas to the Himachal Pradesh police to join the probe through emails or online were met with silence. Mr. Dua also expressed apprehensions about travelling during the pandemic as he had co-morbidities. In his letter to the Supreme Court, pleading for an urgent hearing, Mr. Dua, represented by senior advocate Vikas Singh and advocate Nitin Saluja, pointed out that Himachal Pradesh has institutional quarantine for 15 days for people coming from the red zones. The police insisted on his appearance knowing well that Delhi was categorised as a red zone and he would not be able to be present in the police station at the designated time. “There is a recent trend against the media where State governments that do not find a particular telecast to be in sync with their political ideologies register FIRs against persons of the media primarily to harass them and to intimidate them so that they succumb to the line of the State or else face the music at the hands of the police,” Mr. Dua said. Mr. Dua also sought a direction that no FIR be registered against journalists with at least 10 years of standing unless cleared by a committee constituted by the State governments. This committee should comprise the Chief Justice of the High Court concerned or a judge designated by the Chief Justice, the Leader of the Oppostion and the State Home Minister, the petition said.
14 June 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra records 3,427 more cases, 113 fatalities||Maharashtra added 3,427 more cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. The third highest single day rise pushed the State’s total to 10,4568. The State also recorded 113 fatalities taking its death toll to 3,830. The daily average of cases and deaths in Maharashtra have risen exponentially since June 1, just when the State began easing the lockdown. In just 13 days, the State has clocked 36,916 cases and 1,544 deaths, which is 35% of the total cases and 40% of the total deaths in the country. Of the latest fatalities, 87 were reported from Mumbai and its neighbouring regions like Thane, Navi Mumbai, Panvel and Kalyan-Dombivali. Mumbai alone had recorded 69 deaths, Pune recorded 10, Solapur recorded eight, Aurangabad recorded three and Latur recorded two. Satara, Nanded and Yavatmal had recorded one death each. State’s surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said 73 of these deaths were from last two days while the rest were from the period between May 27 and June 10. Nearly 80% of the 113 deceased had comorbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, asthma etc. The case fatality rate in Maharashtra stands at 3.6%, which is much more than the nation's rate at 2.8%. Maharashtra has the highest number of cases in the country followed by Tamil Nadu (40,698) and Delhi (36,824). Three districts — Dhule, Jalgaon, Solapur — remain a cause of concern with the highest case fatality rate at 7.3%. Other districts with high case fatality include Amravati at 6.2%, Nashik at 5.5% and Aurangabad at 5%. On Saturday, 1,550 patients were discharged, taking the total number of recovered patients to 49,346. The State’s recovery rate has now jumped to 47%. At present, the State has more than 51,000 active patients.
14 June 2020||New Delhi,||Returning labourers may be deployed for Jal Jeevan Mission||The flagship programme of the Narendra Modi government in its second avatar, the Jal Jeevan Mission, or providing piped drinking water to all rural households by 2024, is also being pushed as a way to ameliorate some of the effects of the mass migration of inter-State workers back to their home States in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Jal Shakti Ministry, the nodal ministry for the implementation of the scheme, has written to various States that returning labour, especially those working in the construction sector (skilled, unskilled and semi-skilled), may be deployed to expedite the completion of works under the scheme, as an arrangement that could provide employment to the currently unemployed workers. That a huge demand for work has been created because of returning workers is clear from the fact that allocations under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) have already been hiked by Rs. 40,000 crore over and above the Rs. 60,000 crore already allocated. While the MGNREGA is an old programme, the new Jal Jeevan Mission also has funds on its part. “Apart from the Rs. 11,000 crore in the budget, Rs. 12,000 crore has been allocated from extra budgetary allowances, not to forget that 50% of the Rs. 60,750 crore allocated by the 15th Finance Commission for rural local bodies is tied to grants for water bodies and sanitation, some of the key goals of the mission,” said a senior official in the ministry. The total allocation to the scheme is over Rs. 3 lakh crore. Skill mapping by various State governments has shown that a majority of inter-State workers returning home are from the construction sector. In Uttar Pradesh alone, 16 lakh out the 18 lakh migrant labour mapped till now are from this sector. The State has assured funding of Rs. 3,382 crore coming its way under the Jal Jeevan Mission, which, officials say, should be utilised in providing employment in rural areas to returning migrants. Bihar, another big receiver State, has funds Rs. 2,090 crore available under the scheme. “While we had tapped the National Skill Development Mission to create a pool of manpower skilled in masonry, plumbing, fitting, electricity etc, there is a growing realisation that returning inter-State labour could be deployed faster due to the prevailing situation. We would like to encourage all States to consider this,” said an official. As of now, a revalidation exercise of households and status of tap water found that out of 19.04 crore rural households in the country, 3.23 crore households had tap connections and 15.81 crore households had to be provided functional tap connections.
14 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam govt. may reimpose lockdown||The Assam government may reimpose lockdown depending on the outcome of 50,000 COVID-19 tests to be conducted in Guwahati, Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday. Till 4 p.m. on Saturday, Assam had recorded 3,718 positive cases with 1,923 of active cases and 1,784 discharged. Eight people have died so far while three migrated to other States. Mizoram, one of Assam’s neighbours in the northeast, had reimposed lockdown for two weeks from June 9 in a bid to handle the flow of people returning to the State. “People of Guwahati should be prepared for another lockdown, which may be imposed if a large number of people, say 500, test positive for COVID-19 after 50,000 tests,” Dr. Sarma said. “We don’t want to harm the economy but if the situation demands, we will not shy away from enforcing a lockdown,” he added. No travel history The government has decided to intensify surveillance in Guwahati after 25 people without any travel history were found infected. The State Health Department will accordingly conduct 50,000 tests across 12 hospitals of the city from June 15. Of more than two lakh people who have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State, Guwahati has so far registered 172 cases. Dr. Sarma said he has already discussed the gravity of the situation with Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and Chief Secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna. “An analysis revealed that the cases in Guwahati were linked to the sites of loading and unloading of trucks and their parking ,” he said. There are 153 godowns in Guwahati and it usually takes about three to four days to load and unload goods, the Minister said. “We cannot quarantine the truck drivers as per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs. But we have decided to conduct the tests there. We have passed instructions to district authorities to collect samples from all areas where loading and unloading of goods takes place,” he said. Dr. Sarma said the State has written to the Civil Aviation Ministry to restrict the number of flights per day to Guwahati to 25.
14 June 2020||Kochi,||NGT gives Kerala 1 month to report on forest fire prevention steps||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has given one month’s time to the Kerala Forest Department for submitting its report on the steps taken to prevent forest fire and implementation of the National Action Plan on Forest Fire in the State. An order issued by the Bench comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta on June 11 stated that three months had already passed after it directed the Principal Chief Conservator of Forest and Head of Forest Force in Thiruvananthapuram to submit a report on the steps taken to prevent such incidents in the aftermath of a forest fire that killed three forest guards at Kottambathur, near Desamangalam, in Thrissur on February 16. The government sought two months for filing the report when the case was taken up on Thursday. The order said regarding implementation of the National Action Plan on Forest Fire, an action taken report could have been prepared and submitted to this tribunal based on records available with the Forest Department, for which two months as requested was not required. “Considering the circumstances, we grant one-month time to the official respondents to comply with the direction issued by this tribunal by order dated 27.02.2020,” said the order. The Bench, which took suo motu cognisance of the forest fire in Thrissur, had pointed out that such incidents were recurring in forest areas posing danger to the wildlife besides causing air pollution. It asked the Forest Department to take all precautionary methods to avoid such incidents. Quoting media reports, the Bench said old methods were being used to douse forest fire by the persons engaged by the Forest Department even though there were other updated scientific methods prescribed under the National Action Plan on Forest Fire. The Bench said the Forest Department should identify the gaps in implementation of the national action plan and comply with the directives.
14 June 2020||Mumbai,||COVID-19 taking an emotional toll on children||Will my parents die of COVID-19? Will I be left alone? The fear of losing loved ones to the COVID-19 infection is most apparent among children who dabble with immense anxiety and emotional stress brought by the ongoing pandemic and lockdown. Doctors say that the toll on the mental health of the young ones is way more than the physical symptoms of COVID-19. “Every age group is processing the events in a different way,” said Dr. Soonu Udani from SRCC Children’s Hospital, that has treated over 45 minors with COVID-19 over the past weeks. She said that children below 10 years don’t know much and are picking up tiny bits from the television and family conversations, while those above 10 years have more fear of death as they try to comprehend the severity of the infection. “Many of these children have grandparents in the hospital, others have lost their grandparents to the infection. This sets in the fear,” she said. Dr. Udani cited the example of a 12-year-old, who was quarantined after his grandmother tested positive. “He was paranoid that his mother, who had travelled to Nagpur to see his grandmother was going to die,” she said. Struggle to understand As most children are asymptomatic or display mild symptoms, they also struggle to reason why they have to be hospitalised. The hospital has started using play therapy, drawings and charts to tell children about the virus, and the importance of being in isolation or quarantine. Dr. Koyeli Sengupta, a developmental paediatrician at the hospital, said that two to three-year olds, separated from their parents, show signs of anxiety through extreme clinginess after their parents return from quarantine. “A mother told me that her child is not even letting her go to the bathroom. In slightly older children, three to six-year-olds, a common thought is ‘did I do something wrong that my parents went away’,” said Dr. Sengupta. Teenagers are also facing a hard time with lack of social circle and no privacy at home, she added. She said it was important for parents and caregivers to not brush aside the queries of their children and listen to them. “Their concerns may sound silly but they are valid,” she said. In some cases, children whose family members had COVID-19, reported abdominal pain, twisting of neck, headaches and myalgia or muscle pain, but as soon as their report returned negative, they start feeling better. “We have seen four such cases of psychosomatic symptoms in children who were anxious due to a family member testing positive,” said Bengaluru-based child neurologist Dr. Minal Kekatpure. The interaction with doctors and nurses clad in alien-looking PPE suits fascinates children but also frightens some of them. “For a majority of children, it was their first, long hospitalisation. To reduce their trauma, we added lots of toys and games in the ward and the nurses in PPE were asked to play with them...” said Dr. Khushhali Ratra from Pune’s Symbiosis University Hospital that has treated more than 60 minors over the past few weeks.
14 June 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra cuts test rates at private labs||The Maharashtra government on Saturday cut the cost of the COVID-19 test at private laboratories from Rs. 4,500 to Rs. 2,800 for home collection of samples. The rate is Rs. 2,200 if samples are collected from hospitals. Health Minister Rajesh Tope said there was a growing demand for slashing the cost. “We had set up a committee to look into the pricing. It studied all the aspects and has decided on the rates,” he said in a video released by him. “There is a plenty of testing kits available now, and the price of kits has also come down. Therefore, laboratories should not look at profiteering,” he said. Maharashtra has so far carried out over 6.4 lakh tests, including 2.5 lakh in Mumbai. While the State’s daily average has gone up to 15,000 in the past three days, Mumbai’s daily average is 4,500. Maharashtra’s case positivity rate is 16.18% and Mumbai’s 22%. “With such a high positivity rate, especially in Mumbai, the incidence of cases will be much higher. Therefore, the testing has to go up,” said Soumitra Ghosh, a professor of the School of Health System Studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences. He said one of the major flaws in dealing with the outbreak was lack of aggressive contact-tracing. “The staff on duty surely is tired. But the government has to strategise, bring in new hands to do the job,” he said. The committee that worked on the test cost has said government laboratories are not utilising 100% of their capacity. It said they should work 24/7 in multiple shifts, and a nodal officer should distribute sample loads. To reduce the cost of tests at private laboratories, the government should consider waiver of or a reduction in the GST and regulate the rates of consumables such as viral transport medium, personal protective equipment, extraction kits and RT-PCR kits.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Leaders urge public to avoid meeting them||They were there to discuss arrangements for the visit of Information Technology Minister K.T. Rama Rao to Warangal on Wednesday. The venue was crowded with TRS leaders, workers and the public who were anxious to know the programmes of Mr. Rama Rao in the town. The police and the VIPs had a tough time keeping the crowd at bay in a bid to follow physical distancing norms to stay free of coronavirus. Faced with a situation where the VIPs could not say no to the crowd any further, they discussed how best to avoid such scenes in future and arrived at a unanimous decision to keep away from public contact but address their problems over phone. The VIPs underscored that they will not shirk the responsibility of addressing the problems of public. “We are all available round the clock over phone and anyone can contact us in case of any emergency. There is no need to worry,” said Mr. Dayakar Rao. It was decided that they will observe self-discipline while making themselves available to the public round-the-clock to hear their grievances and address them. They also alerted their staff to attend to the phone calls. The VIPs appealed to the public to see sense in their decision. It was not their intention to cut off from public life, but to take preventive steps to guard against contracting the dreaded virus.
14 June 2020||MYSURU,||‘Amendments will speed up farmland conversion’||Stakeholders, including farmers and environmentalists, have strongly opposed the changes to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, which paves way for purchase of farmland by non-agriculturists. They have also raised concerns on its socio-economic impact in rural areas besides its effect on food security and environment. The proposed move has already stoked agitation in parts of the State and farmers burnt a copy of the draft in Mysuru on Saturday. T.N. Prakash Kammardi, former chairperson, Karnataka Agricultural Price Commission, said easing of land purchase and removal of ceiling on income from non-agricultural sources will have serious implications on food security and sovereignty of the country. “Nearly 50 lakh acre of farmland has gone out of food production in the State in the last 10 years because of various factors, including distress sale by farmers. This was despite all the restrictions in place imposed by the Act. Now that the government has decided to repeal certain sections in the legislation, the pace of transfer will accelerate and push farmers to the brink and render them landless and unemployed,” he said. Badagalpura Nagendra, president, KRRS, said farmers did not acquire land as a free gift but got ownership after a prolonged struggle which led to the 1961 legislation to protect their interests and make tillers the owners of the land. The ceiling on landholdings was introduced to bridge the gulf between small and large landholders and give ownership to landless agricultural workers. The government has now overturned the very purpose for which the original law was enacted, he said. Mr. Nagendra said more than 90% of agriculturists in the State are small landholders owning 1 to 2 acres of land and they would be lured to sell their land. “We are already witnessing the problem of migrant workers and this will aggravate the issue,” he added. KRRS has planned a mass movement against it and it will unfold in a stage-wise manner, he added.  Agitation planned Kurubur Shanthakumar, president, Karnataka State Sugarcane Cultivators’ Association, also threatened a State-wide agitation, apart from laying siege to the Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru. Karnataka Prantha Raitha Sangha State president Maruti Manpade said with the amendment, the idea of “land of the tillers” will remain a slogan and will encourage corporates to buy land at cheaper prices and get into contract farming, forcing farmers to become landless labourers. Mr. Manpade said such a move during the pandemic was done with a belief that people will not hit the streets to agitate. He said KPRS and other pro-farmers’ organisations opposed the amendments and warned of a State-wide protest.  (With inputs from Praveen Para in Kalaburagi)
14 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Maoist facing leadership crisis in AOB||The CPI (Maoist) cadres in the cut-off area of Andhra Odisha Border (AOB) are facing a leadership crisis, as the link between the cadre base and the main leadership has reportedly been severed. Post-October 2016 Ramaguda encounter, in which over 30 Maoists, including senior leaders were killed by the anti-naxal force of AP the Greyhounds, the Andhra Pradesh police have been on the offensive. This was well supported by the Odisha government, which not only increased the footprints of its Special Operations Group (SOG) and District Voluntary Force (DVF) in the cut-off area of AOB, but has also increased the presence of BSF by setting up new camps in the Maoist heartland. This new offensive has pushed the Maoists to a small pocket of about 1,500 sq km in the cut-off region, which falls in the east of Balimela river and squeezed between Andhra and Odisha. On the Odisha side, apart from the SOG and DVF making deep inroads in the AOB, the forces have been successful in setting up new BSF camps in Jayapayi, Hantalaguda and Darlabeda. On the Andhra side, the CRPF has set up two new outposts at Nurmati and Rudakota. With the coming up of the armed outposts and BSF camps and increased surveillance and combing, the Maoists cadres have been pushed back to the north of the cut-off region, according to Superintendent of Police, Visakhapatnam, Attada Babujee. Fearing exposure, the main leaders such as Akkiraju Haragopal alias Ramakrishna alias RK, CC member Gajarla Ravi alias Uday, secretary AOBSZC (Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee) and Chalpathi, CC member, have reportedly moved to the Gumma region, Odisha, which lies on the west side of Balimela. The Maoists do not use cellphones or VHF sets to avoid detection or tracking. They still follow the old courier system, and sources in the police say that many have shifted loyalties or have ceased to operate due to intensive surveillance. The communication system of the Maoists has collapsed to a great extent and this is hampering the flow of instructions from the higher-ups. Most importantly, the strong network of the LWE has shrunk, and in some places they have been wiped out or have become dormant, said a senior officer.
14 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Now, a handbook on COVID-19 ‘policing’||Disaster management has become the mainstay of Telangana police in the backdrop of exponential spread of coronavirus. Besides standard operating procedure, the police department has come out with a ‘Reference Handbook for COVID-19 Policing’. The reference book (a copy of which is in possession with The Hindu ) stresses the need for an inter-departmental COVID-19 committee or Task Force in each district to perform executive functions regarding virus management and containment to handle a likely ‘second wave’ of infection. “As the regular work of the department must also be resumed, officers for the committee must be exclusively deputed,” it stated. Policing priorities will continue to be management of pandemic and there are multiple possibilities of how the infection is going to spread across the population, until a vaccine is available for coronavirus, stated a high-level committee constituted under the chairmanship of Additional DGP (Law and Order) Jitender. Police officers were told that routine vehicle check-ups should be avoided and traffic duties should be limited to important and busy junctions only. Being a visible role model for society, each officer must obey and follow all social distancing and safety norms, it said. The book also stated that arrests in bailable cases should be avoided and be undertaken only in grave and sensational cases, apart from avoiding all non-policing duties such as charitable and cultural functions during the pandemic. “Use of technology should be encouraged.” District nodal officers and DCPs in Commissionerates have to personally ensure that the symptomatic personnel were tested, treated, discharged and well taken care of. Beating, threatening, forcing people to roll, crawl, squat, do sit-ups, or be made to do humiliating acts, as punishments for alleged violation of lockdown, should be classified as serious police misconduct with appropriate punishments, the panel stated in the book. “Ensure that people can easily lodge a complaint against police officers for any alleged misconduct or criminality, for instance, through a dedicated helpline. Supervising officers must acknowledge and respond to every complaint received clearly stating the course to be taken,” they stated. In a chapter “Way Forward: Policing and Pandemic”, they mentioned that the police department across the world are prepared for natural and man-made disasters, but pandemic management has never actually been a police subject before, at least in India. However, given the urgency scale of the COVID-19 pandemic and its spread, the department will have to ‘police’ this event and its consequences as well. A robust legal framework will be required for continuous health surveillance and contact tracing will be required during and after pandemic or any other disaster. The law must authorise use of such personal information of people to help authorities in health surveillance and contact tracing. They also advised officers to be extremely cautious and not handle bodies of COVID-infected directly. “Though there is less likelihood of infection from a dead body, police should be extremely cautious. The medical staff should be allowed to handle the body while police shall escort or transport it in a separate vehicle.” Chasing a virus and arresting contamination have become the prime duty of the police rank and file.
14 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||ESI scam: ‘Atchannaidu gave three letters favouring a private firm’||Former Labour Minister and Tekkali TDP legislator K. Atchannaidu, who was arrested along with six others on Saturday in the multi-crore ESI scam, had allegedly mounted pressure on the Insurance Medical Services (IMS) officials and caused huge loss to the government. Mr. Atchannaidu allegedly recommended the IMS officials to allot a call centre, ECG services and patient case management system to Hyderabad-based Tele Health Services Private Limited. He had allegedly issued three letters from his ‘peshi’ directing then IMS Director C.K. Ramesh Kumar to allot the services to the private company, though there was no government sanction order. He had allegedly directed the ESI officials to allot the services without inviting any tenders. “Mr. Atchannaidu had issued the letters in 2016 and 2017 to the ESI officials by violating the guidelines. From January 2017 to May 2018, the ESI officials paid Rs. 4.15 crore to the firm,” the ACB officials said. It was found that the company representatives had submitted false names and phone numbers of the patients to whom they provided services. When the ACB sleuths investigated further, it was revealed that the patients were also native of different places of Telangana. The joint directors, directors and other officials had cleared bills to the Tele Health Services Private Limited without verifying the details of the patients, the investigation officers said. “They had resorted to misappropriation of government funds,” the ACB sleuths said.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Nepal amendment on new map passed||The total votes cast in favour were 258 and no one voted against the bill though 11 members remained absent or abstained. It is not clear yet why they did not vote. Four members including Bijaya Kumar Gachchhadar, the leading figure of indigenous Tharu community, have been suspended and could not participate in the proceedings. “I hearby declare the Second Constitution Amendment passed with two-thirds majority,” Speaker of the Pratidhi Sabha Agni Sapkota announced amidst celebrations. The concluding session witnessed passionate speeches by the members of the parliament. The most important intervention of the day came from Prachanda, who described the day as a historic moment for Nepal. “We are working to ensure territorial integrity national sovereignty and freedom of our people. The kings of Nepal lost our territory, but today we republicans are restoring it,” he said to applause from the other members. The unanimous voting was made possible by the cross party support ensured by Mr Oli's government. Nepal unveiled the new map on May 20 after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated Darchula-Lipulekh link road on May 8. Nepal had earlier strongly protested when the updated Indian map published in November last year, showing the region as part of Uttarakhand. Nepal claims right to the region and says India was allowed to station troops there in the 1950s and that Delhi has refused to remove forces from the region ever since. Nepal’s Minister for Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Shiva Maya Tumbahangphe tabled the amendment bill on May 31 and the necessary month long discussion was fast tracked. Serious fallout The diplomatic fallout of the territorial dispute, is likely to be serious, said former foreign minister and Nepalese commentator Ramesh Nath Pandey, who warned of difficult days ahead for Nepal-India relations as well as for South Asian region. “Now, Indo-Nepal border negotiations will be all the more complicated as secretaries have no right to negotiate on the provisions of our Constitution,” said Mr. Pandey. He argued that the territorial dispute of Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh cannot be resolved at talks led by Foreign Secretaries or senior envoys as the disputed territories are now part of Nepal’s constitution and public imagination.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||China border situation under control: Army chief||Earlier, the Army chief responded on May 14 over two scuffles — at Pangong Tso on May 5 and Naku La on May 9 — and stated that they were a result of “aggressive behaviour on both sides” and had been resolved at the local level. Stating that it had been very fruitful dialogue and the situation would keep improving further, Gen. Naravane added, “We are hopeful that through this continued dialogue we are having, all perceived differences that we have will be set to rest.” Month-long stand-off After the month-long stand-off at several locations on the border, at the Corps Commander-level talks last week, both sides mutually agreed on five locations of conflict — Patrolling Point (PP) 14, 15, 17A, North bank of Pangong Tso and Chushul — and also agreed on partial disengagement from some of these places. Army sources stated that at Galwan area, limited “disengagement” had begun earlier and was underway in Gogra and at PP 15 and 17A. Since the June 6 talks, two rounds of Major General-level talks were held to discuss further disengagement. The stand-off at Pangong Tso remains a major issue of concern and is expected to take longer to be resolved.
14 June 2020||Patna,||Nepal Armed Police release Indian national||The Indian national detained by the Nepal Armed Police Force (APF) on June 12 from the India-Nepal border in Sitamarhi district of Bihar was released early on Saturday. The situation, officials said, is normal. “Yes, Lagan Kishore Rai was released by the Nepal police early on Saturday,” confirmed IGP of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Patna frontier, Sanjay Kumar. An Indian national was killed while two persons were injured on Friday in firing by the Nepal police after a clash broke out with local villagers at the Lalbandi-Jankinagar border area in Pipra Parsain panchayat. Uday Thakur and Umesh Ram were admitted to a private hospital in Sitamarhi where they are now said to be out of danger. Asked whether the situation was normal, he told The Hindu over phone, “Yes, absolutely…situation is quite normal there as it was a local issue. On Friday, we had reinforced SSB forces there to control the situation from our side.” Mr. Rai told local media persons that he was happy to be released. “They had dragged me from our side after some heated exchanges with people from our side…they caned me and took me to Sangrampur of Nepal but thankfully released me.” On Friday, Vikesh Kumar Rai was killed by the Nepal APF personnel while Uday Thakur and Umesh Ram had received gunshot injuries following a heated exchange of words between villagers and the Nepal police over certain local issues.
14 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||OIL flies in three more experts to control fire||Oil India Limited (OIL) flew in three more disaster-control experts from the U.S. and Canada late on Friday night to help control the Baghjan natural gas-producing well that burst into flames almost two weeks after a blowout. The exploration major had flown in three oil well disaster specialists from Singapore on June 8, a day before the Baghjan well in eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district caught fire. “Preliminary work of arranging facilities for the well control operation began today [on Saturday] after the six foreign experts carried out a joint survey of the site, along with our officials and specialists from Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited,” a spokesperson said from the OIL headquarters at Duliajan in the adjoining Dibrugarh district. While equipment and material from ONGC’s facility in eastern Assam’s Sivasagar were being unloaded at the site, more equipment sent by road from ONGC’s operations in Andhra Pradesh were yet to arrive. The intensity of the protests at OIL installations across eastern Assam lessened on Saturday. . “The production loss on Saturday was 500 metric tonnes of crude oil and 0.46 million metric standard cubic meter per day of natural gas due to the protests,” the spokesperson said.
14 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Places of worship to be open during total lockdown||Temples, churches, and mosques can admit devotees in limited numbers on total lockdown day on Sunday. However, pregnant women, persons above the age of 65, and children below ten will not be allowed. The number of persons at a time in a place of worship should not exceed 100. The government has circumscribed the space for 15 persons to 100 sq ft (9 sq m). Worshippers should wear masks and maintain a minimum physical distance of six ft (1.8 m). Devotees should register their names, mobile phone numbers, and addresses at the entrance. The places of worship should ensure separate pathways for the entry and exit of devotees. Managements of religious places of worship should scan devotees for high body temperature before they are allowed in for prayers. Priests should wear masks mandatorily. Devotees should desist from communal prayers and chanting and singing in groups. Those praying at mosques should not use tank water for washing and instead rely on piped running water. They should wear masks, bring their prayer mats, and keep footwear separate. Temple priests should avoid the practice of distributing food, “prasadam and theertham” and desist from sprinkling devotees with water. Rituals such as the first communion in churches should be held with minimum physical contact. Tests exempted Several competitive examinations have been scheduled for Sunday. Hence, the government has exempted the conduct of tests from Sunday lockdown. Students and invigilators and other allied staff may travel to examination centres. However, they have to justify their reason for travel by showing their hall ticket and official identity cards. Scores of medical and dental colleges have commenced admission process. Students may report at the institutions. However, they have to produce their allotment letters to authorities. The police will consider such documents as a pass for movement. Other non-essential businesses have to remain closed. Home delivery of food is permitted. Stringent curbs The police will severely restrict mobility. They will only allow the passage of ambulances and people with a genuine reason for travel. Law enforcers will intensely monitor the movement of vehicles. Inter-district and inter-taluk borders and entry points to major cities will be watched strictly.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Dr. Reddy’s, two others to make Gilead’s Remdesivir||Phase 3 clinical studies to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the drug are underway. In India, the Union Health Ministry had recently cleared Remdesivir for treatment of COVID-19 patients under emergency use. As part of the agreements, the drugmakers receive technology transfer of the manufacturing process for Remdesivir and get to set their own prices for the generic product they produce, Gilead said. The licenses are royalty-free until the World Health Organization (WHO) declares the end of the Public Health Emergency of International Concern regarding COVID-19 or until a pharmaceutical product other than Remdesivir or a vaccine is approved to treat or prevent COVID-19, whichever is earlier, Gilead said. Stating that it will receive technology transfer for manufacturing Remdesivir, Dr. Reddy's said it needs to do the manufacturing scale up as well as obtain regulatory approval for marketing the product in respective countries.
14 June 2020||GUNTUR,||Naidu denied entry into govt. hospital||High drama unfolded at the Government General Hospital here on Saturday after TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu was denied entry to see party leader K. Atchannaidu. Mr. Atchannaidu was brought to the hospital for treatment amidst tight security, a day after he was arrested from his home in Srikakulam. Mr. Naidu was stopped at the main gate by the police, who said they couldn’t allow him without permission from the magistrate. Later, he interacted with the GGH medical superintendent, who told him that all possible medical care was being given to Mr. Atchannaidu.
14 June 2020||YETAPAKA (EAST GODAVARI),||Five suspected Maoists surrender before police||Five suspected Maoists of the Bhadradri Kothagudem-East Godavari Division (BK-EGD) Committee Dalam surrendered before East Godavari Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi at Yetapaka in Chintoor agency on Saturday. Three of them are minor girls. All of them belong to the Gutti Koya tribe and are natives of the Chintoor Agency on the Andhra-Odisha-Chattisgarh border. “All the five have been recruited by Thulasi, Area Committee Member of the Sabari Local Organising Squad of the Maoists in 2018”, said Mr. Asmi. According to Mr. Nayeem Asmi the five Maoists reportedly confessed that they were subjected to discrimination by non-Adivasi Maoists.
14 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Krishna Rao is new Vizag rural SP||In the latest shuffle of IPS officers in the State, B. Krishna Rao, working as Commandant, Sixth Battalion, APSP Mangalagiri, has been appointed as the new Superintendent of Police, Visakhapatnam Rural. Mr. Attada Babujee, who was in the post, was transferred and posted as SP, State Intelligence Bureau (SIB). The State government has also transferred Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCPs) of both the zones from the city police. While DCP (Zone II) B. Uday Bhaskar was posted as AIG, (Admin), DGP office, DCP (Zone I) S Ranga Reddy was directed to report at police headquarters, Mangalagiri. Aishwarya Rastogi has been appointed as DCP (Zone I).
14 June 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. targets PM over his visits to China||Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel on Saturday targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi over alleged Chinese “intrusion” in the Ladakh sector and questioned Mr Modi’s repeated visits to China. “Since 1947, Modiji is the only Prime Minister who made 9 official visits to China — 5 times as PM & 4 times as Chief Minister [Gujarat]. Dr. Singh visited only twice while Panditji, Rajivji , Vajpayeeji and Narsimha Raoji visited only once. Apart from them, other PM’s didn’t even visit China. Despite numerous visits by the incumbent PM we have this situation,” Mr. Patel tweeted. In a series of tweets, the Congress leader asked if Mr Modi’s principle of diplomacy of giving a mile for an inch” extended to borders. “For Indo-China ties, the present government gave a slogan ‘Inch to Miles’. Was it meant for what is happening at our border or for diplomatic relations,” Mr Patel said.
14 June 2020||Bhopal,||5 killed in M.P. lime quarry accident||Five workers were killed and another five injured on Saturday after a lime quarry collapsed due to rain in Shahdol district, said officials. “The administration has launched an operation to rescue another five to six workers who buried under the rubble,” District Collector Satendra Singh said. “We have called in earthmovers to rescue those buried at the mine near Beohari. We are yet to establish if the quarry was being run illegally,” said a district official.  Later, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan directed the district administration to immediately pay a compensation of Rs. 4 lakh to each family of the deceased and ensure complete care for the injured.
14 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM takes stock of COVID-19 situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reviewed the response to the COVID-19 pandemic at a meeting with Ministers and officials where Vinod Paul, convenor of the Empowered Group of Medical Emergency Management Plan, said two-thirds of the cases are in five States with an overwhelming proportion in big cities. “In view of the challenges being faced, particularly by the large cities, it was discussed to augment testing and the number of beds and services to effectively handle the peak surge of daily cases,’’ a government release said. The release said the Union Health Ministry has been asked to undertake emergency planning in consultation with the States/UTs.
14 June 2020||New Delhi,||Shah, Vardhan to chair crucial meetings||Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan will chair two crucial meetings to assess the COVID-19 situation in the capital on Sunday. Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Randeep Guleria, Director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), will attend both meetings. Sources said a plan revolving around the “joint efforts of all the agencies possible” was on the anvil. This was also likely to include opening up of the “unutilised” municipal hospitals, dispensaries and properties, said a source. The first meeting, scheduled for 11 a.m., will be attended by the Union Home and Health Ministers, Mr. Baijal, Mr. Kejriwal and Dr. Guleria. The second meeting, at 5 p.m., will also have the Mayors and Commissioners of the three BJP-ruled civic bodies.
14 June 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. Youth Cong. chief tests positive||Congress MLA and Madhya Pradesh Youth Congress president Kunal Choudhary on Saturday morning tested positive for COVID-19, sending jitters across the party preparing for the forthcoming Rajya Sabha election and the Assembly byelection. The Bhopal district administration was tracing the contacts of Mr. Choudhary, an MLA from Kalapipal, who resided in 74 Bungalows of Bhopal, a residential enclave for Ministers, said a district official. “His sample was collected on Friday night,” he said.  “Over the past few days, Mr. Choudhary had met several senior party leaders and workers and visited his constituency too ... his role in the upcoming election is pivotal,” said a senior Congress leader.
14 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Ramesh Kumar’s wife approaches HC||Ch. Madhusmitha Rani, wife of former director of Insurance Medical Services (IMS) C.K. Ramesh Kumar, who was named as Accused-1 in the ESI scam, filed a house motion petition in the High Court on Saturday, alleging that the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) had filed the case with political vendetta. Ms. Rani also alleged that the ACB sleuths did not follow the legal procedure while arresting her husband, and urged that he be released. However, the counsel for the ACB said the arrest was made under Section 409, 420 and 120-B IPC and Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 besides some other provisions. The judge posted the matter to June 15 (Monday) for further hearing.
14 June 2020||Chennai,||India records 11,819 fresh cases||India on Saturday recorded a massive spike of 11,819 COVID-19 cases and 306 fatalities, according to data from the State Health Departments. The overall tally rose to 3,21,375, out of which 1,49,654 are active cases. The death toll stood at 9,196, while 1,62,525 people have recovered.
14 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||2BHK housing complex inaugurated||The newly built double bedroom housing complex under the Telangana government’s ‘Dignity Housing’ project was inaugurated by Ministers Sabitha Indra Reddy and Ch. Malla Reddy in Mansoorabad here on Saturday. Keys were handed over to 154 beneficiaries whose houses in the erstwhile slum there had been pulled down for in situ construction of the new housing complex.
14 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||First Bell: new classes from tomorrow||After a two-week trial, fresh classes will be aired through the KITE Victers channel and online platforms from Monday as part of the State government’s ‘First Bell’ online programme for school students. The trial of the classes was being telecast from June 1. Beginning Monday, online classes on new subjects will be telecast as per the schedule already published — from 8.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. There has been a tremendous response from students and parents to the classes aired from June 1 to 12. Twenty-seven TB (terabyte) of data was downloaded on a single day through the Victers website. The subscriber base of the YouTube Victers channel (YouTube.com/itsvicters) reached nearly 10 lakh while over 16.5 lakh downloads of the Victers mobile app were recorded from the Google Play Store. Changes incorporated For specific classes, the viewership exceeded 40 lakh. Classes were also viewed by hundreds of people in West Asia, America, and Europe. “Based on the feedback of the initial classes, we have incorporated facilities such as displaying English words during a class, especially for the benefit of those studying in English medium, and descriptions in Malayalam in language classes,” K. Anvar Sadath, Chief Executive Officer, Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE), said. On FB, YouTube All classes can be viewed in real time from the Facebook page of KITE Victers (facebook.com/ victerseduchannel) and later through the YouTube channel (YouTube.com/itsvicters). There will be repeat telecast of session for classes 10 to 12 from Monday to Friday. The repeat telecast for Classes 1 to 9 will be on Saturdays and Sundays. Students unable to view the live classes can look up or download the offline versions from the website. Tamil medium classes will be made available on the YouTube link Youtube.com/drcpkd while Kannada medium classes will be available on Youtube.com /KITEKasaragod. The telecast of these classes will be on trial basis for five days.
14 June 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||2 held for sale of pangolin scales||A team of Forest Department officials busted a gang allegedly involved in the sale of pangolin scales in Mulakalapalli mandal on Saturday. The team of five officials of the Kinnerasani wildlife management wing detained two members of the gang and seized 445 gms of pangolin scales from their possession during a pre-dawn raid on a house at Jinnelagudem village. The duo reportedly told forest officials that they had procured the pangolin scales from three persons of Rachannagudem village, who allegedly poached a pangolin, a critically endangered mammal, about two weeks ago and kept its scales with them.
14 June 2020||Kollam,||KC(B) scotches rumours of return to UDF||Kerala Congress (B) is currently very comfortable in the LDF fold and all reports about a possible return to the UDF camp are baseless, said R Balakrishna Pillai, KC(B) chairman, here on Saturday. Ending speculations and extending all support to the LDF government, he added that the State has been doing a commendable job in fighting COVID-19. “The State government's initiatives have grabbed global attention and the opposition is trying to torpedo that,” he said. K.B.Ganesh Kumar, the only party MLA representing the Pathanapuram constituency, said the news is part of a conspiracy and he hasn’t discussed the subject with any UDF leader. “I left the UDF first, not the party. The news is an attempt to destroy Kerala Congress (B), especially at a time when local body elections are approaching,” he said. Friendly visit It was Deputy Leader of Opposition M.K.Muneer's recent visit to Mr. Pillai that triggered the rumours and Ganesh Kumar clarified it was just a friendly visit. “No other leader has paid us a visit nor have we approached them,” he said.
14 June 2020||Azamgarh,||12 booked under NSA for thrashing Dalits in U.P. village||The Uttar Pradesh police have arrested 12 persons for their alleged involvement in a clash following the molestation of Dalit girls, and booked them under the National Security Act (NSA), officials said on Saturday. The clash took place at Sikandarpur Aima in Azamgarh district earlier this week.PTI
14 June 2020||Chandigarh,||Punjab police arrest another LeT operative||The Punjab police said on Saturday that they arrested another Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) operative, Javed Ahmed Bhat, as he tried to escape to Kashmir. His arrest came two days after LeT operatives Aamir Hussain Wani and Wasim Hassan Wani were caught trying to smuggle weapons to the Valley.
14 June 2020||New Delhi,||CBI registers seven cases to probe chit fund scams in West Bengal||The CBI has registered seven cases to probe chit fund scams in West Bengal in compliance with the Supreme Court’s directive in May 2014. The first case was initially registered against six accused in the South 24 Parganas in 2013. It was alleged that they collected funds on the promise of huge returns against investment in a social welfare trust named Hasper Micro Finance Institution.
14 June 2020||New Delhi,||Central GST Intelligence detects Rs. 225-cr. tax evasion in M.P., arrests three accused||The Central GST Intelligence has arrested three persons for allegedly evading tax of Rs. 225 crore in the past nine months by clandestinely manufacturing and selling pan masala and tobacco products in Indore, Madhya Pradesh. Tax evasion over the past two years is suspected to be about Rs. 400 crore.
14 June 2020||New Delhi,||Attorney General K.K. Venugopal set to get one-year extension, say sources||Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal is all set to get a one-year extension, government sources said on Friday. His three-year tenure comes to an end on June 30. Mr. Venugopal, 89, was appointed in 2017 after then AG Mukul Rohatgi resigned citing personal reasons.
14 June 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||26-acre site identified for Ariyalur medical college||A new government medical college in Ariyalur would come up near the Government Arts College here. A 26-acre site has been identified for establishing the medical college in the town, according to Thamarai S.Rajendran, Chief Government Whip. Mr. Rajendran, who inspected the site on Friday along with Collector D. Rathna, pointed out that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had ordered the establishment of a government medical college in the district and sanctioned funds. The open grounds adjacent to the Government Arts College here has been selected for establishing the medical college. The college with a 700-bed hospital building would be established at a cost of Rs. 347 crore. The Chief Minister would soon lay the foundation stone for the construction of the buildings, he said. Mr.Rajendran said establishment of the college would meet a long felt need of residents and would avert the need for them to go to other districts such as Tiruchi, Thanjavur or Chennai for an emergency as well as a specialised treatment.
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,989 new cases in T.N., Chennai’s tally breaches 30,000-mark||On a day when Tamil Nadu recorded another new high of 1,989 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), the State’s death toll rose to 397 as 30 fatalities were reported, including those of three persons who were in their 20s. The 30 fatalities included seven which had occurred in May and in early June in private hospitals and were notified as part of the ongoing process of reconciliation of death data. The discharge of 1,362 patients from hospitals took the total number of recoveries to 23,409, while the number of active cases stood at 18,878. The State’s overall case count increased to 42,687*. Chennai, which accounted for 1,487 of the new cases, saw its tally surpass the 30,000-mark on Saturday. As of date, the city accounts for 30,444 COVID-19 cases and 316 deaths. While 18 deaths had occurred in government hospitals, including nine at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, the remaining 12 had occurred in private hospitals. Twenty-three of the deceased had co-morbid conditions. They included a 27-year-old woman from Chennai, who was admitted to a private hospital on May 24. A diabetic, she died on June 6 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome, septic shock and diabetic ketoacidosis. A 27-year-old man was admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on June 7 with subarachnoid haemorrhage and brainstem dysfunction, following an assault by 10 people. His sample was lifted as part of pre-operative work-up and returned positive for COVID-19 the next day. However, he died on June 11 due to factors including the assault, head injury, subarachnoid haemorrhage, brainstem dysfunction and aspiration pneumonitis. A 29-year-old man died at the Government Villupuram Medical College Hospital on June 13. He had cough with expectoration for one week and swabs returned positive for COVID-19. He died including due to COVID-19 pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome, bilateral extensive pulmonary tuberculosis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and respiratory failure. Official sources said a laboratory technician at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital also succumbed to the infection. While Chengalpattu recorded 136 cases, Tiruvallur reported 78. There were 49 new cases in Tiruvannamalai, 28 in Thoothukudi, 22 in Kancheepuram, 15 each in Madurai and Tirunelveli, 14 in Tiruvarur and 13 in Vellore. Apart from this, 33 persons who had returned from abroad and other States also tested positive for COVID-19. They included 10 persons from Qatar and two from Ethiopia. A total of 17,911 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 6,91,817. Another private testing facility has been approved for COVID-19 testing — Anderson Diagnostics and Labs, Chennai. With this, there are a total of 79 testing facilities. Puducherry tally Thirteen persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Puducherry on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the Union Territory to 176. With five patients discharged on Friday, the number of active cases stands at 91. There are 49 patients undergoing treatment at IGMC&RI and 36 at Jipmer. Of the 9,658 individuals who were tested, the samples of 9,352 have returned negative, and the results of the rest are awaited.  (*The data for T.N. is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM invites global firms||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has written to five global consumer goods companies inviting them to explore opportunities in Tamil Nadu, which has an “excellent ecosystem” for manufacturing of consumer goods. In a tweet on Friday night, the Chief Minister said he has personally written to companies such as Kate Spade, Fossil Group, Nike, Adidas AG and Mattel Inc. to look at opportunities to set up their manufacturing units in the State. The Industries Department, in a press release, said the Chief Minister has written directly to Liz Fraser, CEO of Kate Spade; Kosta Kartsotis, Chairman of Fossil Group; John Donhoe, CEO of Nike; Kasper Rorsted, CEO of Adidas AG and Ynon Kreiz, CEO of Mattel Inc. The letters outline the investment attractiveness and inherent advantages of the state of Tamil Nadu and the facilitation support provided for business and industry to further their growth and a promise a customised incentive packages as per their requirements. Due to the impact caused by COVID-19 to the world economy, many overseas industries are likely to exit from certain countries and relocate their manufacturing activities in countries like India. “The proactive steps taken by the government are already showing results as evidenced by the fact that the State could recently sign MoUs with 17 foreign investments for Rs. 15,128 crore. This shows that Tamil Nadu is the best destination for investment even in this pandemic situation,” according to the Industries Department release.
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents concerned over crowding at shops on roadside||Areas around Koyambedu have now turned into makeshift markets for flowers and fruits as some of the wholesalers continue their trade. However, residents raised concern about crowding and lack of physical distancing norms in such places. For a month now, traders who did not find space in temporary markets set up shop along arterial roads such as Kaliamman Koil Street and Poonamallee High Road. Vacant spots in Madhavaram, Kolathur and Maduravoyal are also used for the trade during early morning hours. But shops in several of these places function without the permission of the Greater Chennai Corporation. According to flower wholesalers, they have not been allotted alternative site after the market was closed on May 5. A group of merchants have rented out spaces such as wedding halls in Maduravoyal for flowers and fruits trade. Of the 600 flower wholesalers, about 200 conduct their business in unauthorised spaces. While jasmines were being sold at Madhavaram, other flowers, including marigold, were sold at Maduravoyal and Nerkundram. On an average, 10 lorry loads of flowers land in these areas, including Ashok Nagar. Meanwhile, residents of Karthikeyan Nagar, Maduravoyal, have raised concern about crowding in such spaces. Several shops have mushroomed in the area in the past two weeks. Vendors conduct business on the road corners of arterial Poonamallee High Road and vehicles were parked at streets off the main road such as Chokkanathan Street. Residents complained that people often did not wear masks and did not practise physical distancing norms. According to Maduravoyal police, they often took action against such makeshift shops on road corners of Kaliamman Koil Street and Poonamallee High Road. Members of the Chennai Koyambedu Wholesale Flower Merchants Association want two or three vacant places to be identified for their trade. A. Manoharan of the association said a majority of the merchants had been without business. The authorities concerned may identify dedicated spaces to avoid such issues of trade in unauthorised spaces. Permission can be granted to merchants who seek to run standalone shops. Police crackdown The police and the Corporation personnel have been conducting raids on the illegal roadside markets. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Anna Nagar) M.S. Muthusamy said: “We are making all-out efforts in coordination with the Corporation officials to prevent mushrooming of roadside markets. Our personnel have been constantly raiding the illegal outlets to ensure that there is no such vegetable outlets on Kaliamman Koil Street, Poonamallee High Road. We were booking cases at least 30 cases in previous weeks and seizing vehicles and weighing machines. The Corporation heavy fines and police personnel are enforcing the restriction strictly." The police said there was no bar on vendors setting up shop on rented premises or land let out by residential welfare association after obtaining permission from the authorities concerned.
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,000 ‘focus volunteers’ to be deployed||The Greater Chennai Corporation will deploy 5,000 “quarantine monitors” to help and monitor quarantined residents who have tested positive for COVID-19. All the 15 zones of the Corporation have started recruiting the “quarantine monitors” who will be paid for their services. Each worker will be in charge of five to ten streets in the city, helping residents in all aspects of COVID-19 recovery and prevention. All the 40,000 streets in the city would be monitored, generating report on violations by persons on quarantine. The report will be segregated and sent to COVID-19 response team of 200 wards of the Corporation. As many as 209 persons were recruited on Saturday in a zone to cover 1,045 streets. The number will increase in in a few days. Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance) Meghanath Reddy said the workers would be called “FOCUS volunteers, which means they are friends of COVID-19 citizens under surveillance”. The civic body has put in place the home quarantine and isolation management system to facilitate self isolation for 14 days for COVID-19 positive individuals, their contacts, persons who returned from foreign countries, domestic flight passengers, train passengers, passengers from hotspot States, inter-State travellers and so on. “The focus volunteers will be citizen-friendly. Residents are advised to call them for assistance pertaining to COVID-19. The mobile numbers of the focus volunteers will be shared with all residents of the streets. They will reach the residents’ homes to supply medicine and provisions,” said Mr. Meghanath Reddy.
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Very few takers for additional free rice scheme in Chennai||Nearly four-fifths of allocated quantity of free rice, earmarked under the State government’s scheme of doubling the quantity of rice for each member of non-priority household (NPHH) cards, did not find takers in Chennai last month. In North Chennai district, only 16,08,951 kg of free rice was distributed, accounting for 19.37% of the allotment. In South Chennai, the situation was marginally better with 19.9% coverage. Out of 72,06,648 kg allotted, ration cardholders took 14,34,161 kg of rice. [As far as the Civil Supplies department is concerned, there are 38 districts. Chennai has been divided into North and South]. However, other parts of the State did not record such a poor rate of distribution. In 15 districts the distribution rate exceeded the 90% mark. Tiruvarur, an exception Among them were Dharmapuri, Perambalur, Sivagangai and Tiruvannamalai. One district — Tiruvarur — registered even 100%. The overall State average was 76.59%. Other than the two districts in Chennai, only five districts including Coimbatore and Tiruvallur performed below the State average figure. Formulated as a measure to mitigate the hardship of beneficiaries covered under 86 lakh NPHH cards due to lockdown, the scheme envisages the provision of additional allocation of rice free of cost to every cardholder at 5 kg per person per month, as being done for ordinary allocation of rice through the public distribution system (PDS). This follows the Union government’s scheme for increasing by 100% the entitlement of rice or wheat for cardholders belonging to the categories of Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and Priority Household (PHH) cards. Though the State government’s measure was meant to cover the people for three months from April, it came into operation only in May in view of time taken for approvals at various levels. Consequently, the beneficiaries have been allowed to draw their additional entitlement in May and June. Among the reasons cited for the poor showing in Chennai’s two districts were the “lack of awareness” and “disinclination” among the NPHH beneficiaries to take the additional rice. Officials hope that the situation will improve in June. Cash disbursement However, in April when cash of Rs. 1,000 was distributed to every rice-drawing cardholder, the drawal of rice by PDS beneficiaries in general in the two districts of Chennai was on the higher side. Around 85% of the allotted rice was taken by the beneficiaries in April, for which the break-up data for different categories — AAY, PHH and NPHH — were not available. An official, attached a fair price shop in South Chennai, said that there was a feeling among ration cardholders, irrespective of category, that having taken the cash two months ago, they should take some quantity of free rice too, if not fully.  Other than the two districts in Chennai, only five districts, including Coimbatore and Tiruvallur, performed below the State average figure
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Why cocooning elders from COVID-19 infections is key||As the number of cases and deaths related to COVID-19 rise in the State, the percentage of the elderly among these tallies is constantly growing and, as expected, the case fatality rate is relatively higher among the above-60 age group. Over 55% of the total deaths (397) occurred among the elderly population, and within that subset, elderly males accounted for an unusually high percentage – 73.5. Paying attention to the elderly, as epidemiologists and experts have been saying since the relatively early stages of the pandemic, has clear advantages in reducing the fatality rate in a State or a region. “The case fatality rate (CFR) seems to be age-dependent, with a higher percentage among the elderly, especially men, and an overall interim CFR of approximately 1% - 3%,” according to ‘SARS-CoV-2 Vaccines: Status Report’ by Amanat and Krammer, published in the journal Science Direct . In Tamil Nadu, the percentage of people over 60 years of age among the total number of positive cases has been increasing over the months. While this is to be expected as the testing base widens, what is worrisome is that among the elderly, the CFR is 4.45% — even higher than the 1%-3% reported across the world. In comparison, the CFR among the general population is 0.9%. Other global studies have also showed that people who are older and those who have co-morbidities are more susceptible to the infection and are at a higher risk of developing complications. “Epidemic management must be place- and people-specific,” said P. Kuganantham, former Corporation Health Officer. “This is to say that we need to look at the areas that need to be addressed for every area and for groups of people. So, now, because of the risks of transmission of this virus, we need to focus on the group of elderly citizens in our community,” he added. While acknowledging the need for more testing, he made a case for focused testing of high-risk groups, including senior citizens. “If you take care of the vulnerable population — making sure they do not catch the infection or [ensure that they] have their health parameters under control — then the bulk of the work is done.” Epidemiologically, the elderly population also bears the heaviest burden of non-communicable diseases, leading to heightened vulnerability in the COVID-19 scenario. While reverse-quarantining or sequestering elderly people who have not yet tested positive is being tried in some places, a great deal of mental health issues have to be handled as well, a State health official said. Health secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the government was conscious of the need to take care of this group of people. In Chennai alone, 1.50 lakh elderly people are registered with the Corporation. “Volunteers call them regularly to check their health status, whether they are getting/taking their pills regularly, and if they have any symptoms. We also help them get tested. This is our ‘Cocooning the elders’ project. There is also a proposal to use the 500-bed facility at National Institute of Ageing, Guindy, as a unit to specifically take care of the elderly who test positive.
14 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK moves court for 50% quota for OBCs in medical seats||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), represented by its Villupuram district secretary and Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam, has moved the Madras High Court seeking 50% reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in medical seats surrendered by State governments to the All India quota in non-Central government colleges. In his affidavit, Mr. Shanmugam said it was the party’s founder M.G. Ramachandran who raised the reservations for OBCs from 31 to 50% in the State. Subsequently, Jayalalithaa was instrumental in the passing of a resolution by the Assembly on September 30, 1991 demanding the Centre too, provide reservations for OBCs. He credited Jayalalithaa for enacting the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and of Appointments or Posts in the Services under the State) Act of 1993. She obtained presidential assent for the Act and included it in the ninth schedule to the Constitution, he said. “Thus, the AIADMK has a long history as a vanguard for the rights of the oppressed and socially disadvantaged groups,” the deponent said and added that for the “past several academic years,” OBCs had been grossly under-represented in the All India quota seats in undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma courses in medical colleges. Providing an illustration, the party said 8,137 postgraduate seats were available in the All India quota in 2019. As per the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admissions) Act of 2006, OBCs should get 27% of seats. Even as per that law, they should have got 2,197 seats, but only 224 seats were allotted to OBCs in non Central institutions. Hence, the party sought a direction to the Centre to reserve 50% of seats for OBCs in the All India quota for the academic year 2020-21. The Dravidar Kazhagam (DK) and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) have filed similar public interest litigation petitions in the High Court but they are yet to be listed for hearing before the court. Initially, the DMK, AIADMK, Communist Party of India and others approached the Supreme Court for an identical relief but they withdrew the cases recently with liberty to move the Madras High Court. The DK was the only organisation to approach the High Court at the first instance.
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||For this city auto driver, safety comes first||At a time when many are careless about COVID-19 pandemic, meet autorickshaw driver Ezhumalai, 48, who is mindful of the passengers’ safety and sanitises his vehicle after every trip. “It takes an effort, certainly. But this is important because I have to keep myself and my passengers safe,” he says. Every morning, he leaves home with a bag of disinfectant, soap, a bottle of water and a sanitiser. Before passengers get into his vehicle, he makes them clean their hands with the sanitiser. And after dropping them, he takes a break, cleans the passenger seat, the hand rails and the mat with a disinfectant and then waits for his next passenger. “With time, I have realised, there are a few who prefer using liquid soap to a sanitiser. So, I carry it and a bottle of water. Yes, it takes a lot of work but, ultimately, safety takes precedence over everything else now,” he says. Do passengers really appreciate his efforts? “Some of them do but I'm not expecting their appreciation. I do it because it is important and needs to be done,” he says. Do these measures mean, a passenger shells out more for a ride? No. He says he doesn’t demand or negotiate with passengers. “But I make sure I get the money I spend on the fuel. After all, I have to keep the vehicle running. But I have to say none of my passengers have ever underpaid so far. Most pay me right and some senior citizens are generous,” he says. He took to earning his livelihood as an autorickshaw driver four months ago after being a car driver for three decades. “My employer helped me buy this vehicle. I learnt the importance of being kind from him. And it is time for me to extend it to others, in ways I can. It makes me content,” he says.
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thyagarajan appointed task force chair of CII Media and Entertainment for south||In a bid to push for institutional funding for movies, renowned Tamil film producer T.G. Thyagarajan, whose production house, Sathya Jyothi Films, has produced memorable films such as Moondram Pirai and recent blockbusters such as actor Ajith’s Viswasam , has been appointed as the Chairman, Task Force, on Media and Entertainment for Southern region of Confederation of Indian Industry. Speaking to The Hindu about his focus areas, Mr. Thyagarajan said he wants to use his office to ensure institutional funding for producing movies. “Previously, banks such as IDBI were giving us money at the rate of 12-14%. We don’t have such avenues today. Private lenders provide loans based on the production house and the rates are between 2-3%. It is expensive to make movies,” said Mr. Thyagarajan, adding, “CII is a good forum to raise such issues.” He said it was difficult to predict how the film industry would change and how quickly it would recover. “We have to wait and watch to see if people would come back to theatres. We don’t know how the situation would be one month from now,” he said. Having signed two movies with actor Dhanush and another one with actor Hiphop Adhi, Mr. Thyagarajan said though the lockdown pushed the production to a later date, it gave them a chance to work on the script a lot more. “We have utilised the time to work on the scripts,” he said. He said that film production in the 1980s and early 90s was simpler. “When we started Moondram Pirai , the day we performed the puja for the film, all areas would get sold out. But, today, this doesn’t happen to any film. The buyers today wait till the film is complete, they watch the trailers and only then take a call. The costs have also gone up a lot,” he said. Mr. Thyagarajan said it was important for production houses to spend enough time in doing pre-production and plan for production so that film could be delivered quickly bringing down the interest component.
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2,000 nurses recruited for govt. hospitals in 4 districts||Government hospitals in Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu will get 2,000 additional nurses, who have been recruited on a temporary basis for six months, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar has said. Addressing the media on Saturday, he said, “We have issued appointment orders to the nurses. The hospitals, including the government medical college hospitals in Chennai, will get 400 staff nurses each. With this, there will be no shortage of nurses in hospitals. We are scaling up human resources and bed capacity as per the patient flow.” The nurses would be paid a monthly salary of Rs. 14,000. Already, 4,893 nurses have been recruited across the State, he added. Mobile medical units (MMUs) and Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK) units of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine have been diverted to Chennai from various districts. A total of 173 vehicles — 80 ambulances of the 108 ambulance network, 33 MMUs, 30 RBSK units and 30 Janani Shishu Suraksha Karyakaram vehicles of the DPH — have been deployed in areas of the Greater Chennai Corporation so far. In addition, 81 rapid response mobile medical teams from various districts have been diverted — 61 teams to Chennai, 10 teams to Chengalpattu and five each to Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts, according to a press release. “We have deployed a total of 254 mobile medical teams comprising doctors, nurses and paramedical staff. The teams will go to the containment zones directly. They will conduct fever clinics and monitor containment zones and patients in home isolation, and also shift patients to hospitals. These teams were earlier deployed during floods, and have been provided with accommodation in the city,” the Minister said. On doctors of government hospitals testing positive for COVID-19, he said, “Doctors are working despite knowing that they are at risk. They are following all the safety protocols, including the wearing of personal protective equipment, face shields and double gloves. Despite all these measures, there is still a chance of transmission. We have readied COVID-19 Care Centres for them.” Noting that exit tests were no longer required as per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, he said moderate and severe patients were still being discharged after one sample returned negative for COVID-19. With separate helplines having been set up for COVID-19-positive patients in Chennai, he said they were receiving at least 500 calls a day. Home-based quarantine Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation G. Prakash said containment zones had been redefined to a certain extent for improved focus. “There are nearly 16 types of people in quarantine now. They include those coming from other districts, other States and abroad, positive cases and extended contacts [of positive cases]. Earlier, there were lengthy containment areas covering additional streets. This is part of a learning process, and guidelines have been revised,” he said. “Now, we have rolled out home-based quarantine. We are posting one volunteer for five streets. There will be around 5,000 volunteers in the city. From the time of going for testing, the plan is to quarantine 10,000 families each day. In a 15-day cycle, we can cover 1.5 lakh houses. In six quarantine cycles, we can provide safe coverage for the entire city. The revenue and finance machinery of the Corporation are working in a full-fledged manner, and the results will be good,” he said. He said this was not meant to discourage testing, and was being done in the interest of individuals and their families, streets, neighbourhoods and the entire city.  We have deployed a total of 254 mobile medical teams comprising doctors, nurses and paramedical staff. The teams will go to the containment zones directly
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Case filed against manner of calculation of power consumption charges during lockdown||The Madras High Court is slated to hear on Monday a public interest litigation petition which describes as “arbitrary and unjust” a methodology adopted by the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) to collect power consumption charges for the period during which field workers could not record meter readings due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Justices R. Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy would take up the case, filed by M.L. Ravi of Desiya Makkal Sakthi Katchi. According to the litigant, power consumption charges were collected on a bi-monthly basis in the State. The charges were calculated based on different slabs for those who consume below 100 units, 101 to 200 units, 201 to 500 units, and above 500 units. While the State government provided full subsidy for the first 100 units to all consumers, every unit consumed beyond that was charged at different rates for those falling under different slabs. The field staff of Tangedco had failed to note down electricity meter readings of many power consumers due to the lockdown. Hence, it was ordered that such consumers could pay the same charges that they had paid in the previous billing cycle and get the amount adjusted when the readings get recorded in May or June. Stating that there was no problem as far as the first portion of Tangedco’s decision was concerned, the litigant noted that the problem was with its directive to divide the number of units that get recorded in May and June ‘equally’ into two for the last two billing cycles. Such equal division of units for two billing cycles would force customers to shell out more money, he claimed. Own example Providing an example, Mr. Ravi said he had consumed 480 units and paid Rs. 1,070 (inclusive of the fixed charge of Rs. 30) for the same before the lockdown. That bill amount was calculated by providing a full subsidy for the first 100 units and charging Rs. 2 per unit for 101 to 200 units. The units from 201 to 480 were charged at the rate of Rs. 3 per unit, since he fell under the ‘below 500 units’ slab. The meter readings in his house were not recorded during the lockdown, and he paid Rs. 1,070 for the next billing cycle too. However, when the readings were recorded subsequently, it was found that he had consumed 1,240 units since the last time they were recorded. Hence, Tangedco divided them into two and considered him to have consumed 620 units each during the last two billing cycles. Such equal division meant that he had crossed the ‘above 500 units’ slab during both the billing cycles. So, he was charged Rs. 2,572 per billing cycle by providing full subsidy for the first 100 units and charging Rs. 3.5 per unit for 101 to 200 units. Units between 201 to 500 were charged at Rs. 4.60 per unit and a whopping Rs. 6.60 per unit was charged for 501 to 620 units. After finding that he had to pay Rs. 5,144 for the two billing cycles, Tangedco deducted the Rs. 1,070 he had already paid and asked him to pay the rest. Opposing the division of units equally between two billing cycles, the petitioner said Tangedco should have ideally charged him only for 480 units during the first billing cycle (when readings were not recorded) and 760 units in the next. If such division had been done, the petitioner would have come under the ‘below 500 units’ slab at least for one billing cycle and would not have had to make an additional payment of Rs. 578, which amounted to 12.66% of the total bill amount, he said. It was also brought to the notice of the court that thousands of consumers using 100 to 500 units every billing cycle had to shell out more money. On the other hand, the methodology did not harm in any way the affluent, who normally consume over 500 units every billing cycle, because there wouldn’t be any change in their bill amounts, he noted.
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police seize liquor from actor’s car||Police seized a huge quantity of liquor bottles from a car belonging to actor Ramya Krishnan as it was returning to the city from Mamallapuram. Muttukadu check-post The police intercepted the car at Muttukadu check-post for routine checking. They found the actor and her sister travelling in the car driven by Selvam. The police found 96 bottles of beer and seven bottles of whisky in the car. Driver arrested “Since transporting liquor into the city is against rules and moreover liquor sale is prohibited, we arrested Selvam and seized the liquor bottles as per Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act,” said a senior police officer. The driver was later released on bail.
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cinematographer Kannan dead||Cinematographer B. Kannan, who was renowned for his collaborations with veteran filmmaker Bharathiraja, died in the city on Saturday. He was 69 and was suffering from age-related ailments for which he was admitted to a private hospital in the city. Often referred to as ‘Bharathiraja’s eyes’, Mr. Kannan worked on nearly 40 films with the film-maker. Some of their notable collaborations include ‘Alaigal Oyivadhillai’, ‘Kaadhal Oviyam’, ‘Mann Vasanai’, ‘Pudhumai Penn’ and ‘Vedham Pudhidhu’. Son of noted film-maker A. Bhimsingh and the younger brother of editor B. Lenin, Mr. Kannan is survived by his wife and two daughters. In a video statement, Mr. Bharathiraja said his demise was a great loss to the film industry. “Tamil film viewers across the world got to experience Tamil culture and heritage through his lens. For filming, I didn’t take my camera, but had Mr. Kannan and his eyes,” the veteran film-maker said. Since 2015, Mr. Kannan was the head of the Cinematography department at the BOFTA Film Institute. G. Dhananjayan, founder said students always considered him a ‘father figure’. “Despite having worked on so many successful films with Bharathiraja, his humility always stood out. When the Tamil film industry was making a transition and going completely digital instead of using film, he was enthusiastic to continue learning about this technology with everyone else in the field,” said Mr. Dhananjayan.  Working together as a part of the Southern India Cinematographers Association (SICA), noted cinematographer P. C. Sreeram said that he learnt a lot from Mr. Kannan. “His spontaneous humour was something all of us enjoyed. I’ve seen all of the films he’s worked on with Bharathiraja in the theatre and his work was inspiring for many of us,” he said.
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Surgeons for screening attenders of patients||A cross-section of surgeons in Chennai are seeking better clarity on COVID-19 testing for patients requiring surgeries and their attenders. Not testing the patient attenders will put patients at a high risk, they say. The Greater Chennai Corporation, at a recent meeting, instructed government and private COVID-19 testing facilities that there was no need for testing attenders of pregnant women and patients admitted for surgery unless they are symptomatic. This, according to the surgeons, was a retrograde step as it would put patients, including those who undergo organ transplants, at risk. ‘Wrong move’ “It is a wrong move as it will put the patient at risk. A patient acquiring the infection during the peri or post-operative period is likely to increase the risk of mortality by 20%. If a relative is not tested for COVID-19 and is positive, it is a risk for the patient,” Mohamed Rela, senior liver transplant surgeon said. Consider patients who undergo liver transplants, he said, adding: “The situation is even worse for them. They are on immunosuppressants, putting them at a higher risk.” Another surgeon, on condition of anonymity, said as far as children are concerned, they cannot be separated from the attender, and hence, the need for testing the attender is more important. Periodic screening All healthcare providers should also be screened periodically to protect patients from getting infected, doctors said. Another surgeon in a private hospital said laboratories were told to upload information of patients who require surgery and come for testing on being referred by doctors on an app. A senior government doctor said as per international guidelines, patient attenders should be screened for COVID-19.
14 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Suggestion that CM should take over Health portfolio can’t be ignored’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday said that the view expressed in some quarters that the Health portfolio should be taken over by the Chief Minister to ensure better co-ordination in COVID-19-related work cannot be ignored. In a statement, he noted that while the Health Secretary had been shifted out, the Health Minister too should have been replaced, as had been suggested in some sections, in the wake of allegations of discrepancies in the reporting of COVID-19 deaths. Mr. Stalin said the transfer of Beela Rajesh from the Health Secretary’s post amid the pandemic and the alleged politics behind it had come as a shock to the public. He also cited reports that pointed to a mismatch between the COVID-19 deaths data available with the Greater Chennai Corporation and that of the Health Department. He said contradictory statements had been made on testing and quarantine norms by Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash and Special Nodal Officer J. Radhakrishnan. “Is it to hide the truth? Is it because of ego issues between the Minister and the officials? All this confusion is affecting the people,” he said.  He urged the CM to take immediate measures to bring back 350 Tamils stranded in Kuwait. “People who went for temporary jobs have been struggling for three months without being able to return. When the organisation they are working for is prepared to send them back, the Tamil Nadu government not giving permission is not justified,” he said in a tweet. Wishes speedy recovery Mr. Stalin wished AIADMK’s Sriperumbudur MLA K. Palani, who had tested positive for COVID-19 and had been admitted to a private hospital, a speedy recovery. “I hope he resumes public service soon. Those engaged in public work should function with caution,” he tweeted.
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ministers defend transfer of official||Minister for Fisheries D. Jayakumar and Minister for Tamil Official Language and Culture K. Pandiarajan on Saturday asserted that the transfer of Beela Rajesh as Health Secretary was carried out “purely for administrative reasons.” To questions on the issue, Mr. Jayakumar replied that the transfer was totally an “administrative matter and no one can question it.” ‘A positive move’ Terming the appointment of J. Radhakrishnan as Health Secretary as a “positive move,” Mr. Pandiarajan said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami would have felt the need for posting Dr. Radhakrishan at this point of time for managing the crisis. Besides, the official had a long stint in the Health Department earlier and for the last one month or so he had been working with the Greater Chennai Corporation in tackling the problem as Special Nodal Officer. The Ministers visited their respective zones to monitor the work being done to contain the spread of the disease.
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK files plea in HC against award of road project tender||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam organisation secretary R.S. Bharathi has moved the Madras High Court alleging irregularities in award of the Rs. 1,165 crore worth road maintenance project in order to favour “a bidder hand-picked by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami holding the portfolio of State Highways Department.” The petitioner sought a direction to the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption to register a First Information Report (FIR) on the basis of a complaint lodged by him on May 6. In an affidavit, filed through senior counsel N.R. Elango, he said a Government Order was issued on February 19 for a Performance Based Maintenance Contract for widening, strengthening and improvements to State highways and district roads for a length of 462.211 km in Thanjavur, Orathanadu, Pattukottai and Peravoorani sub division. The GO estimated the value of the work to be Rs. 1,239.68 crore. However, a notification issued on February 25 calling for tenders estimated the project to cost only Rs. 1,165 crore. As per the tender notification, the successful bidder would be given the contract of strengthening and improving the roads for five years.
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cameras to keep a watch on containment streets||The Greater Chennai Police have started installing CCTV cameras in containment areas to check if people under quarantine are leaving their houses. As per the Greater Chennai Corporation, there are 360 containment areas in the city as on June 12. There have been reports of quarantined people leaving their houses despite officials warning them against it repeatedly.FIRs were slapped against 40 personsunder quarantine who ventured out recently. In a bid to strengthen monitoring, the city police have started installing CCTV cameras outside the containment areas. If a person tests positive for SARS CoV-2, the entire street is not closed. “Only his/her house is barricaded and it is impossible to post a policeman outside every house. Due to the lack of monitoring, many people leave their houses. This footage will be evidence when we register cases against the violators. Besides, a few cameras with internet connections will be monitored from the zonal police control rooms,” said a senior police officer. The officer said that the quarantined persons endangered the lives of others when they step out. “They should be disciplined and follow what the government instructs. We will be very strict when it comes to monitoring. Drones are used to monitor the houses. This will be done randomly. Some volunteers from the street are monitoring,” added the officer. Meanwhile, the Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram police have posted policemen outside containment areas. “In these districts, the entire street is closed and only those selling essential items are allowed. So we have posted volunteers from the street and policemen to monitor their movement,” said a senior police officer. In Tiruvallur district, women SHGs are being used to monitor the houses of quarantined persons.
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man who set ablaze wife and son arrested||The Maduravoyal police on Saturday arrested a 44-year-old man who in a drunken state set ablaze his wife and son last Sunday and ran away. Maqbool Ali, 44, from Kolkata, had come to the city a few years ago and was living with his family in a rented house at Noombal. He quit his job and took to drinking. While his wife Koresha Begam, 40, and son Akram Ali, 21, worked in a shoe company, his daughter was studying in Class 7 in a private school.
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||RGGGH dean goes on ‘medical leave’||R. Jayanthi, dean of Madras Medical College (MMC) and Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), has “proceeded on leave”. K. Narayanasamy, director and professor of Hepatology, MMC, will hold full additional charge with immediate effect until further orders and has been vested with all financial and administrative powers hitherto exercised by the dean, according to an official communication from R. Narayana Babu, Director of Medical Education. It refers to a telephonic message received from the dean on June 12. An official said that Dr. Jayanthi is on medical leave and it was not related to COVID-19. Several doctors and postgraduate students tested positive for COVID-19 in the last few days. This included senior doctors of the Institute of Anaesthesiology and PGs residing at the MMC’s Men’s Hostel. Nearly 65 persons affiliated to the institution were isolated at ESI Ayanavaram.
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ensure quota for OBC, Stalin tells Nadda||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday welcomed the statement by BJP president J.P. Nadda and Lok Janshakti Party leader and Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan backing 50% reservation for Other Backward Class candidates in medical seats, a day after Supreme Court said the right to reservation is not a fundamental right. In a statement, he requested Mr. Nadda to urge the Prime Minister to ensure 50% quota for OBC candidates in seats surrendered by State governments to All India quota.
14 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three detained for murder||The Kolathur police have detained three suspects in connection with the murder of a man on Friday. The name of the victim was given as Ramesh alias 'Retteri' Ramesh, 23, a maker of pigeon cages at Gangaiamman Koil Street. While he was returning on his bike with his brother-in-law Abinash, 22, a gang led by Hyder Ali, 30, allegedly attacked them.
14 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||HP Gas launches app for making LPG bookings||Pushing cashless payment modes, HP Gas has texted consumers to use HP Pay, a mobile application that can be used to book and pay for liquefied petroleum gas refills. “When you make a booking on the app, it automatically goes to the distributor who takes note of it. You can either pay immediately or even during delivery through this app,” an official said.
14 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,000 houses demolished along Muthannankulam bund||A drive on Thadagam Road or Sundapalayam Road brings into sight the Muthannankulam, something that was not possible until a week ago because of houses that had been encroaching upon the tank bund for many years. Now, the Coimbatore Corporation and the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board have started demolishing the encroachments. The Corporation started demolishing the encroachments on June 6, after the Board had made arrangements for alternative accommodation for the 1,577 families who had built their houses encroaching upon the tank. As of Saturday, the Corporation had demolished over 1,000 houses that were empty because the occupants had taken the alternative accommodation the Board had provided in Kuniamuthur, Malumichampatty, Keeranathanm, Vellalore and Ukkadam. The families that remained on the tank bund included those who demanded land and not a house, families that had taken up the houses on rent and the sons or daughters from the families that had migrated. The Corporation sources said that aside from those seeking land as compensation, the families that remained on Muthannankulam were there to only illegally claim an alternative accommodation from the Board, by claiming that they too had been living for long in the area and that the Board had excluded them while conducting the survey for alternative accommodation. Sources in the Board said the organisation was exploring ways to provide alternative accommodation for those making such claims and its head office would make an announcement. Once the Corporation cleared all the encroachments, the Corporation would begin developing the tank under the Smart Cities Mission. Officials at the Corporation said the civic body had asked the consultant for the lake development project to visit the place to explore the possibility of increasing the water spread area while carrying out the development work. The civic body would look at dredging the tank and reclaiming the encroached 40 acres of the water spread area, out of the total 190 acres, the sources said.
14 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Anti-child labour day observed||The National Child Labour Project (NCLP), Coimbatore unit, will conduct surprise checks through out this month across the district to ensure children are not employed for work at any sector. Special schools Project Director of NCLP T.V. Vijayakumar told The Hindu that the special schools run in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts to rehabilitate child workers rescued from work places is closed because of the lockdown. However, the NCLP staff are monitoring the children who were studying in these schools to ensure they do not return to work. “Parents are more careful and are aware of the dangers of sending children to work. We conducted surprise checks in a few places during lockdown. We will continue to do the checks throughout this month and will also organise awareness programmes,” he said. The NCLP observed anti-child labour day in Coimbatore district on Friday by releasing stickers and conducting awareness programmes at four bus stands in Coimbatore. Officials took pledge at their respective offices not to employ child workers. The staff of NCLP distributed pamphlets to bus passengers and pasted stickers on buses as part of the awareness programme. New effort Industries were urged to conduct awareness programmes at their units. “This is a new effort we tried this year. Since public gathering is not permitted as a precaution against child labour, we asked the industries to organise programmes on their premises. The response is encouraging,” he said. In Tiruppur district, district administration officials took pledge against employment of children. Salem Staff Reporter adds: In Namakkal, District Collector K. Megraj administered pledge against child labour to officials from various departments and launched a signature campaign on the premises of the Collectorate. In Salem, PA-General to District Collector N.Tamilarasan administered the anti-child labour day pledge to officials and launched the signature campaign. Later, Project Director for National Child Labour Project R. Nirmala distributed awareness pamphlets and masks with anti-child labour messages to passengers at Salem old and new bus stand. Awareness pamphlets were also affixed on buses and signature campaigns were conducted at 17 special training centres under the NCLP and on the bus stand premises.
14 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Banks disburse more than Rs. 400 crore under ECLG scheme||Banks in Coimbatore district have disbursed nearly Rs. 450 crore to Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLG) announced by the Union Finance Minister last month. According to District Lead Bank Manager S. Venkataramanan, the amount sanctioned to MSMEs by the banks - mainly the nationalised and old private sector banks - under the scheme is far higher than the amount disbursed so far in the district. As many as 4318 accounts have been sanctioned the additional loan. The amount disbursed so far is for MSMEs that are already customers of the banks that have loan accounts and have been regular in repayments. “There are branches that have covered more than 90 % of their eligible MSME customers under the scheme. Disbursements under the scheme are an ongoing process and the numbers will increase in the coming days,” he said. “When the Central government guidelines come for other schemes, the banks will follow that too and disburse more amount,” he said. Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts are among the top districts in the country in disbursing additional loans to MSMEs under the ECLG. There were some banks that had sanctioned loans and were just beginning to disburse the amount. Leading banks disburse amount under the scheme to 100 to 150 accounts a day, he added. However, according to industries, private banks are reluctant to disburse additional loans to the MSMEs though they too have substantial exposure to the sector. “We are writing to all the private sector banks. Some of them have responded positively,” said the head of one of the industrial associations here.
14 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Couple detained||The Race Course police on Friday detained a couple on charges of lifting a baby on the premises of Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). Police said that the eight-month-old boy of Selvarani and Selvan of Cuddalore district, working here in construction industry, went missing from CMCH on Friday. Selvarani gave birth to twins, both male, in October 2019 at CMCH. She came to CMCH with a woman known to her on Friday for arranging birth certificate for the babies. The bystander woman went missing with one of the babies. The police traced the woman and her partner to Thiruthuraipoondi in Thiruvarur district. The police brought the couple and child to Coimbatore late on Saturday.
14 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Goods vehicle owners asked to maintain records||The district administration has asked owners of vehicles carrying goods from the district to other parts of the State to maintain proper transportation records. In a release, Collector K. Rajamani said effective steps needed to be taken to combat the spread of COVID-19, given the speed at which it was spreading. Therefore, owners of transport vehicles should maintain GCR-trip sheet of vehicles carrying essential commodities from the district to other places, especially in view of large-scale transportation of vegetables from Mettupalayam to other parts of the State. The maintenance of records was mandatory as per Section 223 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Act, the release said. The record should clearly mention the date, time and place of loading of goods, the destination, and driver’s details. Non-compliance would attract stringent action. The administration also asked persons who had been to Chennai, and their family, to come forward to undergo test for COVID-19.
14 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Expats from Muscat arrive in Coimbatore||As many as 178 expatriates from Muscat reached Coimbatore on Saturday on a repatriation flight operated by Air India Express. The flight landed at the airport at 6.50 p.m. It is the fourth such flight operated by Air India Express to Coimbatore, after two services from Singapore and one from Dubai. The Airports Authority of India, the Central Industrial Security Force, the Revenue Department and the Health Department had made arrangements for the passengers. Swabs of all the passengers were collected by the Health Department staff for COVID-19 testing. The returnees were directed to remain in paid institutional quarantine for seven days. After that, passengers who test negative for COVID-19 will be allowed to go home. They will then have to remain under home quarantine for seven days. Two more repatriation flights, from Singapore and Doha, are scheduled to arrive in Coimbatore on June 14 and 23, respectively.
14 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||SME textile mills seek time to pay electricity charges||Small and medium-scale spinning units have appealed to Tangedco to permit paying of electricity consumption charges for March, April, and May in instalments spread over six months. Tangedco has fixed a deadline of June 15 for full payment. President of the South India Spinners’ Association N. Murugesan said in a press release that the SME mills in Tamil Nadu downed shutters when nation-wide lockdown was announced by the Union Government in March. Though the mills resumed operations in May, the markets in the north, especially Maharashtra, remain closed. Hence, the mills are unable to get payments for the yarn supplied before the lockdown and are unable to sell the yarn stocks with them. The units are struggling to function and face challenges in getting bank loans. In such a situation, the mills cannot pay the entire electricity consumption charges.
14 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||COTMA hails GST announcements||The Coimbatore Tirupur District Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association has welcomed the announcement by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman that small-scale Goods and Services Tax payers with annual turnover of less than Rs. 5 crore will pay 9% interest for returns filed for February to April 2020 after July 6, if filed by Sept. 30. Earlier, the interest rate was 18%. These taxpayers can also pay tax for May to July 2020 by Sept. 30, and no late fee will be charged. The Association president C. Sivakumar also urged the banks to issue guidelines on disbursing Rs. 20,000 crore loan to NPA accounts and interest should be waived for six months as the MSMEs are hit by the spread of the pandemic and the lockdown. Banks should extend cash credit and over draft facility to MSMEs that have only current account, he said.
14 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure safety of optic fibre cables during road works in Bargur Hills’||Following frequent damage to optic fibre cables (OFC) during road widening and water project execution works on Anthiyur - Bargur Road, the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) has said that it would be forced to suspend telecom services to Bargur hills. It has urged the district administration to instruct the contractors to execute the work with utmost precaution and ensure the safety of cables. In a letter to the District Collector, BSNL’s Deputy General Manager (Admin), Erode, said that telecom services were affected for a week in February owing to cable damage during double-laning of Anthiyur – Kollegal road by the National Highways Authority of India. Only after the intervention of the administration, cables were replaced and services restored. In March, execution of Varattupallam – Moolakadai water project by a contractor damaged cables in Moolakadai – Sellampalayam – Ramagoundenkottai on Anthiyur – Bargur Road and services were disrupted in Bargur. BSNL was the only service provider in Bargur Hills and so far it has spent Rs. 3 lakh for replacing cables. The letter said that the organisation was not in a position to bear the cost towards replacing the cables if those get damaged again and would be forced to suspend the telecom services to Bargur Hills completely. “The administration should instruct the contractors concerned to execute the work without damaging the cables laid 15 years ago,” the letter said.
14 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Fill water bodies in Anthiyur with surplus water from Mettur: CPI||Members of the Communist Party of India (CPI) have urged the State Government to divert the surplus water from Mettur Dam and fill the lakes, ponds and other water bodies in Anthiyur Taluk. At the party’s Anthiyur Taluk conference held recently, a resolution seeking diversion of surplus water from Mettur to Anthiyur was passed. “When Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has taken steps to divert surplus water to fill water bodies in his district, steps should also be taken to fill water bodies in Anthiyur Taluk”, the resolution said. Other resolutions include action against micro finance companies that force people to pay interest or EMI, adequate compensation for plantain farmers whose crops were damaged due to strong winds, continuation of free power to farmers and increase in number of working days under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. The conference was inaugurated by district secretary T.A. Madheswaran, in the presence of State Committee member Mohan Kumar and other functionaries.
14 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Inform officials about visitors’||The district administration in Erode has asked the public to alert officials if they have visitors from foreign countries or other States. A release said that various steps were taken in the district to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The public should inform the Erode Corporation Commissioner at 94890-93202, Deputy Director of Health Services at 99625-60901, Health Department Control Room at 0424-2266010, Collector Office Control Room at 04242260211, it added.
14 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Online NEET coaching out of reach for rural students||The COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdown could not have come at a worst time for S. Sridhar, a student of Government Higher Secondary School in Mullipallam near Sholavandan, who aims to crack the National Eligibility cum Entrance (NEET) examinations scheduled for July 26. While this is a crucial period to prepare for examinations, lack of access and inability to afford a seamless internet connection at home makes it difficult for him to access online study material. “I use my mother’s smartphone to read NEET material. However, the quality of mobile phone network is poor. Even if it is available, I cannot afford to spend most of my data as I need to sustain it till the expiry date," he says. The story of Shridhar is not an isolated case. Many students from government and government-aided schools in rural areas do not have access to internet connection - this is at a time when the School Education Department plans to conduct an online crash course for these students to crack NEET examination. Digital divide “Due to the digital divide, poor students from rural areas are at a disadvantage in attending the examination. Many aspirants still do not have a smartphone or any other electronic device,” says K.Saravanan, the Headmaster of Dr. T. Thirugnanam Primary School. Chief Educational Officer R. Swaminathan says around 200 students of government and government-aided schools have registered for the online classes. The online sessions would have four hours of video lectures and another four hours of tests every day. S. Vennila Devi, a government teacher and a State-level coordinator for NEET examination, says COVID-19 has robbed the government students the opportunity to have residential NEET coaching for a month prior to the examination, as was done for the past two years. One of the main disadvantages of not attending the online classes would be the loss of opportunities to clarify doubts, says Meenakshi, a student from Kadamuthanpatti village of Sivaganga district. “I usually score well in my class examinations. But I have been anxious about my preparation during the lockdown period,” she says. Ms. Vennila Devi says all school heads have been instructed to identify students who have issues with internet connectivity. “We will arrange something to sort out this issue,” she says.
14 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai district crosses 400-mark||Fifteen people tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai district on Saturday, taking the total case count to 409. Those who tested positive were from Vadipatti, Palam Station Road, Tirunagar, Kamarajar Salai, Melur, Sellur, Palanganatham, LIG Colony and Samayanallur. Eight men, including a three month-old boy, and seven women, including a 11 year-old girl, tested positive. There are 135 active cases as on date and six people were discharged. In Sivaganga district, till about a week ago, the cases hovered around 50. But on Saturday it rose to 75. In the last two days, 23 patients tested positive - all of them had arrived from Chennai and other COVID-19 hotspots. Their family members contracted the infection after they went home. In Dindigul district, nine cases were reported, taking the total number to 207. The nine patients were from Natham, Dindigul, Pannaikadu, Reddiyarchathiram and Palani. The number of patients discharged stood at 147. There were two deaths and 58 patients are undergoing treatment. No case was reported from Ramanathapuram and Theni districts. Active cases in Theni stood at 23, while it was 59 in Ramanathapuram. Two new cases were reported in Virudhunagar district. While one person had come from Chennai, another had come from Maharashtra. With this the total number of positive cases in the district has gone up to 163 and the active cases are 36 as 127 have been discharged. Southern districts Of the 62 new cases the Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari districts recorded on Saturday, 56 are indigenous. Almost all these cases do not have any adverse travel history. Thoothukudi that added 30 new cases on Saturday had 28 indigenous cases and two imported cases to take the district’s tally to 427 and the number of active cases to 131 after six patients were discharged from Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. Tirunelveli recorded 18 new cases that took its score to 443 and active cases to 75. Kanniyakumari district’s tally rose to 120 following the addition of 11 more cases, including 10 indigenous cases. The Government Medical College Hospital at Aasaaripallam now has 48 fresh cases. Tenkasi district has three more indigenous cases to jack up the tally to 118 and active cases to 28. “The common thread connecting all the four districts is the ever increasing number of indigenous cases. After the ‘imported cases’ are being filtered off at the check-posts itself and taken for treatment, it is the growing indigenous cases that play greater role in the community spread. Hence, the district heads, at least now, should take serious and stringent steps against those who are roaming around without masks and not following physical distancing,” said a senior doctor of Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital.
14 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Doubts cast over results of online railway exam||Railwaymen in Madurai Railway Division have expressed shock over an abnormally high number of candidates from North India clearing an online exam for the recruitment of goods train guards. For 96 posts in Southern Railway, covering Tamil Nadu, Kerala and part of Andhra Pradesh, only five from Tamil Nadu have cleared the exam. The recruitment for promotion was based on a general departmental competitive examination conducted online Railway Recruitment Cell, Chennai. All those employees who are graduates and employed as pointsman, shunting master and few other categories in the zone were eligible to take the examination. “The fact that it was conducted for two days shows the huge number of people who took the test,” divisional secretary of Dakshin Railway Employees Union R. Sankaranarayanan said. One of the candidates, who did not clear the examination, attributed the “lopsided” results to the online mode of exam as it did not happen with physical question papers. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan said he could not reach the Chief Personnel Officer of Southern Railway to get a clarification. “That only five persons from over 3,000 candidates from Tamil Nadu could clear the examination raises doubts and gives an impression that candidates from southern States are ignored in recruitment,” he said.  Not the first time A similar controversy broke out when most of the candidates selected in recruitment for 620 Group D posts in Madurai divison were from North Indian States in September 2019 Then, the Railway officials had attributed it to the Centre’s reservation policy that provided 7.5% reservation for Scheduled Tribes. Scheduled Tribes in Tamil Nadu accounted for only 1% while it was higher in States such as Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. Hence, they got more jobs in the South, a Railway official said.
14 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Know about this age-old city, says Tamil scholar||Numerous ancient literature and inscriptions have shown that Madurai is among the oldest living cities in the world. In addition, the recent excavations have revealed that Keeladi had a 2,600-year-old civilisation, said Tamil scholar G. Gnanasambandan. He was addressing Class 8 and 9 students of Corporation schools through an online session on Friday. It formed part of a 11-day online skill development programme. Mr.Gnanasambandan said Madurai was also called Naanmadakkoodal and Kadambavanam. Inscriptions belonging to the 7th and 8th centuries, which mentioned about Madurai, were found at Kidaripatti and Othakadai. Explaining the significance of ancient Madurai, Mr. Gnananasambandan said the city was unique in naming the streets based on Tamil months. Streets were also named based on the job that the residents had performed. Thennai Ola Kara Street, Pacharisikkara Street, Sudu Thanneer Vaikkal Street and Sunnambukkara Street were a few of them. Tamil poet Subramania Bharathi was a teacher at Sethupathi Higher Secondary School on North Veli Street. Legendary Carnatic musician M.S.Subbulakshmi was born in Madurai.
14 June 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Ramanathapuram is no more parched||Kudimaramathu projects carried out over the last three years in the district has fetched desired results with at least 50% of the minor irrigation tanks and ooranis having 30 to 40% of water this summer season, said Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao on Saturday. Speaking to The Hindu , he said that in the district, the kudimaramathu project has been well utilised by the Water Users' Association and it has also enabled to enhance the crop coverage. Moreover, the storage of water in the tanks and ooranis has facilitated in recharging the water tables. The district, which has close to 3500 ooranis and 650 PWD tanks, had taken up these waterbodies for rejuvenation under various schemes, including kudimaramathu, Mr. Rao said and added that in 2016-17, they took up 14 tanks under kudimaramathu works and spent Rs. 10.06 crore, 58 tanks in 2017-18 at Rs. 29.55 crore, 69 tanks in 2019-20 at Rs. 37.59 crore and now in 2020-21, they have taken up 61 tanks at Rs. 38.79 crore. In all 141 tanks were benefited and a whopping 30.55 lakh cubic metres of space had been rejuvenated. The district, which has a normal annual rainfall of 827 mm, recorded 900 mm rainfall last year. This, the Collector said, was good for the district since it happened almost after three years. Farmers at Alamanendal village in Tiruvadanai Assembly Constituency expressed satisfaction over the progress of the work in the village tank and hoped the kudimaramathu exercise would be completed well on time before the onset of the monsoon. The Collector said that though chilli was the major crop in the district, many progressive farmers had now ventured into other crops including paddy as tanks had water for irrigation. The kudimaramathu of tanks and ooranis included removal of bushes, strengthening the bunds, overhauling the shutters and removing encroachments from the waterbodies. An official in the Agriculture department said that Paramakudi, Tiruppulani, and peripheries of Ramanathapuram town had benefited due to the kudimaramathu works. With PWD tanks also showing enhanced storage level, the extent of barren land in the district may become a thing of the past, he hoped. However, farmers pointed out that those waterbodies not under the maintenance of the PWD, had been left unattended. The Water Users' Association also appealed to the government to take stock of water bodies that had been encroached by influential people. Cotton farmers For the first time, despite COVID-19 pandemic, many farmers were able to sell their cotton produce for a fair price as the district administration helped them by creating a platform for the buyers to have a look at the produce.
14 June 2020||Rameswaram,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen resume fishing after 3 months||About 3,500 fishermen from the coastal district ventured into the sea for fishing in as many as 650 mechanised and country boats on Saturday. As the government had announced a lockdown from March 20 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the fishermen had kept off the sea. Later, the government relaxed the curfew norms and fishermen were permitted to go for fishing from June 1. But as many boats that were anchored in Rameswaram, Pamban and Thangachimadam were damaged during the Amphan cyclone, the fishermen needed time to repair the boats. As the lockdown had forced migrant workers to move out of their work spots, the problems were compounded for the fisherfolk. Exporters also pleaded their inability to reopen shops from June 1. Hence, the fishermen appealed to the government to permit them to venture into the sea for fishing around mid-June. Fishermen association leader Jesu Raja said that the fishermen would return to the shore by Sunday and they hoped to begin the season on a brisk note.
14 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Accused, sanitary worker test positive||An accused in a theft case and a conservancy workers have tested positive here for COVID-19. The accused is a 48-year-old man, who was arrested by Kondalampatti police on Thursday. The conservancy worker belongs to the Salem Corporation. Police said the accused had broken into a house at Jarikondalampatti and stole Rs. 3.10 lakh worth jewellery and escaped to Erode. Identifying him through CCTV visuals, police arrested him in Erode on Thursday. The accused was later taken to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital for a COVID-19 test, and he tested positive. According to officials, over 10 police personnel who were involved in the arrest have been quarantined and the station premises was disinfected. Salem Corporation’s health officials said the 45-year-old conservancy worker could have contracted the disease from his wife who had recently returned from Velankanni. Officials said the swab samples of 40 workers who worked with him were tested and the results were negative. Officials said that, however, they had been quarantined. In Dharmapuri, two boys, aged 10 and 12, tested positive on Saturday. They are undergoing treatment at the Dharmapuri government hospital. According to officials, the boys had travelled to Dharmapuri from Chennai, and their parents have been quarantined at a government facility. Salem City Police have registered a case against three persons for travelling to Salem without an e-pass, after their neighbours alerted officials here. All the three have been quarantined at government facilities here.
14 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Case against three for cheating||The Salem City police on Friday registered a case against three persons, following directions from the Judicial Magistrate, for non-delivery of silver jewellery to a trader. Silver block According to police, A. Sundareshan, a silver trader, handed over a silver block weighing 8.5 kg to a silversmith to manufacture anklets a year ago. However, the silversmith neither gave him the finished product nor returned the silver block. The complainant approached the district court, and based on its directions Shevapet police registered a case against three persons. Further investigation is on.
14 June 2020||Special Correspondent,TAMIL NADU||Seven more check-posts||The police have erected seven more check-posts at the entry points to the district to check vehicles coming from other districts, said Superintendent of Police R. Sakthivel here on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, he said that at a time when the COVID-19 pandemic was well under control in the district, there had been a sudden surge in the number of persons showing symptoms of the virus. To plug the loopholes, it was decided to have a thorough check of people coming from other districts and States. “Fifteen vehicles were impounded as the occupants did not have valid e-pass”, he said. People in neighbouring Theni district have appealed to the Superintendent of Police to permit them use Bodimettu route to enter Kerala. For the last two days, Cardamom estate owners and workers were were directed to take alternative routes such as Kumili route, which was not only circuitous but time-consuming too. When the affected people staged a protest at Mundhal check-post, Deputy Superintendent of Police Muthukumar held talks with them. A revenue official said the district administration had obtained clearance from Idukki district in Kerala. However, due to COVID-19 scare, the Kerala authorities were hesitant to open the route.
14 June 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Warder placed under suspension||Chief Warder of Sankarankovil sub-jail Vairamani has been placed under suspension after he demanded bribe from a firecracker manufacturing unit manager for extending undue facilities to the manager’s colleague who has been lodged in the sub-jail. Superintendent of Palayamkottai Central Prison Krishnakumar on Saturday placed Vairamani under suspension after his telephonic conversation with one Gopinath demanding bribe from him for giving illegal facilities to his colleague Marisamy lodged in e Sankarankovil sub-jail went viral on social media. Following a blast in a firecracker manufacturing unit near Rajapalayam, its manager Marisamy was arrested and remanded in judicial custody. As he was lodged in the Sankarankovil sub-jail, bribe had apparently been given to a few prison officials there for giving “additional facilities.” Vairamani had censured Gopinath for having given Rs. 14,000 as bribe to his junior instead of him and fixed a meeting point. Mr. Krishnakumar has ordered an inquiry into this incident.
14 June 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Sloth bear caught, released in forest||Forest personnel caught a 4-year-old sloth bear at Mudaliyarpatti under Kadayam range in Tenkasi district on Friday night and released it deep inside the jungle on Saturday morning. This is the third sloth bear to be trapped in the range since April last. After sloth bear invasions in ranches were reported since the first week of May in Bungalow Kudiyiruppu, Kottaivilaipatti, Mudaliyarpatti, Azhagappapuram, Kalyanipuram, Sivasailam and Pudhukudiyiruppu, patrolling by forest personnel in these areas was intensified. Cages were placed at vantage points besides installing CCTV cameras. Subsequently, two sloth bears – one at Bungalow Kudiyiruppu on April 29 and another at Kadayam Forest Range Office on May 31 – were successfully caged. Another cage was placed at Mudaliyarpatti in which the 4-year-old male sloth bear got trapped. The wild animal was released in the Mundanthurai area on Saturday morning.
14 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Water to be released from Grand Anicut on June 16||Shutters of the Grand Anicut will be lifted on June 16 to release water for irrigation in delta districts, according to Agriculture Minister R. Doraikkannu. Disclosing this to reporters at Vilangudi in Thiruvaiyaru block in Thanjavur district on Saturday after inspecting the desilting of Thuriyar drainage channel at a cost of Rs. 25.20 lakh by the Public Works Department, the Minister said the water release for the irrigation season would be begin at around 11 a.m. on June 16. He had also said that efforts had been initiated for distribution of crop loans to the tune of Rs. 344 crore and other assistances to farmers to take up cultivation of `kuruvai’, `thaladi’ and `samba’ crops in the delta districts, according to a press release.
14 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Civic body staff tests positive||A staff of the Health Department of Thanjavur Corporation is said to have tested positive for COVID-19 infection. The infected person, a resident of Keezhavasal area from where a handful of people have tested positive for the novel coronavirus, is working in the civic body’s health wing. Four days ago he was sent on deputation to the Greater Chennai Corporation for the COVID-19 containment exercises, along with his colleagues. However, he fell ill on reaching Chennai and was immediately sent back to Thanjavur. Blood and swab samples were taken from him and on testing, the results turned positive. Hence, he was admitted to the COVID-19 Special Ward at the Thanjavur Medical College hospital. Corporation authorities have made arrangements for special COVID-19 test for its employees hailing from the Keezhavasal area.
14 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||PDS rice seized||Civil Supplies CID personnel seized 880 kg of rice from a mini-goods carrier here on Friday. According to police, Civil Supplies CID Inspector Senthamizhselvi received information that PDS rice in Ammanpettai near Thanjavur was being smuggled to a flour mill in Palliagraharam. The driver Babu of Thanjavur revealed that the gunny bags were being transported to a flour mill at Palliagraharam from a PDS shop in Ammanpettai. The mill owner Ashokkumar, PDS employee Shankar and Babu were arrested.
14 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||34-year-old engineer dies of COVID-19||A 34-year old COVID – 19 positive patient, who was undergoing treatment in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, died shortly after Friday midnight. With this, the total number of COVID-19 deaths in the district has risen to three. When he was returning in a van to his native place of Pullagoundanpatti near Ezhaayirampannai near Kovilpatti from Chennai, where he was working with a construction company, he was stopped at Thottilovanpatti check-post. Since he was suffering from fever and cold, he was screened at the check-post and tested positive for COVID-19. After being admitted to Government Hospital in Kovilpatti on June 6, he was shifted to Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital, where he breathed his last around 1 a.m. on Saturday. Subsequently, his body was buried in the Corporation burial ground in Thoothukudi.
14 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Medicos test positive||Three postgraduate students of Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital have tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. Two postgraduate students attached to the Department of Anaesthesia and another one belonging to the Department of Surgery tested positive for the viral infection after they were part of the team of doctors who performed surgery on a patient admitted to the Emergency and Trauma Care ward. “Since we can’t wait for the results of the samples drawn from the patients requiring emergency care, including surgery, we had to go in for surgical intervention on a patient admitted recently. As the patient tested positive for COVID-19 later, the three have caught the viral infection,” said sources. They have been admitted to the ward meant for COVID -19 positive doctors in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. Meanwhile, Tirunelveli Corporation sealed a leading jewellery showroom on Saturday after six of its employees, including two women, tested positive for the viral infection. The screening was conducted on Friday after one of its employees tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. The showroom will remain sealed till Monday as disinfection goes on.
14 June 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Desilting of Buckle Canal begins||Cleaning of Buckle Canal, the main carrier of domestic sewage of Thoothukudi, began on Friday. Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan formally inaugurated the work. This coastal town experiences waterlogging during monsoon as the canal is clogged by waterweeds and garbage. So the Corporation deploys high-power pumps at several places in Thoothukudi to pump out the stagnant water. The corporation carries out desilting of the canal during June or July every year for two weeks.
14 June 2020||TIRUCHENDHUR,TAMIL NADU||Aalanthalai to get Rs. 52.46-crore groynes||The State government has sanctioned Rs. 52.46 crore for constructing groynes at Aalanthalai as the hamlet with around 200 fibreglass country boats is facing sea erosion due to high tide throughout the year. Since the sea beyond Tiruchendur is rough throughout the year and sea erosion high between June and September due to westerly winds, Aalanthalai villagers had submitted a petition to Minister for Information ‘Kadambur’ C. Raju to construct groynes so as to protect their boats and houses near the coast. Collector Sandeep Nanduri inspected the Aalanthalai beach before handing over the petition to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswamy. Mr. Nanduri was asked to conduct a feasibility study and he visited the village again. A team from Indian Institute of Technology – Madras inspected the spot and found that groynes would indeed provide a permanent solution to the perennial problem of sea erosion. Subsequently, the Chief Minister on February 22 announced that Aalanthalai village would get the groynes shortly. “As per the design finalised by IIT, Aalanthalai will get seven groynes - two longer ones and five shorter ones - to neutralise the tides that damage the boats and houses. As the Government Order for constructing the groynes through the Public Works Department has already been issued, the work will begin shortly,” Mr. Nanduri said.
14 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Karur GH augments bed strength to treat COVID-19 patients||The number of beds exclusively for treating COVID-19 patients at the Government Medical College Hospital in Karur has been increased to 1,000. The augmentation of beds is part of the preparatory measures to manage the worst case scenario in the event of a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases, although the situation is said to be under control in the district as of now. As per the arrangements, positive patients, both symptomatic and asymptomatic, from Karur, Dindigul and Namakkal districts are being admitted to the Government Karur Medical College Hospital for treatment. At present, the isolation beds in the 6th and 7th floors of the hospital with 462 beds are mainly used for treating COVID-19 patients. Of them, 22 beds are with ventilator support in Intensive Care Units (ICU). A total of 236 patients, who had tested positive for COVID-19, have so far been treated from the existing facilities since March. In addition to them, 203 patients, who had tested negative for the virus, have also been treated. Though the existing facilities are sufficient to treat the patients as per the current trend, the KGMCH authorities, upon the direction from the State Health Department, have readied 539 more beds for treating COVID-19 patients if the cases see exponential increase. E. Theranirajan, Dean, KGMCH, told The Hindu that the hospital was now equipped to handle at least 1,000 COVID-19 patients at any given time. In addition to the beds available in new campus, the beds available in old campus could also be used if needed. There were 300 beds in it. He said that the women hostel for house surgeons was being converted as a COVID-19 special ward to treat asymptomatic patients. At present, there were 238 beds with oxygen connections. Dr. Theranirajan said that it had been decided to provide oxygen supply to at least 900 beds. A sum of Rs. 40 lakh has been sanctioned for the project. The work of providing oxygen pipes to all beds had already begun. The hospital had 40 ventilators. Of them, five were installed on Friday. At least 245 beds would have compressed medical air facility. No COVID-19 patients had needed ventilator support in the hospital so far. Patients found with low oxygen level, upon being tested for oxygen saturation level, would immediately be given oxygen at the special ward created at the entrance of the hospital. After stabilisation, the patient would be shifted to COVID-19 wards with oxygen support, Dr. Theranirajan said.
14 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||RPF resumes escort system on board trains||With Southern Railway resuming rail services on select routes, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) authorities in Tiruchi Division have revived the train escort system of deploying their field-level personnel on board the special trains. Separate teams of RPF personnel were being posted on board the Villupuram – Madurai – Villupuram Intercity superfast daily special trains and the Coimbatore – Mayiladuthurai – Coimbatore Jan Shatabdhi special trains (barring Tuesdays) to provide escort when the trains passes through the limits of Tiruchi Railway Division. Each escort team deployed on board the two special trains comprises of an RPF officer and three men in both directions, says a senior RPF officer. In respect of the Madurai – Villupuram Intercity superfast special train, the RPF escort team of the Tiruchi Division takes over from their Madurai Division counterparts after the train arrives at Tiruchi Division. The RPF escort team of the Tiruchi Division thereafter provides escort up to Villupuram. In the return direction, the team provides escort for the Villlupuram – Madurai Intercity superfast special from Villupuram to Tiruchi Junction. Thereafter, the escort is provided by their Madurai Division counterparts up to Madurai Junction. In the case of Coimbatore – Mayiladuthurai Jan Shatabdhi express, the train escort by RPF Tiruchi Division team is provided from Tiruchi to Mayiladuthurai Junction. In the return direction, the escort is given from Mayiladuthurai to Tiruchi Junction for the same train after which it is taken over by their Salem Division counterparts, say RPF authorities. RPF personnel forming part of the train escort teams have been provided with mask, gloves and hand sanitiser as a precautionary measure to guard themselves in the wake of spread of COVID-19 pandemic.
14 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Passengers arrive from abroad||Two hundred and eighty-nine passengers from the State arrived at the Tiruchi International Airport from Kuwait and Singapore here in two separate flights on Saturday. While 114 passengers from districts arrived by a Kuwait Airways flight in the morning, 175 arrived from Singapore by an Air India Express flight in the evening. Swab samples were collected at the airport before being sent to their native districts.
14 June 2020||TIRUCHI/THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||54-year-old man dies in Thanjavur||A 54-year-old person from Thanjavur died of COVID-19 virus on Friday and 41 patients from central region tested positive for the virus on Saturday. The patient from Thanjavur was suffering from long-term health problems who tested positive on June 6 died at the Thanjavur Medical College hospital on Friday. He was said to be suffering from multiple health problems – coronary artery disease, deep vein thrombosis on his left lower limb, dilated cardiomyopathy, liver dysfunction, pulmonary edema, and diabetes, according to the medical bulletin of the State Health Department. Of the 41 fresh positive cases reported on Saturday, Tiruvarur district recorded the maximum cases with 15 cases, including an “imported” case. Thanjavur came next with 10 positive cases on Saturday. Tiruchi and Karur recorded six and five cases, respectively. Perambalur and Nagapattinam accounted for two cases each and Ariyalur one. No fresh case was recorded in Pudukottai district. The total number of positive cases in Tiruvarur district increased to 120 with the addition of 15 new cases on Saturday. While 51 of them have been discharged after treatment, the remaining persons are undergoing treatment at the Thiruvarur Government Medical College hospital. With 10 persons testing positive for the virus in Thanjavur, the tally of total affected persons in the district touched 150. Of them 53, were still undergoing treatment at the hospital. Of the two cases in Nagapattinam, one of them had returned from Velachery in Chennai and he has been quarantined at the Government Hospital in Nagapattinam. The other patient was a returnee from Bengaluru. He hailed from Komal village near Kuthalam. Both of them were asymptomatic. He was under treatment at the Government Hospital in Mayiladuthurai. In Tiruchi district two of the six new cases were from Srirangam. Jeeva Nagar and K.K. Nagar in Tiruchi city accounted for a case each. All of them were said to have contracted the virus from positive persons, who had returned from Chennai. All were asymptomatic and were said to be stable at the K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital. Four positive patients were discharged from the hospital after treatment on Saturday. Two of the five positive patients in Karur were from Gandhigram, one each from Vengamedu, Kadavur and Thanthonrimalai. All of them were under treatment at the Government Karur Medical College Hospital. The lone patient, who was diagnosed for the virus, from Ariyalur district hailed from Namankunam village. He was reported to have contracted the virus from a Chennai returnee, who had tested positive for the virus.
14 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Uthukuli boy murder: youth remanded, minor sent to observation home||One of the two accused involved in the murder of an eight-year-old boy near Uthukuli, Tiruppur, was remanded in judicial custody and the other, a minor, was sent to juvenile observation home on Saturday. On Friday, the body of T. Bhavanesh (8) with multiple injuries was found close to a burial ground at Sottagoundanpalayam near Uthukuli. By evening, Uthukuli police secured Ajithkumar (21) and a 17-year-old girl who confessed to the murder. The deceased allegedly threatened both the accused, who were in a relationship, that he would inform others in the village about them, according to police. The accused abducted the boy and murdered him using a broken glass bottle and hit his head with a stone on Thursday. The boy’s body was shifted to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Friday for post-mortem and the report would be available by Monday, police said. The accused were produced before the Uthukuli Judicial Magistrate on Saturday. Ajithkumar was remanded in judicial custody at the Coimbatore Central Prison, while the minor girl was sent to the juvenile observation home in Coimbatore, police said. The accused were booked under Section 302 (Punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code.
14 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Demonstration staged||Following the death of a woman during delivery at the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital on Friday, her relatives staged a demonstration outside the hospital on Saturday. Hospital sources said that Maniyal, 25, died due to excessive bleeding while delivering a male child on Friday night.
14 June 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Waste cleared||Local residents and non-governmental organisations have been roped in to clear plastic wastes from irrigation channels and canals in Tiruvarur district as a voluntary initiative. On Saturday, the Collector, T.Anand inspected one such ‘sramadhan’ exercise at an irrigation channel at Pulivalam near Tiruvarur where the village panchayat representatives pooled in funds to carry out the cleaning.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||12 test positive in Coimbatore||Twelve persons, including five persons who came to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. The five persons tested positive for the disease at CMCH were those who came there for various consultations and procedures. Two women, aged 19 and 32 from Viruthunagar and Tiruppur respectively, who were admitted to the Obstetrics and Gynaecology (OG) Department, a 68-year-old man from Udayampalayam who came to the ENT Department, a 74-year-old woman from Rathinapuri who came to the Surgical Gastroenterology Department and a 42-year-old man from Thekkalur, who came to the HIV/TB ward tested positive for the disease. Their swab samples were collected before performing various procedures and treatment. The test results returned positive. CMCH administration did various control measures, including fumigation of certain wards, after five persons tested positive for the disease. Swab samples of medical professionals, who took care of the five persons were also collected for test. The seven others, who tested positive for the disease, were persons who came from Delhi to Coimbatore by flight on Friday. Apart from these, on Friday, four persons who came to CMCH on June 12, including two women who were admitted to the OG Department, had also tested positive. Health Department officials said that four persons of a family from Namakkal aged 60, 26, 50, and five tested positive for the disease. A 47-year-old man from Erode, a 21-year-old woman from Virudhunagar, a 31-year-old man from Thenkasi were the others who came from Delhi and tested positive for COVID-19. As per the COVID-19 media bulletin, Coimbatore district had 22 active cases of the disease with 173 persons tested positive, so far.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC collections take a hit in first two weeks||With operations of less than 1,000 buses across four districts and lack of patronage despite relaxations in COVID-19 lockdown, the earnings of the Coimbatore division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) have taken a major hit in the past two weeks. According to TNSTC officials, the earnings in Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode and the Nilgiris zones from June 1 to 11 were only around Rs. 6.45 crore. For the same period in June 2019, the earning was around Rs. 40 crore. In Coimbatore zone alone, the earnings from June 1 to 11 this year were Rs. 2.64 crore, while the 2019 earnings were around Rs. 15 crore. The operation of TNSTC buses restarted on June 1 following State government’s directions. This comes amid allegations by members of the Federation of TNSTC Trade Unions that the Coimbatore division is insisting on employees to increase the earnings. “The pressure started four to five days after the bus operations began,” alleged M. Velankanni Raj, general secretary of CITU Coimbatore unit. He further claimed that only one set of gloves and masks were provided to drivers and conductors and the electronic hand-held ticket devices were yet to be provided to the conductors. To demand safety for all TNSTC employees, the Federation of TNSTC Trade Unions will conduct Statewide demonstrations on Monday. In Coimbatore, the protests will be held in seven locations and the members will meet A. Anbu Abraham, Managing Director of TNSTC Coimbatore division, with 23 demands regarding the safety and adequate remuneration for all the employees, Mr. Raj said. However, TNSTC officials denied allegations of pressurising employees to increase earnings as there is a lack of patronage from the public for bus services. Two sets of gloves and masks were provided to all drivers and conductors and the hand-held devices for tickets will be provided once the centralised server in Chennai has been fixed, officials said. None of the COVID-19 precautionary measures issued by the State government for buses have been relaxed, according to the officials. On Saturday, TNSTC Coimbatore division operated 834 town and mofussil buses, comprising 312 buses in Coimbatore zone, 132 buses in Udhagamandalam zone, 259 buses in Erode zone and 131 buses in Tiruppur zone. While over 80% of these were operated for the public, buses were also operated for teachers, conservancy workers (only in Coimbatore zone) and government employees.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Insecticides sprayed in farms after grasshoppers create panic||Officials from Horticulture Department sprayed insecticides in pepper and coffee farms in Kolli Hills here on Saturday after farmers panicked after seeing grasshoppers and feared it to be locust attack. According to officials, a team of agriculture experts and entomologists conducted studies in Kolli Hills a week ago after a few farmers complained about locust attack. However, following inspection officials said that it was grasshoppers and not the desert locust variety which was causing crop damage. Namakkal District Collector K. Megraj said, “it was not the desert locust variety and grasshoppers found here locally. However, a team of officials from Horticulture Department again conducted inspection and insecticides are being sprayed.” S. Kannan, Deputy Director, Horticulture Department said, “they were not the desert variety locusts and they were grasshoppers which are generally found here. They were spotted in three coffee and pepper farms here and we have now sprayed the affected farms in Vallapurnadu with insecticides. A team of horticulture staff would be spraying them on Saturday and Sunday here. Azadirachtin is being sprayed on the affected farms and we would be spraying them on nearby farms as well.”
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Dragonfly endemic to Western Ghats photographed for the first time||A casual stroll in search of birds and insects at the foothills of the Nilgiris at Kallar, near Coimbatore, on June 7 turned an unforgettable day for Gopal Kirshnan and Ravindran Kamatchi of Nature Society of Tiruppur. Mr. Krishnan spotted an unfamiliar dragonfly perched on a shrub and asked Mr. Kamatchi to photograph it. “Mr. Krishnan used to tell scientific names of almost every dragonfly and butterfly when he sees them. Though he could not tell the name of this dragonfly at the place, it came as a surprise in the evening that it was Megalogomphus superbus, a dragonfly endemic to Western Ghats, photograph of which was not available so far,” says Mr. Kamatchi. The photo was shared with odonates experts in the Facebook group named Odonates of Western Ghats, members of which first identified the species. “Though the species is also there in the checklist of dragonflies in Kerala, nobody photographed it. The species was never reported seen in Tamil Nadu after British entomologist F.C.Fraser. The species was identified by experts at Odonata of India and other parts of the country,” says Mr. Krishnan who also photographed the dragonfly. According to Kalesh Sadasivan of Thiruvananthapuram-based Travancore Natural History Society, Fraser has described sighting of the species in 1931 and 1934 at Boluvampatti, Walayar (Kerala-Tamil Nadu border) and Kallar. “He has given taxonomical descriptions of the dragonfly in the book Fauna of British India based on which Mr. Krishnan’s sighting was verified. The dragonfly belongs to gomphidae family which has six dragonflies – two in Tamil Nadu and Kerala, one in Sri Lank and three others in the northeast. The two species in Tamil Nadu and Kerala come under Megalogomphus genus namely Megalogomphus hannyngtoni and Megalogomphus superbus. Megalogomphus hannyngtoni is seen in Kerala and the photographing of Megalogomphus superbus by Mr. Kamatchi and Mr. Krishnan at Kallar was the first,” says Dr. Sadasivan. Vinayan Nair, another odonates expert from Kerala, adds that the sighting and photographing of Megalogomphus superbus at Kallar gain significance as this happened after a gap of nearly nine decades.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to construct additional shops at V.OC. grounds||With close to 500 shops already established at the V.O.C. Park Grounds and traders demanding allotment of shops for all, the Corporation has decided to establish 150 additional shops on the premises. The wholesale and retail market functions at R.K.V. Road, near Panneerselvam Park, in which 807 vegetable traders and 120 fruit traders are running shops on the premises owned by the Erode Corporation. After the lockdown was imposed in March, the market was shifted to the Corporation Central bus stand where adequate space is available to ensure personal distancing both for traders and the people. Since buses started to operate, two bays were allotted for buses while shops continue to function in other two bays in the bus stand. The Corporation has decided to construct temporary shops at the grounds and work began last month and completed recently at a cost of Rs. 1 crore. On Thursday, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan inaugurated the market premises. However, work to instal lights for shops is yet to be completed. But, members of Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market Association wanted all the 900-odd traders to be allotted shops in the new premises only after which they have decided to relocate to the grounds. The civic body had asked the members to submit details of traders along with a copy of Aadhaar card and less than 700 traders submitted it. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan held talks with the members on Friday and assured to establish the required shops. He said that works will be completed in three days after which traders had assured him that they will shift their shops to the new premises.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ration rice seized||The Civil Supplies CID on Saturday seized 21 tonnes of rice meant for public distribution from a rice mill near Sattankulam. The CS-CID, Thoothukudi unit team raided SVK Modern Rice Mill at Therivizhai, Thoothukudi district. The team secured S. Kannan, 50 and S. Vingesh, 29, fromThisayanvillai and lorry driver J. Babu, 48, of Chithamprapuram. Two staff at the TNCSC godown, Valliyoor, who had colluded with the smugglers were also arrested.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plea not to remove Ambedkar statue||Representatives of various political parties petitioned the District Collector on Saturday requesting not to cause any damage to Ambedkar statue, near Mulluvadi gate here. The members under Baba Sahib Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Silai Pathukapu Ammaipu said in their petition that the Ambedkar statue has been there for over 60 years and various political parties and organisations paid respects to the leader during his birth and death anniversaries there. The organisation said that there are rumours that the statue would be removed for the construction of a flyover at Mulluvadi level crossing and urged authorities not to remove it or cause damage to it. The organisation demanded that a meeting of all political parties and various outfits should be held and their views be heard on the issue. They also demanded that status quo be maintained until then.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Special task force to be constituted to check virus spread in Bengaluru||The State government aims to tackle the rise in COVID-19 cases in the city to prevent the pandemic from getting out of hand as it has in other metros such as Delhi and Mumbai. With this in mind, it is set to constitute a special task force that will oversee all activities in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts. A decision on this was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar on Friday. According to highly placed sources privy to the development, the special task force will have teams entrusted with a specific responsibility. It will be headed by Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar and will include Deputy Commissioners of the two districts, chief executive officers of the Bengaluru Urban and Rural zilla panchayats and Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao. Teams of specialists As per the new strategy, “functional specialist” teams will be formed for surveillance, quarantine watch, testing, setting up and management of COVID care centres, surveillance of people with influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), monitoring, and keeping tabs on air/rail travellers, etc. “Each team will be headed by an IAS officer who will be empowered to take decisions,” the source said. “Some of the officials likely to head the teams are P. Manivannan, Secretary of the Department of Animal Husbandry and Fisheries; C. Shikha, Managing Director of the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation; Tushar Girinath, Chairman of Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board; Ravikumar Surpur, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Projects), and Lokesh M., BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Finance).” An official order is likely to be issued soon. “The city has done well in containing the spread of the pandemic. The task force will ensure that it remains that way,” the source added.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Changes to land reforms Act will spell doom for farmers, says Congress||Karnataka Congress has strongly opposed the BJP government’s decision to introduce amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, saying it would spell doom for the marginal and small land-holders by reducing them to farm labourers. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah convened a meeting of senior leaders of the party and deliberated the consequences of the State government’s decision to repeal sections 63A, 79A, B and C, and 80 in the existing legislation would have on the farming community. The proposed changes will enable any non-agriculturalist to buy farmland and removes the existing ceiling limits on ownership. At the meeting, attended by senior leaders, including former Union Minister M. Mallikarjun Kharge, outgoing KPCC president Dinesh Gundu Rao, K.R. Ramesh Kumar and others, it was decided that changes to the Act would be opposed. However, party leaders have decided to chalk out a future course of action and protests after holding consultations with leaders of the farming community, sources in the party said. The Congress had earlier opposed the B.S. Yediyurappa-led government amending the Act to allow acquisition and conversion of agricultural lands for industrial purposes within a 30-day time frame. Mr. Siddaramaiah said the Congress would protest against the amendment to the Land Reforms Act both inside and outside the Assembly. “We will take this issue to the grassroots level and our party workers will explain this to all farmers. We will expose all the anti-farmer policies of @BJP4India,” he tweeted. The former Chief Minister said the government was betraying farmers by repealing section 79A, which prescribes income limit to purchase farmland, 79B which prohibits non-farmers from purchasing agricultural land, 79C which imposes fine if fake affidavit is filed, and section 80 which prohibits transfer of agricultural lands to non-farmers. “Former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and former Chief Minister D. Devaraj Urs had made provisions that those who till should own the land, but now the BJP government wants only the ‘haves to own the land’,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said. The Congress leaders argued that the amendment would pave the way for the land mafia and realtors to buy lands from small and marginal farmers to develop them into land banks and property business. Farmers who sell lands will become farm workers and migrant labourers in urban areas, they said. The earlier Congress government, led by Mr. Siddaramaiah, had amended the Act in 2015 and increased the income limit from non-agricultural sources to purchase farmland from Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 25 lakh. The income limit was fixed to prevent misuse of agricultural land. The BJP, then in the Opposition, had opposed the Bill saying it would defeat the very purpose of the Land Reforms Act.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tree census yet to resume||The much-delayed tree census, which was finally taken up in March this year, came to a halt with the lockdown. Though restrictions have been eased considerably, work has yet to resume. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s Deputy Conservator of Forests H.C. Ranganathaswamy told The Hindu that the Indian Wood Science and Technology (IWST), which was entrusted with the survey, had completed training volunteers and developing an app. “But because of the lockdown, the survey work could not be completed. Though restrictions have been relaxed, volunteers are hesitant to resume,” he said and added that the civic body had been pressuring the IWST to resume the survey work. According to sources, a meeting has been scheduled for Tuesday to discuss the way ahead. While the IWST is in charge of surveying trees by the side of roads, streets and parks, the State Forest Department is surveying those on private properties and campuses. Mr. Ranganathaswamy said before the lockdown, the IWST and the State Forest Department had together surveyed around 8,000-odd trees. Though the survey is to be completed within three years, as per the MoU, given the number of volunteers, it may be completed within the year, despite the delays. “When registrations were opened for volunteers to be part of the tree census, nearly 500 botany graduate and postgraduate students signed up for it. They were all trained by experts at the IWST,” Mr. Ranganathaswamy said. Vijay Nishanth from Project Vruksha Foundation pointed out to the inordinate delays in taking up the survey and said environmentalists had been demanding the civic body to take it up for nearly four decades. “Though budgetary allocations were made, it didn’t see any fruition,” he said. A petition in the High Court of Karnataka by the Bangalore Environment Trust and environmentalist D.T. Devare had pointed out the same, while also complaining about the non-implementation of several provisions of the Karnataka Preservation of Trees Act, 1976.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Positive cases rise, but CFR falls||While the number of deaths in the State has seen an increase over the last few days, the average case fatality rate (CFR) for Karnataka is 1.2% as of June 12. Although the number of positive cases in the State jumped from 1,246 on May 18 [when the lockdown restrictions were eased] to 6,516 on June 12, the CFR has come down from 2.96% on May 18 to 1.2% on June 12. Similarly, in the country, the number of COVID-19 cases increased from 1,00,800 on May 18 to 3,09,556 on June 12 and the number of deaths jumped from 3,156 to 8,890 during this period. However, the CFR during this period reduced from 3.13% to 2.8%. While Gujarat has the highest CFR at 6.2%, Karnataka’s CFR is much lower than the national average of 2.8%. Claiming that Karnataka has been successful and staying ahead of other States in ensuring a low CFR, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar told The Hindu on Saturday that “it has been possible due to effective planning, early detection, vigorous and effective contact tracing and a very high level of testing.” Besides, initiatives such as community involvement, setting up fever clinics, use of technology, surveillance system for ILI / SARI cases and critical care support have helped Karnataka to keep the CFR low, he said. “We have adopted an unified treatment approach in hospitals across the State. We have put in place a critical care support unit that comprises specialist doctors from private and government hospitals. This team that works around-the-clock in four shifts monitors critical patients in the districts through telemedicine. The aim is to prevent deaths,” the Minister said. V. Ravi, senior professor and head of Neurovirology at NIMHANS, who is part of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee, said the low CFR is because most of those who are testing positive are asymptomatic. Admitting that Bengaluru alone has reported over 35% of the total 81 deaths in the State, the doctor said it is because people are reporting late. “Late reporting is one of the main reasons. And, almost all those who died are aged patients with comorbidities. It is important that people report early, as soon as they develop symptoms, to hospitals,” he said. However, C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, who is the nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said it is too early to say if Karnataka will maintain the low CFR in the days to come.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pandemic fallout: Bengaluru musicians, DJs are taking to online platforms, but there is uncertainty in the air||Following the lockdown to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, industries across the board have seen their business dip and have suffered losses. The live music and the nightlife scene in Bengaluru is no exception. While many musicians and DJs have moved to online platforms, such as Instagram and Facebook, as a way of staying connected to the audience even if it isn’t always monetised, there is a palpable sense of uncertainty about what the future holds. Cancellations For Thermal and a Quarter, who recently released their new album, A World Gone Mad , the prevailing situation meant that tours and performances to promote the album had to be cancelled. Frontman Bruce Lee Mani, who has been doing a series on Instagram called #Overlooked Licks, says, “We have done only two such live online events so far but they were solos with just me performing since we couldn’t get together as a band. But we have been working on new tunes and sending ideas up and down. That’s what is keeping us busy.” Stating that this is a curveball that none of them had faced, Gaurav Basu, frontman of death metal band Inner Sanctum, says: “Live events are the bread and butter of the industry. They aren’t going to happen for some time now. So, most artistes are trying to cross over into that digital territory and trying to figure out how to monetise online performances. It is, however, difficult to make those investments to set up a studio, record, and upload. There may be technical issues as well that the audience faces. There, however, does seem to be an energy that is driving artistes so that is good for the time being.” Another point is that the experience is not the same for either the artiste or the audience during an online performance. DJ and KJ Martin Dsouza, says: “It is obviously not the same because it is an experience that involves the artiste, ambience of the place, the food, and just having people around you. As artistes, we play to a crowd. We feel what the crowd is feeling and we play according to that. Now, the only way you can see how the crowd is reacting is through the comments. It is not easy.”  What the future holds On the all-important question of what the future holds for the music and nightlife industry in the city, Basu, Dsouza and Mani are in agreement that it is too soon to say. “I think it can swing both ways. Either people are so frustrated staying home that they will come out and party or they are so paranoid that they are not going to step out into a public space. None of us are sure about how it will work. People will probably organise parties in such a manner that the number of people is limited. So, from 500 or 600 people, it will probably be reduced to 100 or 200, depending on the size of the venue,” says Dsouza. But how will social distancing be enforced in spaces where the enjoyment of the experience is synonymous with there being a large crowd dancing or headbanging together? “In Germany, there was a party where circles were marked in the area and people were allowed to just be in their own circle. The DJ booth was at a distance and of course, people were wearing masks and there were hand santisers all around. So, that is one of the ways forward,” Dsouza says. Adds Basu, “We can probably start with smaller venues or show a negative COVID-19 test to purchase a ticket. Invested bodies need to come together and pitch different ideas to the governing bodies and agencies on how things can be done.” “The entire industry is home to lakhs of jobs, both directly and indirectly. You can’t completely stop the industry. It is going to be difficult but we will all have to adapt,” says Dsouza.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SWR earns Rs. 28.9 cr. by running Shramik Specials||Operations of Shramik Special trains from Karnataka to different parts of the country to transport migrant workers helped South Western Railway (SWR) earn Rs. 28.9 crore. The SWR operated 229 trains to ferry around 3.32 lakh people to their home towns. “Till May 23, migrant workers were paying for tickets to travel back to their respective States. However, some States such as Uttar Pradesh, Assam, and Kerala were bearing the travel expense. After May 23, migrant workers started travelling for free, with expenses borne by States,” said Chief PRO of SWR E. Vijaya. Steep fares The initial decision to make migrant workers pay high fares for berths was heavily criticised. They were forced to pay huge amounts for train tickets and city bus fares to reach railway stations. In the initial days, the BMTC used to collect fare from migrant workers and transfer the rail ticket price to the Railways. On May 22, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced that the State would bear their travel cost. A majority of the migrant workers who left Karnataka were from Bihar. Data collated by the SWR shows that 1.07 lakh people returned to their native places in Bihar in 73 trains. Uttar Pradesh accounts for the second largest migrant movement: to date, 73,498 people from that State who were working in Karnataka travelled to their home towns in 51 trains. This is followed by West Bengal (40,395 migrant workers), Jharkhand (30,962), and Odisha (24,357). The least number of trains — one each — were operated to Kerala, Nagaland, and Mizoram. To 17 States A release from the SWR stated that since May 3, Shramik Special trains were operated from Karnataka to 17 States. Till June 13, around 229 trains ran from various points such as KSR Bengaluru, Bengaluru Cantonment, Chikkabanavara, Malur, Ashokapuram, and Hubballi. The highest number of migrant workers travelled from Bengaluru division. According to the SWR, 194 Shramik Specials were operated from Bengaluru, ferrying 2.84 lakh passengers. From Hubballi Division, 30,580 travelled in 21 trains, and 16,974 passengers travelled in 12 trains from Mysuru Division. “The SWR transported the first one lakh passengers in 13 days, the next one lakh passengers were transported in just six days. Shramik Specials were run every day from May 3 with the exception of two days — May 6 and 7,” states the release.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMTC deploys staff at bus stands||The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) has deployed additional staff at bus stands to make sure that passengers maintain physical distance while boarding them. A release from the corporation states that additional bus crew have been deployed at major bus stands during peak hours, 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. and 4.30 p.m to 7.30 p.m. Staff have been directed to ensure that buses are stopped at designated stops. Passengers must wear masks prior to boarding the bus and maintain queues at stops.  More precautions On June 10, a BMTC employee attached to Depot 24, Dooravaninagar, near K.R. Puram, which has since been sanitised, tested positive for COVID-19. Following this instance, many employees in transport services voiced their concerns about safety measures and said transport corporations should initiate more precautions to help contain the spread of COVID-19.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Not many takers for BBMP’s healthline||In April this year, the BBMP launched an initiative that offered tele-consultation services on health issues. To date, however, the tele-healthline — launched in collaboration with private and philanthropic organisations — has had only a few takers. “When the service was launched, the lockdown was in place with many restrictions. This meant that both public and private healthcare facilities were not able to provide routine out-patient services,” an official said, explaining the idea behind the initiative. Now that restrictions have eased considerably, citizens seeking medical care have more options. They can get prescriptions by visiting private clinics or over-the-counter medicines in pharmacies and medical shops. OPD services are now available in private hospitals. People can call 0744-7118949 to access the healthline.However, with the change in weather pattern in the city, the BBMP is expecting a surge in ILI cases. “We will once again publicise the healthline so that more citizens can benefit from it,” the official added.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panic after fire in drain||Residents of Rajajinagar 9th Block started panicking on Saturday morning when they saw thick black smoke emanating from closed drains. The smoke soon engulfed the area, causing residents to fear a leak of some sort. However, the police traced the source to a scrap merchant who had tried to dispose of some chemicals in the drain. “The accused, Swamy Gangaiah, wanted to recover the tin cans that contained the chemicals for recycling,” said a senior police officer. Bulk scrap Swamy told the police that he had bought the bulk scrap from a chemical factory along with several tin boxes filled with a chemical substance. “When he dumped the contents into the drain, a fire broke out and smoke from the drain started coming out of the vents,” the officer added. Samples sent for test Fire tenders rushed to the spot and put out the blaze. No one was injured. A preliminary probe revealed that the cans held a solvent (tetrahydrofuran). Samples have been sent to the forensic science laboratory for analysis. “We will summon the management of the chemical factory for questioning to ascertain their role based on which legal action will be taken,” said Shashikumar, DCP (North).
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa defends decision||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday defended the Cabinet decision to amend Land Reforms Act, 1961, stating that it would help farmers get better price for their land and encourage young people to take up agriculture as a profession. He was speaking to presspersons after a breakfast at the Mavalli Tiffin Room (MTR) on Saturday morning, accompanied by Cabinet colleague and Revenue Minister R. Ashok and Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya, and his political secretary Shankargouda Patil. Hotels that remained closed for more than 70 days during the lockdown between March and June are now open.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dissatisfaction among govt. staff over transfers||Many employees of Goods and Services Tax, Karnataka, are upset with the transfer orders that have come during COVID-19, forcing many to shift to other towns in the State. The department has affected annual general transfers for 696 employees, nearly 130 of have been moved between Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Belagavi, and other towns in Karnataka. “This shuttling of employees between districts puts them at risk. It is detrimental to the COVID-19 situation, and also exposes officers, their families and residents in those towns. The transfers have come in June and shifting now poses logistic difficulties as well, especially for those with children as they will have to enrol in new schools,” said an official, who has been transferred. All those transferred are required to report to their new postings by June 15. Employees argue that these transfers, especially to different districts from their present postings, goes against the Centre’s guidelines to avoid all non-essential travel. However, D.P. Nagendra Kumar, Principal Chief Commissioner of Central Tax, Bengaluru zone, said while a majority of transfers were within the same district, some had to be posted out as they had been promoted and a matching post was not available in the same district. “Many had sought a transfer. Others, who had been posted out are returning to their home districts as well,” he said, adding that the department had residential quarters, which were sanitised and safe to occupy.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two IAS officers transferred||The State government has transferred Ravi Kumar Surpur, Special Commissioner (Projects), BBMP, Bengaluru, and posted him as Commissioner for Social Welfare, Bengaluru, until further orders. Dr. Surpur has also been given the additional charge of the post of Special Commissioner (Projects), BBMP, Bengaluru, with immediate effect in order to continue to discharge COVID-19 related duties. Peddappaiah R.S., Commissioner for Social Welfare, Bengaluru, has also been transferred. He has been posted until further orders as Director, Atal Janasnehi Kendra, Bengaluru, relieving C.N. Meena Nagaraj, from additional charge.
14 June 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||MSRIT’s distinction||M.S. Ramaiah Institute of Technology (MSRIT) has been ranked 59th among the top 100 engineering institutions across the country in 2020, as per the National Institutional Framework (NIRF), MHRD, government of India. MSRIT is ranked first among all the institutions affiliated to Visvesvaraya Technological University, Belagavi, according to a press release from MSRIT.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP to set up 4 care centres||The State government has instructed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to set up COVID care centres in the city so that it is better prepared to tackle the spread of the novel coronavirus. These centres are proposed to be set up at Kanteerava Indoor Stadium in Sampangiramanagar, Tripura Vasini in Palace Grounds, Bangalore International Exhibition Centre on Tumakuru Road, and Karnataka Trade Promotion Organisation in Whitefield. “We are also exploring the possibility of setting up such care centres in hostels of engineering colleges,” an official said. Each of these facilities will have a dedicated medical team, essential facilities, and adequate security. “They will house those who may not require active treatment, such as patients with mild to moderate COVID-19 symptoms and asymptomatic persons, mainly contacts of patients who have been tested positive,” the official said.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested||CCB officials on Saturday caught a man who was allegedly running a matka operation on the footpath at SBM Circle on K.G. Road. Acting on a tip-off, the team caught Purushotham Prasad, 57, and seized Rs. 14,200 in cash and his mobile phone.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KPME registration of four hospitals cancelled||The Bengaluru Urban district administration has cancelled the KPME registration of four hospitals in the city for not reporting Influenza-Like Illness (ILI), Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and COVID-19 cases on the government portal. The district administration had recently served notices to 17 hospitals and clinics in the city who had not reported cases on the portal, of which 13 of them apologiSed and explained the lapse on their part. However, four hospitals [Namma Clinic, Sahakar Nagar, Panchamukhi Speciality Clinic, Peenya, Matru Chaya Clinic, Sudhamanagar, and Nayak Hospital, Gayatri Nagar] haven't replied. The administration has now cancelled their KPME registration, a communique said.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Concession for students who tested positive||After two cases of SSLC students testing positive for COVID-19, the Karnataka Secondary Education and Examination Board has maintained that they can take supplementary examinations and will be considered as fresh candidates. Director of the board V. Sumangala told The Hindu that instructions have been given to Block Education Officers and other officials. The board has also taken various measures to educate students on the dos and don’ts while appearing for their papers. Ms. Sumangala said that more than 3,500 officials and staff have been trained in the SOP to be followed at examination centres. “Students need to follow various health protocols, such as wearing masks, sanitising hands, maintaining personal hygiene, social distancing and others. We have also advised them to bring their own water bottles and boxes of food. We will soon release a video on the regulations for students and parents,” she said. To create awareness and dispel rumours, pamphlets will be distributed and information will be displayed at centres.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘File criminal cases against auditors’||Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar told department officials to take steps to re-audit the accounts of Sri Guru Raghavendra Cooperative Bank Ltd., Basavanagudi, and file criminal cases against bank auditors in the wake of alleged fraud and misappropriation of deposits by the management. He said the bank had been charging 18% rate of interest on loans against the normal 14%.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||In Brief City||Niramai Health Analytix, has launched home-screening service for breast health in Bengaluru. It will help those checking for the first time, or those due for an annual check-up. For details mail tocontact@niramai.com
14 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Dharwad district sees second death; 20 more test positive||For the second consecutive day, Dharwad district recorded high number of COVID-19 cases with 20 more testing positive on Saturday and second death due to the infection. According to an official release, a 70-year-old man (P 6258), who was a native of Shantiniketan Colony at Bhairidevarkoppa in Hubballi, breathed his last owing to multiple complications arising out of the infection. The patient had returned from Mumbai on June 9 and was immediately shifted to Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences hospital as he was suffering from breathlessness. The doctors have informed the cause of death as COVID-19 with coronary heart disease with Bronchial Asthma, Bronchopneumonia with acute respiratory distress syndrome and acute kidney injury. He passed away on Friday night. Five children Meanwhile, among the 20 positive cases (11 male, 9 female) reported in the district, five are children. With 20 new cases, the COVID-19 tally in the district has risen to 111. So far, 48 have been discharged from the hospital including two on Saturday. The district has 61 active cases now. Out of 20 persons who tested positive on Saturday, 18 are family members of positive patients. A 29-year-old woman (P 6522) who returned from Delhi and a 27-year-old woman (P 6532) who returned from Maharahstra are the other two patients.
14 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Withdraw decision to amend Land Reforms Act: Hiremath||Samaj Parivartana Samudaya (SPS), Citizens For Democracy, and other like-minded organisations have termed the proposed amendment to the Karnataka Land reforms Act as anti-farmer and a retrograde step and have urged the Chief Minister to immediately withdraw the decision. Addressing presspersons here on Saturday, president of SPS S.R. Hiremath said that the proposed move by the State government to amend the Act to allow non-agricultural families to buy farmlands would further worsen the lives of the farmers who were already in distress. “The proposed amendment will sound the death knell for the farmers. Besides shrinking agricultural land, the move will further push them into distress,” he said. Terming the move as only a step to help real estate businessemen and the super rich, Mr. Hiremath said that there was no farmers’ interest in the move. Pointing out that there were already reports to authenticate that 25% of the farm labourers were landless, Mr. Hiremath said that the proposed move would only add an additional 25% of marginal farmers with small land holdings to the category of landless farmers. “It will only further worsen the agrarian crisis which is leading to farmers’ suicides,” he said. Mr. Hiremath said SPS and CFD would be forced to launch a Statewide agitation if Mr. Yediyurappa failed to respond to the pulse of the people and revoke the decision.  The proposed amendment will sound the death knell for the farmers. Besides shrinking agricultural land, the move will further push them into distress. It will add an additional 25% of marginal farmers with small land holdings to the category of landless farmers.S.R. HiremathPresident of Samaj Parivartana Samudaya
14 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||11 test positive in Hassan||As many as 11 people, including eight who had returned from Mumbai, tested positive to COVID-19 in Hassan on Saturday. With this, the total number of positive cases reported in the district has increased to 237. Among them, 184 have been discharged after they recovered and one person died. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish, here on Saturday, told presspersons that at present 52 infected people were being treated at the COVID hospital in Hassan. Among the eight returnees from Mumbai, one was a native of Holenarsipur and the rest were from Channarayapatna taluk. Besides them, two people, primary contacts of the patient who died on Friday, and a five-year-old boy of Arkalgud taluk also tested positive. The DC said a group of people from K.R. Pet in Mandya had visited the boy’s family in Arkalgud taluk in connection with a marriage proposal. “We are still verifying the source of infection. The village has been declared a containment zone. All the patients have been shifted to the COVID hospital,” he said.
14 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||CRPF personnel passes away||A CRPF personnel attached to the 150 batallion, a native of Hassan, died of heart attack at Sukma in Chhattisgarh on Friday. Hemanth Kumar E.D., native of Echalahalli near Hassan, had been working with CRPF for the last 19 years. He was about to retire in eight months, to return home. He is survived by wife, a son and daughter and aged parents. Hemanth Kumar had called his family members around 4 p.m. on Friday and spoken to his children. An hour later, the family received the news of his death. His mortal remains would reach by Sunday morning. The final rites would be held at his native place, said his family members.
14 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Withdraw decision, says Horatti||Taking exception to the State Cabinet decision to amend the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, former Minister and JD(S) leader Basavaraj Horatti has urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to immediately annul the decision. Terming it a big shock to the farming community, Mr. Horatti has written a letter to the Chief Minister saying the decision would end with “rich families buying farmlands with wealth amassed by illegal means and throwing the gullible farmers to the streets”. Pointing out that the decision would help a family of five to buy as much as 108 acres of farmland, Mr. Horatti said that it would only lead to real estate business, not help farmers. “The government should have convened a meeting of farmers and farmers’ leaders before taking any such decision. If you are bent on implementing the amended law, then it will only lead to farmers’ revolt,” he said in the letter. He said the amendment would result in a situation wherein non-agricultural families would buy farmlands, only to sell them for real estate instead of taking up cultivation. “The Land Reforms Act was promulgated amalgamating laws that would help farmers. This amendment will undo all that was done in the interest of farmers,” he said.
14 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||67 cases in Kalaburagi, 42 in Bidar||Kalaburagi district reported 67 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. The total number of positive cases in the district reached 883, with 496 active cases and 377 recovered persons. In Bidar district, 42 persons tested positive on Saturday. The total number of cases stands at 350, of which 203 persons recovered and 141 are active. In Ballari, 11 new cases of COVID-19 were reported on Saturday. Of the 179 positive cases, 129 persons are active and 49 persons have got discharged. Constable tests positive Of the six COVID-19 positive cases reported in Vijayapura on Saturday, a police constable attached to Jal Nagar police station has been tested positive. Confirming this, in a release, Superintendent of Police Anupam Agrawal said the administration had collected swab samples of 217 constables deployed on duty at containment areas, check-posts and the designated COVID hospital. Of them, one constable has tested positive. Mr. Agrawal added that the primary and secondary contacts of the constable is now under tracing. In Yadgir As many as 57 persons tested positive to COVID-19 in Yadgir and Raichur districts on Saturday. Of the 57, 52 people tested positive in Yadgir alone. They all returned from Maharashtra and were getting treatment at the designated hospital. Five in Raichur Of the five cases in Raichur, P-6806, a 48-year-old woman from Raichur city, P-6807, a 30-year-old woman, P-6808, a five-year-old boy from Hanumanayakana Tanda in Deodurg, and P-6809, 60-year-old woman from Raichur city, had returned from Maharashtra. But, P-6810, a 36-year-old man, confirmed positive because of the contact with P-2423.
14 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Schools demand that RTE fee arrears be cleared||Private schools under the aegis of Association of English Medium Schools in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi on Saturday urged the State government to reimburse the arrears of the fee related to admission of students under the Right to Education (RTE) Act. Talking to reporters, association president Y. Mohammed Beary said the State government has not cleared the arrears for the last two years. “The 400 private schools in two districts have to get around Rs. 2 crore,” he said and added that the overall arrears that the government has to pay to schools in the State is around Rs. 1,200 crore. Mr. Beary said arrears have made the school managements like his, who collect annual fees of about Rs. 20,000 from a student, hard to function. Due to lockdown from March the schools could not conduct annual examinations and hence they could not collect pending fees from parents. General secretary of the association K. Ravindra Shetty said the schools are unable to pay teachers as per the 6th wage board recommendation. “If we have to pay teachers as per the recommendation, we need to collect fees of around Rs. 80,000 per student,” he said. Despite hardship, the schools are paying a salary of Rs. 36,000 per month to high school teachers, while Rs. 23,000 per month is being paid to primary school teachers. Mr. Shetty said the State government should announce a package for teachers and ensure they are paid reasonable amount to overcome the shortfall in their salary. Apart from clearing the pending fees reimbursement, the government should restore the earlier RTE scheme and allow admission of students in private schools, he said.
14 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Konkan Railway gears up to face another monsoon||Come monsoon, it is testing time for Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. (KRCL) whose network passes through the narrow stretch between the Western Ghats and the Arabian Sea that receives heavy rains during the season. Yet, as every year, the corporation has geared up to operate trains amidst the vagaries of nature by suitably equipping its operational front. A release from KRCL here said at the time of COVID-19 pandemic, its personnel were making sustained efforts to maintain tracks ensuring all safety-related guidelines and maintaining hygiene, social distancing norms etc. All planned safety works on the 740-km route between Kolad (after Roha station of Central Railway in Maharashtra) and Thokur (near Mangaluru Junction Railway Station) were completed, the release said. Special attention was given to cleaning of catch-water drain and inspection of cuttings. Large-scale geo-safety works executed along the network in the last few years have significantly reduced boulder falling incidents and soil slip thereby ensuring safety to trains. No major disruption to train services were reported following boulder following in the last seven years, the Corporation said. Nearly 1,000 personnel would patrol the route during the monsoon as per the Indian Railway Permanent Way Manual to ensure safe running of trains. While stationary watchmen would be deployed at critical locations, vulnerable locations would be patrolled round the clock with speed restrictions on trains. Excavators mounted on Bogie Rail Wagons (BRN) were kept ready at nominated points for quick movement during emergency.
14 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||30 positive cases, 17 discharged in D.K.||Dakshina Kannada reported the highest 30 COVID-19 positive cases in a day on Saturday. Also, 17 persons were discharged from the Government Wenlock Hospital after testing negative for the infection on the day. Of the 30 positive cases, 25 persons, which included two one-year-old boys and a 61-year-old woman, were those who returned to the city from Saudi Arabia on June 5 and June 10. Mumbai returnees Five persons, which included a one-year-old boy and a four-year-old girl, who returned from Mumbai recently, also tested positive, according to a health bulletin issued by the office of Deputy Commissioner. Of the 17 discharged from the hospital on Saturday, the youngest was a 14-year-old girl and the oldest was a 65-year-old-man. With this, 118 active persons were undergoing treatment at the hospital, said the bulletin.  15 test positive in Udupi As many as 15 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi district on Saturday. A health bulletin issued here said that all the 15 persons have travel history to Maharashtra and returned to the district recently. The 15 persons included a six-year-old girl. All of them had been shifted to the COVID-19 hospitals in the district for treatment. As many as 110 persons who had recovered were discharged from COVID-19 hospitals in the district on Saturday. There are 420 active COVID-19 cases in the district. Meanwhile, the total number of persons who had tested positive to COVID-19 in the district since March reached 1,005. A total of 584 persons had been discharged from the COVID-19 hospitals in the district since March.
14 June 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Recovery rate has improved in State: Sudhakar||Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar has said that the percentage of recovery from COVID-19 has improved. Of the 6,516 confirmed cases in the State, 3,440 (with 52.8%) have recovered and discharged from hospitals, he said. He was addressing a meeting of officials while reviewing preventive methods that have been initiated in the district on Saturday. While appreciating the strict implementation of preventive methods by the State government, Dr. Sudhakar said that the percentage of deaths has reduced and percentage of recovery has remarkably improved when compared it with the national data. At the national level, the death rate was 2.8% while in the State it was just 1.2% with 79 deaths so far. The Minister appealed to people not to panic about the pandemic and said that 2,531 patients against the active 2,995 patients had no sign of symptoms of the virus. Using preventive methods will prevent the spread of COVID-19. He directed the officials of the Health Department and district administration to take up awareness programmes through the task force committee formed at the village level. The Minister specifically suggested the officials to take all possible actions to provide effective and proper medical aid to patients as Deodurg taluk has registered the highest number of 306 positive cases and two deaths. “Persons who have tested positive should extend cooperation with the medical officers, doctors, nurses and other health workers to fight against deadly virus,” he said. The State government has taken action to establish testing laboratories. Presently, 71 laboratories have been functioning in the State. Of them, 41 are from the government while remaining 30 are under private hospitals. “In Raichur, the RIMS has been conducting tests for 180 samples but this capacity should be increased,” the Minister told officials. Ramkrishna, District Health Officer, said throat samples have been collected from suspected persons. As many as 15 fever clinics, four taluk hospitals, six community health centres, three medical colleges, 10 mobile vehicles are being used for the purpose, he said. Mr. Ramkrishna said that to provide immediate treatment to the positive patients, 250 beds at OPEC, 150 beds each at RIMS and Navodaya Medical college hospital have been set up.
14 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||17 houses damaged in rain||As many as 17 houses were damaged and paddy crop was destroyed in a couple of villages in Udupi district due to rains accompanied by winds on Saturday. According to information provided by the District Control Room, the 17 houses included 10 in Kundapur taluk, three in Udupi taluk, and two each in Kaup and Byndoor taluks. A horticulture plantation was flooded at Hengavalli village in Kundapur taluk. 76 mm rainfall Udupi district received 76 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours ending at 8.30 a.m. on Saturday. Kundapur and Karkala towns received rainfall of 64 mm and 31 mm, respectively.
14 June 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Bodies recovered||The bodies of two fishermen who had gone missing two days ago in Krishna river in Siddapur village of Kolhar taluk were recovered on Saturday. Parashuram Lamani (36) and Lakshman Lamani (39) had gone missing after the coracle they were using for fishing, overturned. While the two drowned, another fisherman swam ashore.
14 June 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Development works worth Rs. 7.05 cr. in Yadgir||Prabhu Chavan, Minister for Animal Husbandry and also district in charge, participated in the ground-breaking ceremony for the construction of a library and other development works here on Friday. A sum of Rs. 7.05 crore will be used under the Kalyan Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB) for the works. The hi-tech library will be built at a cost of Rs. 1.7 crore. Other projects The other development project such as a running track and viewers’ gallery at the district stadium (Rs. 4.65 crore) and a police parade ground (Rs. 70 lakh) will come up using the same grants. The Minister directed the contractor to maintain quality and complete the work within the stipulated period.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Overcast sky||
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BCIC welcomes changes||The decision to remove the ceiling on income from non-agricultural sources to buy farmland and increase the number of units of land a person can hold will give non- agricultural buyers the much needed boost to materialise on this at the earliest, said trade body Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce. President Devesh Agarwal said: “We believe allowing non-agricultural people to buy agricultural land will pave way for better infrastructure and agricultural productivity as currently many poor farmers do not have the fiscal strength to invest, resulting in under utilisation of farmland,” he said.
14 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Nine new cases in Alappuzha||The number of COVID-19 cases in the district continued to move in an upward trajectory with nine more people testing positive on Saturday. Officials said all the cases were imported—seven from foreign countries and two from other States. A young man from Chengannur came from Qatar on June 2. The second patient, a youth from Thalavadi, reached the district from Oman on June 4. A 55-year-old man from Alappuzha, had come from Saudi Arabia on June 3. The other four men are from Chennithala, Takazhi, Kayamkulam and Alappuzha respectively, flown in from Kuwait on June 2. Of the cases from other States, a young woman from Thalavadi reached the district by a train from Delhi on June 2. Another woman from Budhanoor came by a train from Delhi on May 22. Eight patients have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, and one person to a hospital in Pathanamthitta district, for treatment. Active cases now The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 104. The district has so far logged 129 COVID-19 cases. 24 people have recovered while one person died due to the disease. Meanwhile, the Health Department has conducted around 500 rapid antibody tests in recent days across the district. The test was conducted among vulnerable groups such as health workers, media personnel, police personnel, among other vulnerable populations. One case in Kottayam Our Correspondent writes from Kottayam: A 12-year-old girl, who returned from Maharashtra on May 28, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. The girl, from Elikkulam near Pokunnam, landed from Mumbai along with her parents and a sister and was undergoing home quarantine. The results of her parents and sister are yet to be received. Meanwhile, a 31-year-old woman of Parathodu and a 40-year-old woman from Ettumanoor, who returned from Mumbai and Kuwait, were discharged from the hospital on Saturday. With this, the total number of active cases in the district is 44. Four cases in Idukki A Correspondent writes from Idukki: The District Medical Officer here confirmed that there were four persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday.
14 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Water level remains below new rule curve||The water level in hydel projects remains below the level after the Central Water Commission (CWC) revised the rule curve of the dams in the State. Last month, the CWC revised the rule curve and as per the data on June 10, the shutter gates should be opened and water released if the level in the Idukki reservoir reaches 2,373 ft. However, the water level did not reach the revised rule curve level owing to poor rainfall. The present water level in the reservoir is only 45% of the maximum reservoir level. Revision after floods The water level in the other hydel projects also remains low. The CWC revised the rule curve level in the wake of the floods of August 2018. “As per the present water levels of main dams, there is very rare chance for opening the shutters in June,” said a senior KSEB official.
14 June 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Six arrested with fake passes||The Sulthan Bathery police arrested six persons, including two women, on Saturday for crossing the Muthanga inter-State check-post on the Kerala-Karnataka border with fabricated documents. The arrested were identified as Rishad, 35, and Fathimath Shakira, 29, of Veerajpet in Kodagu district; Aboobecker Siddhique, 33, Muhammad Ubaib, 25, and Shahul Ameer, 30, of Dakshina Kannada district in Karnataka; and Sharafunnisa, 21, of Perambra in Kozhikode district. They were arrested while crossing the border in a car, Police Department sources said. They allegedly morphed a pass issued for a man at Iritty in Kannur district a few days ago, sources said.
14 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||7 test positive in Ernakulam||Seven more persons, including a three-and-a-half-year-old child, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday, taking the total number of active cases in the district to 63. However, 144 samples were tested negative while results are awaited on another 317 samples. A fresh batch of 128 samples was sent for testing from the district on Saturday. The persons who tested positive had come from Bengaluru, Delhi, Muscat, Dubai and Nigeria through the Kochi airport earlier this month. This included two Maharashtra residents and one West Bengal resident. As many as 767 persons were sent in home quarantine in the district while 841 were removed from the list on completing the quarantine term. 11,531 in quarantine  The district now has 11,531 people in quarantine, including 9,905 in their homes, 562 in COVID care centres and 1,064 in paid quarantine institutes. Twenty-eight persons were admitted to hospitals for monitoring, including 14 at the Government Medical College Hospital, two at the Karuvelipady taluk hospital, one at the Paravur taluk hospital and 11 in private hospitals while 27 were discharged from hospitals.
14 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||CMID flags forced detention of migrants by employers||The Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development (CMID) has brought to the notice of the government instances of forced detention of migrant workers in the State by employers staring at severe shortage of workforce. In a submission to the government, the CMID, a non-profit organisation for the welfare of migrant workers, noted that strategies such as withholding wages and original documents of workers, restricting their movement, and even physical violence were being adopted. An incident in which ten workers from Odisha were detained by their employer in Malappuram and brutal beating up of four migrants from West Bengal besides the forceful detention of their documents in Ernakulam were cited as instances. “Rumours that migrants will not be able to return home for the next few years and that a spate of natural disasters are about to devastate Kerala are adding to their anxiety,” said Benoy Peter, executive director, CMID. Migrants were being asked to cough up Rs. 7,000-8,000 by interstate contract carriers taking advantage of the lack of clarity on the operation of trains. It called for proper dissemination of information about the schedule of trains and helpline numbers of various departments in the native language of the workers through various mediums, including social media. This was vital in quelling rumours. “Stringent action should be taken against forceful detention of workers and their belongings, and if possible, that message should be conveyed at the Chief Minister’s daily press briefing,” said Mr. Peter. The CMID also called for constituting a commission and a State-level nodal agency to review measures to improve the welfare of migrant workers. “It is unfortunate that we have a full-fledged department (NoRKA) for migrants from Kerala while we do not have one for workers who come here,” he said.
14 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||CPI(M) demands removal of bund in lake||The Ernakulam district committee of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] has asked for the immediate removal of the bund built in the Chilavannoor lake as part of the Padmasarovaram project. In 2002 According to a statement issued by CPI(M) district secretary C.N. Mohanan, the Padmasarovaram project is one that was envisaged in 2002 by the then LDF-ruled corporation council in its annual budget, and was approved by the council in 2004. Then, it was imagined as a project that would take shape on the section connecting Sahodaran Ayyappan Road with Subhash Chandra Bose Road, requiring acquisition of over 16 acres of land on the western side of the Chilavannoor lake. The proceedings for acquisition were initiated, the statement notes. The Rs. 50-crore project was to include a walkway, a children’s park, an open air theatre, refreshment centres and an exhibition ground. ‘Flow of water blocked’ But the current cycle track project, to be implemented under the AMRUT scheme, has transformed the initial idea altogether with a bund blocking the natural flow of water, the statement says. This project will lead to waterlogging in the Kaloor, Chilavannoor and Elamkulam areas. Stating that the project will bring disaster upon the city and that it was a waste of public money, the CPI(M) district secretary has asked the District Collector to stop all possibility of work on the project and demolish the existing bund. The committee has raised a demand for the State to take steps to implement the original project envisaged in 2002.
14 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Woman, son from Liberia await journey back home||All that Jenneh Paye and her son Jin want is to go home to Liberia. The child was admitted to Lisie Hospital in the city on March 2 for a cardiac surgery and had an uneventful recovery. However, the COVID-19 situation in the country extended their stay at the hospital. Their return to Liberia was originally scheduled on April 2, but the lockdown affected their travel plans. The little resources Jenneh had with her for a month’s stay also got exhausted, said hospital authorities in a communication. The mother and child are now being supported by the hospital management with some help from the Liberian honorary consulate in New Delhi and a few donors. Jenneh hopes that some kind act will help them reunite with her husband and family members back home. House mortgaged  Jin was diagnosed with a hole in the heart a few months after his birth. Sia Wata Camanor, a senior paediatrician  at the JFK hospital in Liberia, had referred the child to Lisie Hospital. The family had worked overtime and mortgaged their house to collect money for their travel to Kochi. The hospital authorities said they hoped Jenneh and Jin could soon be sent back on repatriation flights from either Nigeria or Liberia.
14 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||COVID fear keeps blood donors off hospitals||The week leading to the World Blood Donor Day on Sunday has not been particularly fulfilling for Paul George. For, not a single donor turned up to give blood despite fervent efforts by Dr. George, the medical officer for the blood bank at the Government Medical College (GMC), Kalamassery, to woo donors. The situation has been grim for the GMC blood bank ever since it was declared a COVID Centre scaring away potential donors. With a large number of pregnant women getting admitted after being brought back from abroad on a priority basis, the requirement for blood has soared for caesarean, and rarely, Medical Termination of Pregnancy procedures. “We are running short of platelets and packaged red blood cell with a shelf life of five days and 42 days respectively. We used to get around 20 donors a day. Now we do not get even a single one for a week despite appealing on social media and the AIR,” rued Dr. George. Reasons for plight The closure of seven colleges in the neighbourhood of GMC, a source of young donors, and the absence of caregivers of patients who were very proactive in arranging donors have not helped either. “The pandemic has severely crippled blood donation. Even regular donors are reluctant to volunteer in the face of pressure from family and peers. ,” said Jishnu Raj, a patron of Blood Donors Kerala (BDK), a forum with over 50,000 donors across the State. The BDK has seen the number of donors plummet from 350-450 a day to below 150 since the outbreak of the pandemic.
14 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Four held for assault, robbery||The Ernakulam Central Police arrested four persons, including two women, on the charge of assaulting a woman and robbing her of her gold ornaments near the South Railway Station on June 5. The arrested were identified as Ashwathy, 27, of Cherthala; Kannan, 21, of Thiruvananthapuram; Muhammed Bilal, 25, of Vaduthala; and Indu, 32, of North Paravur. According to the police, the assailants contacted the petitioner on the pretext of arranging a house for rent near the railway station. As soon as the petitioner entered the room, the accused assaulted her before robbing her of a gold chain, earrings and finger ring. She was let off with the threat that if she complained to the police, she would be killed. She, however, petitioned the police, who registered a case.
14 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||MPEDA facility receives shrimp broodstock||The aquatic quarantine facility of the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Aquaculture run by Marine Products Export Development Authority received 3,600 vannamei (whiteleg shrimp) broodstock imported from Hawaii in the U.S. this month. The facility would provide a firewall against entry and spread of pathogens in animals through rigorous quarantine measures during the current COVID-19 threat, said a communication from MPEDA. The import of broodstock, which came in as a single consignment from a single source, was facilitated by a chartered flight by six hatchery operators on June 4. The broodstock were quarantined for five days and handed over to hatchery operators with 97.12% of survival on June 8. MPEDA chairman K.S. Srinivas said this development would play an important role in sustaining shrimp farming sector in the country.
14 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Family alleges foul play in death of girl||The family of Ameena, the 11-year-old who was found hanging in her house at Prakulam on Friday, has alleged foul play in the incident. While her mother said the Class 6 student would never take such a step, her grandfather expressed suspicion over the involvement of a drug racket. Reportedly, Ameena was helping her mother with household chores some minutes before the incident. The girl had gone inside their derelict house made of tin sheets for the evening prayers, but never returned. Her mother who went in search of Ameena found her hanging and though the girl was rushed to a nearby hospital, her life could not be saved. A note left behind by the deceased was later retrieved and according to police officials, more details can be revealed only after the autopsy. “The girl cannot reach the ceiling to tie the noose. A gang of alcohol and drug addicts used to frequent the house and the area is notorious for ganja peddling. A member of the gang was seen near the house on Friday and we don’t believe it’s a suicide,” said a relative. The girl’s body is currently kept at Government Medical College, Parippally, for autopsy. As per the new protocol, autopsy can be held only after getting the COVID-19 test results and according to police officials it will be held on Sunday morning.
14 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||UDF bid to defuse KC(M) crisis||As the dispute between the warring factions of the Kerala Congress (M) over a change of guard in the Kottayam district panchayat hit a crescendo, the United Democratic Front (UDF) is now making frantic attempts to defuse the crisis. As part of it, the State leadership of the Congress-led coalition has reached out to the leaders of the two factions, seeking to resume the consultations and resolve the crisis in a couple of days. In the meantime, they have been also requested not to make any public statements that will precipitate the crisis. “The attempt is to avoid the initiation of a no-confidence motion by the Joseph group as the Congress will be forced to take a stand and that may affect the coalition. The statement by Mr.Joseph that the Mani group will have to exit the UDF in case of facing the motion despite a win or lose, is a pointer to the crisis in the making,” pointed out a senior UDF leader. The other day, Mr.Joseph had come out all guns blazing against the rival faction led by Jose K Mani for its reluctance in handing over the post of the district panchayat president as per a deal worked out by the UDF. Speaking to the media persons on Saturday, Mr.Joseph reiterated his stance while also holding that there was absolutely no point in continuing with these marathon deliberations any more. “They have always agreed to act in the interests of the UDF. Now that the coalition has made its position clear, we hope to have a favourable outcome,” he said. According to sources, the coalition has directed the Mani faction to hand over the post in the local body as a pre-condition for discussing all other subjects. The Mani faction, on the other hand, is learned to have laid its claim over 11 out of the 15 seats contested by the KC (M) during the previous assembly election. The Joseph faction, on its part, has clarified that the majority of the senior party leaders including C.F. Thomas and Thomas Unniyadan are with it and hence there is no question of handing over these seats.
14 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Rs. 10-crore project for waste disposal||To enable the processing of organic waste at the source of generation, the Kottayam district panchayat will implement projects worth Rs. 10 crore under the ‘Clean Kottayam Green Kottayam’ initiative. The project, which has been approved by the district sanitation committee, will be implemented in association with Suchitwa Mission and various local bodies. According to authorities, composting systems will be installed at all the households by the respective local bodies, in addition to setting up compost pits under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and establishing mini material collection facilities (MCFs) at the ward level. Steps have been taken for extending Collectors@School programme, which is about educating children on the need for collecting waste after segregation, to all the schools in the district. Applications will be invited through the local bodies for construction of toilets for eligible families using the funds of Suchitwa Mission and the local body. Steps will be taken by the local bodies to remove waste lines opening to the water bodies by June 30. Moreover, measures will be taken to strictly prevent the sale and use of banned plastic products as well as strengthen pre-monsoon sanitation drive.
14 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Withdraw order on college timing: NSS||The Nair Service Society (NSS) has demanded that the State government rescind with immediate effect the order issued by the Higher Education Department stipulating changes in the time schedule and functioning of colleges, as it caused much confusion. In a statement on Saturday, G. Sukumaran Nair, NSS general secretary, said the order, issued in connection with COVID-19 prevention activities, would lead the State’s higher education sector to a breakdown. He also sought to know the actual connection between the change in class timings and the pandemic prevention activities. “ The new order has unilaterally changed the timings to a schedule between 8.30 a.m. and 1.30 p.m. and that too at a time of restrictions in public transportation. These arrangements, which do not stipulate even a meal-break, cannot be approved by the teaching or non-teaching employees, students and parents,” read the statement.
14 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Airport official among 12 new patients in Kozhikode||An official at the Calicut International Airport and a health worker were among the 12 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Saturday. Two others were cured of the infection too. According to a release by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, the official is a 26-year-old native of Kuthiravattom. It is learnt that a number of senior officials at the airport, including its director, have been asked to go on quarantine as the patient is believed to have interacted with them. The health worker is a 26-year-old man from Kakkodi, who was working in Malappuram. Both are right now at the Government Medical College, Manjeri, Malappuram. Among the other patients, three had returned from Kuwait, two from Dubai, and one each from Russia, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. The number of active COVID-19 cases rose to 89. Apart from this, one person from Kannur is undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. One each from Malappuram, Wayanad, and Kannur are at the first-line treatment centre at the Lakshadweep Guest House. Those cured of the infection, a 55-year-old person from Omassery, and a 42-year-old person from Atholy, were at the first-line treatment centre. The number of people under observation rose to 11,365, of whom 3,703 are expatriates. In Thrissur Four COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur district on Saturday. They include a 37-year-old man of Pukkode who arrived from Qatar on June 5; a 42-year-old woman who arrived from Bahrain on June 1; a 48-year-old man of Kunnamkulam who arrived from Rajasthan on June 4; and a 26-year-old man of Chelakkara who arrived from Riyadh. In all, 152 persons are now undergoing treatment in hospitals.  12,635 under observation Ten persons from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. A total of 12,635 persons are under observation. Meanwhile, 19 COVID patients from Thrissur Medical College Hospital were shifted to Chest Hospital on Saturday after their conditions improved. However, their treatment will be held under the guidance of the Medical College Hospital. Entry curbs Strict restrictions on employees and the general public have been imposed at the offices at the Civil Station, including the district collectorate, in the wake of the spurt in COVID-19 cases in Thrissur district. Only half the number of the staff will attend the office on a single day. Entry to the offices will be restricted with identity cards. Visitors will be allowed into the offices only in emergency cases. The public should avoid visiting the offices and may contact officials on email (tcrcoll.ker@nic.in) or WhatsApp (9400044644) or phone (0487-2360130). The details of visitors will be entered in a register. A thermal scanning facility has been arranged on the ground floor. Visitors’ vehicles should be parked in the parking area near the exit gate. Entry for the public has been restricted at the Thrissur Corporation office too after four sanitation workers were tested positive for the virus. One case in Wayanad One more person who returned from Maharashtra tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Saturday. The 24-year-old man from Makkiyad near Vellamunda in the district had been institutionally quarantined at a COVID centre at Makkiyad after he reached the district on June 1. He has been shifted to District Hospital, Mananthavady.  (With inputs from Thrissur and Wayanad bureaus)
14 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Thamarassery Ghat Road turns into dumping yard again||Some of the unguarded stretches of the arterial Thamarassery Ghat Road which were cleaned up in a drive undertaken by environmental activists not long ago, have been turned into dumping yards again by insensible motorists and passers-by. Food waste and plastic covers have accumulated along the mountain pass. Following the stoppage of dining-in service in hotels, the vacant spaces along the ghat road have been in use as a convenient space for eating food bought as parcel. According members of the Ghat Road Protection Committee, food wrappers and other waste materials are dumped along the road after wayside dining by unscrupulous people. Since the start of the national lockdown, a large number of motorists on the stretch have been using the wayside space to throw the waste materials they carry. Owing to the lockdown, there has been a considerable decrease in the surveillance measures by local residents, turning the situation favourable to miscreants. “I have seen drivers recklessly throwing waste bundles into the gorge as if they were using a public waste bin. There are also small vehicles which are used to discard waste from houses,” said Dominic Jose, a truck-driver from Thamarassery. “There were also occasions when we noticed the registration number of such vehicles and handed them over to the Ghat Road Protection Committee members,” he said. Though Closed Circuit Television cameras have been installed at some of the stretches to monitor vehicles, these are practically non-functional. In addition, there are no sufficient number of cameras in some of the vulnerable stretches closer to Adivaram. A member of the Ghat Road Protection Committee said the road was spruced up very recently after clearing huge quantities of waste and plastic materials with public support. “We will be compelled to act stern on the spot if the motorists keep challenging our efforts and spoiling the beauty of this location,” he warned.
14 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Remix of old hit song delivers an inspirational message||It is not everyday that a director shoots a different version of a song from a film he made 24 years ago. But then, these are no normal days. When Jayaraj decided to film a tribute to the frontline COVID-19 warriors, he felt the song Kaliveedurangiyallo... from his 1996 film Desadanam would be ideal. That song, which spoke about the emptiness of a home after a young boy is inducted into a monastery, had become hugely popular and won K.J. Yesudas a State Award.  Desadanam had also won Jayaraj the State Award for direction. It had become an unexpected hit at the box office as well. “The music, by Kaithapram Damodaran Namboothiri, had definitely helped in the success of Desadanam ,” says Jayaraj. “Kaliveedurangiyallo... could sum up the emotions of the film. I felt it would also convey the emotions of all those health workers who are forced to stay away from home and those who have lost their dear ones to COVID-19.” The new version of the song is sung by Akhila Anand, the singer who had debuted in Jayaraj’s Aswaroodan . It has been released on YouTube. “It is one of my favourite songs and I used to listen to it several times when it was released two decades ago,” she says. “So when Jayaraj asked me to sing it for his video, I was delighted.” Singer-cum-actor She has a done a good job, too. She has also acted in the video, which is shot in black-and-white. The video also contains real visuals depicting the fight of the health workers against the virus. “Recently, a friend of mine told me that he had not seen his wife, a health worker, for the past three months,” says Akhila. “The song was shot at my home in Thiruvananthapuram on a rainy day. The response has been excellent,” she adds.
14 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||650 study centres set up for schoolchildren||Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK) has set up 650 common study centres for schoolchildren in the district who do not have access to online classes at home. SSK district coordinator A.K. Abdul Hakeem said the 4,500 children in the district who did not have the infrastructure to watch classes on Victers channel could gather at the study centres and learn with the assistance of teachers. He urged teachers and parents to ensure that such students turned up at the facility. The common study centres are around twice the number earlier announced. “The number of centres has been increased to restrict the number of students in each centre so that they have enough space to learn and follow physical distancing. This will also ensure that students do not have to travel a lot to reach the nearest study centre,” said Mr. Hakeem. The centres were set up on a war footing over the last two weeks, after the government started online classes.
14 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Local bodies gear up to tackle calamities||Following directives from the district administration, local panchayat authorities in environmentally sensitive areas have begun convening meetings to discuss disaster management priorities and constitute quick response teams at the community-level to mitigate the effect of natural calamities during the monsoon. The lockdown had affected the planning of disaster management activities and the formation of community-level rescue teams in many panchayats.  Monitoring cell Thiruvambady panchayat officials said they had already constituted a monitoring cell comprising the heads of various government departments and people’s representatives to look into the requirements. A 100-member community-level volunteer team would be constituted soon to assure quick support to residents in case of emergencies, they added. Considering the increasing number of drowning incidents, people who are familiar with underwater rescue operations will be encouraged to join the rescue squads. Fire and Rescue Services officials will give them basic training to handle emergency situations. Efforts are also on to purchase necessary equipment for rescue operations. Puthuppadi and Kattippara panchayats too have adopted ward-level measures to mitigate rain-related calamities based on their experience in responding to such situations in the previous years. According to Revenue Department officials, the two panchayats were the worst hit in Kozhikode rural area during the monsoon in 2018 and 2019. Officials with the District Disaster Management Authority said the formation of community-level rescue teams would be one of the priority areas to manage rain-related disasters. “In all the four taluks, we have already formed such squads, which will be expanded further to grama panchayats,” they said.
14 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Karipur airport official tests positive||The confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 infection for an assistant terminal manager at Calicut International Airport, Karipur, has spread fears among the expatriates and their relatives who use the airport for their return from abroad. About three dozen people, including the airport director, have been asked to go in quarantine. All of them were said to have had interactions with the airport official who tested positive for the virus. Primary contacts He was one of the eight persons who were confirmed to have acquired the virus through primary contacts on Saturday. The Malabar Development Forum (MDF) on Saturday alleged that there was a deliberate attempt to tarnish Karipur airport. The forum said fabricated stories were doing the rounds on the social media spreading news that Karipur would soon be closed down in the wake of the COVID-19 confirmation for an official. K.M. Basheer, president of the forum, said it was not the first time that an airport official in the country contracted the virus. “Several other airports too had seen their officials getting COVID-19 and going in quarantine. There is nothing new about it. Some people out there want to see Karipur airport destroyed. They are making use of the COVID-19 situation for their benefit,” said Mr. Basheer. In a memorandum submitted to the government, the forum demanded that the government stop insisting that NRIs returning by chartered flights from abroad prove themselves COVID-19 negative through expensive tests. Mr. Basheer said that expatriates were already being charged heavily for chartered flights. Asking them to spend about Rs. 10,000 for COVID-19 test will be like fleecing them, he said. He warned the government of a negative backlash if it did not withdraw its directive insisting that only COVID-19 negative NRIs be allowed to return home.
14 June 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Plea to expel Anvar from environment panel||A group of activists led by M.N. Karassery and C.R. Neelakandan has appealed to the Chief Minister and the Assembly Speaker to remove P.V. Anvar, MLA, from the Assembly Committee on Environment. The demand for Mr. Anvar’s removal was raised in view of the High Court judgment upholding the District Collector’s order to demolish a check-dam constructed by Mr. Anvar’s relatives at Cheenkannippali. The check-dam was found illegal and destructive to the environment. The activists comprising Dr. Karassery, Mr. Neelakandan, K. Ajita, Kusumam Joseph and R.P. Azad said that Mr. Anvar had no moral right to continue as an Assembly member. “The government should initiate legal action against Mr. Anvar,” they said. They also said that the government should demolish the check-dams in Koodarinji village as they are posing a threat to the environment.
14 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No new cases , relief for capital district||Thiruvananthapuram heaved a sigh of relief on Sunday as no fresh COVID-19 cases were reported on the day while four patients recovered from the illness. The capital district has now reported only a single case during the last three days. Sixty COVID-19 patients are currently undergoing treatment in the district. The district administration placed 926 people in quarantine on the day, taking the total number of people who are being closely monitored to 15,366. Twenty symptomatic people were hospitalised. As many as 854 people have been accommodated in 43 corona care centres in the district. The City police booked 26 people for violating lockdown norms under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, and registered petty cases against 164 people for not wearing masks. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police also booked 128 people.
14 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rising fuel prices, increasing concerns||News on fuel price hikes, with its regularity, have almost become a permanent fixture , with prices being hiked on seven consecutive days now. Amid the pandemic-induced slowdown, wage cuts and job losses, these daily hikes have come as a major blow for many, across various strata of society. The issue has taken a political turn, with Transport Minister A.K.Saseendran writing a letter to the Union Petroleum Minister marking the State’s protest against the daily increase amid the pandemic. He requested the Minister to direct the petroleum companies to reduce the prices in line with the fall in global crude oil prices, as well as to control the duty hike. As on June 4, the diesel price in Kerala was Rs. 67.17, which increased daily by 40-50 paise to the current level of Rs. 70.74. The petrol prices of the corresponding days were Rs. 73.06 and Rs. 76.65. Though the global crude oil prices had hit rock-bottom during the lockdown, the Union government increased the excise duty twice during the period, to a total of Rs. 16 for diesel and Rs. 13 for petrol, without passing on the benefits to consumers. At the State’s markets, wholesale traders are beginning to feel the pinch of the price hikes, as there are talks of freight charges going up if the prices continue the upward trend. “Following the lockdown, we have all been suffering due to the meagre sales. Much of the rice supply to this region, especially the preferred varieties of Jaya and Surekha rice, comes from Andhra Pradesh. Transporting companies have not yet increased rates because even they are desperate to get the business going. But, this sharp rise in fuel prices will soon reflect in commodity prices,” says Santosh Kumar, who runs a wholesale rice dealership at Chala market in Thiruvananthapuram. Autorickshaw drivers across the State, who are still recovering from the weeks of lockdown, are staring at the fuel price hike with alarm. “People are still wary of travelling in autorickshaws due to the fear of the virus. So, we don't get the same number of trips as we used to get. With a 50 paise price increase, we lose Rs. 30-40 in daily savings. There won’t be any corresponding increase in our minimum charges,” says M.Hussain, an autorickshaw driver. Double whammy Delivery agents of online food delivery aggregators are now facing the double whammy of increasing fuel prices and drastic cut in incentives. “The small savings that we make daily depend on lower fuel prices and more incentives. Now, the reverse is happening, at a time when many of us are struggling to make ends meet,” says Mahir, a delivery agent. Post deregulation of fuel prices, the prices have only gone up, and rarely fallen, although the promise in the early days of deregulation was that the benefit of fall in the global crude oil prices will be passed on to customers.
14 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NIRF rankings reflect neglect of tech research||The dismal show by engineering colleges in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) rankings has come as a grim reminder of the stagnancy in the field of technical education in the State. Only five engineering colleges under State universities could make it to the list with two figuring between 201 and 300. While many argue that the ranking system did not take into account factors that vary from State to State, there is consensus within the academia and the industry that the scant importance reserved for research in Kerala’s academic system. “We struggle to transform our examination-oriented education system to one hinged on research and innovations,” says Saji Gopinath, CEO, Kerala Startup Mission and Director, Indian Institute of Information Technology and Management Kerala. Echoing the view, APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University Vice Chancellor Rajasree M.S. emphasised the need to create interdisciplinary research ecosystems that nurture start-ups on campuses before enabling them to set up base in IT parks. The failure of higher education institutions in collaborating with research institutions and industrial organisations has also been a dampener. Anoop P. Ambika, CEO of Technopark-based CLAP Research and executive committee member of Group of Technology Companies (GTech), a consortium of Information Technology (IT) companies in the State, said colleges must include industry experts among the faculty in various disciplines. “The initiative will motivate students and encourage teachers to reshape the way knowledge is imparted. We need to clearly redefine our higher education system if we are serious about promoting Research and Development (R&D),” he said. Educationist R.V.G. Menon said the teaching community should remain in sync with the changing times. For this, quality, rather than seniority, should be made the criterion for appointments and promotions. Dr. Rajasree also advocated governance practices that incentivised research and merit on campuses. Universities and colleges must give priority to equipping students with problem-solving skills rather than confining academic activities to the curricula, she said. Case for autonomy? The poor show by the engineering colleges in the NIRF rankings is bound to renew clamour for granting academic autonomy to colleges that have for long complained of being stifled in a university system. It also comes at a time when five self-financing colleges have applied for academic autonomy. The University Grants Commission is conducting inspections in three of them. While expressing doubts on whether autonomy could improve private colleges, Prof. Menon rued the opportunity that the College of Engineering Thiruvananthapuram (CET) had lost when it came close to attaining the status in the past. “While academic autonomy would have enabled CET in gaining quality, it continued to rest on its past laurels,” he said. Incentives for the best Proposing an alternative for autonomy Dr. Gopinath called for creating a multi-tiered system that would enable greater freedom for the best-performing institutions. Currently, the rules framed to accommodate the least-performing institutes prevented the better ones from raising their standards, he said.
14 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Opposition slams order on negative medical certificate||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Saturday said the State government had broken faith with the Keralite diaspora by insisting that those seeking to return home from abroad on chartered flights should produce a medical testimonial that they were COVID-19 negative. Mr. Chennithala said the ‘strange decision’ was against the spirit of the unanimous resolution adopted by the Assembly on March 12. In a gesture of political bipartisanship, the treasury and opposition benches had unanimously condemned a Central government order, which insisted that only persons with COVID-19 negative certificate could travel to India from Italy and South Korea, both pandemic hotspots. The State had said it had received students from Wuhan in China, widely considered to be the origin of the pandemic, and successfully quarantined and treated them. The Assembly had in one voice demanded the Centre to repeal the biased order. Chartered flights In the aftermath of the resolution, thousands of Keralites had left the Gulf for their home State. To make up for the lack of flights, several Malayali associations based in the Gulf came forward to hire chartered flights to send home pregnant women, children, aged citizens and those who had lost their jobs. However, the government had scuttled the yeoman service undertaken by Non-Resident Keralite (NoRK) organisations. In a letter to P.V. Radhakrishnan Pillai, president, the Bahrain Keraleeya Samajam, K. Elangovan, Principal Secretary, Industries and NORKA Department, said that only COVID-19 negative passengers could travel to Kerala. The condition applied to flights scheduled from June 20 onwards. Not applicable The order did not apply to trips planned earlier than the date. Mr. Chennithala said the condition set by the State government did not apply to Vande Bharat Mission flights operated by the Centre. He said it was almost impossible for passengers to procure a medical certificate stating they were COVID-19 free 48 hours before boarding the flight. Mr. Chennithala said passengers arriving on chartered flights should be treated the same way as other arrivals and put through the pandemic control protocol. The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has also slammed the order. The party said it had discriminated against those fleeing the pandemic in the Gulf. Govt. clarification A government official clarified that the State was constrained to issue such an order because arrivals had contributed majorly to the increase in COVID-19 caseload in Kerala. An estimated 2,20,000 persons had arrived in Kerala from within the country and abroad. Roughly 64% of them were from COVID-19 ‘red zones.’
14 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Body of Pozhiyoor native exhumed||The body of a Pozhiyoor native, who had allegedly died of heart attack three months ago, was exhumed on Saturday following allegations of foul play being raised by his relatives. The remains of John, 51, a fisherman, was exhumed from the cemetery of St. Mary Magdalene Church at Paruthiyoor, following which a post-mortem examination was conducted. An ex-NRI, John had died on March 6. His wife and children had claimed that he died after suffering a cardiac arrest. The exhumation was ordered after John’s father Mikhael raised doubts regarding the death. He alleged that John’s family denied him treatment and also concealed his body prior to the funeral. He also claimed that John feared for his safety and had been threatened.
14 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CCTV to nab people dumping waste||The city Corporation has begun placing CCTV cameras in different places along the Amayizhanjan canal, to identify those who dump waste into the canal, Mayor K.Sreekumar has said. Mr. Sreekumar was speaking after carrying out a site visit to assess the ongoing cleaning activities in the canal near Pazhavangadi. He said that the timely clean-up of the canal by the Corporation has prevented major flooding of the area during the monsoon rains.  Rs. 1-crore clean-up The civic body is cleaning up the Amayizhanjan canal from the Masjid near Thampanoor to Pattoor at a cost of Rs. 1 crore. The clean-up work till the railway track near Vanchiyoor has been completed till now. Earth movers have been employed to remove the waste from the canal.  Wall rebuilt The protective wall on either side of the canal is being rebuilt at places where they are damaged. The region from Pattoor to Kannammoola will be cleaned up as part of the next phase of the canal rejuvenation project.
14 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Official found dead||A 49-year-old senior Secretariat official was found dead in the Vamanapuram river in Chirayinkeezhu on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Ila Divakaran of Ottaplamukku, Chirayinkeezhu. An under secretary at the Records Section in the Secretariat, Ila had gone missing on Friday. The police suspected the death to be due to suicide.The deceased is survived by her two daughters. Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA: 1056, 2552056.
14 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP flays govt. move on COVID-19 tests||The State government is paving way for corruption by insisting that patients should produce COVID-19 test results for undergoing surgeries in hospitals, BJP State president K. Surendran has said. Private labs alone stand to gain from such a decision. The government should review the order and ensure free tests to all, Mr. Surendran said.
14 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Njattuvela markets on the anvil||Agricultural activities pertaining to the Subhiksha Keralam project will be undertaken adhering to COVID-19 safety norms, Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar said on Friday. Karshaka sabhas (farmer forums) and Njattuvela markets, an integral part of the activities, will be organised by Krishi Bhavans under the aegis of the local bodies till the end of the Thiruvathira Njattuvela. Through the forums and Njattuvela markets, the Agriculture Department aims to ensure the availability of good quality planting material, participation of farmers in agricultural development activities, and grievances redressal. The Thiruvathira Njattuvela lasts from June 21 to July 4.
14 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mathrubhumi: P. V. Chandran elected chairman||P. V. Chandran has been elected chairman of the board of directors of Mathrubhumi Printing and Publishing Co. Ltd. M. V. Shreyams Kumar has been appointed managing director, a statement issued by the daily said. Mr. Chandran will continue to function as the whole-time director and managing editor. P. V. Gangadharan, presently director, has been appointed whole-time director of the company. Mayura M. S. has been elected whole-time additional director. The board of directors had met on Saturday.
14 June 2020||THRISSUR,KERALA||Plasma therapy: patient’s condition improves||The condition of a COVID-19 patient, who underwent plasma therapy at Thrissur Medical College Hospital, recorded slight improvement on Saturday. The 51-year-old man of Guruvayur who arrived from Delhi is under ventilator care. However, he is not out of danger according to hospital sources. Plasma has been given to improve immunity of the patient. The plasma was given with the Apheresis system installed at the hospital at a cost of Rs. 20 lakh recently. A person who recovered from COVID-19 donated the plasma. The therapy was done under the guidance of the transfusion medicine wing and anesthesia wing of the hospital. The doctors expect further improvement in the condition of the patient in coming days.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Shifting moods||
14 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP govt. striking at our financial interests, alleges JC||“The YSRCP government is politically victimising our family by striking hard at our financial interests,” TDP leader and former MP J.C. Diwakar Reddy has alleged. Mr. Diwakar Reddy was reacting to the arrest of his brother and former MLA Prabhakar Reddy and his son Ashmit Reddy here on Saturday. A bail application would be moved in the court on Monday as advised by the lawyers, said Pavan Reddy, son of Mr. Diwakar Reddy. “Mr. Prabhakar Reddy has not been named as an accused in any of the FIRs lodged by the Transport Department. But, at the behest of the political bosses, the department, along with the police, has foisted cases against him and his son,” Mr. Diwakar Reddy alleged. “It is difficult to fight the might of the YSRCP government, but we will legally fight it out in the court,” Mr. Diwakar Reddy said. “The government cannot touch bigwigs such as TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu, and hence has been targeting people such as K. Atchannaidu and Mr. Prabhakar Reddy,” he observed. ‘We are real victims’ “We had lodged a complaint with the Nagaland Director General of Police on February 7 when we came to know that we had been cheated by a middleman called Muthu of Ashok Leyland while selling the vehicles to us with fake invoices,” Mr. Prabhakar Reddy said. “Why is the government not concentrating on that aspect?” he questioned, and added that they were in fact the actual victims. “The Transport Department has been targeting the fleet of buses being plied under the banner of Diwakar Travels and seizing the vehicles on frivolous grounds. The court ruling too was in our favour. But its directives are not taken into cognisance,” he alleged.
14 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nani invites Naidu for debate||Transport and I&PR Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) has invited TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu for an open debate on the “corruption and other malpractices” during the TDP term from 2014 to 2019 and the agitations being staged by the opposition party leaders criticising the booking of cases against MLA K. Atchannaidu and former MLA J.C. Prabhakar Reddy. Mr. Venkataramaiah gave details of the circumstances that led to the filing of cases and arrest of Mr. Prabhakar Reddy. The Minister said the Jatadhara Industries Private Limited and the C. Gopal Reddy & Company had bought 154 chassis and engines of BS-III lorry-trailers in 2018 from Ashok Leyland as scrap and registered them as BS-IV vehicles at Kohima in Nagaland by producing fake invoice and insurance documents. The Transport Department found that 98 vehicles did not have insurance and were plying with fake insurance certificates, he said. Four such chassis purchased as scrap were converted into buses and being operated in Anantapur under the Diwakar Travels banner, the Minister said. “For the sake of earning money, TDP leaders are putting the lives of people at risk, besides polluting the environment,” he alleged.
14 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Top priority being accorded to public health: Minister||Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas on Saturday said the government was committed to according top priority to public health, for which Rs. 16,000 crore would be spent to improve conditions in the primary health centres, area and teaching hospitals. Mr. Srinivas, who is also Deputy Chief Minister, was inspecting government lands at Madanapalle and Nimmanapalle mandals in the district for the medical college hospital sanctioned for the Rajampeta Lok Sabha constituency. Another Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy, Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy, and Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta took part in the inspections. Addressing the media at Nimmanapalle, Mr. Srinivas said the government would soon initiate steps to create 9,700 new posts in the Medical and Health Department. Another major initiation would be to create as many as 11,000 village clinics in the State, which included 417 in Chittoor district. The objective behind establishing one medical college in every parliamentary constituency was to give a boost to rural healthcare, he said. “The government wants to provide quality medical education to the rural poor on a par with those in the urban areas. More number of medical colleges and teaching hospitals will help the rural poor avoid travel to the urban areas for medical care,” he said. “Medical and paramedical personnel will be available at the village clinics even during night,” he said. Government lands at Pothabolu, Sanitarium, Venkappa Kota, and Rachavetivari Palle were being inspected, he said, adding that after a report from the district Collector, tenders would be called for construction of the colleges in August.
14 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mumbai’s NGO extends help to people in remote hamlets in Chittoor dist.||A Mumbai-based charity organization on Saturday provided emergency relief material to about 1,500 poor families in Vedurukuppam, Karveti Nagaram, GD Nellore, Chittoor, Bangarupalem and Palamaner mandals. Volkart Foundation Indian Trust supplied provisions, groceries, facemasks and sanitisers to the people, a majority of whom were from remote hamlets at forest-fringe areas. Volunteers of the Rural Organization for Poverty Eradication Services (ROPES) undertook the relief distribution. The team also enlightened the persons about the COVID guidelines. In view of the lockdown and absence of transportation facilities, several families here, which depend on agriculture or cottage industries or forest produce for a living, had been cut off from the mainland areas for the last two months. Relief measures too could not reach them. “We had informed the Volkart Foundation of the situation in hamlets and requested them to provide relief to poor families. We have also identified about 2,000 more families in need of relief in forest-fringe villages of Bangarupalem and Palamaner mandals,” the ROPES chairman, K. Dhanasekharan said. ‘Timely help’ When the residents of YSR ST Colony in Vedurukuppam mandal and Jandlapeta ST Colony in Karveti Nagaram mandal received the material, they were a surprised lot. Kalavathi (25), a farm worker in Vedurkuppam mandal, said that with the agricultural activity yet to pick up for the khariff, she had been finding it difficult to support her family of five. She said the delivery of relief material at her doorstep was need of the hour.
14 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police bust Rs. 1.41 lakh cyber fraud in two days||The Chittoor cybercrime police on Saturday busted a cyber crime within 48 hours of its detection. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar on Saturday told reporters that a credit card holder at Palamaner town found that an amount of Rs. 1.41 lakh was siphoned off from his account on Thursday. Prior to the fraud, the victim got a call from an online fraudster that he would help improve the former’s credit score, which would help him in multiple ways, including reduction in credit repayment and fresh loans. Believing this, the victim had revealed certain important details pertaining to his account. In a few hours, the victim’s credit card was compromised and a large amount of money siphoned off. Immediately, the victim launched a complaint with the Palamaner police, who in turn referred the case to Cyber Cell Inspector Ramesh. After an investigation, the fraudster was identified. Investigation on The siphoned money was redeposited into the complainant’s account. An investigation is on.
14 June 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chintamaneni arrested, sent to judicial custody||The police on Saturday produced former government whip and TDP leader Chintamaneni Prabhakar and eight of his followers in court, which remanded them in judicial custody. Eluru DSP O. Dilip Kiran said the former TDP MLA, along with the party activists, gathered on the NH at Kalaparru toll gate and allegedly tried to block the vehicles in which former Minister Atchannaidu was being shifted to Vijayawada, on Friday. “The TDP leaders and his followers assembled on the highway violating government orders and COVID-19 protocol. We booked the accused under Epidemic Diseases Act, wrongful assembly and other charges,” the DSP said. All the nine accused were remanded in judicial custody for 15 days and were shifted to Eluru Sub-Jail.
14 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. not vengeful’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu is apprehensive about his role in various scams getting exposed and is thus lamenting over the arrest of his partymen, Chief Whip G. Srikanth Reddy has said. Mr. Srikanth Reddy said that the government was not taking vengeance on the TDP leaders. “It will take action against the corrupt,” he added.  “We have no grudge against TDP leaders. Our role is to protect public money and bring to book those who looted it,” he said.
14 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police book case against Yanamala, Chinarajappa||The police on Friday night registered a case under SC, ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 against seven persons, including former Finance Minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu and former Home Minister Nimmakayala Chinarajappa, on charges of bid to perform the “second marriage” of the son of former Kakinada Rural MLA under Thondangi police limits in the Ewast Godavari district. The wedding being held at A.V. Nagaram was stopped by the police on the night of June 10. The Thondangi police have registered a case based on the written complaint by Manju Priya. Thondangi Sub Inspector Ch. Vidhya Sagar said the cases were registered based on the complaint received by the Disha police station, Kakinada, on June 10. On June 10, Ms. Priya reportedly approached the police seeking help to stop the reported wedding of her husband, Pilli Radhakrishna, with another girl at A.V. Nagaram village. Mr. Radhakrishna is the son of P. Anantha Lakshmi, former TDP MLA from Kakinada Rural. According to police, Mr. Radhakrishna married Ms .Priya in 2011 and they have two children. However, his family allegedly did not “accept” the wedding. “We stopped the second wedding of Mr. Radhakrishna with another girl on the night of June 10 based on the directives from the Disha police,” said Mr. Vidhya Sagar. Ms., Priya alleged that Mr. Ramakrishnudu and Mr. Rajappa reportedly supported the wedding of her husband and were reportedly found at the wedding ceremony on June 10. The other accused in the case include the complainant’s in-laws P. Anantha Laksmi and P. Satyanarayana. No arrest has been made so far and the investigation is on.
14 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||23 APSP constables test positive||Twenty-three constables of the Third Battalion of the AP Special Police (APSP), who were deployed in the COVID-19 containment duty in Guntur and Vijayawada recently, have tested positive on Saturday. The battalion is stationed in Kakinada city. “Twenty-three among the 101 constables who have just returned from their duty in Guntur and Vijayawada have tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday on our campus in Kakinada. We have requested Joint Collector (Development) Ch. Keerthi to shift our personnel to a hospital or the nearest quarantine facility,” M. Nagendra Rao, Additional Commandant, said. “We do not have sufficient accommodation that meets the home quarantine parameters on our campus. Any delay in providing health care will lead to the spread of the disease among the other constables in the battalion,” Mr. Nagendra Rao told The Hindu .
14 June 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fresh cases rise unabated in Nellore district||Influx of people from other States coinciding with Unlock 2.0 pushed the Coronavirus case count further in SPSR Nellore district on Saturday. The total number of confirmed cases shot up to 407 with 22 more persons contracting the virus. Nellore city accounted for a maximum of 10 fresh cases followed by Sullurpeta reeling under the impact of COVID-19 hotspot of Koyambedu with six new cases. The dreaded disease started to spread to more areas in the district bordering Tamil Nadu. Sitharamapuram and Kavali reported 2 new cases each and Venkatchalam and Rapur one case each, a health bulletin released by the District Medical and Health Office said. Thirteen cured patients were discharged from the designated COVID-19 hospitals in the district. Seven of the cured persons were discharged from the COVID-19 Isolation ward at the Government General Hospital and the rest from private Narayana hospital. Screening Health officials, led by Yashawant, screened over 40 patients who came from other States by two special trains. Eleven persons who came from the high risk States of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi were quarantined. The officials feared spurt in new cases in the coming weeks coinciding with lifting of unlock 4.0. District Collector M.V. Seshagiri Babu appealed to the people protected themselves from the viral disease by voluntarily taking precautionary measures such as wearing masks while stepping out their homes, maintaining social distancing and avoiding unnecessary travel.
14 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco growers stall auctions||Irate tobacco growers stalled the e-auctions in Podili in Prakasam district on Saturday in protest against the Tobacco Board’s decision to allow sale of black perished low(BPL) grade variety. Leading the protest, Tobacco Growers Welfare Association president S.Venkateswara Reddy insisted that the Board take steps to liquidate the fast-discolouring medium and bright grade varieties of tobacco at a remunerative price before allowing BPL variety on the floors. “We will not part with low grade tobacco at a price less than Rs. 100 per kg,” a group of farmers said. Some farmers who were persuaded by the officials to bring at least a few BPL bales to the auction platforms in the Southern Light Soil(SLS) region went back without selling them following pressure from fellow farmers. Some others did not bring the BPL variety of tobacco for auctions, fearing that the market for other varieties might go southwards if its sale was allowed at this juncture. Farmers usually sell BPL variety at the fag-end after exhausting their authorised quota. In case it is not sold, they use it as a bio-fertilizer in their farms. No demand Farmers are in deep trouble this year as the prices offered by traders for low grade and medium grade varieties after lockdown was less than 30% over the prices prevailing before. Except for F1 and F2 varieties, which are short supply this year, there is no demand for other grades of tobacco in the market. The Tobacco Board has decided to facilitate sale of BPL variety of tobacco, which fetches farmers about Rs. 25 per kg as against a high price of Rs. 180 to Rs. 200 per kg for bright grade tobacco, on all Saturdays at the request of traders who wanted the BPL variety for mixing it with tobacco purchased from Karnataka.
14 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP protests arrest of party leaders||Activists of the Telugu Desam Party staged a demonstration here on Saturday in protest against the ‘undemocratic’ arrest of party leaders K. Atchennaidu, J.C. Prabhakar Reddy and the latter’s son J.C. Asmith Reddy allegedly on “trumped up” charges. Leading the protest, former Prakasam district Zilla Parishad chairman N. Balaji said that the YSRCP was acting with a ‘political vendetta’ as it was unable to face the TDP politically, which he said was all out to expose the YSRCP’s misdeeds in the State Assembly during the next Assembly session. “CM Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is trying to destabilise the Opposition party by offering inducements to TDP leaders ready to crossover and foist cases against those who question the ruling party, ” LIDCAP former chairman G. Ericson Babu alleged.
14 June 2020||Special Correspondent,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 more held in ‘Divya murder case’||On Saturday, the police arrested two more persons in the alleged murder case of 22-year-old Divya. The arrested include Divya’s husband Veerababu and her uncle Krishna. Earlier, six persons were arrested in the case. According to the Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena, the investigating team had earlier sought the police remand of the six who were arrested for further questioning. The police are also in the process of reopening the 2014 triple murder case at Ravulapalem in East Godavari district to establish the missing links in the case. In 2014, Divya’s mother, grandmother and her younger brother were allegedly kidnapped and murdered by a rowdy-sheeter at Ravulapalem and his gang members. The rowdy-sheeter was arrested and he had allegedly confessed to kidnapping and killing the three. But the police then were able to locate only the body of the grandmother, said Mr. Meena. The investigating team suspects that Krishnaveni, aunt of Divya and wife of Krishna, might have played a key role in the entire episode. She is one among the prime accused in the case.
14 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||APRCET postponed||Sri Venkateswara University’s Director of Admissions M. Venkateswarlu has announced that the Andhra Pradesh Research Common Entrance Test (APRCET-2019) for conducting counselling/admission from June 17 to 25 stands indefinitely postponed due to the COVID-19 situation. The new dates will be announced later.
14 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Atchannaidu sent to judicial custody||Former Labour Minister and Tekkali TDP MLA K. Atchannaidu and retired Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) director C.K. Ramesh Kumar were sent to 14 days judicial remand in the ESI scam. Police shifted the MLA to Guntur Govern ment General Hospital (GGH) for treatment on Saturday amid high security. The ACB police arrested the MLA, Mr. Ramesh and four other ESI employees in the scam on Friday. Police produced the duo in the ACB court, which remanded them in judicial custody on Friday midnight. The remaining would be produced in the court today (June 13), the officials said. Following the directions of the court, Mr. Atchannaidu was kept in Vijayawada Sub-Jail for a few hours. Later, the former Minister was shifted to the Guntur GGH and police arranged tight security at the GGH. About 19 persons, including the former Labour Minister, three retired ESI directors, five joint directors, ESI employees and directors of four companies allegedly violated the rules and resorted to irregularities in purchasing drugs, surgical equipment, furniture, computers and laptops and other material, all worth about Rs. 988 crore. The ACB and the Vigilance and Enforcement Office are investigating the multi-crore fraud case.
14 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yet another highest single-day spike of 222 cases, two deaths||The State has witnessed two more COVID-19 deaths and 222 fresh cases, which is so far the highest single-day spike. Of the total fresh cases, 186 are of locals allegedly due to community transmission. It is also the highest single-day tally witnessed so far. The death toll has gone up to 82 and the tally mounted to 5,858 as of 9 a.m. Saturday, according to the Health Department's bulletin. With the recovery of 94 more patients, the number of recovered patients increased to 3,185 and the active cases are 2,591. The tally of local cases went up to 4,588 while 202 are of foreign returnees and 1,086 are or migrant returnees and people of other states. The deaths occurred in Krishna district death rate of which has now crossed 4% mark with a total of 27 deaths. Meanwhile, Kurnool the worst-hit district has reported 53 fresh local cases while Kadapa and Krishna reported 26 and 25 fresh cases respectively. The other fresh cases among locals are reported in Anantapur (15), Guntur (13), West Godavari (13) East Godavari (11), Nellore (9), Visakhapatnam (9), Srikakulam (5), Chittoor (5) and Vizianagaram (2). Among migrant returnees and other state people 33 new cases and among foreign returnees three new cases were reported. The district tallies of local cases as of Saturday morning are as follows: Kurnool (925), Krishna (665), Guntur (612), Anantapur (418), Nellore (383), Chittoor (350), East Godavari (320), West Godavari (272), Kadapa (242), Visakhapatnam (201), Prakasam (99), Vizianagaram (62) and Srikakulam (39) according to the data available on State’s COVID dashboard.  Tests Meanwhile, the State crossed the 10,000 mark in tests per million population ratio as it completed 5,36,750 tests so far including 14,477 tests conducted during the past day. The tests per million population ratio is 10,051 tests per million considering the State’s estimated population of 5.34 crore. It also means that one person in every hunderd people has been tested in the State so far.
14 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Why is govt. silent on other major scandals, asks Kanna||Welcoming TDP MLA K. Atchannaidu’s arrest for his alleged involvement in the ESI scam, BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana on Saturday questioned the reason for the government’s silence on other major scandals. Amaravati lands In a press release, he said investigation into corruption in the Polavaram project and land scandal in Visakhapatnam did not make significant progress. Similarly, the probe into insider trading of lands in Amaravati did not make any headway, he added. The YSRCP government should make public the outcome of the investigation into various scandals, he demanded. Sand mafia Stating that illegal sand business continued unabated in the State, he alleged that a few YSRCP leaders were involved in it. The government should arrest them and release a White Paper on the sand issue, he added. “There is insider trading in the purchase of lands for housing programme initiated by the YSRCP government,” he alleged, and said that the BJP’s demand that it should be investigated fell on deaf ears. The series of scandals that surfaced in recent years and the inaction of the successive governments give the impression that the YSRCP and the TDP had been sharing the booty, the BJP leader observed.
14 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||5 more held in ESI scam||Officials of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) arrested five more persons in the ESI scam and produced them in the court on Saturday. They were remanded to judicial custody. ACB Joint Director (JD) P.V. Ravi Kumar said retired ESI director G. Vijay Kumar, retired joint director (Kadapa) Dr. V. Janardhan, superintendent in the office of Director of Insurance Medical Services, M.K.P. Chakravarthy, senior assistant, DIMS, I. Ramesh Babu and Venkata Subba Rao, staff in Central Drug Store, were arrested on Saturday.
14 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Major shuffle of IPS officers in State||The State government on Saturday issued orders shuffling 17 IPS officers. Vijayawada Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao was transferred and posted as the Director General of Police (Railways). Additional Commissioner of Police, Vijayawada Police Commissionerate, B. Srinivasulu, took over as the Commissioner. Additional DGP, Railways, N. Balasubramanyam (on leave), was posted as the Additional DGP, Organisation. Kripanand Tripathi Ujela was posted as the Additional DGP, Road Safety. DIG P.H.D. Ramakrishna was posted as Director, Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB). Srikakulam Superintendent of Police R.N. Ammi Reddy was transferred and posted as Guntur (Urban) district SP and Amit Bardar, APSP 3rd battalion commandant, was posted as Srikakulam SP. Visakhapatnam city Law and Order-II DCP Udaya Bhaskar Billa was posted as AIG (Administration) and Aishwarya Rastogi was transferred and posted as DCP Visakhapatnam Police Commissionerate. Visakhapatnam Law and Order DCP-I S. Ranga Reddy was directed to report at the AP Police Headquarters, Mangalagiri. Visakhapatnam (Rural) SP Babujee Atttada was transferred and posted as SP, SIB. APSP 6th battalion commandant B. Krishna Rao was posted as Visakhapatnam (Rural) SP. Guntur (Rural) SP Ch. Vijaya Rao was transferred and posted as Vijayawada Railways SP and K. Narayana Naik was transferred and posted as West Godavari district SP.
14 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sreenivasulu is Vijayawada Police chief||Bathini Sreenivasulu, a 1998 batch IPS officer, was on Saturday posted as new Vijayawada Commissioner of Police. He succeeds Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala, who has been transferred. Mr. Sreenivasulu, who entered the police department in 1987, served in different places in the composite Andhra Pradesh in various capacities. He is recipient of AP Police Uthama Seva Pathakam, Police Medal for Gallantry, Indian Police Medal and President’s Police Medal. In 2000, the AP Counter Intelligence was established under his command, and he worked as SP for the same wing. The officer served as DCP, Hyderabad Central Zone, SP of Nalgonda and East Godavari districts and SP Intelligence, Hyderabad. Mr. Sreenivasulu served as DIG (Counter Intelligence), Hyderabad, Commissioner of Police, Vijayawada, Special Intelligence Branch, Vijayawada, and was elevated as Inspector General of Police (IGP), and was posted as IG at the APSP Battalions.
14 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prime accused in group clash arrested||The Central Zone police on Saturday arrested Koduru Manikanta alias Pandu, who was said to be the main accused in the group clash that took place under Patamata police station limits on May 30. More than 30 persons were allegedly involved in the clash in which Pandu’s rival and head of another group T. Sandeep died. Pandu and a few others were injured in the clash. The Patamata police, who are investigating the case, arrested 34 persons involved in the incident, and recovered knives, blades, iron rods and other material. Police recovered two knives and a blade from Pandu, who was discharged from the hospital. He was running a chicken centre, the police said.
14 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GFC rankings: GVMC hopeful of upgrade after team’s visit to plant||Assessment team from the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) inspected Construction and Demolition Waste Recycling Plant at Kapuluppada area on June 12, after the officials from the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) complained about its rating in the Garbage Free Cities (GFC) Star Rating 2020 last month, despite having the plant. The team checked the recycling unit and enquired about the functioning. It was learnt that the third-party team had updated about the status of the plant to the officials of Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM). It may be recalled that the civic body had applied for five-star rating the GFC Star Ratings 2020. On May 20, the GVMC was declared one-star in the results, while Tirupati and Vijaywada secured three-stars. The GVMC officials claimed that the third-party team appointed by the ministry failed to visit the plant, due to which the civic body has secured zero in the desirable parameters category. “Last month, we met the SBM officials in New Delhi and brought the issue to their notice. We have updated all documents related to the plant during the assessment also. The SBM officials might have directed the team to inspect the plant,” said GVMC Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao. After the team’s visit to the plant, the civic body is hopeful of upgrade in the ratings soon. It may be noted that the GFC rating may have an impact on the Swachh Survekshan results also.
14 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||6 new cases take tally to 258||Six new COVID-19 cases were reported in Visakhapatnam district on Saturday taking the tally to 258. Twelve patients who were being treated got discharged from hospital after testing negative on Saturday. According to Special Officer for COVID-19, P.V Sudhakar, the total number of active cases as on Saturday is 121, while the number of discharges is 136. One person died from Chengalraopeta from the district. According to Dr. Sudhakar, the total number of clusters in the district are 72. There are 34 very active clusters which reported cases in the last four days. The number of active clusters and dormant clusters are 19 each. Nine clusters were already denotified, he said.
14 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leaders protest against arrest of partymen||Activists of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) continued their protests against the arrest of party MLA K. Atchannaidu and party leader J.C. Prabhakar Reddy at the party office here on Saturday. Holding posters against the YSR Congress Party, they alleged that in order to divert people’s attention from the failures of the government, the YSRCP was arresting the TDP leaders. Addressing a press conference, TDP leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu said the serial arrests of TDP leaders in the State is an attempt to stifle Opposition voice against the government’s failure. He also condemned Atchannaidu’s arrest without any prior inquiry and notice. He also asked the YSRC Party leaders to come for debate over the development in the State in the last one year. The TDP leader slammed Minister Botcha Satyanarayana over his comments against TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu. He alleged that Volkswagen had left Visakhapatnam due to the bribes demanded by Mr. Satyanarayana.
14 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Infant goes home a hero after beating COVID-19||A four-month-old infant undergoing treatment for coronavirus has won the hearts of hospital staff after making a full recovery within three weeks of testing positive, at the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS). “The infant, from Rampa Chodavaram in East Godavari district, tested positive for coronavirus 19 days ago and was brought to VIMS from Kakinada in a critical condition. However, he displayed immense grit as he beat the virus into submission and tested negative on Friday, after which he was discharged from hospital,” said VIMS Director Satya Varaprasad. Doctors are baffled as to how the infant contracted the virus, as none of his family members have tested positive. “The baby was in a critical condition and was on a ventilator in Kakinada when he was referred to VIMS. Hailing from the Agency area of East Godavari district, The baby was put on high oxygen flow for four to five days, after which he began responding to treatment.,” said Dr. Varaprasad. “Taking it up as a challenge, the doctors and nurses put their best foot forward to treat the baby, and it is a commendable effort on their part,” Andhra Medical College principal Dr. P.V. Sudhakar said. “It was a relief for the entire district administration ,” said District Collector V. Vinay Chand. “While the baby was breastfed by his mother, we had to make sure that the mother was not infected by coronavirus in the process,” said the Director of VIMS. “Now, he is hale and hearty and has been discharged after he tested negative for coronavirus twice,” said Dr. Varaprasad.
14 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU to release research admission schedule next week||Andhra University has decided to release admission schedule for research scholars by next week. Speaking to The Hindu, Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy said the admissions will be made online. The selected candidates have to upload their certificates and also pay the fee through online, he said. The admission has been delayed due to the outbreak of COVID-19 and the lockdown. “After the admission process is completed, the research work also can start online and physical presence will be called for only after things become normal,” he said. APRCET, the examination for admission into research across various universities and colleges in the State, was conducted by the AU from November 8 to 11, 2019. A total of 13,574 candidates had attended the test out of 16,885 who had registered. The interview part was also completed by February 20, but the admission has been delayed due to the lockdown.
14 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ECoR Waltair Division introduces electric vehicles in place of diesel ones||For the first time in Indian railways, the Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (ECoR) has introduced electric vehicles in place of hired diesel vehicles to meet the day-to-day operational and maintenance of assets of the railways. In order to reduce the pollution and running expenditure, Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava conceived the idea of inducting electric vehicles with the help of the ECoR Women’s Welfare Organisation, Waltair. The vehicles were procured by ECoRWWO. The e-vehicles were inaugurated by Shalini Shrivastava, president of ECoRWWO. Mr. Shrivastava, Madhulika Saxena and Usha Ramachandra Rao, vice-presidents, and Madhuri Kasipathi, secretary, ECoRWWO, Ramanna, former Senior Divisional Electrical Engineer, and M. Mahesh Reddy, Senior Divisional Electrical Engineer(operations) were among those present.
14 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two firms win VMRDA competition for concept design||Designs of two Mumbai-based architecture firms have been selected by the committee formed by the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) in the competition for concept design for the building of proposed planetarium project at Kailasagiri. The VMRDA officials said that Studio Emergence won the first prize with a cash prize of Rs. 2 lakh, while second prize with Rs. 1 lakh cash prize was won by The JR Project, Mumbai. A total of 66 firms registered, out of which 13 architect firms/architects had submitted their concept designs and related documents online, they said. A four-member committee which includes Additional Commissioner, VMRDA – Member Convener, Manazir Jeelani Samoon, former Curator, Science City, National Council of Science Museums (NCSM), Shaik Jeelani Saheb, and professors from Andhra University, K. Srinivasa Rao and G. Viswanadha Kumar, verified documents, designs and presentations through online video conference.
14 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will begin work on Bhogapuram airport soon: GMR||The GMR Group, in the presence of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in Amaravati, signed a concession agreement with the State Government for the construction of the Bhogapuram international airport on Saturday. Chairman G.B.S. Raju said that the firm was keen on commencing construction of the airport at the earliest after completing all formalities and procedures. The proposed airport will come up in 2,200 acres of land in Bhogapuram mandal, which is 45 km from Visakhapatnam. The project involves design, building, finance, construction, development, operation and maintenance of a greenfield international airport for a period of 40 years, extendable by 20 years, through an international competitive bidding process with GMR Airports having the Right of First Refusal of 10%. Mr. Raju hoped that the establishment of the airport would lead to a steady growth in passenger traffic. “We are very happy to be partnering with Government of Andhra Pradesh to develop, operate and manage the prestigious Bhogapuram International Airport. In line with our past record of creating world-class infrastructure, including the iconic Terminal 3 at Delhi International Airport, we aim to build a truly world-class airport at Bhogapuram which would be a matter of pride for the State of Andhra Pradesh and provide a further fillip to the economic potential of this region.” he added. GMR Airports Limited Chief Innovation Officer S.G.K. Kishore said that they are looking forward to commencing construction at the earliest. “Bhogapuram Airport is a strategically located high-potential airport. It will be a welcome addition to our growing portfolio of Indian and global airports,” he said. GMR Group’s airport portfolio has around 172 million passenger capacity in operation and under development, comprising the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi, Hyderabad’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport and Mactan Cebu International Airport in Philippines.
14 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. violated human rights’||The TDP continued its protests at Srikakulam, Palasa and several other places against the arrest of former Minister K. Atchannaidu, who underwent an operation recently. TDP senior leader and former MLA of Palasa Gowthu Shyam Sundar Shivaji and TDP district president G. Sireesha said that the government had acted in an inhuman manner while arresting and shifting him from Tekkali to Vijayawada without any rest and medical care. They organised a protest at Palasa and demanded action against the police personnel who ‘violated human rights’. TDP Srikakulam former MLA Gunda Lakshmi Devi condemned the arrest and said that it was an attack on backward classes.
14 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Develop area around proposed airport’||Former Union Minister for Civil Aviation P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju on Saturday asked the State Government to develop infrastructure adjacent to the proposed international airport at Bhogapuram in Vizianagaram district. Addressing the media here, Mr. Gajapathi Raju alleged that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was not interested in development infrastructure in the area. “The GMR Group was given only 2,200 acres instead of 2,700 acres. The remaining 500 acres of land should be utilised for development of infrastructure. Only then will more jobs would be created for locals,” Mr. Gajapathi Raju said.
14 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||DLSA conducts jail adalat||Adilabad District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) on Saturday conducted a legal awareness camp cum jail adalat in the District Jail and disposed of 36 cases. DLSA Secretary Kancha Prasad, Senior Civil Judge Uday Bhaskar Rao, Director of Prosecutions Badradri, Assistant Public Prosecutor Devender and Deputy Jail Superintendent R. Shobhan Babu attended.
14 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police foil ‘Godavari jala deeksha’||Police arrested Congress leaders across the State on Saturday morning as they headed for various projects on the Godavari river to highlight ‘corruption’ and ‘injustice’ being done to projects started by the erstwhile Congress regime. Some were picked up late in the night while on their way to the project sites while others were not allowed to come out of their houses as police blocked their respective residences with vehicles and heavy deployment of personnel. Interestingly, no police personnel were seen at the residence of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy. But he was unable to move out as all his colleagues were arrested across the State, thus interfering with his plans. Congress Legislature Party leader Bhatti Vikramarka was placed under house arrest at Wyra in Khammam while a large posse of policemen were stationed at the residence of TPCC working president and Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy. MLA stages dharna Manthani MLA D. Sridhar Babu, who had planned to organise the ‘jala deeksha’ protest at Sripada Yellampalli Project in Ramagundam mandal, was arrested in Manthani. He sat on dharna at his home, protesting against police excesses. MLC T. Jeevan Reddy was arrested in Jagtial on his way to Tummidihatti in erstwhile Adilabad district and PCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar was forced to stay put at the Sircilla Congress party office. In Karimnagar town, TPCC official spokesperson Medipalli Satyam was arrested and his attempts to visit UMD project site were foiled. Former PCC Chief V. Hanumantha Rao and former MLC Ramulu Naik were arrested at Yellandu guest house and shifted to Kothagudem police station while they were going to Dummugudem project. Former Minister Shabbir Ali was also confined to his home. MLA T. Jagga Reddy, TPCC working president J. Kusum Kumar and AICC Secretary Ch. Vamshichand Reddy were placed under house arrest in Hyderabad. TPCC general secretary H. Venugopal Rao was arrested at Ramgundam. However, AICC Secretary A. Sampath Kumar, along with Congress workers, reached Gouravelli reservoir giving the police a slip. Speaking to the media there, he criticised Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and demanded that all the projects started by the Congress party be completed immediately. Later, he was arrested and moved to Husnabad police station. In Adilabad, AICC leader G. Sujatha and her supporters were put under house arrest and prevented from proceeding to the site of the Chanaka-Korata inter-State barrage across Penganga river in Jainad mandal where they were slated to stage the jala deeksha protest. In Kumram Bheem Asifabad district, the in-charge of party affairs in Sirpur constituency, Palvai Harish Babu and his supporters were taken to Kagaznagar police station early in the morning as part of the preventive arrests. Many others from respective mandals were also stopped from proceeding towards the site of the Pranahita barrage across Pranahita river in Tummidi-Hatti village in Koutala mandal. Congress leaders, including former Ministers P. Sudarshan Reddy and Mohammed Ali Shabbir, were also detained at their respective houses. Among those who were detained included TPCC general secretaries Gadugu Gangadhar and B. Mahesh Kumar Goud, DCC presidents Manala Mohan Reddy (Nizamabad) and Kailash Srinivas Rao (Kamareddy), former DCC president of undivided district Taher Bin Hamdan and in-charge, Zaheerabad Lok Sabha constituency Madan Mohan Rao. Bhadrachalam MLA Podem Veeraiah was arrested while on his way to Seetharama project while Mulug MLA Seethakka was prevented from going to Devadula project. Ms. Sethakka released a video criticising the ‘dictatorial’ rule in Telangana.
14 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Medicos want exams put off||The fear of contracting coronavirus has gripped final year post-graduate (PG) students in the State who have requested postponement of the final examinations scheduled from June 20 and giving them Senior Residency like in other States. The PGs said that if all of them convened in one hall to take the exams, the virus might spread among them if any of them was an asymptomatic carrier of the virus. Their fears became pronounced after two PG students at Nizam’s Institute of Medial Sciences (NIMS), who took exams from June first week, tested positive for coronavirus. The two resident doctors were sitting one after the other in the hall. However, it is not yet established whether the two students had contracted the infectious disease from the examination hall. The PG students attend duties as part of their course. If any of them aspires to get a job in government hospitals in the future, they have to work for one year in the hospitals. This is called Senior Residency. The third year PGs who are set to take exams are allowed not to attend duties from May. “The virus might spread when all of us sit in the same hall for the exams. We have been off duty for the past one month to prepare for the exams. Rather, the exams can be postponed and our services can be used in the current situation to attend patients at hospital. A few States have opted to grant Senior Residency to the final year PG students and will conduct exams on a later date. This will help students and the government," said a final year student from Osmania Medical College (OMC). Another PG student from Gandhi Medical College (GMC) said they wear Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) while attending COVID-19 patients, which keeps them relatively safe from the virus. “A few of us are day scholars. So we will have to go to our homes after taking exams. Our families could get exposed to the virus,” the GMC PG said. If the authorities were to go ahead with their plans to conduct the exams, the medicals students sought clarity on measures taken to prevent spread of the virus if anyone had it. “Physical distance will be maintained. But what if one among us in the exam hall is an asymptomatic carrier?” the student asked. Meanwhile, four PG students from OMC and GMC, who tested positive for coronavirus and have been under isolation and treatment, are not clear if they will be allowed to take the final exams which are six days away. Even if they complete 14-day isolation at hospital or home, they should be under quarantine for 14 more days. The medical students also want to know the measures to be taken, if they are allowed to take exams, to ensure that they do not spread the virus to others in the examination hall.
14 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cash dearth ‘handicaps’ healthcare||Ten-storeyed twin towers for treating patients near Osmania General Hospital (2016), four super-speciality hospitals in four corners of Hyderabad (2017) and five new medical colleges (2018); these were some of the promises over the years for improving healthcare in Telangana. But, all these promises have tumbled at budgetary hurdles. As doctors at Gandhi Hospital demand medical facilities for treating COVID patients, the lacunae in medicare in the State becomes more apparent. The Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad is about 300 km from Adilabad, 313 km from Bhadrachalam, 292 km from Kaleshwaram and 200 km from Narayanpet. The plight of a COVID-19 patient who has to be ferried to this medical facility from these far off places can be easily imagined. “Symptomatic patients and those who have co-morbidities are deteriorating rapidly within a span of 12 or 24 hours. Transporting such patients to these distances would be of limited use,” says Dr. Mahesh Kumar, who has been campaigning for better medicare in the State. The situation would have been different had the State executed a plan to build five medical colleges in Mahabubnagar, Siddipet, Nizamabad, Suryapet and Nalgonda. Budgetary support was earmarked for these in 2018-19. In 2020-21, the Telangana government earmarked Rs. 5,666 crore for health, which is 3.5% of the overall budget. This was lower than an average of 5.3% by 29 other states. This is also lower than Telangana’s own budget of 2016-17, where Rs. 5,960 crore was earmarked for health. The budget that year included a plan for creating four super-speciality hospitals in Hyderabad, Rs. 600 crore for acquiring new medical equipment and Rs. 316 crore for augmenting medical facilities. The plan was toned down to three super-speciality hospitals around Hyderabad in the 2017-18 budget, which had an outlay of Rs. 5,920.27 crore. The budgetary support for medical health has consistently declined over the past few years in Telangana. In 2016-17, it was 4.3%, in 2017-18, it was 4.6%, in 2018-19 it was 4.7%, it dropped to 4% in 2019-20 and is now estimated at 3.5% of the overall budgetary support. This decline has had its impact on the State’s health goals. According to the Socio Economic Survey-2019, the Maternal Mortality Rate was 92 (SRS 2011-13). This was projected to decline at 11 pts per year and reach 38 by 2016. But the newest Sample Registration System of 2015-17 shows the MMR for Telangana at 76, almost twice the projection. “Primary and secondary healthcare are important but every case is now reaching tertiary health centre. This is problematic and leads to overcrowding,” says Dr. Kumar, citing data from the National Health Mission. Telangana had 668 public health centres, 114 community health centres and 4,863 sub-centres in 2015. These numbers changed marginally to 882 PHCs, 90 CHCs and 4,797 sub-centres in 2019, according to the State annual report on health.
14 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Consumers rue big bills as discoms fail to convince them||As the domestic and commercial category electricity consumers rue paying huge energy bills received this month based on the actual consumption for the last three months and political parties blame the two power distribution companies for the inflated billing method devised, efforts being made by officials have failed to cut ice with consumers so far. Accepting complaints Realising that their oral assurances of transparency in the billing system have failed to convince consumers, the two discoms have now decided to accept complaints on energy bills both physically in the electricity revenue offices and customer service centres, and also electronically over e-mail and on social media platforms such as Twitter and Facebook. After receiving the complaint, the consumer concerned would be sent a billing worksheet within two days explaining how the bill has been arrived at. On the general complaint that taking the three months’ average energy consumption was changing the billing category to LT-I(B)(ii) – consumption of above 200 units a month – from LT-I(B)(i) – consumption between 101 and 200 units – for most of the domestic consumers and from LT-I(A) to LT-I(B)(i) for some, the officials have little explanation to offer except that there was no other option but to divide the three months consumption into three parts since the actual consumption data was not collected in April and May. However, they point out that “there’s no way to know the exact month-wise energy consumption” in March, April and May. “Even if we take the last year’s consumption for March and April, the bill for May consumption would be very high compared to previous months if the three months’ average consumption is more than 600 units,” an official said. The officials also admit that the method implemented for billing the March-May consumption would be beneficial for some and result in loss to some others. Calibration blues Meanwhile, it is learnt that some technical snags in re-calibrating the hand-held devices used by energy meter readers to collect the data of actual energy consumption by consumers has also led to misgivings about the billing. Due to some errors committed in re-calibrating the devices, consumers in some areas have got the bills with electronically-generated bills for March and April consumption in April and May as paid although some consumers have not paid either one of the two months or both months. ‘Bill not inflated’ “Such bills give an impression that the consumer concerned has paid bills in April and May but by showing some amount in the arrears row of the bill, the amount to be paid has become inflated in spite of adjustment of the ‘amount paid’. However, the total bill amount is not inflated and is in tune with the energy consumed and actual payments made in April and May,” explains a Southern Discom official. The Southern Discom has asked the consumers to lodge complaints by visiting their ERO or through e-mail to customerservice@tssourthernpower.com or on social media platform accounts: TsspdclCorporat@twitter and gmcsc.tsspdcl@facebook.com.  Discoms to accept complaints on energy bills at electricity revenue offices, customer service centres, via e-mail and on social media platforms such as Twitter (TsspdclCorporat@twitter) and Facebook (gmcsc.tsspdcl@facebook.com) On receipt of complaint, the consumer concerned will be sent a billing worksheet within two days explaining how the bill has been arrived at QUOTE: Even if we take the last year’s consumption for March and April, the bill for May consumption would be very high compared to previous months if the three months’ average consumption is more than 600 units. A discom official
14 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||95 forest parks to be developed in State||Urban forest parks being developed by the government will function as oxygen factories in the coming days, said Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar here on Saturday. Mr.Somesh Kumar inspected the Oxygen Urban Forest park at Kandlakoya in Medchal district along with forest department officials and went round the park for about three hours and enquired about rejuvenation of forests, conservation of soil and humidity, development of root stock, type of plants that can be grown in Telangana, plants to be raised in urban parks, environmental benefits and facilities to visitors. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests R.Sobha explained the significance of the fully developed oxygen park and the Chief Secretary expressed happiness over the beautifully developed park. He enquired about the timing of plantation of various trees, their growth, number of visitors to the park and examined the facilities for visitors and the walk-in Aviary. He later planted some saplings in the park along with forest officials and released Silver Pheasant birds into the Aviary. There were large tracts of forest lands surrounding Hyderabad and 59 urban forest parks were being developed at a distance of five km from the Outer Ring Road and 32 of them were already completed. There was a plan to develop 95 forest parks through out the State, Mr.Somesh Kumar said. Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao would have a meeting with District Collectors and senior officials on June 16 and apart from other issues in the agenda, the meeting would discuss Haritha Haram, development of parks in rural and urban areas.
14 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Shift COVID patients to Gachibowli facility: CPI||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has suggested the State government to shift COVID-19 patients from Gandhi Hospital to the special facility readied at Gachibowli – Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences – to reduce the stress on doctors infrastructure. In a letter addressed to Minister for Health Eatala Rajender, State secretary of CPI Chada Venkat Reddy said on Saturday that COVID cases were increasing rapidly in Hyderabad over the last two weeks and as a result, doctors and support staff were also contracting the virus. “Although the government had readied the Gachibowli hospital two months back with 1,500 beds, no patient has been admitted there so far. It has made no effort to fill 20,000 doctor and paramedical posts lying vacant for so long. Availability of such human resources in public health sector would have eased the work load on doctors working tirelessly for the last three months,” he said. Mr. Venkat Reddy also requested the TS government to shift COVID patients admitted to King Koti, NIMS and other government hospitals in Hyderabad to the Gachibowli facility. Meanwhile, Indian Doctors for Peace & Development, in a memorandum to the Minister, requested the government to supply homeo medicine Arsenic Alb-30 to improve the immunity power. It was recommended by the AYUSH department of the Centre.
14 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Improve health infra, Eatala urged||Senior health professionals, public health administrators, teachers, activists and other members of the civil society addressed a letter to Health Minister Eatala Rajender, expressing concern about the government’s response to the COVID-19 epidemic, and the recent incident where attendants of a deceased patient had beaten up a junior doctor at Gandhi Hospital. Demands by junior doctors should be considered as an important feedback for better treatment of COVID-19 patients, the letter said. Adding some more suggestions, the letter asked the government to immediately improve the infrastructure and functioning at Gandhi Hospital, and decentralise COVID-19 treatment at various levels of health facilities, including district hospitals, to prevent mounting pressure on a single hospital. The newly-inaugurated COVID-19 speciality hospital at Gachibowli should be fully operationalised, and steps should be taken to augment and strengthen manpower. Adequate relief should be provided to young doctors, nurses and attending staff through rotating shifts, and proper resting rooms. Representatives of the frontline medical staff should be included in the advisory committee to the Health ministry to raise problems faced by health staff, the letter said. Private hospitals should be involved with Aarogyasri coverage for BPL patients. The letter was signed by 45 persons, including representatives of Anveshi Health Group and Human Rights Forum, Shanta Sinha from MV Foundation, former CS Minnie Mathew, medical professional Evita Fernandez, former health secretary Sujatha Rao, academics Rama Melkote, Padmaja Shaw, Channa Basavaiah, and K. Satyanarayana, and other doctors.
14 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Suggest methods to help mineral-based industries, Institution of Engineers urged||Telangana State Planning Board Vice-Chairman B. Vinod Kumar has requested the Institution of Engineers (India) Telangana Centre to prepare a report with specific suggestions for mineral-based industries to overcome the crisis induced by coronavirus. Speaking during the valedictory session of a webinar conducted by the IEI on Saturday on the ‘Impact of COVID-19 on the Mineral-based Industry’, Mr. Vinod Kumar felt that the impact of COVID was on all countries in the world and several overseas companies in China were looking outwards now for relocating their operations. The present crisis was a huge opportunity for India but it needed a proper and specific time-bound strategy to take advantage of the emerging scenario, he said. Mr. Vinod Kumar suggested the IEI to prepare and submit reports to the State government on utilisation of District Mineral Foundation Trust (DMFT), auction of coal mines, commercial mining, mining equipment manufacturing, modern mining methods, allowing foreign direct investment in mining in Telangana. Apart from mining engineers in different parts of the country, mining experts from Australia and Sweden have also participated in the webinar. The event was chaired by IEI Telangana chairman G. Rameshwar Rao and several engineers presented their technical papers. TSCHE chairman Prof. T. Papi Reddy and SCCL general manager K. Ravishanker also spoke.
14 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM meeting with all Collectors on June 16||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will convene a meeting with Collectors on Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and agriculture at his office-cum-residence here on June 16. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said the Chief Minister wants all Collectors to attend the meeting at 11.30 a.m. that day. He said that the Collectors should also ask their respective Additional Collectors (Local Bodies), District Rural Development Officers, Chief Executive Officers of Zilla Parishads, District Panchayat Officers, District Forest Officers and District Agricultural Officers to attend the meeting along with them. In the absence of Collectors, Additional Collectors of respective districts would look after the current duties of the Collectors at the headquarters, he said. The meeting may discuss linking MGNREGS with agriculture and take a decision, said sources.
14 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Why admit himself to a private hospital?||Malkajgiri MP and TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy said the government’s tall claims on providing best facilities at Gandhi Hospital were exposed after TRS MLA from Jangaon got admitted to a private hospital after testing positive for COVID-19 Mr. Reddy was speaking at a protest programme organised by the Telangna State Union of Working Journalists (TUWJ) at Basheerbagh in memory of journalist D. Manoj Kumar, who died of the virus recently. He said the MLA should have gone to Gandhi Hospital to increase confidence of people and the doctors. Mr. Reddy said the government should explain how it was spending Rs. 3.5 lakh on each COVID patient while the doctors and nurses were complaining of inadequate facilities. The death of Manoj and his final messages showed poor conditions in the State’s only COVID hospital, he said. He also handed over a cheque for Rs. 2 lakh to the journalists’ welfare fund. IJU president K. Sreenivas Reddy, ex-PCI member K. Amarnath, TUWJ general secretary, Virahat Ali and IJU leaders Majeed and Y. Narender Reddy were present.
14 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two medicos of NIMS test positive for virus||The total number of healthcare professionals at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) who were detected with COVID-19 reached 46 as two post-graduate students from the institute tested positive for coronavirus. The two post-graduate students who took the examinations from June 1to June 7 were seated one after the other in the examination hall. Around 65 students took the examinations. The results of the samples of the remaining 63 medical students were awaited. To date, apart from five faculty members, 17 resident doctors, six nurses, nine technicians, nine workers had tested positive. Following the theory exams in June first week, practical exams at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences would be held from June 17. While students from Osmania Medical College and Gandhi Medical College want their theory exams scheduled to be held from June 20-24 to be postponed, NIMS Resident Doctors Association (RDA) president G Srinivas said post-graduate students from the institute wanted practical exams to be conducted as per schedule from June 17. “We spoke to all resident doctors who want the practical exams to be conducted by making special arrangements for the two who tested positive,” Dr. Srinivas said.
14 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KNRUHS V-C against postponing exams||Officials of the Telangana Health department said that medical post-graduate students might miss appearing for entrance exam for super-specialty courses if the final year exams were not conducted now. They have been postponed twice till now. The Vice-Chancellor of Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences (KNRUHS), Dr B Karunakar Reddy, said that if the examinations were not conducted now, they might not be able to conduct them in coming months with virus cases expected to rise. There are over 1,200 PG students at medical colleges affiliated to the KNRUHS. They are from clinical, para-clinical and non-clinical courses. Only PG students from General Medicine, Pulmonology and Anaesthesia courses (clinical courses) attend COVID-19 cases. Officials said that students from other courses were keen on completing the exams. “Many students took loans, or are dependent on their parents for finances. They want to go ahead with their financial plans.” Dr Reddy said. On precautions at exam halls, the V-C said that measures would be taken and students with symptoms would be allowed to take exams in a separate hall. The same would be implemented for those who contracted COVID-19 and were cured.
14 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pay Rs. 2L to each migrant: CPI asks contractors||National secretary of the Communist Party of India (CPI) K. Narayana demanded that contractors give Rs. 2 lakh each to migrant workers coming back to take part in construction works. Speaking to the media through a video-conference on Saturday, he stated that all governments and managements had recognised the importance of migrant workers for economic activities. “Without them, projects and economic activities are not possible. However, both contract companies and local governments have failed to understand their problems during lockdown,” he said. “The migrant workers would have stayed back had they been given at least Rs. 10,000 or they should have been sent back to their native place by the agencies who hired them. They were forced to walk back home thousands of kilometres away,” he added. The CPI leader said their party would encourage such sections to come back to work provided Rs. 2 lakh each was deposited to their accounts. He faulted Prime Minister Narendra Modi for taking ‘wrong’ decisions while imposing and lifting lockdown. “Now that the situation is against a lockdown in spite of huge spike in coronavirus cases, the way out is to increase tests and improve the treatment facilities,” he said. He also criticised the Centre for selling public sector undertakings. Dr. Narayana requested the Centre to not accept the proposal of the Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) to pay in advance for treatment of COVID patients by private hospitals.
14 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mayor tests negative again||Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan has tested negative for coronavirus. This is the second time he has been tested in the last one week, both times without symptoms. He was first tested after visit to a tea shop at Musheerabad during a sanitation drive, where a waiter had been previously diagnosed with the infection. The result was negative. The Mayor’ssamples were collected again, after two from his peshi tested positive.
14 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Positive student writes to Governor||A PG medical student from Osmania Medical College, who tested positive for coronavirus, has requested Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan not to hold the third year PG exams till the pandemic subsides. The student, who requested anonymity, is now recovering. In a letter, he said OMC had become a hotspot for virus and that there was high risk to others going to take the exams. Many PGs from here tested positive. “I fear I may not perform well in the exams and risk losing an academic year because of an unfortunate incident. It is simply not possible to face everything simultaneously: health problem, studies, exam anxiety and social stigma.”
14 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||(with photo)||Twenty-four Gentlemen Cadets of an entry level technical course passed out from the Cadets Training Wing at the Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering on Saturday. They will join the officer cadre of Army as Commissioned Officers in the rank of Lieutenant. The parade was presided over by Lieutenant General T.S.A. Narayanan, Commandant.
14 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||ICFAI Law school and Pittsburg varsity sign MoU||ICFAI Law School, a constituent of the ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education has signed an MoU with the School of Law, Pittsburgh University, USA, for collaboration in the field of legal education, including exchange of faculty, students and research partnerships.
14 June 2020||JANGAON DT.,TELANGANA||TRS MLA tests COVID-positive||TRS MLA of Jangaon constituency Muthireddy Yadagiri Reddy reportedly tested positive of coronavirus and was admitted to a private hospital in the State capital late on Friday. He was stated to be stable. As per information, he is the first MLA from Telangana to test positive for the virus. He lives with his family in Hyderabad and visits his Assembly constituency only occasionally. On June 2, he participated in Telangana Formation Day celebrations in the district and also in farmers’ meetings. On June 5, he attended inauguration of a sub-station at Cheriyal village. Health officials collected 10 samples from the MLA’s family members and staff. Sources said they were under quarantine in the Noma function hall in Hyderabad. Officials are trying to trace all those the MLA had contact with during his recent tour to the constituency.
14 June 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Mamidyala oustees allege violation of LA Act||Has the district administration violated Section 38 of Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act-2013 (LA Act-2013) in providing rehabilitation and resettlement? That is the question being raised by land oustees belonging to submerging villages. Section 38 of LA Act-2013 states: “Power to take possession of land to be acquired: (1) The Collector shall take possession of land after ensuring that full payment of compensation as well as rehabilitation and resettlement entitlements are paid or tendered to the entitled persons within a period of three months for the compensation and a period of six months for the monetary part of rehabilitation and resettlement entitlements listed.” It further says, “In the Second Schedule commencing from the date of the award made under section 30: Provided that the components of the Rehabilitation and Resettlement Package in the Second and Third Schedules that relate to infrastructural entitlements shall be provided within a period of eighteen months from the date of the award: Provided further that in case of acquisition of land for irrigation or hydel project, being a public purpose, the rehabilitation and resettlement shall be completed six months prior to submergence of the lands acquired. (2) The Collector shall be responsible for ensuring that the rehabilitation and resettlement process is completed in all its aspects before displacing the affected families.” Rain woes Some oustees from Mamidyala, who challenged the district administration over implementation of LA Act-2017 (Telangana Amendement), were forcibly evicted on the midnight of April 30 and shifted to one-room houses constructed at Tunkibollaram. Rain water entered their houses following unseasonal showers, leaving them helpless. “We were thrown here without mercy on April 30. The authorities violated Section 38 of LA Act-2013. Our houses are surrounded by rain water here,” P. Srinivas, an oustee from Mamidyala told The Hindu .
14 June 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Road alongside canal caves in at Murkook||A road adjacent to a canal at Murkook caved in at the mandal headquarters town on Saturday. According to officials, heavy rains over the past two days had weakened the newly-laid road, resulting in a cave-in. They reasoned the incident was nothing unusual as it was the first spell of heavy rain since the road was laid.
14 June 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT.,TELANGANA||BRF||Three persons, including a six-year-old girl, tested COVID positive here on Saturday. While a 35-year-old constable’s five-year-old son tested positive on June 12, his wife (24) and daughter (six) tested positive on Saturday. Also, a 52-year-old man from Brahminwada in Warangal tested positive. He is neighbour of an Ayurvedic doctor, who tested positive.
14 June 2020||Agartala,||Tripura COVID-19 cases cross 1,000 mark||Tripura crossed the 1,000 mark of COVID-19. With 37 new detections, the tally has climbed to 1,001 on Saturday. People detected with infections have travel history, informed CM and Health Minister Biplab Kumar Deb.
14 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha reports 225 new cases||Odisha reported the highest single-day spike of 225 COVID-19 cases, taking its tally to 3,723 on Saturday. While 196 among them were reported from quarantine centres, 29 were traced from the community. Cuttack reported 92 cases, followed by Ganjam (20) and Khordha (19). Two lady doctors tested positive in Kalahandi
14 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Patients from Delhi coming to Punjab for free treatment’||The Punjab government on Saturday said several symptomatic people who failed to get any treatment in Delhi were coming to the State to get tested for COVID-19. “About 97% of those coming from Delhi since one month have tested positive and treated by the Punjab government,” said State Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu. He said it was a matter of concern that a large number of symptomatic people were moving from Delhi to Punjab to get free treatment. “Due to the massive outbreak in Delhi, people are battling for test, besides for beds in government hospitals,” he said. Punjab recorded 77 fresh cases on Saturday and reported two more deaths, taking the toll to 65, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases in the State has reached 3,063. Eleven cases were reported from S.A.S. Nagar and six from Pathankot district. The patients who died were from Amritsar district. Taking cognisance of reports of exorbitant cost of treatment in private hospitals, Mr. Sidhu warned of stringent action against such facilities, including cancellation of licences. Infected policemen State’s DGP Dinkar Gupta said 17 policemen had tested positive in a random sampling of 7,165 of a cross-section of personnel posted in police stations and front-line jobs, as part of a special testing drive.
14 June 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal Governor, TMC leaders spar over ‘fake news’||The Trinamool Congress leadership on Saturday launched an attack on West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, accusing him of spreading “fake news”. Senior Ministers and party MPs took to social media and made public statements against the Governor. Mr. Dhankhar responded by saying that senior leaders have taken to “tweeting rather than apologise for shaming our State”. What triggered the accusations were tweets by the Governor, where he raked up the issue of the video outside a city crematorium where civic workers are seen mishandling the bodies and called for an “immediate apology to society at large”. Mr. Dhankhar tagged the Chief Minister. The Governor said the Kolkata Muncipal Corporation Commissioner had updated him “about sordid saga of dead body disposal.” The video surfaced two days ago showing decomposed bodies being dragged into a KMC van in broad daylight. It was allegedly shot outside the Garia Crematorium where locals objected to the cremation. The administration has clarified that the bodies were not related to COVID-19 patients. Senior TMC Minister Partha Chatterjee said “all we expect from the Honourable Governor is to help us by not spreading Fake News ”. Urban Development Minister Firhad Hakim said while the government is working for people, “ others” are just interested in spreading “fake news”.
14 June 2020||new delhi,||Over 2,000 cases for second day in a row||As many as 2,134 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 38,958, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. This is the second-highest number of cases reported in a single day in the city, and the second consecutive day more than 2,000 cases have been reported. Also, 57 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,271. Of the total cases, 14,945 people have recovered and there are 22,742 active cases. Also, 5,776 new tests were done, which is less than 5,947 as per Friday’s bulletin. Of the total 9,714 beds in COVID-19 treatment facilities, 4,265 are vacant. There are now 241 containment zones in the city.     Fine for violating norms Meanwhile, Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal has empowers officials of Delhi's Health Department, DMs, SDMs, as well as Sub-Inspectors and above of Delhi Police to impose fines on people violating COVID-19 norms. For first offence, the fine will be Rs. 500; Rs. 1,000 penalty will be levied for repeating offences such as non-observance of quarantine rules, non-maintenance of social distancing, not wearing face mask in public/work places, spitting in public places and consumption of paan, gutka, tobacco, etc. in public places. If the fine is not paid on the spot, action under Section 188 of IPC will be taken  Increasing beds To increase beds for COVID-19 treatment, the Delhi government on Saturday ordered nursing homes with 10-49 beds to convert into COVID-19 nursing centres. Meanwhile, the Delhi government has allowed Sir Ganga Ram Hospital to restart its COVID-19 testing facility, the hospital said on Saturday. On June 3, the Delhi government has ordered the private hospital to stop RT-PCR sampling for COVID-19 testing for allegedly not using the RT-PCR app for collecting samples. On June 5, an FIR was registered against the hospital on the basis of a complaint by a Delhi Health and Family Welfare Department official, for the same. Seven other labs were also told to stop testing. All of them were allowed to restart operations by June 9.
14 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Some families do not tell us if the deceased was infected’||Priests at non-COVID-19 cremation grounds feel scared and vulnerable because they are unsure whether the bodies of people being cremated had tested positive for COVID-19 or not, said the priest to whom The Hindu spoke. At Ram Bodh Ghat cremation ground in Shahdara’s Jwala Nagar, five bodies were on the pyre on Saturday afternoon while the family of one waited along with others. The head priest, Vinod Sharma (53), said that the number of bodies coming in for cremation have increased in the past few weeks. “Usually, we get only four-five bodies on a daily basis but now we are getting 12 to 15 — almost thrice the number — every day,” he said. The priest said that he and the staff at the ground are often “misguided” by the deceased’s family due to which they feel they are at “high risk”. “Whenever people come with bodies for cremation, we ask them the cause of death of the person. There have been instances when people have not shared that the person could have had COVID-19,” he said. Sharing an instance from four days ago, Mr. Sharma’s son Sunny, who also manages the cremation ground, said that a family had come to cremate a man whose body had arrived from a private hospital in east Delhi and Mr. Sharma had asked them if the person had any COVID-19-related problems. “They denied and on Friday, they informed us that his test was conducted at the hospital and his reports were positive. The family said they were not aware,” Mr. Sunny said, adding that he is not sure if the family was lying about being unaware. A priest of Geeta Colony cremation ground, who did not wish to be named, had similar concerns. “These days, people are not able to get tests done and they eventually die. We do not know if the person who has died was infected with the virus [COVID-19]. If the person had symptoms before dying, and were not tested, then it puts many lives at risk,” the 49-year-old said. Mr. Vinod said that the as more bodies have started arriving in the past few weeks, they are finding it tough to manage. Sharing an incident from Saturday morning, he said that a family had come for the cremation of a person and they were told to wait for an hour and a half as five bodies had arrived at the same time. “They lost their cool which led to a fight and the police had to be called. We all reached a compromise later,” he said.  Sanitisation The priests shared their concerns over the issue of sanitisation of non-COVID-19 cremation grounds. While some priests said they were sanitising their area, others said that they expected civic bodies to take the responsibility. Mr. Sharma claimed that Ram Bodh Ghat cremation ground was not being sanitised by the civic body. “We are at a high risk. Four of our staff members, including two priests, have developed COVID-19 symptoms and they are quarantined,” he said.
14 June 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. plans makeshift hospital with 10K beds||The Delhi government is planning to create a tented 10,000-bed temporary hospital for COVID-19 patients in south Delhi, in line with preparation to deal with a projected surge of infection cases in the Capital. The planned facility is to come up at the south Delhi campus of spiritual organisation Radha Soami Satsang Beas located near the Delhi-Haryana border. It will be 1,700-feet-long and 700-feet-wide and have 200 enclosures with 50 beds each, according to Vikas Sethi, secretary of Radha Soami Satsang Beas, Bhati Mines. The makeshift hospital will be the largest such facility in the city so far. The work is expected to be completed by the end of June, he said, adding that the metal tent will also have lights and fans. Coolers will be needed, considering the heat. Medical staff can also be accommodated in a building on the campus, he added. The spiritual organisation gave its approval for the makeshift hospital recently even as the Delhi government is in the process of identifying community halls and stadiums which can be converted into makeshift COVID-19 hospitals. According to the Delhi government’s estimates, COVID-19 cases in the Capital are likely to breach the five- lakh mark by the end of July. One lakh beds needed Around one lakh beds will be needed for COVID-19 patients. So far, there are a total of 9,647 dedicated COVID-19 beds in Delhi government, central and private hospitals, of which 5,402 are occupied.
14 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man killed in presence of daughter||A 37-year-old person, a videographer by profession, was stabbed to death allegedly by three men outside his house in presence of his daughter in outer Delhi’s Aman Vihar on Thursday night, the police said on Saturday. A senior police officer said that the victim has been identified as Bharat Bhushan, a resident of Kiran Vihar, who lived with his family on first floor and ran his studio on the ground floor. The police said that on Thursday night, someone called Bhushan who stepped out of the house and his daughter followed him. The man started a discussion with Bhushan after which two more men joined. An argument broke out and one of the men stabbed Bhushan and they fled. The daughter alerted the family after which the victim was rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead. The police said that the family suspects that the victim was targeted as he used to object to public drinking and gambling in the area, but that the initial probe also hints at some financial dispute. A senior officer said that they have leads on suspects and raids are being conducted to nab them.
14 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Guard kills another after drunken brawl||A 56-year-old security guard allegedly killed another and set the body on fire after a drunken brawl in south Delhi’s Chittaranjan Park area on Friday, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar said that the accused has been identified as Imrat Singh, who hails from Madhya Pradesh, and the deceased as Sarnam Singh (56) who was from Uttar Pradesh. The police said that a local resident called them around 1.25 p.m. on Friday after the person noticed smoke coming out of the basement of a building where the accused guard lived. “When a police team reached the spot, the Imrat was found in an inebriated state. He said he had lit the fire to repel mosquitoes. However, a body was found after the fire was doused,” a senior police officer said. During sustained interrogation, the accused told the police that he killed Sarnam around 11 a.m. The two had consumed liquor. “He said that they had an argument after which the accused hit the victim with a sharp object and when he died, he set the body on fire,” the officer said. The victim was also a security guard in Greater Kailash area, the police said. The police said that the accused has been arrested and a murder case has been registered. Further investigation is under way, they said.
14 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Faulty data behind AMU’s slide in national rankings’||Aligarh Muslim University has 2,911 full-time research scholars. According to the Centre’s National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), however, the university has only 33. The faulty data resulted in AMU slipping from 18th to 31st place in the rankings released earlier this week. “This discrepancy in the number of PhD students enrolled at AMU has resulted in a false steep decline in our ranking,” university’s Vice-Chancellor Tariq Mansoor said in a letter to the National Board of Accreditation and Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Friday. “A higher NIRF ranking not only translates into better employment opportunities for students, but also forms an important basis for future funding, infrastructure support and other assistance by various government and other agencies.” He urged the HRD Ministry to rectify the discrepancy immediately. NIRF sources much of the data from institutions themselves. Prof. Mansoor said correct data, sent by email in March 2020 and also uploaded on the AMU website, showed the number of full time PhD graduates over the last three years was between 312 and 387. However, the NIRF site shows only 8-10 each year.
14 June 2020||new delhi,||L-G, CM to fix price ceiling for treatment of COVID-19||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will hold a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Tuesday to discuss fixing a price ceiling for treatment of COVID-19 at private hospitals. The meeting will also discuss charges levied by private ambulance services; and reducing prices for COVID-19 tests by private labs and drive-thru labs in Delhi, among other issues related to the management of the outbreak in the city.
14 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Jharkhand sends workers for border road projects||The Jharkhand government on Saturday sent about 1,648 migrant labourers to work in the projects of the Border Roads Organisation — a step towards institutionalising labour movement. These workers will be deployed in the BRO projects Vijayak and Himank in Leh-Ladakh and other regions along the India-China border. Chief Minister Hemant Soren flagged off a special train in the presence of the BRO officials in Dumka. More trains are scheduled to leave Dumka and adjoining areas after the completion of the workers’ registration process. “The monthly remittance should be transferred directly to the bank accounts of the labourers,” he said. He said these workers would contribute to national security. Earlier, a terms of reference was signed between the State Labour department and the BRO in the presence of the Jharkhand CM.
14 June 2020||Mumbai,||State has not given a single rupee to cyclone victims, says Fadnavis||Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday met Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and submitted a charter of demands from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to provide relief to cyclone-hit areas in the State. Mr. Fadnavis claimed the State government has not provided even a single rupee to the victims of Cyclone Nisarga in Raigad and Ratnagiri districts. In his letter, Mr. Fadnavis said, “Even 10 to 11 days after the cyclone, the visibility of the government and administration is zero. At some places, people have received aid in the form of two biscuit packets and three candles. Nobody has received the Rs. 10,000 in aid announced by the government. Even the work to rebuild electricity poles is slow and delayed.” Mr. Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar, Leader of Opposition in the State Council, had toured the cylone-hit regions over the last two days. Mr. Fadnavis said horticulturists have suffered major losses and the aid announced by the government is insufficient for them. ‘Waive loans’ “I have urged the CM to change the basis of providing aid and waive the loans of horticulturists and fisherfolk. We have also put forth our demands related to the tourism sector there. Even electricity has not been restored. This should be done at the earliest,” he said. On Friday, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief and former union minister Sharad Pawar held a meeting with Mr. Thackeray, apprising him about the situation in Raigad. Mr. Pawar had also embarked on a two-day tour of Raigad and Ratnagiri districts to take stock of the damage caused by the cyclone. State Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat on Saturday toured the cyclone-hit regions. He said, “Each and every person who has suffered losses and damages due to the cyclone will be compensated. The aid will reach them at the earliest.”
14 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Global ranking parameters to assess institutions are skewed’||Indian educational institutions fare poorly on global assessments — like in this week’s QS World University Rankings — as their parameters are skewed, says IIT-Delhi director V. Ramgopal Rao , suggesting that if a parameter on the cost of education was included, Indian institutes would rank in the top 50. In an interview with The Hindu , he suggested that the government highlight the conflicts of interest in the business model of ranking agencies, and also launch a global campaign on the lines of Incredible India to improve the perception of Indian higher education worldwide. Why are Indian institutions struggling to rise on these kinds of international rankings? On three parameters, Indian institutions don’t do well. In international faculty and international students, we get zero points as they look at the ratio of Indian to international students. On faculty-student ratio also, we perform very poorly, because we only count full-time faculty. But in a U.S. institution, even PhD students who teach a class, teaching assistants and research assistants, are included. Of the remaining parameters, one is research impact. We actually don’t do very badly. Last year, we were close to the 40th rank. The rest is all perception. In India, everybody knows us, what we are doing. But how many times do you hear of an IIT in Japan or Australia or New Zealand? Even a second-tier institution in the U.S. would be perceived to be better than a top institution in India. It also goes with the image of the country. Are these rankings useful in the Indian context? Well, the media is taking it seriously and it becomes front page news. The media has been taking it more seriously in the last couple of years because the government is taking it seriously. The Institute of Eminence scheme uses these rankings as a benchmark. These rankings are not being fair to India. For example, let them introduce a parameter on the cost of education. For a certain quality of education, how much do our students pay and how much would a student in the U.S. pay? If you introduce that and give it 20% weightage, Indian institutions will compete with the best in the U.S. These rankings all depend on what parameters you have and who benefits from that. These are all designed to pull up institutions in those countries. Do the benchmarks mentioned in IoE scheme need to be changed? In terms of measurable parameters, we can improve. For example, our research budget at IIT-D has gone up from Rs. 100 crore to Rs. 500 crore in the last four years. Even if you look at our citations, we have been growing, in terms of the number of papers, at least 20% per year. We would have doubled in the last five years. But if you look at our international rankings, nothing has changed. The Ministry says it has now formed a committee, including IIT directors to improve perception... The problem is that if I need to launch a campaign for IIT-Delhi, let’s say in New Zealand, I cannot do that. I don’t have resources to launch a campaign for my own institute. It has to be done at the government level. If the government launches a Study in India campaign for Indian education using a brand-building company and then advertises it on CNN, BBC, I think that would have created an image for our institutions. In the absence of that, it is difficult given that perception gets 50% weightage in some of these rankings. You have mentioned the possibility of using NIRF rankings globally. How would that work? NIRF is very transparent, it has government backing, and everything is based on the data. So I’m saying NIRF can join hands with QS or THE and then define parameters which suit Indian institutions.
14 June 2020||Panaji,||Goa orders testing at slums near COVID-19 hospital||After a few personnel from Goa’s dedicated COVID-19 hospital tested positive for the virus, the State government on Saturday ordered random testing at slums near the facility in Margao town. State Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said people living in slum areas around ESI Hospital will be tested for the novel coronavirus. Earlier this week, a few staffers of the hospital tested positive. “In view of cases detected at ESI quarters, I have directed the health secretary to test all employees there,” Mr. Rane said. Apart from this, random testing will be conducted in the slums of Azad Nagar and Moti Dongar, which are located near the hospital, the health minister said. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat, who is also Margao MLA, had requested for tests to be conducted. As on Friday, Goa has recorded 463 cases of COVID-19, of which 69 patients have recovered so far. The government has declared Mangor Hill in Vasco town of South Goa and Ghodemal in Sattari taluka of North Goa as containment zones.
14 June 2020||Pune,||Pune firm develops digital font of P.L. Deshpande’s handwriting||Fans of late Marathi litterateur P.L. Deshpande, popularly known as Pu La, can now enjoy reading his original handwriting in a digital font. The font, PuLa100, has been developed by city-based social media professional Gandhar Sangoram. The font was formally unveiled and made available for readers for free on June 12, the 20th death anniversary of the writer. “The idea to pay tribute to this legendary author by developing a digital font of his handwriting was conceived in his birth centenary year [2019]. Therefore the name PuLa100,” said Mr. Sangoram, the brain behind the idea and founder and director of Be Birbal, a digital media firm. Mr. Sangoram said the idea struck him considering the huge following of Pu La beyond boundaries. ‘Biggest challenge’ He said audience can never get to see the original handwriting of authors like Deshpande. He listed capturing the essence of Deshpande’s writing in the digital font as the biggest challenge as well as achievement. “The process started as an in-house exercise with data sampling of letters written by Deshpande. A font expert was brought on board to realise this dream,” he said. Mr. Sangoram said that Deshpande’s handwriting had a flow which was derived from the speed of his thought. “Every curve of every letter is a visual testament to a hand trying to keep up with the mind”. To take the physicality and tangibility of something as personal as someone’s handwriting, and making it digital and to immortalise the essence of that person, is our biggest achievement so far, said Mr. Sangoram. Readers can download the font from: http://www.bebirbal.in/pula100.
14 June 2020||Srinagar,||‘Our sons held by Pak. army are innocent’||Two families from north Kashmir’s Gurez on Saturday claimed that the two locals paraded by the Pakistan army before the media on Friday on the charges of spying “were residents of J&K’s Bandipora district and had no links with any spying agency ever”. “My son has been arrested by the Pakistan army on the charges of spying. I identified him in a video that went viral online on Friday. He is not a spy and should be set free,” said Abdur Rahim Lone, father of Feroz Ahmad Lone, 29. Missing complaint He said the family had lodged a missing report with the police after his son remained untraceable for many months. In a video appeal, he urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Pakistan counterpart Imran Khan to intervene and ensure his son’s release on “humanitarian grounds”. Another Gurez resident, Bashir Ahmed, said his nephew Noor Muhammad Wani was also seen blindfolded in the video released by the Pakistan army. “I adopted Wani after his parents died 20 years ago. He worked as a labourer and spent weeks away from home. We did not suspect him to be missing. I was shocked to see him surrounded by the Pakistan army. My nephew doesn’t even know the meaning of spying,” said Mr. Ahmed. He said he was hopeful that the Pakistan government would accept his appeal and release him. The Pakistan army showed Mr. Lone and Mr. Wani, both residents of Achoora in Gurez, confessing that they were sent to Pakistan by the intelligence agencies for spying. They were allegedly arrested in Gilgit area of Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir, which is close to Gurez.
14 June 2020||Surat,||8 diamond firms partly shut in Surat||With 23 workers employed in some diamond units in Surat city of Gujarat testing positive for COVID-19, the civic authorities have ordered partial closure of eight such firms and asked their other staff members to undergo 14-day quarantine. The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) said it has ordered closure of certain floors and departments of these eight diamond units located in the city’s Katargam locality, to contain the spread of the virus. Surat is the biggest diamond cutting and polishing hubs of the country. “In the last three days, 23 diamond workers have tested positive and the number is rising,” SMC’s deputy municipal commissioner, Ashish Naik, said on Saturday. With the detection of several positive cases, certain departments of diamond units, including Shivam Jewellers, SRK Empire, Dharmnandan Diamonds, Rinkle Impex, C Dinesh and Co, JB and Brothers, and Royal Diamonds, have been shut, the civic body said. Rs. 10,000 penalty The SMC also said the units where physical distancing norms were not being followed have been slapped with a penalty of Rs. 10,000 each. The SMC said it will continue to check diamond units to see whether norms like physical distancing, use of masks and sanitisers, were being followed to prevent the spread of the virus. All the workers in the diamond polishing units sit in close proximity while working. Over 20 people, who recently tested positive, worked at these units. Civic officials said family members of these workers have also been quarantined. Regional President of Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council, Dinesh Navadiya, said the diamond industry employs around 6.5 lakh workers in Surat. “There are around 6,000 diamond units in Surat that employ around 6.5 lakh workers. As per our calculation, from June 1, when these diamond units were allowed to reopen after lockdown, 2 lakh to 2.25 lakh workers have started working in these units,” he said. “We will meet SMC officials to discuss the matter. We will try to find a way out,” he said. Diamond polishing units restarted their operations this month after lockdown was relaxed.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Pilgrims’ progress||
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||India-China: the line of actual contest||The ongoing military standoffs with China at multiple points along the India-China border has turned the spotlight to the single most important element that has helped keep the peace across the Himalayas: the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Yet, what exactly the LAC is remains a source of much confusion. One possible reason for the confusion is that in the public imagination, it is sometimes spoken of in the same breath with that other contested three-letter abbreviation that is often in the news: the Line of Control (LoC) that separates India and Pakistan. They are different in one crucial way. With Pakistan, India has an international boundary, which has been agreed upon, and the LoC, which has been delineated on a map by both sides. In contrast, the alignment of the LAC has never been agreed upon, and it is has neither been delineated nor demarcated. There is no official map in the public domain that depicts the LAC. It can best be thought of as an idea, reflecting the territories that are, at present, under the control of each side, pending a resolution of the boundary dispute. In a strange irony, if the LAC is far less clear than the LoC, it has remained much more peaceful, with not a shot fired since 1975 at Tulung La. Where does the LAC run? For the most part, in the western sector, it broadly corresponds with the border as China sees it. There are differences in several points here, including at the very start of the LAC, which India reportedly pegs northwest of the Karakoram Pass, but China further south. In the eastern sector, it broadly corresponds with the border as India sees it, along the McMahon Line that separates Arunachal Pradesh from Tibet. In the middle sector and Sikkim, the LAC is broadly aligned with the borders as India and China see it, with minor differences here. Following the Tulung La incident, Delhi’s China Study Group set patrolling limits that India would stick to, in order to assert its LAC alignment — limits that are still being followed today. The problem is India and China do not agree on the alignment of the LAC everywhere. Differences in perception, particularly in 13 spots in the western, middle and eastern sectors of the border, often lead to what are called “face offs”, when patrols encounter each other in these grey zones that lie in between the different alignments. Some of these areas are Chumar, Demchok and the north bank of the Pangong lake in the western sector, Barahoti in the middle sector, and Sumdorong Chu in the east. Both sides agreed to protocols in 2005 and 2013 that describe the rules of engagement to handle such situations, but as the current stand-off at Pangong Tso reminds us, they haven’t always been followed. At Pangong Tso, India’s LAC runs at Finger 8, and China’s at Finger 4. The “fingers” from 1 to 8 refer to mountain spurs that run from west to east on the lake’s northern bank. Currently, Chinese troops have erected tents in the Finger 4 area and are preventing India from reaching its LAC at Finger 8, leading to a stand-off. Genesis In a November 7, 1959 letter to Jawaharlal Nehru, then Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai suggested the armed forces of both sides withdraw 20 km, as he put it, “from the so-called McMahon Line in the east, and from the line up to which each side exercises actual control in the west”. Yet where exactly each side believed it exercised control was a matter of debate, complicated by the fact that China’s alignments kept changing. The “LAC” it referred to in 1960 and 1962 wasn’t the same as 1959. When India and China signed the landmark Border Peace and Tranquility Agreement (BPTA) in 1993 , the first legal agreement that recognised the LAC, they avoided this problem by referring to the LAC at the time, and not the LAC of 1959, 1960 or 1962, all of which had different meanings. It isn’t widely known that many of the ideas in the BPTA had, in part, a Russian genesis. Following Rajiv Gandhi’s 1988 visit to China, both sides were optimistic of pushing ahead on talks on the boundary. In this time, they were exploring regimes to maintain peace and tranquillity, and looked at, among others, the ongoing China-Russia boundary negotiations. “It was not that we came to some Nirvana moment,” recalls Nirupama Rao, a former Foreign Secretary and Ambassador to China who had, in 1991, engaged with the Russians on this question as the then Joint Secretary (East Asia) in the Ministry of External Affairs. “For instance, the concept of mutual and equal security, which we included in the agreement, was a Russian term. This was a borrowed idea, like Eve being born from the rib of Adam.” No other basis besides the LAC suggested itself, writes former National Security Adviser Shivshankar Menon in his book Choices . “The status quo was the LAC, irrespective of what had been said about it in the past. The reference to the LAC would be unqualified, making it clear that it was the LAC at the time the agreement was signed that would be respected, and not some notional idea of where it was in 1959 or 1962.” As Mr. Menon writes, this unqualified reference to the LAC created “the unintended side effect of further incentivising the forward creep to the line by both militaries”, a consequence that both sides are currently dealing with at multiple points on the LAC. Clarification Both the 1993 BPTA agreement and the subsequent agreement on confidence-building measures in 1996 acknowledged that both sides would ultimately clarify the LAC. That process has, however, stalled since 2002, when China walked away from exchanging maps in the western sector. During a 2015 visit to China, Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a pitch to revive the process, saying in a speech in Tsinghua University that “a shadow of uncertainty always hangs over the sensitive because neither side knows where the LAC is in these areas,” he said. China rebuffed his request. Ms. Rao, the former Foreign Secretary, said that it wasn’t a surprise, and China had, in several territorial disputes, intentionally left its claims ambiguous. “The Chinese are masters at it. They don’t stick to positions, and their actions on the ground constantly defy things they have done in the past. The Chinese line has kept shifting. There is always scope for redrawing, and we have never had the chance to look at their maps.” The current stand-offs, Ms. Rao said, have underlined the challenge India faces on its borders. “If a problem has lasted so long, and there is no settlement in sight, we may need another generation or two to settle it. The only answer for us is to be prepared, continue to build our roads and improve our infrastructure, keep ourselves ready to deal with these contingencies, and play the game in a way that safeguards our interests.” The contest across the line isn’t going anywhere.  In Focus  In the western sector, the LAC broadly corresponds with the border as China sees it  In the east, it broadly corresponds with the border as India sees it, along the McMahon Line  In the middle, it is broadly aligned with the borders as both countries see it   The LAC can best be thought of as an idea, reflecting the territories that are, at present, under the control of each side, pending a resolution of the boundary dispute
14 June 2020||Perth,||Australian cities see big equality protests||Thousands of protesters rallied for racial equality in cities across Australia on Saturday despite official warnings the demonstrations could undermine the country’s success in suppressing the coronavirus. The biggest demonstration took place in the Western Australian capital, Perth, where several thousand people gathered in a park waving “Black Lives Matter” signs and Aboriginal flags. Smaller protests for Aboriginal rights were held in Darwin, capital of the Northern Territory, and towns in neighbouring Queensland — both regions with numerous indigenous communities. 400 custody deaths “We are here to support our future as indigenous people and to walk against the injustices of... what happens to our people, with over 400 black deaths in custody,” one unidentified protester told public broadcaster ABC at the Darwin march. With the exception of the Darwin demonstration, which had authorisation, the other protests violated official injunctions against mass gatherings instituted three months ago to curb the spread of COVID-19. But organisers made efforts to keep the protesters spread out and mostly wearing face masks, and police did not intervene. It was the second straight weekend of large protests in Australia, initially organised in solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement in the United States following the killing by a white policeman of African-American George Floyd. The movement has resonated particularly strongly with many in Australia, a country also wrestling with the legacy of racial injustice towards the country’s indigenous peoples. Aboriginal Australians are vastly over-represented in the prison population, and there have been more than 400 indigenous deaths in custody in the last three decades. No prosecutions have been brought over the deaths, despite dozens of investigations, inquests and in some cases video evidence of abuse. Many protesters carried signs reflecting the Aboriginal experience, including “Stop deaths in custody” and “White Australia stop lying to yourselves”. In parallel with the Black Lives Matter rallies, dozens of people protested in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne against the prolonged detention of asylum-seekers under the government’s tough refugee policies. Health regulations Police had banned all those protests for violating COVID-19 health regulations, but they took place largely without incident. Australia has been one of the most successful countries in containing the epidemic, with some 7,000 cases and 102 deaths for a population of 25 million. Health officials said this week that the virus had been virtually eliminated in many regions of the country, though there continue to be a some new cases daily in the most populous States of New South Wales and Victoria.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The journey to Washington||Champ, the measure of a man is not how often he is knocked down, but how quickly he gets up. Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee for the White House, would repeat these words of his father, perhaps suitable for his own life of tragedies and triumphs. There will be more in store for Mr. Biden, as he and the incumbent, U.S. President, Donald Trump, battle it out at the polls this November. Born into an Irish Catholic family in Scranton, Pennsylvania, in 1942, Mr. Biden moved to Delaware at the age of 11, as his father was in search of a stable job. Joe, the oldest of four siblings, struggled with a severe stutter and successfully overcame it and then going on to train as a lawyer. He worked at a law firm, before running for the U.S. Senate from Delaware. In 1972, Mr. Biden’s wife, Neilia and baby daughter Naomi, died in a car accident — his sons Beau and Hunter survived. Mr Biden had just won one of the Delaware seats to the U.S. Senate. Eventually he would remarry and have a third child. Mr. Biden would remain a Senator until becoming Barack Obama’s Vice-President in 2009. Tragedy struck him again in 2015, when Beau Biden died of brain cancer. As someone who spent decades on Capitol Hill, Mr. Biden, unsurprisingly, has a long track record which has won both praise and criticism. His long career has also meant shifts, over time, on positions. Mr. Biden has pitched himself as someone who can build consensus in Washington, and some of his legislative actions, he has explained as attempts to build compromise with Republicans. Controversial votes Other votes have been harder for Mr. Biden to defend. During the primary season, Mr. Biden was criticised for various votes, including his support in October 2002 for legislation authorising the President to use force in Iraq, or his opposition to court-mandated busing of students to desegregate schools. In April 2019, the Biden campaign announced that the former Vice-President had reached out to Anita Hill, who had accused Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas of sexual harassment. Mr. Biden had expressed regret for how he handled Ms. Hill’s accusations and her part in the process, when he was Chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee during the Thomas confirmation hearings in 1991. Also in 2019, there were allegations by women that Mr. Biden had made inappropriate physical contact with them. He reacted by saying that politics to him had always been about making connections but he would be more mindful in the future about personal space. Then came Tara Reade, a woman from Nevada who briefly worked as a staff assistant in Mr. Biden’s Senate office in the 1990s. Ms. Reade told a Nevada paper last year that Mr. Biden had touched her inappropriately when she worked at his office. This year, she said Mr. Biden had sexually assaulted her — a charge Mr. Biden has unequivocally denied.  Earlier this month, Mr. Biden had won 1,991 delegates and has, all but formally, won the Democratic nomination contest. In order to mobilise maximum support for an agenda from moderate and progressive Democratic voters, the teams of Mr. Biden and Senator Bernie Sanders announced “ unity” task forces to reach common ground on a range of policy areas — from climate to criminal justice reform. The two candidates differed significantly on several policy fronts — including healthcare and student debt. Foreign policy In terms of foreign policy, Mr. Biden has talked about restoring America’s moral leadership. He has said he will bring the U.S. back into the Paris Climate Agreement and renew America’s commitment to NATO. On China, Mr. Biden has proposed that the U.S. and its allies “get tough” while cooperating in areas such as health, climate change and so forth. He wants the “vast majority” of troops in Afghanistan and West Asia pulled out and an end to U.S. support for the Saudi-led war in Yemen. Mr Biden has consistently come out ahead of Mr. Trump in recent polls. With a raging pandemic, high levels of unemployment and widespread anger at the killing of George Floyd, Mr. Biden, if he wins the Presidency, will find himself occupying a crucial position in a world of chaos.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The battleground district||Once known for its golden apples, pears and tall mountains, Shopian, the extreme southern district of the Kashmir Valley, is now in news mostly over militancy. Of around 116 militants killed in Jammu and Kashmir so far this year, 28 (24%) were killed in encounters in Shopian, including the district ‘commander’ of the Hizbul Mujahideen. Between June 7 and 10, 14 militants were killed in three separate encounters in the sector. Spread over 412.9 sq. km and with a population of 2,66,000, Shopian is around 61 km away from Srinagar. Its boundary has a series of sky-scraping peaks of mountains of the Pir Panjal Range. These not-so-easily accessible mountainous ranges and dense forests have been providing shelter to local militants, turning this idyllic location into a hotspot of militancy in the Valley. In recent times, many top militants had camped in the region, including Riyaz Naikoo, the operations ‘commander’ of Hizbul. Naikoo, who hailed from Pulwama, used to appear at the funerals of slain militants and fire a volley of bullets into the air to galvanise youth support to militancy. He was killed in Pulwama on May 6. Last month, a local militant, identified by the police as Hidayatullah Malik from Shopian’s Sharatpora area, had provided his car with the intent to carry out a Pulwama-style attack in south Kashmir. However, Malik’s car, which was filled with 40 to 45 kg of explosives, was timely tracked by the security agencies and the explosives were detonated. “Most of the commanders active in the area have been killed this year,” said Vijay Kumar, Inspector General of Police, Kashmir. Active militants According to the police records, Shopian still has 27 active militants — Hizbul tops the list with 12, Jaish-e-Muhammad with seven, followed by the Lashkar-e-Taiba with six and Ansar Ghazwatul Hind with two. Security agencies have been able to maintain an upper hand in Shopian, which has otherwise a tendency to go adrift due to frequent upheavals. In January 2009, when two women were found raped and dead, with fingers of suspicion pointing towards the security forces, the region witnessed major protests. It resulted in a curfew-like situation for over 47 days and scores of youth died in clashes. Long before Naikoo and another militant ‘commander’ Saddam Padder (who was killed in May 2018), a close associate of slain Hizbul commander Burhan Wani, became familiar with Shopian, the district was known as the apple bowl of Kashmir. Shopian produced 2,72,000 tonnes of apples in 2018-19, the second highest among the 10 districts in Kashmir Valley after Kupwara. Around 21,669 hectares of land is used for apple cultivation, almost 70.5% of the total area. Shopian has a distinction of harvesting apples till late November-December due to its different weather cycles — summer starts late but winter sets in fast. The ancient imperial road commonly known as Mughal Road, puts the district geographically on an important juncture. Mughals used Shopian to reach the Valley in summers. Its famed apple and accessibility to the plains of Poonch in the Jammu division made Shopian one of six Wazarat (district) headquarters in Kashmir between 1872 and 1892. Jamaat bastion Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI), which was floated in 1942 and drew its inspiration from Islamic theologian Abul Ala Maududi, has also built considerable influence in Shopian. Saaduddin Tarbali, who became the first amir (head) of the JeI, imparted the Jamaat ideology in Shopian. The organisation held sway in Shopian, with its well-read cadre starting schools and welfare programmes across the district. The organisation was banned in February 2019 for a five-year period under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, second time since the militancy broke out in 1990s. Scores of Jamaat leaders remain behind the bar. Militancy is not the only development that makes news in Shopian. The 2018 urban local bodies elections changed the political make-up of the district. The BJP fielded 13 candidates in 13 wards out of 17 and won unopposed. Of the 13 winning candidates, 11 were Kashmiri Pandits, who migrated in the face of militancy in the 1990s. Many of them have returned to serve people on many fronts.
14 June 2020||Moscow,||Local officials disagree with Putin on holding Victory Day parades||When President Vladimir Putin ordered Russia’s annual military parade to be rescheduled for later this month, he cast it as a sign of life returning to normal in his virus-stricken nation. But when a Muscovite named Zoya asked the capital city’s Mayor, Sergei S. Sobyanin, on state TV this week about planned events for the day of the parade, he told her bluntly to stay home. “Zoya, I would not recommend you go anywhere,” Mr. Sobyanin said. Feel-good patriotism The Kremlin is scrambling to drum up feel-good patriotism ahead of a delayed nationwide referendum that would allow Mr. Putin to stay in office until 2036. But the virus keeps getting in the way, with Mr. Putin struggling to solve Russia’s biggest domestic crisis in decades even as he casts himself as a tough problem-solver who is in control of events. Mr. Putin’s approval rating has already slumped to a 20-year low of 59% amid public demands that the government do more to help people hurt by two months of lockdown. A muddled message over military parades could further harm his standing. At least 12 Russian cities have said they won’t allow parades June 24, the day that Mr. Putin decreed Russia would hold postponed festivities marking the 75th anniversary of the Soviet Union’s victory over the Nazis in Second World War. In Moscow, where the country’s main parade is still on, city authorities are signaling they will try to arrange the event without the usual throngs of residents pushing up against barricades. “Yes, official events will take place,” Mr. Sobyanin said, “but it’s best you watch them on TV.” Typically celebrated on May 9, Victory Day is Russia’s most revered holiday, and Mr. Putin has used his perch to cement his image as the commander in chief who rebuilt the country. This year, Victory Day was supposed to be especially grand, and it would have given him a platform to celebrate a constitutional overhaul prolonging his ability to rule Russia by two six-year terms. Referendum in July Mr. Putin postponed the referendum to approve the constitutional changes to July 1 from April. The rescheduled parades, then, appeared timed to give Russians something to celebrate just before the referendum. But now the delayed Victory Day celebrations are emerging as a test of Mr. Putin’s claim that Russia has overcome the worst of the COVID-19 pandemic. The result is a rare clash in tone between Mr. Putin and regional leaders. “We decided not to risk people’s health and, most importantly, the health of our dear veterans,” Mikhail Vedernikov, Governor of Pskov region in western Russia, posted on Instagram on Wednesday. It was too soon for the elderly to take part in public events, and holding the parade without veterans would “contradict the very spirit” of the holiday, he wrote. In Moscow, the parade is going ahead despite the concerns of Mr. Sobyanin, the Mayor, that the virus remains a risk in the dense capital of 13 million people. Across Russia, at least two dozen cities are still expected to hold parades June 24. The 14,000 service members marching in Moscow are being tested three times a week for COVID-19, the Defense Ministry’s official newspaper reported. At least 12 foreign leaders, mainly from former Soviet countries, will attend, said Sergei V. Lavrov, the Foreign Minister.NY Times
14 June 2020||Kathmandu,||Nepal police arrest 10, including 7 foreigners, over anti-govt. protest||Nepali police arrested 10 protesters including foreign nationals from Australia, the U.S. and China on Saturday as hundreds staged a demonstration in Kathmandu against the government’s handling of the virus crisis. Demonstrators have defied a nationwide lockdown for several days this week to demand better testing and quarantine facilities for returning migrant workers. Police official Sushil Kumar Yadav said that seven of those arrested were foreigners. Three of them were Chinese, with one each from the U.S., Australia, Canada and Norway, he said. At the protest on Saturday, participants showed up in masks, carrying banners reading “enough is enough”. While that protest ended peacefully, police had used water cannon, batons and tear gas to disperse demonstrations near the Prime Minister’s residence earlier this week. Nepal imposed a nationwide lockdown in March in a bid to halt the spread of the pandemic. It currently has 5,062 cases of COVID-19, with 16 deaths. The Home Ministry has warned that protesters could face a six-month jail term if they stage rallies during the lockdown. Tens of thousands of migrant workers have returned however from India and West Asia after losing their jobs, overwhelming testing and quarantine facilities.
14 June 2020||Beijing,||Australian sentenced to death for drug trafficking||An Australian national has been sentenced to death in China for drug trafficking, in a ruling that could further inflame tensions between Beijing and Canberra. Australia’s Foreign Ministry said it was “deeply saddened” by the verdict and reiterated the country’s opposition to capital punishment. The man, named in Chinese pinyin as “Kamu Jielaisibi” and identified by Australian media as Cam Gillespie, was handed the death penalty by Guangzhou Intermediate People’s Court on Wednesday, according to a notice posted on the court website. The notice revealed no details about the defendant besides his Australian nationality. According to Chinese local media, the man was arrested at Guangzhou Baiyun Airport, northwest of Hong Kong, in December 2013 with more than 7.5 kg of methamphetamine in his checked luggage. A spokesperson for Australia’s Foreign Ministry said consular assistance was being provided to the man, but they would not confirm his identity citing privacy obligations. China is Australia’s largest trading partner, as well as a major source of lucrative international students and tourists. But relations have been troubled in recent years and worsened after China reacted furiously to Australia’s call for an independent probe into the origins of the deadly COVID-19 pandemic. Beijing subsequently imposed tariffs on Australian barley and issued travel warnings to tourists and students over virus-linked racism against ethnic Asians in the country.
14 June 2020||Seoul,||Stop denuclearisation talk, North Korea warns South||North Korea on Saturday issued another angry statement against Seoul, this time excoriating it for “nonsensical” statements on the stalled dialogue about Pyongyang’s nuclear weapons. South Korea has been the target of a wave of angry statements recently from the North. The latest statement was in response to a South Korean Foreign Ministry official reportedly saying Seoul would continue “efforts for denuclearisation”, referring to the long-stalled nuclear talks between the United States and North Korea. “It is really preposterous to hear the balderdash of South Korean authorities... who do not have either any qualification to discuss, or... poke their noses into the matters between” Pyongyang and Washington, Kwon Jong-gun, the North’s foreign affairs official in charge of negotiating with the U.S., said in a statement. Mr. Kwon denounced Seoul for trying to “meddle” in the process in the statement, which was carried by North Korea’s official KCNA news agency and concluded with the warning: “It is better to stop a nonsensical talking about denuclearisation.”
14 June 2020||Toronto,||Video emerges of Canadian aboriginal chief’s arrest||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said on Friday that black and indigenous people in Canada do not feel safe around police after a police video emerged of the violent arrest of a Canadian aboriginal chief. The arrest has received attention in Canada as a backlash against racism grows worldwide in the wake of the death of George Floyd. The 12-minute police video shows an officer charging at Athabasca Chipewyan First Nation Chief Allan Adam with his arm and elbow up as he tackles him to the ground. It also shows the officer punching him in the head. Mr. Trudeau called the video “shocking.” Pictures show Mr. Adam was left bloodied with his face swollen. Alberta’s police watchdog agency is investigating. Police charged Mr. Adam with resisting arrest and assaulting a police officer. The Athabasca Chipewyan First Nation said the Royal Canadian Mounted Police dash camera video was released publicly as part of a court application to get criminal charges against Mr. Adam removed.
14 June 2020||Islamabad,||Coronavirus | Former Pak PM Yusuf Raza Gilani tests positive, over 6,000 new cases reported||Pakistan’s former Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gilani tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, becoming the latest top figure to contract the virus. Mr. Gilani tested positive after attending a hearing of the National Accountability Bureau in a corruption case.PTI
14 June 2020||Washington,||Washington, June 13, 2020 (AFP) -||U.S. President Donald Trump has postponed a controversial rally scheduled for the same day as a holiday commemorating the end of slavery in the U.S., following fierce criticism, he announced on Friday. The rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma had been due to mark Mr. Trump’s return to the campaign trail.AFP
14 June 2020||New Delhi,||Stimulus package can be fine-tuned, says EAC-PM’s Goyal||The government’s Rs. 20.97 lakh crore rescue package for the economy is not cast in iron and there is scope to fine-tune it, the PM’s economic advisory council (EAC-PM) member Ashima Goyal said on Saturday. She also said Centre has to kick-start demand to stimulate the economy. “The package is not cast-iron... there is scope to fine-tune the economic package,” she said, while addressing a virtual seminar organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Dr. Goyal, a part-time member of the EAC-PM, added that much of the stimulus pertained to the financial sector and “sequencing of demand and supply is very important to stimulate the economy”. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the package in five tranches, which included Rs. 3.7 lakh crore support for MSMEs, Rs. 75,000 crore for NBFCs and Rs. 90,000 crore for power distribution companies, free foodgrains to migrant workers, increased allocation for MGNREGS, tax relief to certain sections and Rs. 15,000 crore allocated to the healthcare sector. On revival of India’s growth, Dr. Goyal said the COVID-19 pandemic was a ‘temporary exogenous shock’ for the economy. “We see a whole range of economic growth forecasts... when human capital is intact then you see a sharp recovery after the real shock,” Dr. Goyal, also a professor of economics at IGIDR, said. The COVID-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdowns have severely disrupted economic activities. S&P Global Ratings and Fitch Ratings have said India’s economy will shrink by 5% in the current fiscal, while Moody’s has projected a contraction of 4%. Commenting on India’s reserves crossing the $500 billion mark, Dr. Goyal said, “Our foreign exchange reserves are borrowed reserves. Best way to increase foreign exchange reserves is to attract investment”.
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Challenges are opportunities to innovate’||Market disrupting factors such as the COVID-19 pandemic, social unrest, oil price fluctuation, the U.S.-China dynamics and the approaching election cycle have an adverse bearing on customers’ products and services in the U.S. market. However, from a strategic and long-term perspective, the prospects remain promising as the engineering R&D services growth story still looks intact, said L&T Technology Services CEO & MD Keshab Panda. “In the short-term, certainly, a lot depends on the end consumer’s confidence and how soon one comes out of the sluggish economy,” said Mr. Panda. “Things are going to be positive in the long run. Many of our customers across the U.S. and European markets are seeing the light at the end of the tunnel as the crisis seems to have reached a plateau of sorts,” he added. Mr. Panda said though the markets were still facing turbulent and uncertain times, the current global situation also presented technology companies with a unique opportunity to adapt, innovate and focus more on output than on the traditional modes of working. “The current scenario has shown us that agile companies ought to prepare with a compelling mix of new technology and strategy to maintain their growth and sustainability of operations,” he observed. ‘Virtual manufacturing’ A plethora of challenges had emerged when businesses were reassessing their work model while some customers were in a ‘wait and watch’ mode. “However, given the proactive ideas and the business models we proposed to them, they are now willing to proceed with discussions — with focus on solutions around virtual manufacturing and remote working technologies,” Mr. Panda added. He also acknowledged that there was an emerging trend for vendor consolidation. “It is true that customers are looking at supplier base consolidation in some cases. Manufacturers are realigning their business models, relying more on Industry 4.0 technologies and also looking at various reshoring strategies. The differentiator before technology players, both big and small, today is what new value are they able to bring to the table that can help alleviate the situation for the clients.’’ Moreover, digital engineering was set to gain relevance with increased investments in technologies such as AI, Machine Learning and Automation. “Especially for ER&D services firms, the crisis is a call to deliver critical solutions around healthcare, diagnosis, testing and cost of treatment that will help all stakeholders, individuals, enterprises and governments globally,” L&T Technology’s CEO added.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||‘NRIs from Gulf show appetite for home purchases in India’||Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) from the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) region are seen investing in real estate in India despite the global economic scenario and the ongoing challenges. This region possibly contributes the most to Indian real estate purchases.   Godrej Properties, for example, sold properties worth Rs. 400 crore in the last fiscal [FY20 total revenue Rs. 5,915 crore] to buyers from this region. Lalit Makhijani , chief marketing officer (CMO), Godrej Properties Ltd., elaborates on the subject. Edited excerpts:  Why do NRIs invest in property in India? The reasons are two-fold — emotional as well as financial. The biggest high is having the comfort of owning a property back home, which is available for future use or upgrading to a better lifestyle given that in some cases these NRIs have parents/ families who still reside in India. Also, from an investment perspective, India is witnessing higher capital appreciation and growth promising higher return on investments. In addition, there are several benefits like falling interest rates, easy access to loan if the house is being bought/constructed for self-use and offers by developers from time to time. NRIS from which region invest the most? The Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) region contributes the highest to Indian real estate purchase from NRIs and has a lot of appetite for residential purchases across India. What is the annual revenue you generated from the GCC markets? GCC is a high-performing market for us and we have seen a consistent interest from the market over the years. Our sales from the GCC markets stood upwards of Rs. 400 crore in FY20 and we are seeing good interest from the market even in the current times despite the lockdown. Which country in the GCC contributes the highest revenue? We have seen high demand from the UAE followed by Oman and Qatar. Which of your projects are in demand? We have seen a good demand for projects in Pune, followed by NCR, Bengaluru and Mumbai for capital appreciation. Each micro market behaves differently and while we have seen good appreciation in markets like Mumbai, Bengaluru and Pune, NCR has remained flattish. How many apartments have you sold in this market? We have been doing good business in the GCC region since we set up our representative office in Dubai in 2014. We have tripled our sales from the region in the last three years. Even in the current lockdown period, we are seeing a good traction from the GCC market and we hope to continue to keep the momentum in the coming months as well. What strategies have you deployed in these markets? We use a focussed approach to tap the NRI markets and increase global footprint. From participating in various real estate exhibitions, HNI meets, community events to connecting with overseas channel partners, we have a structured approach to targeting international markets. We also have a strong empanelment process for channel partners abroad. Also, we have always been present through the digital medium for our customers worldwide. We have a dedicated NRI corner on our website to address all home-buying queries and legal requirements. How is the company using digital to connect with NRI customers during COVID-19? All of our sales process were available online to our customers much before the lockdown. Now, we have leveraged our systems to quickly move deal servicing to digital media and moved all our customer collaterals online to make it easy for customers to make a purchase decision. Our sales teams are using tools such as MS Teams and webex to host CPs and customers, take them through the product offering and take bookings live, without the need for any paper intervention.
14 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Phonemaker realme to hire 7,500 this year||Smartphone maker realme plans to hire about 7,500 new employees by December 2020 across functions, a senior company official said. Talking to The Hindu , Madhav Sheth, vice-president, realme and CEO at realme India added that the manpower cost for the company is ‘very little’ and will not be reducing headcount on account of the pandemic. “In fact, headcount will increase because there are [numerous] Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT) products that we will be launching. In sales and promotion, we will be hiring about 5,000 new people, in line with our plans,” he said. The India unit of China’s realme will raise headcount to 10,000 at the factory level, adding 2,500 staff this year. “In terms of business and sales, our target is a 100% growth and 30 million [unit] sales for the smartphone category. We have achieved over 119% growth year-on-year in Q1. Even though the lockdown has an impact on the sales in Q2, we are still pushing our limits to maintain our growth,” Mr. Sheth said. The firm aims to clock annual sales of about 8-10 million this year from AIoT products, including fitness bands, TVs and ear buds. “There is demand in the market right now. Whatever sales loss the industry has suffered in the last 60-90 days, is very difficult to recover. So, there will be a 15-20% drop in the yearly numbers versus the earlier projected 150 million units for this year,” he said. He added that this year, the company foresees more demand for budget to mid-range smartphones. About the company’s foray into the smart TV segment at a time when demand for bigger electronics is anticipated to decline, Mr. Sheth said, “I have a different perspective... When content is going digital and the only source of entertainment remains digital platforms, then smart TVs are something which everybody would want. “Also, TVs are an extension of smartphones in any home... everyone is so used to using their mobile phone for content, entertainment or fintech... Once they come home... they can watch entertainment or do regular tasks on the TV along with family, if they can get a similar experience of the mobile phone on a TV.” Realme launched smart TVs in two sizes — 32 inch and 43 inch — and plans to soon introduce a 55-inch version.
14 June 2020||New Delhi,||M&M flouts FCA’s Jeep trade dress: U.S. ITC||Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) said a U.S. regulator had upheld an earlier ruling that its off-road utility vehicle Roxor infringed upon the intellectual property rights of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles’ (FCA) Jeep brand. The International Trade Commission (ITC) upheld the Administrative Law Judge’s determination, which held that the Roxor violated FCA’s trade dress, M&M said in on Friday. The ITC recommended an exclusion of the order prohibiting the importation of Roxor parts and a cease-and-desist order prohibiting the sale of any already imported Roxor parts. Trade dress is a form of intellectual property that identifies the look of a product and distinguishes it from its competitors. M&M, however, stated that the Roxor did not violate Jeep’s trade dress. “The company and its U.S.-based subsidiary Mahindra Automotive North America (MANA) remain resolute in its position that the Roxor does not dilute or violate Jeep’s trade dress,” M&M said. MANA was therefore considering its options with respect to a further review and appeal of the ITC determination both during the Presidential review phase of the ITC decision and at the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals, it added. The vehicle that was subject of the action was produced in 2018 and 2019 and was no longer in production, M&M said. ‘Design refreshed’ The Roxor design was refreshed for the 2020 model year and further design changes are in the works as part of the normal design cycle, it added. MANA remains committed to the Roxor brand, its employees, and its dealers, M&M said. Roxor was launched on March 2, 2018, to be sold in the U.S. and Canada. Soon after, FCA lodged a complaint with the U.S. ITC alleging that the vehicle was a copy of Willys Jeep and design elements of Mahindra’s product infringed on some key design elements of Jeep. Roxor is manufactured in Auburn Hills, Michigan. Mahindra has invested hundreds of millions of dollars into building its U.S. operations and currently operates multiple facilities in the Detroit area. It employs more than 400 U.S. employees and hundreds more through its network of over 400 dealers and U.S. suppliers.
14 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Lockdown spurs high demand for dishwashers||Indicating a change in consumer demand and buying pattern during the COVID-19 pandemic, BSH Home Appliances, Europe’s largest appliances brand, reported thrice the demand than usual for dishwashers as house helps stayed away from work due to the lockdown. In India, BSH Home Appliances, which controls 60% of marketshare of this small category, said the demand for dishwashers has been very high and it will sustain for this year. “We have witnessed phenomenal sales in dishwashers. We had the stocks for three months so we could meet part of the demand. We are sold out and we have placed orders to import 30,000 units from Turkey and will start supplying from July,” Neeraj Bahl, MD & CEO, BSH Household Appliances Manufacturing Pvt. Ltd., said in an interview. The demand for dishwashers was so high that the company met its monthly sales targets in a week’s time. “In Bengaluru alone, we sold 3,000 units in one month, 10 times higher than our nearest competitor. During Diwali, we had sold 1,700 units in that market,” Mr. Bahl said.  “The sense of personal hygiene was creating demand but COVID-19 accelerated it,” he said.
14 June 2020||Chennai,||Q1 metrics may be hit due to pandemic: MRF||Tyre major MRF Ltd. expects its financials for the first quarter of FY21 to be adversely impacted due to the forced shutdown of plants during this period on account of the pandemic. The expected financial impact is not ascertainable at this stage, the company said in a regulatory filing on the impacts due to Covid. Given the uncertainty around the severity and duration of COVID-19, it is difficult to accurately assess the financial impact on future performance at this point of time, it said. Demand is expected to be less than normal. On the production side, COVID management issues may pose some challenges. There could also be challenges with regard to the availability of raw materials because of issues faced by vendors, it added in the statement. By the end of May 2020, there had been improvements in the opening up of tyre sales outlets across the country, but many of them were still not operating fully and also, operating only for a few hours daily, it noted. MRF’s sales offices have opened in most of the places, it said. It added that it had a ‘favourable’ liquidity position due to ‘strong net worth and low levels of debt’.
14 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Mittal vows Rs. 2,000 cr. for Odisha units||The ArcelorMittal group on Saturday committed to investing Rs. 2,000 crore on expanding the Odisha-based facilites of Essar Steel, which it acquired last year. “The company will augment capacity of Paradip Pellet Plant from 6 million tonne per annum to 12 MTPA while capacity of beneficiation plant in Dabuna will be increased from 5 MTPA to 16 MTPA,” Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik’s office said in a release, following a video conference held by Mr. Patnaik with ArcelorMittal group Chairman and CEO Lakshmi Niwas Mittal to discuss the steel maker’s investment plans.
14 June 2020||COIMBATORE,||Tata Motors to buy out Jayem Auto from JV||Tata Motors informed the stock exchanges on Saturday that it had signed an agreement to purchase 50% shareholding of Coimbatore-based Jayem Automotives in JT Special Vehicles Private Limited (JTSV). According to a press release, JTSV was formed in 2017 as a 50:50 joint venture between Tata Motors and Jayem Automotives to develop high performance versions of Tata Motors passenger cars under the JTP brand. However, the passenger car industry witnessed a challenging financial year (2019-2020), which worsened with change in regulations and COVID-19. This has impacted the demand for this niche category of vehicles. Hence, both, Tata Motors and Jayem Automotives ‘found it prudent to discontinue this venture.’ JTSV will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Tata Motors, following the completion of the procedural requirements.
14 June 2020||Mumbai,||Jet Air’s BKC property to be auctioned||About 1,69,983 sq. ft of prime property belonging to Jet Airways at the Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) has been put up for auction at a reserve price of Rs. 490 crore. The property was mortgaged in favour of Housing Development and Finance Corporation which had tried to auction the same before Jet Airways was brought under insolvency proceedings in June 2019. The auction will be conducted on June 26. A notice of the auction issued by Resolution Professional Ashish Chhawchharia said the Committee of Creditors, in its meeting held on April 24, passed a resolution for selling immovable properties of the company and distribute the proceeds. A June 11 NCLT order had given approval for the sale.
14 June 2020||MUMBAI,||TPG to buy 0.93% stake in Jio Platforms||Global alternative assets firm TPG has agreed to invest Rs. 4,546.80 crore in Jio Platforms Limited for a 0.93% equity stake in the company at an equity value of Rs. 4.91 lakh crore and an enterprise value of Rs. 5.16 lakh crore. With this investment, Jio Platforms has raised Rs. 1.02 lakh crore from leading global technology investors including Facebook, Silver Lake, and TPG, starting April 22, 2020.
14 June 2020||New Delhi,||BHEL posts Rs. 1,532 cr. loss on revenue hit||State-run engineering firm BHEL on Saturday reported a consolidated net loss of Rs. 1,532.18 crore for the March quarter, mainly due to lower revenues and deferred tax. The company had posted a consolidated net profit of Rs. 680.77 crore in the quarter ended March 2019, it said in a filing. Total income in the quarter fell to Rs. 5,193.51 crore, from Rs. 10,489.11 crore a year ago. BHEL has opted for new section 115BAA of the Income Tax Act, 1961 this year. Hence, deferred tax as on April 1, 2019 has been restated at 25.168%, resulting in reversal of deferred tax assets by Rs. 974.41 crore.
14 June 2020||new delhi,||Grasim Q4 net rises 46% on lower costs||Grasim Industries on Saturday reported a 45.61% increase in consolidated net profit to Rs. 2,305.19 crore for the quarter ended March 31, from a year earlier, the company said in a regulatory filing. However, its revenue from operations fell 11.27% in the period to Rs. 19,901.54 crore. Its total expenses came to Rs. 18,559.45 compared with Rs. 20,138.25 crore. “Overall performance improved QoQ on the back of better cost management, higher speciality sales and lower input cost,” it said. Revenue from cement business UltraTech fell 13.13% to Rs. 10,745.62. For fiscal 2019-20, Grasim Industries’ net profit jumped over twofold to Rs. 6,677.48 crore from Rs. 2,744.74 crore while revenue from operations rose marginally.
14 June 2020||berlin,||Haaland heads in Dortmund’s winner||Erling Braut Haaland came off the bench to score a 95th-minute winner for Borussia Dortmund in its 1-0 win at Fortuna Dusseldorf on Saturday that keeps Bayern Munich waiting for an eighth straight Bundesliga title. Dortmund was heading towards a frustrating draw at relegation-threatened Fortuna when Haaland headed home Manuel Akanji’s cross seconds from time to score his 11th goal in 12 league games. Wait for Bayern Hansi Flick’s Bayern will have to wait until at least mid-week, when it faces Werder Bremen away, for its next chance to be crowned champion. Ten-man Levante scored a 98th-minute penalty on Friday to snatch a 1-1 draw against Valencia as LaLiga completed its second day of fixtures since its return from the coronavirus suspension. It was a miserable night for top-four hopefuls as Granada also came from behind to beat Getafe 2-1. Valencia looked to have grabbed a later winner when Rodrigo Moreno diverted in at the near post in the 89th minute. But Mouctar Diakhaby pulled down Ruben Vezo deep into injury-time and Gonzalo Melero made no mistake, equalising for Levante from the spot.  The results: Bundesliga: Wolfsburg 2 (Weghorst 14, 27-pen) drew with Freiburg 2 (Hoeler 43, Sallai 46); Fortuna Dusseldorf 0 lost to Borussia Dortmund 1 (Haaland 90+5); Hertha Berlin 1 (Piatek 24) lost to Eintracht Frankfurt 4 (Dost 51, Silva 62, 86, Ndicka 69); Cologne 1 (Cordoba 90+2) lost to Union Berlin 2 (Friedrich 39, Gentner 67); Paderborn 1 (Sabiri 66) lost to Werder Bremen 5 (Klaassen 20, 39, Osako 34, Eggestein 60, Fuellkrug 90).   LaLiga: Espanyol 2 (Bernardo 45+3, Wu Lei 47) bt Alaves 0.   Friday: Bundesliga: Hoffenheim 0 lost to RB Leipzig 2 (Olmo 9, 11).   Friday: LaLiga: Granada 2 (Djene 70-og, Fernandez 79) bt Getafe 1 (Timor 20); Valencia 1 (Rodrigo 89) drew with Levante 1 (Melero 90+8-pen).
14 June 2020||Fort Worth,||Varner leads as McIlroy charges in||Harold Varner overcame a triple-bogey start to maintain the lead at the halfway stage of the Charles Schwab Challenge on Friday as the hard-charging Rory McIlroy and Jordan Spieth appear poised to strike. Varner fired a four-under-par 66 at Colonial Country Club to reach 11-under 129 after 36 holes. Jordan Spieth and Bryson DeChambeau are tied for second, one stroke back after a second consecutive 65s, while McIlroy fired a 63 to join Collin Morikawa and Xander Schauffele sharing third on 131. This week's Charles Schwab Challenge is full of firsts, the biggest change being the absence of spectators. “When that first birdie putt went in and I didn't get a clap ... my hand was trying to go up to wave to someone in the gallery, but there's obviously no one there,” McIlroy said later. After an opening 63 for the first-day lead, Varner took a seven at the par-four 10th hole to begin his second round, soaring off the tee and finding a bunker and rough before reaching the green. Varner bounced back with birdies from four feet at 11 and 10 feet at the par-three 12th and par-three 16th holes. After a bogey at 18, Varner closed with a flourish that started with a 31-foot birdie putt at the par-three fourth. He made three more in a row, the last a 20-footer at seven, and closed with a 10-foot birdie putt at the ninth. McIlroy opened at the 10th hole and birdied three times on the back side before sinking a 23-foot eagle putt at the par-five first hole and following with a 10-foot birdie putt at the second. Back-to-back birdies at the sixth and seventh put McIlroy one stroke off the course record but a losing bogey dropped him two off Varner's pace.  Leading scores: 129 - Harold Varner (63, 66); 130 - Jordan Spieth (65, 65); Bryson DeChambeau (65, 65); 131 - Xander Schauffele (65, 66); Collin Morikawa (64, 67); Rory McIlroy (68, 63); 132 - Justin Thomas (64, 68), Daniel Berger (65, 67), Justin Rose (63, 69), Gary Woodland (65, 67), Branden Grace (66, 66) .
14 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Vasant Raiji passes away at 100||India’s oldest First Class cricketer Vasant Raiji passed away at his home on Saturday morning. He had turned 100 in January. He is survived by his wife and two daughters. A chartered accountant, he was also a well-known chronicler of cricket, having written books on C.K. Nayudu, Ranjitsinhji, Duleepsinhji, L.P. Jai and Victor Trumper. A Cricket Club of India player, he represented Bombay and Baroda. A right-handed batsman, Raiji played nine First Class games in the 1940s and scored 277 runs. Raiji made his first appearance for Bombay in 1941 under Vijay Merchant, against Western Provinces, at Nagpur. His fascination for cricket began as a 13-year-old, watching Lala Amarnath notch up a debut century in India’s first home Test against Douglas Jardine’s England at Bombay Gymkhana in 1933. Nari Contractor, Sachin Tendulkar and Steve Waugh were among those who had personally wished him on his 100th birthday. Tendulkar tweeted: I met Shri Vasant Raiji earlier this year to celebrate his 100th birthday. His warmth and passion for playing and watching cricket was endearing. His passing away saddens my heart.” The cricketer-historian was also a founding member of Jolly Cricket Club in Mumbai. He also took the lead in setting up CCI’s Legends Club during the tenure of Raj Singh Dungarpur as president.
14 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||The Singh sisters and their inspirational journey||Without much of a sporting background, the Singh sisters — Priyanka, Divya, Prashanti, Akanksha and Pratima — who hail from Varanasi have made basketball popular with their achievements. And the five talked about their remarkable success in combining education and sports through a webinar put together as part of the Sports Ministry’s physical education drive. “We all followed Priyanka and Divya to play basketball,” said Prashanti, a former captain of the national team and recipient of the Arjuna and Padma Shri awards. “Our dad let us play, but only on the promise that we would get good grades in school.” Multiple degrees Quite remarkably, all of them are post graduates, and Pratima, who is married to cricketer Ishant Sharma, is pursuing Ph.D. after having completed M. Phil. and topping the NIS coaching course. Except the eldest Priyanka, the rest have represented India with distinction, competing in the Commonwealth and Asian Games, and the Asian Championships. “If you have speed, good jump, quickness and agility, you can equalise for the lack of height in basketball,” said Akanksha on how she was able to overcome a perceived physical drawback for hoopsters and became an indispensable part of the Indian team for more than a decade. No excuses “Keep at it, keep working hard. Don’t give the excuse of lack of facilities. If you continue to train well with the zeal to improve, you will succeed. There is no substitute for hard work,” said Akanksha. She remembered playing two tournaments simultaneously for her college and the Delhi team. “Your success depends on how much you push yourself. Sports is a tool to develop personality,” she said. Pratima recalled how Divya presented her a scooter for faring well in the 10th board exams while pursuing her dream of playing for the country.  “I don’t accept that players cannot get good marks. They are very sharp and can understand in five minutes what regular students may take an hour for. Don’t be lethargic. Devote time for studies,” said Pratima. “Even if your are the best player, without education you don’t have the confidence,” said Divya, who after many stints of coaching and sports management, is working as a coach with SAI. Priyanka said that schools in Korea had separate physical education and athletic departments, to nurture the talent in the best possible way. Praise for guru “We started because of interest in sports. It became a habit, then it has become a life-style,” added Priyanka. All five praised their guru Amarjeet Singh, who coached and gave them a solid foundation. “Success comes only after challenges. Without our physical education teachers, we wouldn’t have known our potential,” said Prashanti.
14 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Prannoy gets back to training||H.S. Prannoy has put the Arjuna award episode behind him. The ace shuttler is back on court after the Kerala government eased norms for training for elite sportspersons in the State. The former World No. 8 kicked up a storm last week when he lashed out at Badminton Association of India (BAI) for not nominating him for the prestigious Arjuna Award. No more controversy Prannoy is now at peace with himself. He has nominated himself and forwarded the application to the sports ministry. He refused to be drawn into any further controversy and refrained from commenting on allegations about his attitude and commitment. “I have nominated myself for the Arjuna Award. Let us wait and see. I don’t have anything to comment on BAI’s allegations. “Regarding the Arjuna, I feel players from Kerala were getting a raw deal from BAI. There were a few players before me who deserved this award but were ignored,” he said. The 28-year-old is managing with the limited resources at his disposal to regain his sharpness. “The Gopi Chand Academy is still closed. So I had to find out the right place for my training in Thiruvananthapuram. Now I am using the facilities at TOSS Academy. “I have no idea when the season will start, but I must keep myself fit when it gets underway,” he said.
14 June 2020||New Delhi,||Pujara, Jadeja and Smriti among five players to get NADA notice||Five centrally contracted Indian cricketers including Cheteshwar Pujara, Ravindra Jadeja and K.L. Rahul have been issued notices by National Anti-Doping Agency (NADA) for failing to disclose their whereabouts as the BCCI cited “password glitch” as the reason for delay. The other players to have received the notice include women stars Smriti Mandhana and Deepti Sharma, who are among the five cricketers in the 110 strong National Registered Testing Pool (NRTP). NADA DG Navin Agarwal confirmed that the BCCI has sent an official explanation for the five NRTP players’ failure to submit whereabouts. “Well they have given an explanation which appears to be reasonable but a decision will be taken. “They have said that there has been a glitch with regards to password in ADAMS. Now they have said that issue has been resolved,” Agarwal added. NADA DG added that “BCCI’s explanation will be discussed as to whether it will be counted as one of three filing failures or not. “It will be decided on the explanation given and how they (BCCI) proceed from here.”
14 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||IPL can be held in Sri Lanka or UAE in September, says Gavaskar||Sunil Gavaskar feels a realistic chance of conducting a shortened Indian Premier League (IPL) this year is in Sri Lanka from early September as Australia might end up hosting the World T20 in October after having successfully flattened the COVID-19 curve. The former India captain feels now that the Australia government has formally announced that 25% crowd can turn up for sporting events, a World T20 in October looks more imminent than IPL. “After the announcement by the Australian government, there seems to be a possibility of conducting a World T20 in October. Maybe the teams will have to reach three weeks earlier, have seven days of practice games and also 14-day quarantine,” Gavaskar told Aaj Tak . “If ICC believes World T20 can happen, then having IPL looks difficult because it could only be held if World T20 is postponed. But after the announcement (by Australia Prime Minister Scott Morrison), IPL in October looks difficult,” he said. Practical solution However a curtailed IPL in September, may be in Sri Lanka or UAE, is a more practical solution, the legendary opener said. “September, you can’t have IPL in India due to monsoon. But may be in Sri Lanka from early September with teams playing each other once instead of double-header. May be you can think of that,” Gavaskar said. He believes that playing cricket in a post-COVID-19 world will be a different experience, especially if there aren’t any fans in the stadium. “Fans lift your game,” he added.  Fans lift your game. The atmosphere is very different when they are present. Obviously players will lose out on that. Also they will be wary of a team huddle, also may be a fist bump after a good shot
14 June 2020||Bengaluru,||KSCA to resume activities in July||The Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA) announced that cricket activities is likely to resume in July, but only after an exhaustive Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) is formulated and put in place. At the KSCA Managing Committee meeting held here, it was decided that cricket activities — including training, camps and matches — will restart after the KSCA is convinced that the threat posed by the coronavirus has completely subsided. The safety of cricketers is the priority, the KSCA stated in a media release. The KSCA also announced a few changes in the tournament calendar. The I, II and III Division leagues will be one-day 50-over affairs, tentatively scheduled to start in July. The Under-19 and Under-16 inter-club tournaments will follow a similar 50-over format, and is scheduled to commence in August and September respectively. Put-off Other tournaments like the Dr. (Capt.) K. Thimmappiah Memorial all-India tournament have been put off for now, and will be considered at a later date. The Y.S. Ramaswamy Memorial tournament (one-day) may not be held for the 2020-21 season, it was announced. The KSCA is awaiting guidelines from the BCCI to formulate the SOP. The association will also consider additional inputs from medical experts, and guidelines issued by the Central government, State government, local authorities and Sports Authority of India (SAI) before forming the SOP. The KSCA thanked the State government for allotment of 11 acres of land in Karwar, to be used for development of cricket grounds and infrastructure in the district. “We will complete the registration formalities of the land at the earliest,” the press release read. On the matter of the annual accounts for 2019-20, the KSCA has “recommended to seek the approval of the finance advisory committee, accounts review committee and the independent audit committee — with recommendations, if any — before placing it before the Annual General Body.”
14 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Competition should be fair, says Ishant||With the International Cricket Council (ICC) banning the use of saliva to shine the ball once cricket resumes post COVID-19 hiatus, Indian fast bowler Ishant Sharma believes players will have to take special precautions to avoid doing so. “I feel that the most important thing will be avoiding the use of saliva on the ball and refraining from shining the ball. “We will have to take special precautions for this as we are used to shining the ball, especially the red cherry,” Ishant said on Star Sports show Cricket Connected. “If we don’t shine the red ball, it doesn’t swing. “And if it doesn’t swing then it becomes really easy for the batsman. “I think the competition should be fair and not a batsman dominated game.” New rules According to new ICC rules, players will not be permitted to use saliva to shine the ball and if a player does apply saliva to the ball, the umpires will manage the situation with some leniency during an initial period of adjustment for the players. But subsequent instances will result in the team receiving a warning. A team can be issued up to two warnings per innings but repeated use of saliva on the ball will result in a five-run penalty to the batting side.  If we don’t shine the red ball, it doesn’t swing and if it doesn’t swing then it becomes really easy for the batsman
14 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Will be happy even if I play one Test’||Young leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal believes batsmen have more variations to deal with when he plays alongside Kuldeep Yadav for the Men in Blue. Statistics show that when Chahal and Kuldeep play together, their numbers are excellent, and so is India’s win percentage. More variations “We are both wrist spinners and have been bowling together since our younger days. When we play together, the batsmen have more variations to deal with. “If I bowl a couple of good overs, something good will happen at Kuldeep’s end,” Chahal said in the latest episode of ESPNcricinfo ‘One on One’ show. Chahal has so far played 52 ODIs and 42 T20Is in which he has scalped 91 and 55 wickets respectively in the two formats. Although Chahal is known as white-ball specialist, he aspires to play Test cricket. “If I get a chance to play even one Test for India, or even if I am picked in the Test squad, I will be very happy. That is a very different feeling.”
14 June 2020||Sharjah,||Harikrishna in second spot||P. Harikrishna was in the joint second position at the end of the opening day at the Sharjah World Stars online chess tournament. He scored four points from five rounds to share the second spot along with Rustam Kasmidzhanov of Uzbekistan. Top seed Shakhriyar Mamedyarov of Azerbaijan was leading the tournament with four points. Harikrishna’s only defeat came against him.   The standings: 1. Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze) 4; 2-3. P. Harikrishna (Ind) & Rustam Kasmidzhanov (Uzb) 3; 4. Salem Saleh (UAE) 2.5; 5. Radoslaw Wojtaszek (Pol) 2; 6. Bassem Amin (Egy) 0.5 .
14 June 2020||Geneva,||SPO-FOOT-BLATTER-INVESTIGATION||Former FIFA president Sepp Blatter is the target of a new investigation in Switzerland for suspected criminal mismanagement of a $1 million payment from soccer funds. Blatter has been notified by Swiss federal prosecutors he is an accused person over a loan FIFA gave in 2010 to the Trinidad and Tobago Football Association.AP
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 11:04 IST,||Sudoku - June 14, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Are you a #Liberal?||On the day George Floyd was killed, another incident in New York’s Central Park went viral and led to a furious social media backlash. We must consider it because it offers some important insights into not just racism but also the paradoxes of today’s man-woman relationships, and the need for situational analysis. Christian Cooper, a birdwatcher, cited park rules and asked Amy Cooper, a white woman, to leash her dog, which appears to have enraged her. The video footage, taken by Christian, shows an infuriated Amy threatening to call the police and report that an “African-American man” was threatening her life, indicating that she is all too conscious of the relationship between black men and the police. And when she calls the police, she is heard affecting a shaky voice. The video sparked widespread outrage, forcing Amy to apologise, but she was later fired from her job. Two things strike me. One was the extraordinary understanding with which Christian responded to the backlash against Amy. In an interview with The New York Times , he condemned the death threats to Amy, saying her life need not have been torn apart. “Any of us can make, not necessarily a racist mistake, but a mistake,” he said. Christian’s anxiousness not to have Amy’s life picked apart by social media was heartening; it is the sound of empathy, something very different from the political shibboleth of the Twitter Left. According to Christian, Amy’s apology was sincere. She said she isn’t racist, and Christian seems to think that it’s true. And this is the second thing that strikes me about the incident: Amy most probably is not racist but it is the opportunity racism offers that compelled her to take that wild swing in the park. “She went racial,” Christian says, “There are certain dark societal impulses that she, as a white woman facing a conflict with a black man, thought she could marshal to her advantage.” The opportunity The incident proves that in an illiberal world one cannot trust oneself to be good; to not exploit certain chinks in culture and law to victimise one’s opponent. Because, often, it’s the opportunity of crime that compels crime, and not a criminal mind in itself. More importantly, it shows that if one can’t trust oneself to be good, far less can one trust another person’s word. The Central Park incident advocates for a return to some old-fashioned liberal values — objectivity in law and temperament, or at least faith in (a pretence of) objectivity. One might examine some fiercely guarded slogans of the women’s movement in this regard, not merely because they are illiberal and Amy could have easily used them against Christian with as much power, but curiously because they are ignorant of black history. For example, #BelieveWomen, a woke slogan now used widely in India, has its origins in the West, but seems incredibly unaware of the long history of white women falsely implicating black men on sexual assault charges. One among the many victims in this history is Emmett Till, a 14-year-old African American boy who was kidnapped, beaten up and shot in the head in Mississippi in 1955 for allegedly being “menacing and sexually crude” towards a white woman, Carolyn Bryant. Years later, Bryant confessed that parts of her testimony — especially where she accused Till of verbal abuse and of touching her inappropriately — were fabricated. That black men threaten the bodily integrity of white women was a widely believed theology of the racist South. It was the moral force behind several lynchings. A similar belief was used against Indians during the British Raj — it influenced E.M. Forster’s A Passage to India , where a white woman accuses an Indian man of sexually assaulting her in a cave and nearly ruins his life. If a woman can frame a man on a sexual assault charge motivated by racism, why would she not do so for personal and, therefore, more intensely felt reasons like jealousy, envy or malice? Similarly, if a man can frame false charges against a woman knowing he will get away with it, what prevents him from doing so? Credible danger This is in no way to imply that any women might have lied in the #MeToo movement. On the contrary, the high risk of misuse of #BelieveWomen comes from its high credibility. If a woman accuses a man of sexual misconduct, it is likely to be true, which is why #BelieveWomen can be a potent weapon in the wrong hands. Say you are the CIA and you want to smoke a man out of an embassy where he has taken asylum, what is the most cost-effective way to do so? Do I hear a sexual assault charge? The man’s reputation would be ruined — as advocates of #BelieveWomen rightly point out, there is overwhelming historical evidence of women being true with such charges. The man’s case of being a persecuted political prisoner will suddenly pale in importance to the sexual assault charge because the latter will come with the whole weight of women’s experience behind it, just as Amy’s spontaneous ‘racist mistake’ had behind it all the weight of knowledge of how the scales can be turned against a black man by a white woman. History can be a potent weapon to wield, even more so when you are aware of its power, as Amy probably was. Maybe this is why we must bring back the faith in the original values of a liberal order, in due process, objectivity and situational analysis, no matter how frustrating they can be. If the liberal faith is bad, every other faith to hang your belief on will be worse, because in an illiberal world one cannot trust oneself to be good. The Mumbai-based author writes on literature, culture and film.  #Believe Women, a woke slogan now used widely in India, has its origins in the West, but seems incredibly unaware of the long history of white women falsely implicating black men on sexual assault charges
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The Tantric cubes of Coventry||Like all treasure stories, the story of this treasure, found at the bottom of an old English river, is made up of at least three stories. There’s the quest, the story of how the treasure was found; then there’s its history, the story of how the treasure ended up where it did; and in a few delicious cases, there’s the enigma, the story of just what exactly has been found. This story has all three elements. Let’s begin with the easiest part, the quest. On May 8, Will Read, 38, set off with his sons, Jackson and Benjamin, for Baginton Bridge over the River Sowe to do some magnet fishing. Regular fishing, regardless of its pugnacious fans, is an unpleasant business. Not only are you at the mercy of the fish, and not only are fish dim-witted and uncooperative, and not only do you have to wait for the fish to find you, you reliably snag plenty of non-fish. Magnet fishing, which involves using a metal detector, solves all these problems. It redefines what counts as fish (anything with metal) and puts you squarely back in charge. It’s not as heroic, perhaps, but it’s certainly less likely to drive you to drink. Read and his two explorers were novice mudlarkers — as some magnet fishermen call themselves. They’d been at it for just two weeks and had chosen Baginton Bridge for much the same reason Willie Sutton had robbed banks — it makes sense to go look where things are expected to be found. People often use bridges to chuck stuff into rivers, and mudlarkers use them as starting points. Baginton Bridge is just a few miles from a much more famous bridge, the Stoneleigh Bridge over the River Avon, commissioned by the Rev. Thomas Leigh, owner of Stoneleigh Abbey. Leigh was Jane Austen’s first cousin and the Abbey was the architectural inspiration for Jane Austen’s Mansfield Park . Coventry is Austen country and Shakespeare country. It’s more English than England. Toubled waters The mudlarkers didn’t have to look for long. At first, Read thought he’d snagged metal junk, but then as his senior assistant explorer Benjamin, 7, and junior assistant explorer Jackson, 5, took a closer look, they realised they’d found something quite peculiar. Will Read told me over the phone that their haul eventually consisted of 64 lead (or lead-alloy) cubes. Each of the six faces was inscribed with strange rune-like markings arranged in a 3-by-3 table, captioned by an inscription. Forty-seven of the cubes weighed approximately 125 gm each and were 2 cm in length. They could be picked up by a forefinger and thumb. The remaining 13 cubes were smaller and seemed more crudely made. Read and the boys also found about a dozen pennies, all punctured with a square hole at the centre, and a coin with the goddess Durga inscribed on one side and ‘Shri’ on the other. Read had been livestreaming the mudlark expedition on Facebook, and a friend helped him post the images on Reddit’s /r/whatisthisthing. It soon generated 600-plus comments, until member u/hermit-the-frog decisively settled the issue. The 3-by-3 table on each cube face was an ankh-yantra , specifically the Rahu yantra in Devanagari script. In Roman, it reads: 15 08 13 10 12 14 11 16 09 Om Rahave Namah The sum of the numbers in each row adds up to 36, as do the numbers in each column and the numbers in the main diagonals. In mathematics, such an arrangement of numbers is called a magic square. A yantra is a magic square presumed to have tantric effects. At the bottom of an English river, Read and his team had found tantric India. The Rahu yantra isn’t depicted the way it is depicted on the lead cubes. Based on every book I’ve had a chance to consult, the Rahu yantra is depicted this way: 13 08 15 14 12 10 09 16 11 Om Rahave Namah That is, the yantra on the lead cubes is the reverse of the Rahu yantra . This isn’t analogous to inverting the swastika or worshipping an upside-down cross. I think it is a fallout of lead printing. Lead is very easy to inscribe; any sharp iron tool will do. But I don’t think these were inscribed with a sharp tool. Normally, yantras are drawn on 2D surfaces, like a lead plate or coin. Unlike the ancient Greeks, who associated the planets with 3D objects like spheres and tetrahedrons and cubes, the ancient South Asians associated the planets with 2D objects like lines and triangles and squares. What I think happened is that the lead cubes were heat-softened and each of their faces imprinted using a coin with a Rahu yantra . Such coins are easily purchased. The result is an inversion of the columns of the table, the kind of image reversal that happens in reverse-glass painting. The process would have been fast, inexpensive, but it resulted, alas, in an incorrectly oriented yantra . Cry me a river In any case, what were these cubes doing at the bottom of the river in England? In all likelihood, they were meant as remedial measures, votive offerings, intended to offset ‘Rahu dosha ’, the malefic influence of Lord Rahu in a horoscope. Such offerings are found in other rivers as well. Lara Maiklem mentions in her book Mudlarking (2019) that “…by far the most common religious objects found in the river are Hindu. For the Hindu community, the Thames has become a substitute for the Ganges… I’ve found strings of prayer beads, small flat metal yantras to ward off evil, and lots of coconuts… Just this year, a friend found one that had been cracked open and filled with rice, into which was pressed a small statue of Ganesh made from 1.9 ounces of solid gold…” The use of flat-metal ankh-yantras as remedial measures goes back at least to the age of classical India, and was practised in other civilisations, including China and post-12th-century Europe. In more recent times, especially in North India, the locus classicus for all these remedies is the Lal Kitab , the Red Book, a collection of five volumes in Urdu, allegedly written by Pandit Roop Chand Joshi between 1939 and 1952. The book has a red cover, which symbolises its intent to be an account book of a person’s life. It combines a radically simplified astrology with the South Asian schools of body reading (palmistry, face reading, and so on), and provides remedies ( upaya ) for various doshas in your astrological chart. Compared with more secular placebos, the remedies are cheaper and probably just as effective. Half the problem with many of life’s problems is the feeling of helplessness. Remedial astrology reduces this sense of helplessness. People who believe in astrology aren’t any more fatalistic than people who rely on pandemic models are. These people just want to do something about their futures. The underlying assumption is that to control the future, we need to be able to predict it. And prediction in hand, one can consult the Lal Kitab for remedies. From the astrologer’s point of view, it’s a win-win. If the predicted event does not come to pass, the remedy worked. If the predicted event comes to pass, the prediction worked. Like government policies and literary criticism, it is refutation-proof. What sort of affliction prompts this remedy? In Indian astrology, Rahu’s “associated” metal is lead. In the Lal Kitab , people with an afflicted Rahu in the 1st house are advised to drop lead in some form or the other in flowing water for a certain number of days, in unbroken sequence. There’s uncertainty about the exact amount of lead needed and the exact number of days. The Lal Kitab seems to require a period of 43 days, but older Hindu remedies — such as the chanting of mantras — are often only for a period of 21 days.  A few days after Read and I had talked over the phone, he emailed to say he’d found 20 more lead cubes in the river, as well as “a lot more coins with holes in them.” As of writing, he and the boys have found 84 cubes, with a total weight of about 7,463 gm. He isn’t sure if he has found all there was to find. I suspect he is right. There might be a few more. Some books call for 4 kg of lead to be dropped over the remedial period. Read has found close to 8 kg of lead, suggesting that they were dropped over two remedial periods. In any case, it is a lot of lead. Who did it? What can we infer about the person or persons who dropped all these lead cubes into the water? First of all, the lead cubes are inscribed in Devanagari. The numbers 5 and 8 are written in what is known as the ‘Calcutta’ variant, common in North India, but not other areas. The use of Devanagari tells us they can’t be any older than the 11th or 12th century AD. Since there weren’t too many Indians wandering around Coventry during the Black Plague centuries, we can move the date another 300 or 400 years ahead. Then there’s the location. The Baginton Bridge is a sandstone ashlar bridge with three semi-circular arches and rectangular piers at each end. A version of the bridge was around in the 1460s, but the current version originates from the 1930s. No bridge, no person on the bridge. Then there’s the matter of the dozen punctured pennies also recovered from the Sowe. Some of these pennies are 2p coins minted in 1981. Pennies can be older than when they were thrown, but they can’t be later. Whoever threw these coins from the bridge, threw them in after 1981. Feng Shui coins have square holes at the centre, and the practice of Feng Shui really took hold in Britain only in the 1990s. In short, the cubes were most likely dropped by a North Indian Hindu, probably a middle-aged, first-generation British resident, sometime between 1981 and 2000. Why middle-aged? Because these remedies cannot be done on another’s behalf, and elderly parents of immigrants are not only more reconciled with life but also less mobile. Why pre-2000? Because people, even Indians, have become a lot more conscious of what they chuck into waterbodies. In the UK, the campaign against the use of lead in pipes and paint started in the 1980s. And a lot of lead — almost 8 kg — was dropped into the Sowe. It must have happened in the last century. Perhaps the oddest aspect of the whole affair is that yantra cubes were found and not yantra plates or coins. On account of the weight (over 6 kg), it’s unlikely the cubes were brought over from India. From a Tantric point of view, it is overkill — there are far simpler measures. Whoever dropped these items from the Baginton Bridge must have felt themselves to be in real trouble. If detectives act as clearinghouses for secrets, then bridges act as accumulators. As mentioned, Stoneleigh bridge over the River Avon is within walking distance of Baginton Bridge. Recently, Judy Stowe, an academic affiliated with the University of New South Wales, Australia, trawled old British court records and discovered that labour conflicts during the bridge’s construction may have led Chandos Leigh, who’d inherited Stoneleigh Abbey, to murder two local workers, Billinges and Forbes, and have them buried in the bridge’s foundations. Lord Leigh was a schoolmate of Lord Byron’s and Austen’s relative, her junior by 15 years. Byron lived a life of scandal, but it’s hard to believe that the life of one of the most composed of English authors was touched by so melodramatic an event. But just as yantras are supposed to channel strange energies, bridges channel coincidences, until events self-cascade into rigid facts and a seemingly impossible connection is spanned between nations, ages and people. Read’s good fortune was partly the consequence of someone attempting to end their misfortune. When I spoke with Read, he said his friends had joked that he’d probably never find anything this interesting again. I’m not so sure. There are plenty more bridges. The writer’s novel,Half of What I Say, was shortlisted for the 2016 Hindu Prize.  Unlike the ancient Greeks, who associated the planets with 3D objects like spheres and cubes, the ancient South Asians associated the planets with 2D objects like lines and triangles   Perhaps the oddest aspect of the whole affair is that yantra cubes were found and not yantra plates or coins. On account of the weight (over 6 kg), it’s unlikely the cubes were brought over from India
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Light from many faiths||Charismatic, curious, catholic, compassionate — Emperor Akbar (1542-1605) has long exercised the imagination of Indians of all hues. For the lay person, he is the lumbering giant with the booming voice and grand moustache as depicted by the actor Prithviraj Kapoor in K. Asif’s magnum opus Mughal-e-Azam (1960); while ostensibly a love story between Akbar’s son, Salim, and Anarkali, the film belongs to the father in the eponymous role of the Great Mughal. For the liberals, Akbar is the embodiment of pluralism, multiculturalism and the earliest advocate of inter-faith dialogue. For the right-wing ultra-nationalists he is the most ‘tolerable’ of all the Muslim rulers for his reverence for all faiths and abolition of the religious tax, jiziya , from non-Muslims. ‘An Indian icon’ From school textbooks to the Akbar-Birbal qissa-kahani to popular culture, Akbar has consistently remained an Indian icon. Several books too have been written on him, both by the professional historian and by non-academic but extremely engaged and passionate writers. In the latter category are two recent books, both eminently readable and both written by journalists: the simply-titled Akbar by Shazi Zaman and Allahu Akbar: Understanding the Great Mughal in Today’s India by Manimugdha Sharma. Ira Mukhoty’s gargantuan book is nevertheless a welcome addition. However, her assertion that “few full-length biographies have been written in recent times” is not entirely true. One is also wary of the sub-title; “definitive” biography sounds like a publisher’s overkill, for a book’s size alone (over 600 pages) cannot define its scope nor ward off any future explorations on the subject. Given the absence of Endnotes, Bibliography and Index in the uncorrected proof copy sent for review, one is unable to fully gauge the extent of sources and primary texts studied by the author and whether, if at all, she has accessed Persian sources that have largely been beyond the reach of non-academic writers relying as they do on English translations. One is, however, struck by two curious omissions by the author. One: footnotes to indicate where quoted matter is sourced from. Two, a similar omission in the photographs of Mughal miniatures; more detailed captions and information about sources would have been helpful given, especially, that the book focuses on the role played by the royal ateliers ( tasvir khanas ) in chronicling the lives of the royal patrons and leaving behind a vast visual archive of Mughal history, a rich load that is now being mined by art historians as a supplement to recorded history. Access to a king Mukhoty’s strength as a writer lies in her ability to recreate a scene, flesh out characters, find the human element, in a word, narrate history. Her previous book, Daughters of the Sun: Empresses, Queens and Begums of the Mughal Empire, contained ample evidence of her sophisticated prose and her felicity in providing a luminous account of the many women who lived in the shadow of their men yet led remarkable lives during the Mughal period. Here, too, she impresses with her ability to make history accessible in ways that professional historians sometimes don’t, or can’t. Turn of events Mukhoty shows her mettle as a narrator virtually from the opening paragraph where she describes two young hostages, a young Akbar and his sister, on their way to meet their uncle Kamran: “In the frigid mid-winter of 1544, two children were sent north from Kandahar to Kabul, 500 kilometres away. While the snow fell silently and relentlessly on a desolate landscape, the small party stumbled on through the mountain passes and ravines, their horses’ steaming breath loud in the night.” She goes on to chart the growth of that terrified child upon whom the weight of being Emperor of Hindustan is thrust at the tender age of 13 when his father, Humayun, dies unexpectedly: “In fact, Akbar was a distracted, undisciplined, rambunctious child and youth who, in the parlance of the twenty-first century, may have suffered from an attention-deficit disorder. So unruly and self-willed was Akbar that no tutor was able to hold his attention and he grew up effectively unschooled and practically illiterate.” Pioneering genius And yet this young emperor would evolve into a fine human being, a patron of the arts, initiator of some of the greatest works of translation not to mention a pioneer in ship-building, metallurgy, alchemy, military technology as well as administrative reforms. Mukhoty shows us the man behind the emperor who brought in the largest territory — after Ashoka and his Mauryan empire — under his control. Despite Akbar’s intellectual curiosity, his epiphany at the age of 36, his visionary idea of sulha kul (universal peace), it is his compassion and empathy that marks him for greatness. As he said in one of his proclamations: ‘The best prayer is service to humanity.’ The reviewer is a writer, translator and literary historian.  Akbar The Great Mughal: The Definitive Biography  Ira Mukhoty Aleph  Rs. 999
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the statues fall||In 1989, I was visiting the city of Richmond, Virginia, in the United States. I’d known my friends T and P since my time in college in Vermont and we were here in T’s hometown to help him with a video project. We were driving around at night in a city which had been the capital of the Confederate States during the Civil War. At some point, we turned into Monument Avenue. As we passed the equestrian statues and columns, T, an African-American, read out the roll-call of names of the Generals represented, with P, a white guy from New Jersey, replying, “That guy’s got to go!”, “Take him down !”, “And him too!”. We finally stopped near a statue where both my friends vented simultaneously, “This one first! This one’s gotta go, first of all!” This divisive symbol The statue commemorated Robert E. Lee, the Commander of the Confederate Armies and the general who fought some of the bloodiest battles of the civil war while defending the ‘right’ of whites to own slaves. In 1989, nearly 125 years after the supposed emancipation of people of African descent, we were looking up at the statue of a figure around whom white supremacists had built their racist myths while continuing to discriminate grotesquely, and at every possible level, against Americans of colour. The presence of these statues of slavery-supporting generals in Richmond and other southern cities was equally outrageous for my black American friend and my white American friend, but it has taken another 31 years for the current Governor of Virginia to even attempt to remove that statue of Lee — ‘this divisive symbol’ as he put it — from the centre of the State capital. Just after Governor Ralph Northam gave the order, a State judge issued an injunction against the removal, based on a deed signed in 1870 that the State of Virginia would “perpetually care for and affectionately protect” the statue. A couple of years ago, in Baltimore, statues of Lee, of Confederate icon Stonewall Jackson, and of Roger Taney, the Supreme Court judge who gave a judgment upholding slavery, were all removed overnight by the administration. Moment of elation The recent removal and disposal in the river of the statue of slave trader Edward Colston in Bristol, England, has triggered debates online. Some arguments are framed thus: Can any one group of people be allowed to pull down statues and architectural symbols that they find offensive? If yes, then how can you stop others from defacing or destroying other statues and buildings that they find offensive, even if you hold those targets to have archaeological or artistic value? If the group pulling down the Colston statue was “caught up in a passion” set off by the police murder of George Floyd, then could one not say the mob that destroyed the Babri Masjid was equally beset by passionate anger? What about the Bamiyan Buddhas — if we feel outrage at the Taliban destruction, should we also not feel outrage when a group yanks down the statue of Colston or defaces statues of Robert Clive or Winston Churchill? What about the IS’s destruction of ancient sites that offend their version of Islam? Couldn’t the pulling down of the Colston statue be compared to those extreme actions? Well, no. The Taliban shelled the Bamiyan Buddhas in a spectacle aimed at Western governments, destroying the region’s own ancient heritage, blasting away sculptures that had no bearing whatsoever on the Afghan people’s current situation. The ‘passion’ which led to the destruction of the Babri Masjid was manufactured carefully over many years by ruthlessly amoral politicians. The IS’s destruction of archaeological sites has been consistently connected to the sale of artefacts from those sites — sales to Western collectors who knowingly or otherwise have funded IS’s horrific campaigns. On the other hand are these statues, of those who devoted their lives to enslaving and trading people of a different ethnicity; Colston or the mass murderer Leopold II of Belgium or Cecil Rhodes or Robert Clive, or indeed Winston Churchill, whose ‘finest hour’ of about four months can be weighed against the darkness of 70 years of adult life as an indefatigable white racist who often held great power while having nothing but contempt for ‘inferior races’. Whether these people’s statues are removed to a back lot such as Coronation Park in Delhi or Barrackpore near Kolkata, or occasionally burnt or brought down and thrown into a river, their removal has to do with circumstances of racism and discrimination that are current and based on the foundations laid by these men. A few months after my encounter with the statue of Lee, the Berlin Wall was brought down. It was a moment of massive elation, even for someone like me who had never seen it or experienced suffering because of its existence. I tend to think the bringing down of the Colson statue or the burning of the Leopold likeness or the removal of Lee + horse is akin to that wonderful, historical dismantling.  We finally stopped near a statue where both my friends vented simultaneously, “This one first! This one’s gotta go, first of all!”
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Chronicles of death foretold||In this period of isolation, one turns to literature and art to come to terms with reality, and place it in the context of history. As I continue to stay indoors because of the pandemic, spring has given way to summer. I follow the turn of seasons with elation — I look out of my window and see flowers blooming and the changing shades of green on trees. Yet this tranquil radiance invites dark thoughts as scenes of pandemic recorded in literature — bodies piled sky-high waiting for burial, cries of pain searing through the London smog — crowd the mind. This worldwide pandemic is certainly not the first. Nor will it be the last. In denial The work that comes most readily to mind is, of course, Camus’s The Plague , that bleak parable illustrating the human condition. Like the French army marching into Algeria, the plague descends on the Algerian town of Oran, where one “never hear[s] the beat of the wings or the rustle of leaves.” The plague “rules out any future, cancels journeys, silences the exchange of views”. Although people “fancied themselves free”, the novel tells us that “no one will ever be free so long as there are pestilences.” But The Plague is not merely an allegory; it is also the tale of a devastating natural calamity. Dr. Bernard Rieux decides to stay back in Oran to tend to the sick, accepting a life of “exile and imprisonment” that is the inherent fallout of every pandemic. Camus writes at the beginning of the novel that “everybody knows... pestilences have a way of recurring in the world; yet somehow we find it hard to believe in ones that crash down on our head from a blue sky.” Indeed, the initial response to any pandemic has always been denial, with the state machinery playing down the number of fatalities to conceal the seriousness of the situation. This happened in the early days of the Great Plague in London in 1664 — Daniel Defoe’s A Journal of the Plague Year testifies to the common practice of the state spreading misinformation and manipulating the media to suit its interests. From our own experience of the way some states round the world have reacted to the COVID-19 crisis, we know this all too well by now. One can trace a few patterns: the U.S.’s recent denunciation of China echoes the efforts of the KGB to hold the U.S. responsible for the AIDS epidemic in the 1980s. Nearly two millennia ago, Roman emperor Marcus Aurelius held the Christians culpable for the smallpox affliction in his empire. During successive plagues, Jews were accused of poisoning the wells of Europe. Defoe underscores the bigotry and xenophobia that underlie this tendency. Racist bias is apparent in the haunting figure of a hooded man surreptitiously contaminating public places. Living to tell the tale Pandemics spare no one, rich or poor. “The vast cities of America, the fertile plains of Hindostan, the crowded abodes of the Chinese, are menaced with utter ruin,” writes Mary Shelley in her dystopian sci-fi novel, The Last Man (1826). This is the story of the plague in Constantinople in 2092, lasting a year and returning in spring in a more virulent avatar. People rush to churches and mosques to appease the gods. While legislatures vacillate on taking suitable action, human achievements in the fields of arts, commerce and agriculture gradually decline. Modelling his plot on Mary Shelley’s, Jack London wrote the post apocalyptic novel, The Scarlet Plague, in 1912. The protagonist here, a professor of English literature, is among the handful who live to tell the tale. His grandsons have no idea what money is: he finds it difficult to explain to them how, as the plague arrived in the world run by capitalists, trains stopped, stores were looted, and huge swathes of population starved and died while the wealthy fled to their farms or islands. If we come through this pandemic, many would perhaps be inspired to write about their personal tragedies and future fears. “All a man could win in the conflict between plague and life,” says Camus, “was knowledge and memories.” History repeats itself, with none growing wiser with experience. Only literature continues to fight for a more equitable world, where healthcare is a right not a privilege and transparency in governance is a justified expectation not a pipe dream. The writer is Professor Emeritus and Fellow, Panjab University.  Racist bias is apparent in the haunting figure of a hooded man surreptitiously contaminating public places
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Joey and the guardians of the data galaxy||In recent months, hundreds of cellphone masts have been burnt down by vigilantes all around the world. The arsonists were driven by viral videos propagating conspiracy theories that radiation from 5G networks causes the spread of the novel coronavirus. You could call this an allergic reaction that the human race has developed to the future; a symptom of what sociologist Manuel Castells called “informed bewilderment,” the hallmark of our age. It is also a sign that we live in a science-fictional reality now. Only the literature of the imagination can capture what is happening all around us. Samit Basu’s Chosen Spirits , set in a Delhi 10 years from now, therefore is a welcome addition to the ranks of Indian science-fiction. It is torn out of today’s headlines and channels the anxieties that vex the Indian liberal intelligentsia. Years not to be discussed We follow Bijoyini “Joey” Roy, a 25-year old “Associate Reality Controller” of something called the Flow. She manages the channels of a “Flowstar,” a kind of social media influencer on turbomode. The Flow is what would happen if Dr. Frankenstein decided to merge his Twitter, TikTok, and Instagram accounts, and threw in some Augmented Reality as well. Joey meets Rudra, the dispossessed scion of a business house and soon they are plunged into a vortex of corporate espionage, feuding oligarchs, illegal medical tech, and hostile takeovers, all under an authoritarian overhang. Basu plays up one of science-fiction’s greatest strengths — it is a genre where world-building also forms a narrative, a relentless accretion of details like pixels forming the image on a HD display. Staying just ahead of the bow-wave of the present means carefully following trends, to see which ones will persist. As Frederik Pohl once said “A good science fiction story should be able to predict not the automobile, but the traffic jam.” In a casual aside we learn that JNU has been demolished and replaced with a giant mall with the “world’s largest air-conditioner,” we see that RWAs have been weaponised, and American diners replaced with Sinofuturist-themed restaurants signalling shifts in global power. At a social gathering, a character meets “a neuromarketer, a flying warehouse distributor and a cognitive linguist, a memorial monument optimiser, a detention centre designer and a friend-renting social maven.” Basu makes full use of the vantage point that sci-fi enables. Our now is their past, referred to as the “Years Not To Be Discussed”. We learn that Joey as a teenager attended the protests at Shaheen Bagh, “which now exists only in memory.” Jugaadpunk aesthetic There are encrypted kolams repurposed as QR codes, protests that come with bloodshed ratings (the worst kind of protest is “blood and no cameras”), a “Lakshman Rekha” firewall has sprung up around the country’s Internet, an AI assistant called Narad sends “lovable dog GIF blasts” depending on your mood. There are “augrels,” micro religions which, like a karmic Fitbit, track good deeds and enable you to unlock utopian cult retreats. This is the territory of “Cyberpunk”, which emerged in the 1980s, boosted by the publication of William Gibson’s Neuromancer . Just as the Space Age was spluttering, the genre turned inward. Instead of the grand panoramas of space opera, there were now computers talking to each other, packets of data whispering across the lines, with the darkness between the stars lit up by “constellations of data.”  However, Basu’s cyberpunk milieu is firmly rooted in the culture which generated it. In the Western tradition, the lone protagonist, usually male, investigates a neon-drenched city; the Blade Runner films are an example of this template. While here, it is a middle-class family, complete with domestic help, facing the usual problems — ageing parents, a younger brother who isn’t ‘settled’. Basu even posits a kind of “jugaadpunk” aesthetic in his depiction of the semi-formal cyberbazaars of Delhi. The novel brims with ideas though the narrative drives over some clumsy exposition dumps now and then. Still there are lots of themes below the surface; one is that of “surveillance capitalism,” as defined by Shoshana Zuboff. The future, far from an utopia to aspire to, has itself become a commodity, “the behavioural futures market”, where our lives are recorded, then bundled and sold as data. Basu is clear that “this book is set not in a dystopia, but in a best-case scenario,” which isn’t very comforting. But that is the job of science-fiction. Sometimes the very act of imagining a future is an act of rebellion. The reviewer is a freelance journalist and graphic novelist.  Chosen Spirits Samit Basu  Simon & Schuster India  Rs. 499    In a casual aside we learn that JNU has been demolished and replaced with a giant mall with the “world’s largest air-conditioner”
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||On the stump, at wits’ end||It was election time in Baldwin Girls’ High School, Bangalore, in 1966. Who might be the next school captain or “president”, as she was called? Every candidate had to be nominated and promoted by a fellow student. One of the best and brightest girls (and too modest for her own good) I knew was my classmate T. Rajalakshmi, and a group decided that I campaign for her. For about 10 days, I reached school earlier than usual and spoke to small groups who either listened patiently or told me to buzz away and bother someone else. I changed tack and talked to influential gang leaders, ending my election mode remarks with “tell your friends”. My next post was the bicycle stand where I waited to ingratiate myself with seniors and house captains. By and by even my best friend began to show some reluctance to accompany me. So I plodded on alone. Came the day when we were supposed to introduce our candidates to the whole school after assembly time and talk about them. What a chance! With my brother’s help, I prepared what we both thought was a brilliant speech. Rajalakshmi read what I showed her and said, “I am none of these things. Looks like you want me to win more than I do,” puncturing my optimism a bit. There might have been some truth in that. On the big day, I tucked my speech into the pocket of my blazer and waited for my turn. Everyone else said mundane things about their candidate and how “nice” she was. “Even if I don’t win, they’ll remember your speech,” whispered Rajalakshmi. Finally, it was our turn and as we stood up, a teacher asked me to leave my blazer on my chair. Only when I reached the mike did I remember that my speech lay in my blazer pocket. That empty feeling I stood in front of the mike with Rajalakshmi on my left. As I looked at the sea of faces before me, my confidence vapourised and ice filled my brain. I took a deep breath and said, “Ladies and gentlemen!” Laughter rippled through the hall because there wasn’t a single man in the audience. I couldn’t recall two words of what I had written. To jiggle my memory, I said “Ladies and gentlemen” a second time. There followed a good deal of merriment. My teachers fell forward to muffle their laughter in sari pallus and handkerchiefs and even the bored office maids waiting on the veranda outside popped their heads in to see what was happening. I don’t clearly recall what happened, but Rajalakshmi herself was suppressing her mirth. Suffice it to say that I opened and closed with the same sentence: “Please vote for T. Rajalakshmi because she is the best candidate.” Rajalakshmi lost the election but I retained her friendship . minioup@gmail.com
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Nixon’s paneer mashup||Like railway timetables, which I like to read even if I am not travelling, I enjoy going through recipe books — whether or not I actually try them out. For, as historian Mark Kurlansky tells us, recipes are invaluable artefacts: “They teach us about societies and the social order in which they were created.” He encourages readers to try out some of the 126 recipes that he mentions in his book, Milk: A 10,000-Year History . But he is conscientious: “That said, I would avoid Richard Nixon’s cottage cheese recipe.” That, of course, piqued my interest. So even before I’d read the book — recommended and conditionally lent by a physicist friend who clearly devotes as much time to the thought of food as he does to physics — I went through Nixon’s recipe. Milky way Cottage cheese, Kurlansky writes, came to be known as a diet food in the U.S. and most people ate it without really liking it. In 1968, Richard Nixon’s campaign managers decided that he needed to be made more “endearing”, for he was “one of the least cuddly of all politicians”. So there were television interviews where he, I suppose, tried to appear ‘cuddly’. Once he was asked by an interviewer how he kept his weight down. By eating cottage cheese, he replied. “I eat cottage cheese till it runs out of my ears,” he said. “But I have learnt a way to eat it that makes it not too bad. I put ketchup on it. At least that way it does not taste like cottage cheese.” Most Indians would baulk at that. There would be a loud argument over how to eat cottage cheese or paneer, one of the most popular milk products in India. And that wouldn’t surprise Kurlansky, for he tells us that milk is the most argued-over food in human history. “Here is a food fight that gourmets, chefs, agronomists, parents, feminists, chemists, epidemiologists, nutritionists, biologists, economists, and animal lovers can all weigh in on,” he comments. His book tells you everything that you wanted to know about milk but were afraid to ask. The old debate over which animal’s milk is the best continues. Most vouch for cow’s milk, but the buffalo has its legion of fans too. Ibn Battuta praises a porridge prepared with buffalo milk that he’d had during his India sojourn in the 14th century. Then there are people who are passionate about goat’s milk (which, incidentally, has triple the amount of protein found in human milk). Monkey’s milk, Kurlansky tells us, is in its composition most similar to human milk, while camel’s milk is akin to cow’s milk. Then there is donkey’s milk, which has far less fat than human milk: “Donkey’s milk has also retained a following, especially since it has been determined that people who are allergic to other milks have no problem with donkey’s milk.” Bubbling saucepan When Francis I of early 16th century France fell ill, a physician prescribed donkey’s milk. “He recovered and thereafter drank donkey’s milk whenever he was feeling ill,” Kurlanksy writes. The book is full of little-known gems such as this. He mentions that the halwa came to India with the Mughals, but it was in India that it became a dairy dish. The gajar ka halwa was invented sometime in the 16th or 17th century, he says. “It was also in the sixteenth century that the Dutch, through the use of carotene, developed the first orange carrot. Previously, carrots were either pale yellow or purple, varieties that still exist. But the orange carrot was sweeter. According to popular folk mythology, the orange carrot was developed in the mid- to late-1600s to honour King William of Orange, but, in actuality, it already existed before he was born. When the orange carrot appeared in Mogul India, there was great excitement. Vegetable halwas had started to become popular, and if there is one thing Indians truly loved, it’s bright deep colours. Carrot halwa became, and remained, a popular dessert.” The book is an encyclopedia of milk as well as a bubbling saucepan of trivia. Did you know, for instance, that Nixon learnt the trick of adding ketchup to cottage cheese from his grandmother, who lived till 91? One lives and learns, drop by drop.  Ibn Battuta praises a porridge prepared with buffalo milk that he’d had during his India sojourn in the 14th century
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The ambiguity of the RSS and its complex worldview||Decoding the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has been a preoccupation of academics and journalists alike for decades, and there is no dearth of writing on it. In recent years, as the Sangh Parivar moved to the centrestage of politics in India, there have been several new tomes. Dinesh Narayanan’s The RSS and the making of the Deep Nation steers clear of predictable courses. Not in a hurry to dismiss, eulogise or vilify the RSS, this book captures various facets of the Sangh in a rather dispassionate manner, sometimes at the risk of sounding sympathetic. The author is wary of conclusive statements, while he curiously examines the RSS’ vacillations, contradictions, and its unwavering and patient march towards turning India into a Hindu rashtra. Growth of a power centre Acting through numerous fronts and speaking in multiple tongues, the RSS grew immensely powerful over nearly a century but it ferociously preserved a certain insularity from public inquiry. After its political front, the Bharatiya Janata Party, won a parliamentary majority in 2014, the RSS began to open up a bit more. Its chief Mohan Bhagwat held a three-part lecture series in 2018, in which he also appeared to abjure the Sangh’s declared hostility towards Muslims. Despite its recent, tentative transparency, the RSS’ genetic code still retains a lot of mystery. Or, as the author suggests, it may be still evolving. The book’s title is a play on ‘deep state,’ a phrase that initially alluded to the hold of the secular military establishment on Turkish politics. It has been used to denote the grip of the Pakistani military and the ISI in the country’s society and politics; and in recent years popularised by President Donald Trump and his allies to call into question the American security establishment which they accuse of undermining the democratic will of the people. Deep state, in essence, alludes to a power structure that operates under the radar, and sways the course of the nation in unseen ways. Again, the author is not conclusive, though he drops enough hints. For instance, the RSS has a mechanism to train civil service aspirants, and at least 4,000 currently serving civil servants came through it. This constitutes a permanent influence of the Sangh within the instruments of the state, but when the BJP is in power, they are also the preferred ones for staffing crucial positions. The RSS continues to hold on to fantasy eugenic projects, meanwhile. Sangh’s animosity There is remarkable continuity in the Sangh’s animosity towards Muslims; the writer notes this and also the occasional efforts at reconciliation. Founding RSS sarsanghachalak or chief B.G. Hegdewar believed that calling Muslims traitors would imply that they were part of the nation and preferred to refer to them as enemies. There has been a spectrum of understandings within the Sangh on Muslims, and the author suggests the more strident voices often get the better of moderate ones. Where it stands Though it is bound by a broad notion of promoting Hindu Rashtra, significant ideological incoherence remains the Sangh’s hallmark. Its struggles are not restricted to its views on Muslims, but also in its views on caste and economic policy. If one is curious about the seeming contradiction in the current attempts of the Centre to promote local products and global supply chains at the same time, this book outlines the long and difficult history of the Sangh’s engagement with economic liberalisation and globalisation. For all its fretting and fuming against Enron in the 1990s, the 13-day government of the A.B. Vajpayee government in 1996 tried its best to appease the American company. That was how a power fixer, the late Pramod Mahajan, upended the BJP’s swadeshi agenda overnight, the author notes. Narayanan has had significant access to several current and former functionaries of the Sangh. This book is a valuable and readable addition to the literature on the RSS.     The RSS and the making of the Deep Nation Dinesh Narayanan Penguin  Rs. 699
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 On June 14, 1942, this young girl started writing in her diary. The first entry was: “I hope I will be able to confide everything to you, as I have never been able to confide in anyone, and I hope you will be a great source of comfort and support.” Her diary is where she voiced her hope, vented her frustration and protested the injustice around her. She wrote till August 1, 1944. Who was this brave little girl whose diary inspired millions around the world? 2 Samuel Pepys’ diary is a wonderful collection of first-hand accounts of some of the most important events that shaped and built this historically significant city, such as the return of the monarch after civil wars, the great plague and the great fire. This day-to-day portrait of 17th-century life gives us an amazing insight into the history of this city. Which city did Pepys so beautifully capture in his diary? 3 R.F. Scott’s diary told a tale of epic bravery. A group of adventurers had to return crestfallen because a Norwegian adventurer had beaten them in a race to a very inhospitable place. His anguish is seen in his entry: “The worst has happened [...] All the day dreams must go [...] Great God! This is an awful place”. The final entries written while hopelessly trapped in a tiny tent by a raging blizzard are among the most poignant and haunting passages ever written. Scott’s diary is an account of which bleak place on Earth? 4 This person’s diary entries were published as a book called Conversations With Myself . It shows the inner workings of one of the most inspiring leaders in human history. He says, “There is universal respect and even admiration for those who are humble and simple by nature, and who have absolute confidence in all human beings irrespective of their social status... it is such good men and women who are the hope of the world.” From his travails with imprisonment to becoming a leader of a free country, his intimate thoughts and ideas cover his life in wonderful detail. Who was this dynamic diarist? 5 This person wrote his diary from the perspective of a fictional narrator. He gives an extraordinarily vivid account of the Great Plague of 1665 and catalogues the rising death toll, the transformation of the city and the despair of those affected. The author would later find fame from his book about a shipwrecked sailor who spends 28 years on a desert island off Venezuela. Who was this diarist and what book did he eventually write? 6 Pliny (the Younger) was a lawyer who maintained a diary which tells us a lot about everyday life in the ancient Roman empire. His most enduring entry is from 79 AD when through his writing we learn about one of the most infamous events in world history. He writes of what he observes happening in a town across the bay. His detailed descriptions of the event led to a certain feature, the umbrella-shaped cloud that is formed, being named after him. His diary account is regarded by many as the first ‘vulcanologist’ report. What event was this and which town did he observe? 7 This lady’s diary eventually became her laboratory journal. Her first few entries are written alone but soon her husband joins as well. One entry which tells us she had the same problems as us is when she complains about the temperature in the lab followed by 10 exclamation marks. Who was this diarist, and what was she researching, which is the reason these diaries are now contained in a lead lined case? 8 Born on June 14, 1928, this person’s career began as a doctor but he later played a major role in a revolution in South America, becoming a global cultural symbol of rebellion. Though he maintained a diary throughout his life, there’s one portion which he wrote as a medical student, when he and a friend covered more than 8,000 km on a bike crossing the Andes, Atacama Desert and the Amazon river basin. Who was this person who ends this diary stating that he would fight and die for the cause of the poor? 9 This person started writing his diary at 29, then wrote of his younger life in retrospect and updated it till his death. This diary became important because of the entries between 1831 and 1835. He meticulously noted down all his observations, especially about birds, animals and plants, which would later form the foundation for his theory that would change biology forever. Who was this diarist whose diary of his voyage to South America started a new field in science? 10 This diary is of Greg Heffley who lies, cheats and does whatever he can to live through his day. His biggest problem is his big brother. He also can’t understand why his little brother is adored by his parents. He isn’t particularly good at anything and has no heroic abilities, still his diary is read by millions of children, maybe because there is a little bit of Greg in all of us. How better do we know Greg’s diary?          A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Horoscopes in the time of Corona||In these trying times of much death and many obituaries, one such last month of the non-Corona category caught my eye. Astrologer Bejan Daruwalla of the weekly astrology column ‘Ganesha Speaks’ fame passed away of pneumonia and lung infection, but not before predicting that the current epidemic would fade away by the end of May. Alas. My memory of Bejan Daruwalla goes back many years, when the reading of a newspaper on Sundays was a cherished family ritual. In the 80s, coming to modernity necessarily meant being a good, newspaper-reading citizen. As historian and political scientist Benedict Anderson informed us, the modern nation is an imagined community made possible because we imagine ourselves as part of the same nation, through acts such as reading the newspaper. Except that my act of imagination included not just my nation, but the imagined nation of those that shared my Sun Sign. Along with development and debt, violence and sport, the Olympics, floods and drought, I read my horoscope as predicted by this man with that delicious name destined in other worlds perhaps to launch a thousand speakeasies. In those Sundays of always sepia sunshine, my future shone bright and the world seemed achievable. Fear & frenzy In the midst of frenzied, daily discussions on masks, vaccines, ventilators and medicines, when I heard of Daruwalla’s passing, it seemed to be another sign that the world as we know it is truly coming to an end. I mourned, just a wee bit. The act of mourning, as most of us well know by now is never about anybody but ourselves and our vanishing sense of memory and temporality. We rely on friends, family, and celebrities, to preserve for us our childhood, our youth, our tremulous possibilities, and the many other lives we could have and have led. Every now and then we turn to them to recover the joie de vivre of an assumed immortality and vigour. And mine seemed connected to this childhood act of reading horoscopes in the newspaper. No more Sun Sign mumbo-jumbo for me, I thought. The world, however, doesn’t seem to agree. Even as a New York Times headline asks if the coronavirus will kill astrology, other reports of robust optimism are noting the increasing rise in those consulting astrologers, tarot readers, numerologists and the like. The business of quelling uncertainty, is apparently not just the domain of epidemiologists and virologists. And why ever not? The promises of modernity, globalisation and ‘progress’ have produced radical disenchantment, misery and increasing violence travelling through the bodies of the world’s most marginalised citizens. The world erupts in protests as I write, and there is no end in sight. So why not astrology for whatever it can offer as respite and repose? Lest you think that I’m moving eggplant-like from one end of the reason/ unreason binary to another, let me try something else here. Anthropology, when studying cultural change, ferment, and radical breakdown, occupies itself with understanding cosmologies. Unlike the theoretical physicists, anthropologists understand cosmology as a set of understandings, beliefs, and practices of a culture vis-à-vis the origin of the universe, and the role that humans are seen to play in the furthering of such a plot. In other words, cosmology refers to the study of a whole and complete structure of meaning, a world. Lies put to test At a time like this, when the modern and the non-modern worlds (if there be any benefit at all in thinking in this bifurcated fashion) seem to be struggling, and all the lies of the universe are being put to the test, we need new cosmologies. And I, for one, can see the possibilities of a common minimum programme as it were, between all cosmologies alike. For they all agree that the myths we have functioned by will not hold us in good stead. We cannot prosper forever at the cost of the lives of others. The health of all is needed for the health of one. And there will be no future without the insistence and imagination of a future for all. So now when I read my horoscope, in honour of a future yet to come, I will expand my imagination to include everyone born under the same sign as me, deserving therefore of the same promise of life as mine, and the same hopes, possibilities, futures and lives. In this meeting of cosmologies, the sun and the stars rise for all, and the bell tolls for thee.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Walking the mountains in silence||As someone who has done travel books himself, would it be fair — even ethical — on my part to comment about someone else’s travelogue? That was the first thought that struck me as I finished reading Jono Lineen’s Into the Heart of the Himalayas . There’s no rulebook that stops me, but why should I judge another writer’s labour of love? Then it occurred to me that there’s hardly any common ground. I can never come close to doing what he has done. I am an Indian, that too belonging to a generation that cannot even imagine backpacking in the mountains of Pakistan in the foreseeable future. While millions were direct victims of Partition, an event that took place more than 70 years ago, successive generations continue to pay the price for it in numerous ways, one of them being their inability to access some of the most majestic parts of the Himalayas, which today lie in Pakistan. Tumultuous landscape In other words, you are unlikely to find a present-day Indian writer beginning his book with these sentences: “The jeep taxi dropped me at my starting point, the confluence of the Indus and Astore rivers in the Northern Areas of Pakistan-administered Kashmir. It is a tumultuous landscape, where three of the world’s greatest mountain ranges — the Himalayas, the Karakoram and the Hindu Kush — collide.” While Lileen brilliantly sets the tone of the book with these very first two lines, he also establishes, quite early on, that he is a nice, likeable sort you can trust as you trek the 2,700 kilometres along with him — from the ‘Muslim Himalayas’ of Pakistan to the ‘Buddhist Himalayas’ of Ladakh and Spiti and finally into the ‘Hindu Himalayas’ of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. He wanders through the Himalayas for pretty much the same reason that Indian sadhus do: search for self and spirituality. In his case, the trigger was the death of his younger brother Gareth, who had drowned in the icy waters of Elk Lake in British Columbia the day before he would have turned 19. The recurring mentions of the death make it clear that the arduous trek was not an attempt to walk away from the tragedy but a tool to come to terms with it; as if in enduring the hardship he is seeking to lessen the pain caused by his brother’s death. Meditative trek Lileen’s modesty and honesty shines through in his prose, which is lucid and precise. Not for a moment do you feel intimidated by or envious of his feat: time and again you are reminded that he is a human just like you and me, someone who grew up in violence-scarred Belfast and who lost his teenage brother. What’s most endearing about his account is that he keeps pretty much to himself almost throughout the journey, even when he encounters temptation in the form of an Anglo-Pakistani woman in the middle of nowhere. Reading him is not just travelling with him; by the time you reach the end of the book you realise you’ve been meditating all along.  Into the Heart of the Himalayas Jono Lineen Speaking Tiger  Rs. 499
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Use the scissors||South was happy to accept North’s invitational bid and was pleased with the sight of dummy. The contract looked to be rock solid until the defense took an ominous turn. East overtook the king of diamonds opening lead with the ace and fired back the two of hearts. What could this be but a singleton heart? South captured West’s jack of hearts with dummy’s king and took a moment to plan the play. East would not have defended this way with a singleton trump, so it was pointless to lead a tru mp as Eastwould get his heart ruff regardless of who held the ace of spades. In fact, East almost certainly held the ace of spades for this defense. East was planning to win his ace of trumps and cross to partner with a diamond for a heart ruff. Could anything be done to prevent this? Yes! South led a club to hisace and then overtook the queen of clubs with dummy’s king. He led dummy’s 10 of clubs and was happy to see East cover this with the jack. South elegantly discarded his last diamond and allowed East to win the trick. East led a diamond, but South ruffed and led the king of spades. There was no heart ruff available for the defense and South couldn’t be prevented from drawing the trumps and claiming his contract. Nice play!
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Long train on a small platform||I visited the U.S. for the first time in 2000 at the age of 60. Since my hosts were a working couple, there was no question of a guided metro tour or outstation visits. But I decided to explore New York, with their guarded approval. They would drop me at one of the metro stations in the morning and pick me up from the same spot in the evening. I was asked to keep my distance from local people and be careful at city centres. But a problem arose when my friend in Long Island, one of the suburbs some 65 km from New York, invited me for dinner. After quite a bit of persuasion, my host agreed to my night-out. I took the Amtrak train from the New York Penn station at 5 p.m. My friend would receive me at a station called Glen Cove around 7 p.m. The ride was comfortable, and I enjoyed the scenic landscape en route . As Glen Cove was announced on the screen, I reached the exit door, but could not open it. I went to the next compartment through the vestibule. Here too the door could not be opened. There was no other passenger to alight. I got panicky. My worry was if the train resumed its journey, I would not know how to reach my destination from the next stop at night. One passenger came to me and said, “My dear friend, the train will not leave without disembarking you. The conductor knows you are listed to get off at this station. Please go to the next compartment.” As I did so, the conductor greeted me and guided me to the door. It was a relief to see my friend waiting on the platform to receive me. “Just a few commuters use these stations. The platform is built small purposely to save resources. Passengers will come to the one compartment whose door will open,” he said. The country which has enormous resources shows how to manage them wisely. lakshmibashyam@yahoo.com
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||No news is good news||Respected Madam/Sir,  Shall I tell one thing? Okay actually two things. Please listen carefully. Don’t take it personally. First thing, there is too much news. Newspaper is full of news. Website is full of news. TV is full of news. Radio is full of news. WhatsApp is fullest of the full of news. Whether I can spend even one day without looking at news nonstop? Never. Not even five minutes. Wake up from bed in the morning and within 30 seconds news will start coming and coming through ears and eyes and mouth and nose and all. You are thinking old man, news is most important item. If not means how you can be member of society? Stop it madam/sir. Stop it this moment itself. Whether you are just making news every day in office of our esteemed newspaper or you are also reading any news? From morning to night tension. Here problem, there problem, top problem, bottom problem. America problem. Russia problem. U.K. problem. What about India? One channel will say India full problem. Other channel will say what nonsense India is one big Disneyland everyone happy, ok little bit Corona is there, not a big issue. People are waking up, having tiffin, then sitting in front of news till bedtime. Whether any use is there? Zero. Dr. Shankaramenon will call everyday about 4 p.m. He will say Mathrubootham have you seen latest problem in U.S.? Something must be done. I say 100% something we must do. Then he will say have you seen latest issue in China? Things have to change. I will say 100% things have to change. Like that like that. And then? Then nothing. We will say good night, wake up next day morning, all previous news forgotten because new 15 numbers news items on TV that morning. At least can we take one news and fully concentrate on that for few months until there is some solution? Never. No entertainment in that. Everyday new drama should be there as if TV serial. So two days ago I decided enough. So much news means mental problem will happen. I decided that I will only watch news for 20 minutes after dinner. But whether world will allow? Never. At 11 a.m., Mrs. Mathrubootham came and asked have you seen latest news item. Immediately I said yes Kamalam I just saw it. She said can you believe it? I said, it is unbelievable. She said I am very angry. I said I am boiling with anger. She said hopefully things will improve, let us pray. I said yes we must. Then she went. Whether I have any idea what was news? No idea. But tension is gone no? This is Mathrubootham technique. Everyday I am using this technique to avoid tension. Just now Mohammed Usman is putting phone call asking have you seen the news? I said, yes yes I am seeing right now. (Actually I was reading superhit novel Mandala of Sherlock Holmes by Jamyang Norbu.) He said, isn’t it shocking? I said, my whole body is vibrating from shock. I am angry like anything. He said, why? News is good no, why you are angry? I quickly said, I am angry because we have to wait till 2020 to hear such good news. Shameful. He said, absolutely correct Mathru. But at least it is happening now. I said, yes, god is hearing our prayers. He said, bye. I said, bye and returned to novel. Do I have any idea what is the good news? No. Yours in satisfaction, J. Mathrubootham
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Corona-free||New Zealand, which went into a stringent lockdown on March 25, lifted most restrictions after it became officially COVID-19-free with no active cases. Schools and workplaces can open, social distancing is not required any more and public gatherings can take place. “While the job is not done, there is no denying this is a milestone. So can I finish with a very simple, ‘Thank you, New Zealand’,” said Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Doctors with borders||Delhi’s hospitals were forced to navigate chaos as the AAP government ordered them to admit only patients who could provide proof of residence in the capital. This provoked much criticism and was overturned by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal. Baijal also struck down an order that limited the scope of COVID-19 testing, and directed the government to test more contacts of confirmed cases.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Slowly slowly||India and China reached an “agreement” as a result of ongoing talks on the tense border situation in Ladakh, with the two countries working to “ameliorate” the situation, according to China. No details were forthcoming and India made nos tatement, though there were reports of de-escalation as troops were withdrawn from some — not all — of the stand-off sites.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Op-ed offence||After an op-ed by U.S. Senator Tom Cotton, advocating ‘an overwhelming show of force’ against protesters by deploying the military, was featured onThe New York Timeswebsite, acrimony ensued as many of the newspaper’s own journalists publicly criticised the decision to publish the piece — which, it turned out, had been commissioned from Cotton byThe Times. Editorial page editor James Bennet had to resign as a result.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Crossing a line||Crossfit founder and CEO Greg Glassman was forced to resign after being lambasted for offensive comments about George Floyd, including a tweet in which he characterised the protests as ‘FLOYD-19’. The next few days saw the U.S.-based fitness brand plunged into crisis as it lost partnerships, including its official outfitter, Reebok, and over 1,000 affiliated gyms. Glassman’s subsequent apology had little effect.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Toppling the past||Protests against police racism triggered by the death of George Floyd continued across the U.S. and internationally, while authorities responded with promises to revamp police forces. The Democrats rolled out a legislative package of police reforms. Protesters worldwide targeted and defaced statues of historical figures associated with racism and slavery. In Richmond, Virginia, a statue of Christopher Columbus was dumped into a lake.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Doped out||Indian 800m runner Gomathi Marimuthu, who won gold at the 2019 Asian Championships, was stripped of her medal and banned by the Athletics Integrity Unit after she tested positive for a banned steroid. Meanwhile, India’s National Anti-Doping Agency suspended basketballer Amritpal Singh, shooter Sharvan Kumar, and boxer Neeraj Phogat.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Roar||A survey of India’s lions found that their numbers in and around Gir National Park have grown by 29%, from 523 in 2015 to 674 now. The lion’s range has also expanded to 30,000 sq. km in Gujarat. This is particularly good news for the prides, which were affected by an outbreak of Canine Distemper Virus in 2018 that killed 36 lions.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Court support||The Supreme Court on June 9 ordered States and Union Territories to bring all stranded migrant workers home within 15 days, while instructing the railways to provide 171 more Shramik Special trains. It also urged States and UTs to withdraw prosecutions against migrant workers who have been charged with violating lockdown rules by walking home. It asked for counselling centres be set up to direct returning workers to rehabilitation and employment schemes.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||What We Forgot to Bury||Marin Montgomery  Thomas & Mercer Rs. 129 (Kindle price) When Charlotte Coburn is putting her tragically dark past behind to start a new life, teenager Elle knocks at her door looking for shelter. She knows all of Charlotte’s secrets because they ruined her family. It is time that everyone else knew. But Charlotte is also concocting her own vile plans.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Little White Secrets||Carol Mason  Lake Union Publishing Rs. 129.00 (Kindle price) Emily Rossi has a picture-perfect life till her 14-year-old daughter, Zara, brings home a toxic new bestie. Suddenly Zara is staying out late, taking drugs and keeping bad company. Emily’s husband seems too wrapped up in his job to care. Then a dark secret comes to light.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The Book of Longings||Sue Monk Kidd  Viking $14.99 (Kindle price) This is the story of a rebellious young woman named Ana, sister of Judas and wife of Jesus. They have a happy marriage in Nazareth till the family gets embroiled in the conflict in Israel against Roman occupation. Ana flees to Alexandria, where revelations and greater dangers unfold.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Bread, Cement, Cactus: A Memoir of Belonging and Dislocation||Annie Zaidi  Cambridge University Press Rs. 980 In this exploration of the meaning of home, Zaidi reflects on the places in India from which she derives her identity. She finds what it is to forge a sense of belonging as a migrant in places where other communities consider you an outsider.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Vijyant at Kargil: The Biography of a War Hero||V.N. Thapar, Neha Dwivedi  Ebury Press/PRH Rs. 299 Captain Vijyant Thapar died at 22 in the Kargil War. A fourth-generation army officer, Vijyant dreamt of serving his country even as a young boy. In this biography, we learn about the journey from his father and Neha Dwivedi, a martyr’s daughter herself.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Nikah Halala: Sleeping with a Stranger||Ziya Us Salam  Bloomsbury Rs. 550 This book presents the sordid reality of ‘nikah halala’, mock marriages in Muslim society against the background of Koranic injunction, and exposes the departure in practice from the teachings that give divorced women freedom to follow their path.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Getting Competitive: A Practitioner’s Guide for India||R.C. Bhargava  HarperBusiness Rs. 599 Why does Indian manufacturing contribute so little to the GDP? The chairman of Maruti Suzuki draws upon his experience of more than 60 years as a policymaker and industry leader to give suggestions on how Indian industry can be competitive.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3104||Across  1 Volcano in Vietnam (4) 3 Wind around heart of wild flower (6,4) 9 Singer performed before ball (4) 10 Perennial turbulence of rapids, I say (5,5) 11 Cure in resort - in resort - offering newlife (12) 15 Makes unrea dable poem,Eunuchs, Oddly, Coming Round(7) 16 Playground’s destruction reported (3) 17 Tabloid regularly ignored sporting champ (3) 18 Primarily, refreshment using molasses? (3) 19 Conscientious objector suppresses cry of remorse (3) 21 José’s pan is heated, accommodating this kind of omelette? (7) 22 Fashionable short hairdos, they’re seen around now (3,5,4) 25 Regionally variegated flower (6-4) 26 Reports of Madagascan somewhere in Peru (4) 27 Leap over moving water at this time of year (10) 28 Hasty exam reveals eye problem (4)  Down  1 Senior rock ‘n’ roller finds source of wine (10) 2 Where holidaymakers are barely seen? (6,4) 4 Plaza leaseholder hides showy bloomers (7) 5 Laugh about start of written communication for a lark, perhaps (7) 6 They’re hard. Coolest? Not exactly! (3-3,5) 7 Bit of colour in theEyeidentifying Murdoch perhaps (4) 8 American version of‘Allo ‘Allo!perhaps provides distraction for children (2-2) 12 Travel, but don’t drive in a car, offsetting most of droughtiness (4,7) 13 Expert in digital enhancement? (10) 14 Plant’s dark colour (10) 20 According to Spooner, want something boring to be illuminated from behind (4-3) 21 Rotten, rotten old pies (7) 23 Treated sore deer (4) 24 Prime minister, not bold, in retreat (4)
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Hydroxychloroquine does not reduce mortality, RECOVERY trial finds||The RECOVERY trial, a large randomised controlled trial in the U.K. to test five drugs, including hydroxychloroquine, has found no clinical benefit from use of hydroxychloroquine in hospitalised patients with COVID-19. The trial investigators found that there was no significant benefit in mortality reduction in the intervention group, which was the primary objective. The RECOVERY trial began in March. It is a dynamic trial assessing five candidate drugs and convalescent plasma therapy for treating COVID-19 in patients in U.K. hospitals. The trial has enrolled over 11,000 patients. On June 4, following the retraction of The Lancet paper on use of hydroxychloroquine, the U.K. Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency wanted the independent Data Monitoring Committee of the RECOVERY trial to carry out an additional review. It also asked the investigators to look at the unblinded data in the hydroxychloroquine arm. No beneficial effects It then came to light that the drug did not have the desired beneficial effects. “We have concluded that there is no beneficial effect of hydroxychloroquine in patients hospitalised with COVID-19. We have therefore decided to stop enrolling participants to the hydroxychloroquine arm of the RECOVERY Trial with immediate effect,” a June 5 press release says. According to the release, a total of 1,542 patients were randomised to receive hydroxychloroquine for 10 days while 3,132 patients in the control arm received only standard care. The researchers found that there was “no significant difference in the primary endpoint of 28-day mortality”. While mortality was 25.7% in the intervention group, the control group had 23.5% mortality, which is not statistically significant. There was no evidence of beneficial effects in hospital stay duration and other endpoints, either. Outcomes measured The primary outcome tested was reduction in all-cause mortality within 28 days of randomisation. The secondary outcomes measured were to assess any reduction in duration of hospital stay and need for and duration of ventilator or ECMO within 28 days and up to six months after randomisation. “These data convincingly rule out any meaningful mortality benefit of hydroxychloroquine in patients hospitalised with COVID-19,” the release says. The researchers will soon make the results available. “Hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine have received a lot of attention and have been used very widely to treat COVID patients despite the absence of any good evidence. The RECOVERY trial has shown that hydroxychloroquine is not an effective treatment in patients hospitalised with COVID-19,” Peter Horby, Professor of Emerging Infectious Diseases and Global Health at the Nuffield Department of Medicine, the University of Oxford, and Chief Investigator for the trial, says in the release. Huge speculation Deputy Chief Investigator Martin Landray from the University of Oxford says: “There has been huge speculation and uncertainty about the role of hydroxychloroquine as a treatment for COVID-19, but an absence of reliable information from large randomised trials. The preliminary results from the RECOVERY trial are quite clear — hydroxychloroquine does not reduce the risk of death among hospitalised patients with this new disease.” “The RECOVERY trial, in addition to the signals from other studies we have received so far, are enough to convince me to not offer hydroxychloroquine to hospitalized patients,” Nahid Bhadelia, a physician at Boston Medical Center, told Science. Prof. Landray added to this, saying: “If you, your spouse, your mother gets admitted to hospital and is offered hydroxychloroquine, don’t take it”. Post-exposure prophylaxis  Another trial found that hydroxychloroquine drug was not effective even as a post-exposure prophylaxis in asymptomatic participants who have had high-risk exposure with a confirmed COVID-19 case. Nearly 88% (719 of 821 participants) had such high-risk exposure. The results of the trial published inThe New England Journal of Medicinefound that the incidence of COVID-19 illness was not statistically significant in the group that received the drug compared with the control group. While 49 of 414 (11.8%) participants who received the drug developed illness, 58 of 407 (14.3%) participants who got the placebo fell ill. Side-effects were more in the intervention group but no serious adverse events were reported.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||‘No hard scientific evidence showing there are less virulent strains’||For decades, renowned virologist Malik Peiris has been researching emerging viruses including influenza, coronaviruses (SARS, MERS), and is widely credited for his role in discovering that a novel coronavirus was the cause of SARS in 2003. In an interview to The Hindu via Skype, the Sri Lankan-origin expert, who holds the Chair of Virology, at the School of Public Health, Hong Kong University, speaks about how COVID-19 is different, how the world could have been better prepared and the way forward. Edited excerpts.  What is your assessment of the COVID-19 pandemic? As you know, the virus has spread to most parts of the world. But it is inevitable that as a virus which is efficiently spreading from human to human, it is going to continue to transmit. It is also clear that the virus behaves very differently from the SARS virus, and that is why it is much more difficult to contain COVID-19 than SARS. One reason fior this s in the case of SARS, most of the transmission took place five or six days after the patient developed symptoms. But in the case of COVID-19, patients are transmitting immediately from the time they develop symptoms and even before. The other big difference is that whereas with SARS most of the patients who got infected had symptoms, in the case of COVID-19, quite a number of patients who get infected have no symptoms at all. Contact tracing and quarantine are very important to break the chain of transmission. How can countries with large, dense populations, like you have in South Asia, where public health infrastructure is uneven, get ahead of the virus? Yes, public infrastructure is crucial to carry out testing, contact tracing and quarantine. In the absence of these, the only tools you have are the lockdowns. Basically, in a lockdown, you bottle the virus up into individual households. There is no transmission from one compartment to another. What is your view of the extent of testing needed? I am advocating very aggressive testing of people who have any form of respiratory infection. First and foremost, all patients with pneumonia, with no other clear diagnosis. [Then] patients with fever and cough or flu-like illness, which can be caused by many viruses [must be tested] – but COVID-19 also presents like that. From your study of the viruses, do you see different strains of it that manifest in different intensities in patients? It is an RNA virus, and these undergo mutations as they spread. With the mutations, if you sequence the virus genome, you can identify different patterns. When the virus is spreading in one particular area — all the viruses are very closely related — they may acquire very characteristic mutations. Elsewhere, they may acquire other characteristic mutations. These mutations can be used to try and trace who gave the virus to whom and also trace which part of the world it came from, because of these signatures. But it does not mean that these strain variations are related to any difference in severity. There is no hard scientific evidence showing there are highly virulent strains and less virulent strains. The virus can be very mild in many people. In some, particularly older people who have underlying heart or lung diseases or diabetes, it can be severe. This is the typical pattern of the disease, and this hasn’t changed, necessarily. From your research on different viruses, what has COVID-19 shown us about our immune system and resilience? Is it telling us something we didn’t know before? To be honest, probably not. Many of us, who have been studying these epidemics for quite some time, were predicting we were going to get a very serious epidemic sooner or later. If you look at the last 25 years — in 1997, we have had avian flu H5N1; in 2003, we had SARS; in 2009, we had the swine flu–H1N1 pandemic; in 2013, we had MERS in the Middle East; in 2014-15, we had Ebola and, in 2018, we had Zika. Every two or three years we have had completely new epidemics. Until this time, we have managed to dodge the bullet. In the case of SARS, it was possible, with great global cooperation and aggressive diagnosis and public health measures to stop it, which was amazing. The 2009 pandemic just went like a bomb, but luckily, it was very mild. This is why many of us were saying that we can’t keep on being lucky every time; sooner or later, one of these viruses is going to be nasty, and this is it. I am afraid it is the lack of preparedness that has left the world vulnerable to this pandemic. What specifically should have been done in your view? When SARS emerged, it was a huge economic loss, and everybody was really concerned. But then, it was controlled. In 2003, many groups across the world, including ours in Hong Kong, were developing drugs and vaccines for SARS. We developed them in test tubes and tested them in animal models, but then we needed to take the next step of human clinical trials, which is very expensive. By that time, SARS had been controlled. There was no more funding or interest to take these experimental vaccines further. It all stopped there. If we had taken those further, we would have at least known how to make a vaccine for this group of viruses. When COVID-19 came, it would have been just a matter of using the same strategy. At the moment, we are starting from scratch. Until now, our model has been to rely on the pharmaceutical industry to make vaccines and drugs. How can a vaccine company whose motive is profit invest millions — it takes a huge amount of money to take a vaccine all the way to clinical trial and efficacy trial — when there is no certainty that this vaccine is going to be needed? This is the problem.  (The full interview can be found online at https://bit.ly/MalikPeirisInterview )
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||IIT Madras study reveals metabolism of key gut microbiota||A study by IIT Madras researchers of 36 strains of gut bacteria commonly found in the gut reveals their metabolism and could bring added rigour into the development of probiotics. Probiotics are cocktails of helpful bacteria which, among other uses, are prescribed to alleviate digestive imbalances. Main commensals The human gut microbiome has a huge number of beneficial bacteria, collectively called commensals, living in it. Key among these are the bacteria of the Bifidobacterium genus. Bifidobacterium adolescentis and B. longum are found in adult human gut whereas B. bifidum are found in infant gut. More than 80 species of Bifidobacterium are found in the human gut of which 36 strains comprising 20 species have been studied by the researchers through metabolic network modelling. Bifidobacterium is one of the largest genera among gut bacteria and its species are known to be early colonisers of the breastfed infant gut. Metabolic differences Little is known about the key metabolic differences between different strains of this genera and consequently their individual commercial uses. This work has classified the studied strains of these bacteria into three groups. Specifically, the researchers estimate the ability of the bacteria to produce short-chain fatty acids, which maintain the acidity level (pH) of the gut milieu. In the studied strains of bacteria, the researchers find that acetate production is strain-specific, unlike the production of lactate. “Knowing which bacteria can produce acetate and lactate under a variety of conditions is very helpful. It determines the power of these bacteria to acidify the gut and make it harder for harmful bacteria to grow,” says Karthik Raman in an email to The Hindu. Dr. Raman and Dr. N.T. Devika, the first author, are from the Bhupat and Jyoti Mehta School of Biosciences at IIT Madras, Chennai. The results of their study have been published in the journal Scientific Reports.  The group also identified critical enzymes essential for the metabolism of some strains. “We [identify significant] reactions across these organisms, which are important for their survival – it would help if antibiotics do not mess with these reactions, as it would cause further insult to the gut. This knowledge, in the longer run, will be very useful to systematically design probiotic cocktails,” explains Dr. Raman. The group uses the technique of constraint-based modelling of the system. “This is like a model of cellular trafficking of molecules,” says Dr. Raman. It amounts to estimating which are the reactions that lead to production of various molecules and under what different conditions. “These conditions could arise out of different diets, and finally impact the gut microenvironment, and ultimately the growth and composition of the different bacterial species in the gut,” he says. Methodical approach The study underlines the power of analysing metabolic capabilities to define the properties of the human gut microbiota and also can be leveraged for commercial purposes to produce probiotics. While in the last few years, there has been significant improvement in the composition of probiotics, their development is still predominantly by trial and error, and this study is a step towards a more methodical approach.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Persistent global transmission of chikungunya from India||Studying the geographic distribution and evolution of the chikungunya virus over the period from 2005-2018, a team from ICMR-National Institute of Virology, Pune, has noted India as an endemic reservoir for the virus with persistent global transmissions from the country. The paper published recently in Infection, Genetics and Evolution adds that “dispersal of the strains from India was noted to neighbouring and distant countries” such as Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and China. The team studied newly sequenced chikungunya viruses isolated during outbreaks that happened between 2014 and 2018. During these years, the virus showed activity in India. Karnataka, Maharashtra and New Delhi accounted for a majority of the cases. Indian Ocean lineage The whole-genome sequencing study revealed that the isolates belonged to the Indian subcontinent sub-lineage of the Indian Ocean lineage. The Indian Ocean lineage is a subgroup within the East Central South African genotype. It was responsible for the resurgence in the epidemic on La Reunion island and other neighbouring islands in the Indian Ocean and in the Indian sub-continent during 2004-2005. This study helped understand the overall evolution and epidemiology of the Indian Ocean lineage. Analyses of about 207 whole genomes, including the eleven whole genomes of this study and 39 additional whole genomes from India, showed two separate clusters of Indian Ocean islands sub-lineage and Indian subcontinent sub-lineage. It is already known that Kenya was the most likely ancestral location for both the sub-lineages, and the study further confirmed this. Spread from clusters Observations from the phylogeography study based on the genome sequences over the period from 2005 to 2018, showed persistent global transmissions from India. The strains from these clusters were noted to have spread to China, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, and Southeast Asian countries including Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore and Papua New Guinea beyond mid-2006. Transmissions to Yemen, China, Japan, Hong Kong, Pakistan, Australia, Bangladesh and Italy were also noted later on. Further studies of the chikungunya sequences revealed indigenous evolution in India at least at three time points over the period 2005-2018, with specific mutations that conferred viral fitness in the Aedes vector species. The authors add that there is a possibility of further diversification as this is an RNA virus and continues to acquire mutations. They add and that surveillance is a continuous process and that their laboratory continues to monitor the changes in the viral strains. The authors write in the summary of the paper that sustainable efforts towards vector control might help in reducing the transmission of the chikungunya virus.  It is already known that Kenya was the most likely ancestral location for both the sub-lineages, and the study further confirmed this.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Can a COVID-19 vaccine be developed soon?||The story so far: The great hope in the control of infectious diseases is always a vaccine. A vaccine could be a weakened biological or synthetic agent administered to humans that will protect them from contracting infectious diseases by supplying specific antibodies to neutralise the disease-causing pathogen, while not making a person actually sick from it. Vaccines have always sounded the bugle of relief from morbidity and mortality for societies. They have played an important role in the reduction of communicable diseases from the second half of the 20th century. In the last two decades with new infectious diseases emerging, particularly post the H1N1 influenza, global vaccine development activity has been rather frenetic. The COVID-19 pandemic has naturally seen renewed efforts at a rapid vaccine development, and multiple candidates are at various levels of processing and in the trial stages. What are the concerns? In their article, “SARS-CoV-2 Vaccines: Status Report” (https://bit.ly/3d1RPg2), in the open access journal, Science Direct , Fatima Amanat and Florian Krammer mark out the concerns in the development of a vaccine for this virus: “This time, we are facing a new challenge in the form of a virus that has just emerged in humans, and the response will be more complex because there are no existing vaccines or production processes for coronavirus vaccines.” The World Health Organization (WHO) site lists 10 vaccine candidates in clinical evaluation and 126 candidate vaccines in pre-clinical evaluation, as on June 9 (https://bit.ly/37tdlcl). What is the process of vaccine development? Vaccine technology has significantly evolved in the last decade, including the development of several RNA (ribonucleic acid) and DNA vaccine candidates, licensed vectored vaccines, recombinant protein vaccines and cell-culture-based vaccines, Amanat and Krammer point out. However, despite the many advances, including using artificial intelligence to determine potential vaccine candidates, the core principles of ensuring safety and efficacy of the vaccine for use in humans remain unchanged. While technology might have quickened some of the processes, the trials for the vaccine need to stick by these principles that are time consuming for a reason. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) website, the general stages of the development cycle of a vaccine are: exploratory stage, pre-clinical stage, clinical development, regulatory review and approval, manufacturing and quality control. If vaccine candidates do make it to the third stage, clinical development is a three-phase process. It says: “During Phase I, small groups of people receive the trial vaccine. In Phase II, the clinical study is expanded and vaccine is given to people who have characteristics (such as age and physical health) similar to those for whom the new vaccine is intended. In Phase III, the vaccine is given to thousands of people and tested for efficacy and safety.” If a vaccine is approved by a licensing agency, then it can move into the manufacturing stage, but constant monitoring of the process and quality control measures must be put in place. Vaccine production should comply with the current Good Manufacturing Practice standards to ensure constant quality and safety of vaccine. What is the status of a SARS-CoV-2 vaccine? To start with, the primary advantage with SARS-CoV-2 was that it was identified in record time, and its genomic sequence was made globally available by January. Amanat and Krammer say: “In addition, we know from studies on SARS-CoV-1 and the related MERS-CoV vaccines that the S protein on the surface of the virus is an ideal target for a vaccine… The structure of the S protein of SARS-CoV-2 was solved in record time at high resolution, contributing to our understanding of this vaccine target. Therefore, we have a target antigen that can be incorporated into advanced vaccine platforms.” Thanks to this, vaccine candidates are being generated. They further explain, “This is usually followed by two important steps that are typically needed before bringing a vaccine into clinical trials. First, the vaccine is tested in appropriate animal models to see whether it is protective. However, animal models for SARS-CoV-2 might be difficult to develop... Even in the absence of an animal model that replicates human disease, it is possible to evaluate the vaccine because serum from vaccinated animals can be tested in in vitro neutralisation assays... Second, vaccines need to be tested for toxicity in animals, e.g., in rabbits. Usually, viral challenge is not part of this process, because only the safety of the vaccine will be evaluated. This testing, which has to be performed in a manner compliant with GLP (Good Laboratory Practice), typically takes 3–6 months to complete.” The 10 candidates in clinical evaluation, as per WHO’s list, are based on five platforms — non-replicating coral vector, RNA, inactivated, protein sub-unit, and DNA. The Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in a paper, defined platform thus: “The process under which a vaccine is manufactured qualifies it as platform-based. If it has the capacity to form the basis of myriad other vaccines using some conserved structure, it can be classified as a platform. The spectrum of different platforms ranges from viral vectored vaccines to nucleic acid vaccines.” Of these 10 candidates in clinical evaluation, the three that are in Phase 2 include Oxford University/AstraZeneca study (Phase 2b/3), the CanSino Biological Inc. and Beijing Institute of Biotechnology study, and the Moderna/National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases venture (in the U.S.). The other candidates are in the first phase and they include four trials in China — Wuhan Institute of Biological Products and Sinopharm, Beijing Institute of Biological Products and Sinopharm, Sinovac Research and Development, Institute of Medical Biology Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences — and two other American ones, Novavax, and BioNTech/Fosun Pharma/Pfizer. In all, 126 candidate vaccines are in various stages of pre- clinical evaluation, including some in India. In mid-May, K. VijayRaghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser to the Union government, said there were nearly 30 ‘attempts’ from India to develop vaccines. The leading attempts among them are: the Pune-based Serum Institute of India tie-up with Oxford University operating with a weakened adenovirus; the Indian Council of Medical Research’s collaboration with the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech to develop a vaccine based on a SARS-CoV-2 strain isolated at the National Institute of Virology, Pune. Bharat Biotech is also involved in two other vaccine development projects with different groups, according to officials. On WHO’s list is also a pre-clinical evaluation effort by the Hyderabad-based Indian Immunologicals Ltd. Except for the Oxford University trial, all others are in the pre-clinical stage.  The New York Times , meanwhile, has an updated status report on vaccines, as of June 12: 125-plus are in the pre-clinical stage (not yet in human trial phase), seven in the first phase (vaccines testing safety and dosage), another seven in the second phase (vaccines in expanded safety trials) and two in phase three trials (vaccines in large-scale efficacy tests). Some coronavirus vaccines are now in phase I/II trials, for example, in which they are tested for the first time on hundreds of people. What about current projections and what happens next? The development of vaccines for human use takes years normally. Many additional steps are needed before these vaccine candidates that have shown promise can be used in the population, and this process might take months, if not years, indicate Amanat and Krammer. “Because no coronavirus vaccines are on the market and no large-scale manufacturing capacity for these vaccines exists as yet, we will need to build these processes and capacities. Doing this for the first time can be tedious and time-consuming.” Experts say some of the other concerns for the development of an effective vaccine are the prospect of the virus mutating, and a waning of the antibody response. It is known that infection with human coronaviruses does not always produce long-lived antibody responses, and re-infection, likely to be mild [symptoms] in a fraction of individuals, is possible after an extended period of time, the Science Direct article points out. It further adds that any effective vaccine must overcome all these issues in order to ensure protection against a virus that seems to have taken the world by surprise. However, current projections indicate that the virus is likely to become endemic and cause recurrent seasonal epidemics. In such a scenario, a vaccine will be the most effective tool to battle a virus the world is yet to fully understand.  The development of vaccines for human use takes years. Many additional steps are needed before vaccine candidates that have shown promise can be used in the population, and this process might take months, say experts
14 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||For many stranded in Capital, reaching home is worth the risk||On reaching the Nizamuddin railway station on Saturday, Ratan Lal Sharma, a resident of Jammu, said that having covered more than half of his journey, he was now ‘slightly relieved’. Despite a spike in COVID-19 cases in the city, several people who were stranded in the city due to the nationwide lockdown, are making their journey back home following the relaxation of restrictions. While for some returning home after being stuck in different cities without work, was worth taking the risk of travelling half way across the country, for many the Capital is merely a pit-stop before taking other modes of transportation to places like Uttar Pradesh and Jammu. Added advantage Allotment of seats at a distance from other passengers and comparatively a fewer number of people on board were an added advantage, they said. Mr. Sharma, who reached the Capital from Goa, said, “I used to work in a hotel there and for three months we were out of work. Even though the employees provided us with basic amenities, it was difficult to live away from our families in such trying times. So I decided to return home with as much precautions as possible. Even the trains were comparatively less crowded so I decided to make the journey at the earliest.” Even as the COVID-19 cases in the country continue to rise, for most people reaching “home” was what mattered the most. Abdullah Mohammad, who has been working in Bangalore as a construction worker for the last five years said, “We were living under dire circumstances for the last three months. Even when the first few initial trains started, we were unable to afford the tickets as we are a family of seven. Finally, we managed to get a train in which the tickets cost Rs. 1,000 each.” No option A resident of U.P.’s Shamli district, Mohammad said, “Initially we were skeptical of the 48-hour journey, but we did not really have an option but to travel. Apart from carrying cooked meals, we even got some help from friends in Pune who got us some milk and basic food items at the station.” Laxmi Prakash, 32, had to be extra careful during the journey as she was travelling with her five-year-old daughter, she said. “I had gone to Bangalore to attend a wedding and we had to take a train back home. I took all precautions, including masks and sanitisers as my daughter is really small. But thankfully, the trains were not as crowded and there was enough distance among passengers,” she said.
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||What must schools do before reopening?||The story so far: Schools in India have been shut since the first 21-day national lockdown from March 25, some from a week or two earlier, due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. With the number of COVID-19 cases spiking this week, there is a growing clamour to protect children from going to examination centres and keep them away from school for some time longer. Many schools are offering online classes, but that has its own perils. What are India’s schoolchildren doing now? There are an estimated 25 crore schoolchildren in 15 lakh Indian schools (from the Unified District Information System for Education, or UDISE, 2018-19), who have all been at home since classes stopped across the country from March 16. Their current educational situation varies wildly, depending on age, location and socio-economic status. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has largely left the decision on how to proceed to its affiliate schools, but has promised a syllabus reduction. For the 33% of students in private schools, classes have gone online with teachers attempting to maintain a regular schedule. For others, the Centre has brought out an educational calendar with lesson plans and learning activities, and is also beaming classes through dedicated television channels in multiple languages, especially for older children. Teachers in government schools in Delhi are giving out assignments via WhatsApp, while Class 10 students in corporation schools in Chennai were to have got an Android phone so that classes can continue. However, given that this kind of distance education requires digital access and/or self-motivation and parental involvement, the vast majority of children in government schools have spent the last three months on an extended summer holiday. When will schools reopen? No one knows when schools can reopen. Human Resource Development (HRD) Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ has said that physical reopening of schools will not take place till August 15, although some States such as Haryana have suggested a July reopening date. The Centre will announce the earliest possible date for reopening after consultation between the HRD, Health and Home Ministries, but the final call will be left to State governments. For those in containment zones, the wait may be longer, leading to worries about unequal educational opportunities among the same age cohort. A growing number of parents, Right to Education activists and the Delhi government teachers’ association are calling for 2020-21 to be treated as a “zero academic year”, with no pressure to set a reopening date at all. “Zero year” means teaching and learning will happen to the extent possible, but there will not be grading or exams or promotion to the next class. An online poll by Local Circles found that 37% of parents want to send their child to school only 21 days after there are no new cases in their districts, while another 36% say it should be three weeks after no new cases in the State or country. In fact, 13% do not want schools to restart until a vaccine is developed. Apart from governments and parents, teachers and schools are also important stakeholders in this decision. It was the Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Graduate Teachers Association that successfully filed a court case against holding Class 10 board examinations in the State. Its president S. Bakthavatchalam pointed out that apart from the impossibility of teaching classes online in government schools, older teachers, especially those with comorbidities are also at risk from young students who cannot be expected to follow social distancing norms. With some State governments announcing that fees cannot be collected for online classes, some private schools are divided between the need for income to pay teachers’ salaries and the difficulty of ensuring they do not become infection hotspots. Experts point out that countries such as France and Israel saw cases shooting up when they tried to reopen schools. What is the health protocol that needs to be in place before schools reopen? The Centre is expected to release guidelines on this issue next week. HRD officials say some likely steps include temperature screening at the entrance to schools and classrooms, monitoring to ensure mask or shield-wearing and social distancing, sanitisation routines to clean all furniture and facilities, isolation and hospitalisation protocols for infected students and staff, as well as plans for staggered attendance and blended learning to limit the number of students on the premises on any given day. Public Health Foundation of India president K. Srinath Reddy says that children are at more risk for clinical symptoms than earlier understood, and have been seen to develop a paediatric multi-system inflammatory condition associated with COVID-19, although they usually recover. The bigger danger is that because social distancing may be difficult for children, they will act as transmission agents to staff and older adults back home. Dr. Reddy has also raised the issue of mental health risks from COVID-19 stress, due to economic or medical crises at home, or the psychological impact of increased isolation and treating everyone as a potential threat. Is online education a viable alternative? The Centre is preparing guidelines on digital education, including cybersafety. It is likely to include limiting the number of hours a child is online, with a one to three hour cap on synchronous interaction. Currently, some schools are trying to maintain a seven-hour teaching schedule, which creates stress and distraction. Educational apps are largely in English, although multi-lingual apps are being developed. Equity and access are the bigger problems with online education in India, says Minati Panda, a professor at JNU’s Zakir Husain Centre for Educational Studies. Only 11% of Indian households have a computer. Although smartphone penetration is higher, only 24% have Internet facilities, which drops to 15% in rural areas, according to the latest National Sample Survey. A single device in a household cannot help multiple children, while poor students in an economically weaker section (EWS) quota in a privileged school may be the worst hit. If a government or school wants to run an online education programme, it must ensure equal access to all participants, says Dr. Panda. How can evaluation be done? This is the immediate battle, given that several boards, including the CBSE, are yet to conclude examinations from the previous 2019-20 academic year. The Board has exponentially increased the number of examination centres to 13,000 and is developing screening protocols, but the question of whether Class 12 examinations can be safely conducted in the first two weeks of July is currently in the Supreme Court. Children’s health is more important than any academic advancement, says Ishwar Achanta who went to court to prevent his son from having to write an examination. Schools are experimenting with multiple choice tests and uploaded answers for at-home evaluation options. If a zero academic year is considered, conceptual teaching and learning may continue through varied modes through the year, but without the pressure of evaluation and grading.  A growing number of parents and Right to Education activists are calling for 2020-21 to be treated as a ‘zero academic year’, with no pressure to set a reopening date at all
14 June 2020||June 14 2020 00:00 IST,||WHO, on the virus||The story so far: On June 8, the technical lead of the World Health Organization (WHO), on the COVID-19 pandemic, said transmission by people without symptoms is “very rare”. Following a firestorm of protests by health experts, WHO retracted the claim on Tuesday, calling it a “misunderstanding”. WHO has been engaged in a series of controversial statements on the role of asymptomatics — those who have been infected with the virus but do not display symptoms — in spreading SARS-CoV-2. What did the World Health Organization (WHO) say about the role of asymptomatics? On Monday, June 8, at a virtual press conference, Dr. Maria van Kerkhove, WHO’s technical lead on the COVID-19 pandemic, said in response to a question by a journalist, that current evidence seemed to suggest that many countries monitoring asymptomatic cases and their contacts were not finding enough evidence to suggest that they were actually transmitting the disease. She said, “It’s very rare and much of that is not published in the literature... We are constantly looking at this data and we’re trying to get more information from countries to truly answer this question. It still appears to be rare that an asymptomatic individual actually transmits onward... What we really want to be focused on is following [t]he symptomatic cases.” These comments provoked opposition from infectious disease experts and doctors — primarily on social media — arguing that Dr. Kerkhove may have downplayed the significance of this mode of transmission. Even more significantly, a recommendation to “focus on symptomatics” would mean ignoring infections by a category called “presymptomatics”. These are people who carry the virus and are asymptomatic, but over time show few or mild symptoms. The next day Dr. Kerkhove appeared to backtrack. “I used the phrase ‘very rare’ and I think that it’s a misunderstanding to state the asymptomatic transmission globally is very rare. What I was referring to was a subset of studies. I was also referring to some data that isn’t published,” she said, as quoted in The Guardian . However, she maintained that significant disease spread by asymptomatics was the result of “modelling studies”, meaning they were not based on real world observations or properly vetted by peer-reviewed studies. Why do WHO’s observations matter? Asymptomatics are those people who never show symptoms of the disease but test positive for the virus. WHO and infectious disease specialists assert that asymptomatic patients exist but it is not known how many there are and in what proportion. The current understanding of the disease is that people are most infectious when symptoms start to manifest, or are “presymptomatic”. It is not clear if asymptomatics are much less likely than presymptomatics and symptomatics to transmit the disease. WHO’s emphasis on symptomatics could imply that asymptomatics are “safe” and this undermines the widespread adoption of face masks and social distancing. WHO moved slow on the use of face masks and formally recommended it only after it was a widely accepted practice in several Asian countries. A potentially greater role of asymptomatics and presymptomatics means that isolating and quarantining ought to be more aggressive. However, when numbers are large, as in India, the vast majority are not likely to suffer from serious infection and the focus is on treating only the manifestly ill — as is now being followed in several States—and opening up restrictions on movement. This way, many experts say, it is more feasible to focus on symptomatics and their contacts. Do genes have a role in determining the degree of sickness? This is still an open question and researchers across the world are comparing the genes of those with the disease and trying to find correlations with the severity of illness. Being a novel coronavirus, by definition, a large population is susceptible and no natural immunity prevails anywhere. Genetic factors are known to play a role in severe malaria. Chronic health conditions such as diabetes and hypertension increase susceptibility to severe COVID-19 disease. A recent study, that is still being peer reviewed, associated severe respiratory failure to genes that determine blood type. Blood type A was found to be more susceptible to respiratory disease than O. There were also other genes found that influenced how the immune system responded to the virus. A lot of focus in collaborative human genome studies is on understanding the role of certain genes in the Human Leukocyte Antigen complex, which is an important part of the immune system. The virus, as it is now understood, is able to spread easily because of a mutation in its spike protein; this helps it to lodge itself better in the lung cells. It is the variation in the HLA across populations that can reveal immune response. But there is no genetic link yet on why some people are asymptomatic.  The current understanding of the disease is that people are most infectious when symptoms start to manifest. It is not clear if asymptomatics, who do not show symptoms, are much less likely to transmit the disease
14 June 2020||New Delhi,||BJP leaders hit out at AAP govt. for failing to handle COVID-19 crisis||Union Minister Smriti Irani on Saturday addressed a Jan Samvad Rally, via videoconferencing from the BJP office, on the achievements of completing a year of the second term of the Narendra Modi government. BJP national vice-president and Delhi in-charge Shyam Jaju and Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta were also part of the address. Mr. Gupta administered an oath to “buy and promote local products and carry forward social awareness, health and hygiene campaign to fight the COVID-19 pandemic” to party office-bearers. “On the one hand, Delhi Chief Minister has not been seen on the ground once, on the other hand, MP and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan is visiting hospitals, quarantine centres, COVID-19 health care centres,” Ms. Irani alleged. “The Chief Minister of Delhi has been giving false assurances to the people that they are ready for every situation and they have a provision of 30,000 beds. Today, when the cases of virus infection in Delhi have increased to more than 36,000, in such a situation Kejriwal government has only 8,500 beds,” Mr. Jaju alleged. Mr. Gupta said the BJP “helped the people of Delhi without any government help” even as he attacked the Delhi government for allegedly failing at testing and tracing of COVID-19 patients.
14 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU to start School of Climate Change soon||Delhi University is establishing a School of Climate Change and Sustainability under the Institute of Eminence scheme, which is to undertake research in priority areas like how to make cities climate-resilient. The varsity said that the DSCC&S will be headed by C.R. Babu, an environmental scientist. “The environmental challenges are rapid depletion of natural resources, rampant losses of biodiversity, huge build-up of pollutants in air, water and soil, quantum jumps in emissions of greenhouse gases leading to climate change and the emergence of new pathogens and pests, all of which are threatening natural ecosystems and their sustainability,” read the statement. “The school will develop a cadre of qualified professionals and practitioners and evolve leaders who will translate socio-ecological theories into practical solutions for meeting the challenges of national priority — sustainable development.”
14 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Parents appeal to council to cancel ICSE exams||Several parents of students who are yet to appear for their ICSE examinations, started a Twitter trend on Friday, seeking cancellation of the exams, owing to a rising number of COVID-19 cases in the country. Stating that parents were not ready to take the risk of exposing children to the virus, questioned the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE)’s decision to cancel the examinations on March 19, when there were 236 COVID-19 cases while currently it is over 3 lakh cases. “We do not have the infrastructure to conduct these examinations safely. Answer scripts, threads, question papers are handled by a large number of people which increases the chance of COVID-19 exponentially. Is it worth the risk?” parents said in a statement. It read, “What is the lesson we are teaching our kids? Is health not before anything else?” With #Cancel10thICSEboards trending, several Twitter users urged the council to “save students”.
14 June 2020||New Delhi,||PCI expresses concern over police action||The Press Club of India (PCI), in a statement, has noted with concern the “propensity of the police” to register cases, or “intimidatory FIR” against media persons on “non-existent” or “flimsy grounds.”. In Delhi recently, an FIR was lodged by a spokesman of the BJP against news anchor Vinod Dua. “This is nothing but a blatant attempt to silence media critics of the BJP and the activities of the government,” the statement said.
14 June 2020||New Delhi,||DL-FIRE||A fire broke out in a two-storey shoe factory in Udyog Nagar in west Delhi on Saturday but was doused by firefighters, a Delhi Fire Service official said. No casualty was reported. The cause of fire is being ascertained.PTI
