14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Major stimulus package for MSMEs||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday announced a Rs. 3 lakh crore collateral free loan scheme for businesses, especially micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), as part of a Rs. 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. For salaried workers and taxpayers, some relief was provided in the form of an extended deadline for income tax returns for financial year 2019-20, with the due date now pushed to November 30, 2020. The rates of tax deduction at source (TDS) and tax collection at source (TCS) have been cut by 25% for the next year, while statutory provident fund (PF) payments have been reduced from 12% to 10% for both employers and employees for the next three months. NBFCs get attention Apart from MSMEs, other stressed business sectors which got attention were non-banking finance companies (NBFCs), power distribution companies, contractors and the real estate industry. This is the first tranche of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday as a Rs. 20 lakh crore economic package. That package includes the ongoing Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, meant to support the poorest and most vulnerable communities during the pandemic, as well as several measures taken by the Reserve Bank of India to improve liquidity. More tranches are expected in the next few days. Ms. Sitharaman side-stepped queries on the actual cash outgo for the government, as well as how the Centre intends to raise the needed funds. Ernst and Young’s chief policy advisor D.K. Srivastava estimated that the measures announced on Wednesday amounted to Rs. 5.94 lakh crore, which include both liquidity financing measures and credit guarantees, although the direct fiscal cost to the government in the current financial year may only be Rs. 16,500 crore. MSMEs will get the bulk of the funding. The Rs. 3 lakh crore emergency credit line will ensure that 45 lakh units will have access to working capital to resume business activity and safeguard jobs, Ms. Sitharaman said. For two lakh MSMEs which are stressed or considered non-performing assets, the Centre will facilitate provision of Rs. 20,000 crore as subordinate debt. A Rs. 50,000 crore equity infusion is also planned, through an MSME fund of funds with a corpus of Rs. 10,000 crore. The definition of an MSME is being expanded to allow for higher investment limits and the introduction of turnover-based criteria. In a bid to fulfil the Prime Minister’s vision of a self-reliant or “atmanirbhar” India, global tenders will not be allowed for government procurement up to Rs. 200 crore. NBFCs, housing finance companies and microfinance institutions — many of which serve the MSME sector — will be supported through a Rs. 30,000 crore investment scheme fully guaranteed by the Centre, and an expanded partial credit guarantee scheme worth Rs. 45,000 crore, of which the first 20% of losses will be borne by the Centre.  C
14 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||48 new cases push State’s tally to 2,137||The State has witnessed one more death due to COVID-19 and 48 new positive cases during the past 24 hours. Eight of the new cases are of migrant workers who returned from Odisha and seven new cases in Chittoor and East Godavari are of persons who had been to the Koyambedu market in Chennai. 86 discharged The tally has gone up to 2,137 and the toll reached 47. On the positive side, 86 persons — Guntur (27), Krishna (25), Kurnool (13), Kadapa (10), East Godavari (4), West Godavari (4), Anantapur (1), Nellore (1) and Srikakulam (1) — have recovered and were discharged. The number of recovered patients now stands at 1, 142. About nine districts have more recoveries than active cases at present. At present, 948 patients are undergoing treatment at various dedicated hospitals in the State. A new milestone The new cases were reported in Guntur (12), Chittoor (11), Kurnool (7), East Godavari (4), Anantapur (3) and Krishna (3).  With 9, 284 samples tested in the past 24 hours, the State has so far conducted 2, 01, 158 tests. While the first one lakh tests were conducted in the first 51 days since the first case was reported in the State and 1, 463 of them turned positive, registering a positivity rate was 1.4%. In the next 12 days, the rest of the tests were conducted and only 674 samples tested positive, witnessing a positivity rate of 0.68%. The overall positivity rate was 1.06% and the mortality rate was 2.19%, while the recovery rate was 53.43%. In the last 12 days, an average of 8, 200 samples were tested per day. The district tallies are as follows: Kurnool (591), Guntur (399), Krishna (349), Chittoor (142), Anantapur (118), Nellore (111),Kadapa (97), West Godavari (68), Visakhapatnam (66), Prakasam (63), East Godavari (51), and Srikakulam (5) and Vizianagaram (4). The other State cases are 73.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||$3.6 mn in U.S. funding to Indian labs may be delayed||A decision by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to donate $3.6 million to Indian laboratories and research agencies to assist in countering the COVID-19 pandemic could run into delays, given that the agency has been placed on a “watch list” since December 2019, officials said here. On Tuesday, the U.S. Embassy issued a release saying the CDC would commit $3.6 million as an “initial tranche of funding” to India’s response to the pandemic. “Since early January, the CDC’s India Office has been collaborating with sub-national and national government institutes to support the COVID-19 response in India,” the release said, adding that the money would go towards increasing “laboratory capacity for COVID-19 (SARC-CoV-2) testing, molecular diagnostics and serology”. However, a government official told The Hindu that any funding from the U.S. government body would have to be cleared by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) as it had been placed on a “watch list” on December 2, 2019, that barred it from sending funds directly to any government or private institute in India without the MHA’s clearance. Work on Nipah Significantly, the strictures followed an inquiry into the CDC’s funding of an “unapproved” Indian laboratory in Manipal for work on the Nipah virus, considered a “potential bio-weapon”. On October 30, 2019, the Union Health Ministry wrote to both the CDC and the Manipal Centre for Virus Research (MCVR), ordering them to shut down the study. In a reply to The Hindu in February, the CDC said, “There was initial confusion about the requirement for the Health Ministry’s Screening Committee clearance for private institutions.”
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||CAPF canteens to go swadeshi||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealed to people to use locally made products, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday announced that all canteens of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) would only sell swadeshi or products made in India. Mr. Shah said on Twitter that a decision had been taken by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) that all CAPF canteens, which cater to around 10 lakh personnel and 50 lakh families, would sell only products made in India. The order will come into effect from June 1. “I also want to appeal to other people to use as many indigenous products as possible and also encourage others to do so. This is not the time to be on the backfoot but to turn the disaster into an opportunity. If every Indian uses swadeshi products, then in five years, we will be self-sufficient,” Mr. Shah said. The CAPF comprises forces such as the Central Reserve Police Force, the Border Security Force, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the Services Selection Board, the Central Industrial Security Force, the National Security Guard and the Assam Rifles. The central purchase committee of the Central Police Canteen system is headed by an Additional Director General-rank officer. The facility was initiated as a welfare venture by the MHA in 2007. The beneficiaries are serving and retired CAPF personnel and their families. Presently, there are 119 master canteens that also double as warehouses and more than 1,700 subsidiary canteens that function as retail outlets. The canteens provide consumer goods of a wide range and variety at cheaper than market rates. The committee negotiates with the firms to get maximum discounts along with consumer promotional offers on products for the benefit of CAPF personnel. More than 400 firms, which include multi-national companies, are authorized to sell at the CAPF canteens. On being asked if products belonging to foreign brands but manufactured in India could be sold at the outlets, a Ministry spokesperson said, “Made in India is the focus.”
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Affluent US, Europe returnees want home quarantine||Telangana government is facing an altogether different dilemma on how to deal with the vociferous demand of affluent NRIs returning from abroad, particularly the US and Europe, in special flights for home quarantine and the poor Gulf expatriates batting for reimbursement of the paid quarantine charges. With four flights bringing as many as 798 foreign returnees to the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport at Shamshabad in the last few days, the State government had identified as many as 60 hotels in twin cities, designated for quarantining all expatriates. It offered Rs. 5,000, Rs. 15,000 and Rs. 30,000 packages for 14 days. In all, 1,500 hotel rooms were spotted to place 3,000 people. Several top star hotels had been accommodating the foreign returnees ever since their arrival. But, officials are being bombarded with request from NRIs that they should be allowed to go home where they are prepared to get home quarantined. The Ministry of Home Affairs has clearly said home quarantine will not be allowed at any cost. But, the NRIs reportedly argued with the authorities that several of them have undergone tests in the US and Europe before boarding flights and had tested negative. Some returnees contended that they stayed in palatial villas and bungalows and preferred to go home instead of staying in hotels to complete the quarantine period. Everyday, the office of Health Minister is flooded with request for home quarantine and no decision has been taken so far, officials maintained. If the well-to-do NRIs from the US and Europe wanted to go home, the Gulf migrants are finding it difficult to pay the hotel charges.
14 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Spike in COVID-19 cases continues||Ten more tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the State on Wednesday, including six who are either expatriates or those who came home from other States. Three cases were located in Malappuram, two each in Wayanad and Palakkad and one each was in Kozhikode, Kottayam and Kannur districts. Four persons came from the Gulf recently and two from Chennai, while the rest are believed to have been cases of local transmission from known/unknown sources of infection. The cases of local transmission have been traced to a truck driver in Wayanad who has been to Chennai. They include two policemen from Malappuram and Kannur, who had been sent on duty to Wayanad. Truck driver Health authorities estimate that 10 persons have so far contracted COVID-19 from the truck driver. Of the total of 534 COVID-19 cases reported, only 41 are undergoing treatment in hospitals, with 490 having recovered from the disease. The State has put 34,447 persons under surveillance, of whom, 33,953 have been quarantined at home and the rest in hospitals.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||A.P. and TS asked to furnish data on water utilisation||A technical committee appointed by the Central Water Commission (CWC) to look into Telangana’s charge of Andhra Pradesh utilising the lion’s share of water available in the 2019-20 water year without accounting for it, has asked the two States to furnish the details of water availed from the two common reservoirs — Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar — by month-end. The five-member technical committee headed by CWC chief engineer in its irrigation management organisation (IMO) Vijai Saran held a video-conference from New Delhi on Wednesday with the engineers of Telangana, AP and the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) and discussed the issue in detail. According to sources, the A.P. representative insisted that there was no need to account for surplus water availed by the State, although the Telangana official persisted with the argument that there was every need for it to avoid controversies in future too. The KRMB, represented by its member Harikesh Meena, explained to the committee chief that as against 811 tmcft allocated to combined A.P. by the R.S. Bachawat Tribunal (KWDT-I), which is in force now, the water realised in the basin in Telangana and A.P. was about 980 tmcft this year. Telangana has been contending that the lion’s share of surplus water was availed by A.P., but A.P. has been insisting that there was no need to account for it since it was surplus flow. Sources said A.P. has either already availed or plans to avail 680 tmcft and the quantity availed or planned to be availed by the month-end when the water year comes to an end is 300 tmcft. As per the arrangement in vogue, the two States are supposed to utilise the water in 512:299 tmcft ratio.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India records 3,525 more virus cases||India reported a spike of 3,525 COVID-19 cases and 122 deaths on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 74,281 and deaths to 2,415. The country has 47,480 active cases, the Health Ministry said. In a release, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said the testing capacity had increased to one lakh a day. According to the State Health Departments, the number of positive cases is 77,553 and the death toll is 2,528. Maharashtra, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu continue to have the most number of confirmed cases. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said in a release that it “has fast-tracked the rollout of the global ‘Solidarity’ trial launched by the World Health Organization to help find an effective treatment for COVID-19”. “Four potential anti-viral agents — Remdesivir, Chloroquine/Hydroxychloroquine, Lopinavir-Ritonavir and Lopinavir-Ritonavir with Interferon (beta-1a) — are to be evaluated in the trial,” ICMR Director-General Balram Bhargava said, adding that the trial had started recruiting patients.
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Traders to blame for cluster: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday blamed wholesale vegetable and fruit traders for the expanding Koyambedu market cluster, stating that they “stiffly opposed” the government’s move to close down the market earlier. Incidentally, the day saw Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 numbers cross the 9,000-mark, with 509 new cases. “It is because of the traders’ refusal to accept the government’s proposal to shift many people from Koyambedu that the number of cases in Chennai has been increasing,” the CM said. Mr. Palaniswami told District Collectors during a virtual meeting that repeated talks held with the traders of Koyambedu had failed and so the government had to close the market down recently. “Attempts were made several times to shift the market out of Koyambedu, but the traders refused to cooperate, fearing loss of business. So, reports in sections of the media that the government’s inaction led to the spread of the disease from Koyambedu are not true,” he insisted. According to the CM, from the first meeting held on March 19 until April-end, the traders kept citing loss of business if they shifted elsewhere and so stayed put. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and CMDA officials were involved in the talks, but “in vain”, he said. The talks were held on March 19, 29, April 6, 11 and 24, Mr. Palaniswami said. “Only after the government informed them that the market would be closed down, did the traders eventually accept the move to Thirumazhisai, where the market has been operating since May 10 with their cooperation,” the Chief Minister said.
14 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||1,225 of 4,216 Nanded returnees positive, bump up Punjab numbers||Government data suggest that 1,225 of the 4,216 pilgrims who returned to Punjab from Nanded in Maharashtra have tested positive for COVID-19. The information was shared by National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) director S.K. Singh during a videoconference with Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday. The meeting was part of a series of one-to-one discussions with Health Ministers of various States and UTs and Collectors of red zones and high-priority districts to take stock of the preparedness and action being taken to stem the spread of the pandemic. “As on May 12, 2020, all 22 districts [in Punjab] stand affected by COVID-19 with 1,913 cases; Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala districts are in the red zone and 15 are in the orange zone. The samples collected are 43,999 with sample positivity rate at 4.3%. The Nanded Hazur Sahib returnees constituted the bulk of cases,” said an official statement. The pilgrims had travelled to Nanded to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Hazur Sahib, one of the five spiritual centres of Sikhism. The announcement of the lockdown on March 24 at four hours’ notice forced them to stay back at the shrine complex. “All the returning pilgrims have been screened, tested and quarantined to prevent them from interacting with the community at large, thus effectively preventing the spread of the transmission. Moreover, a death audit has also been undertaken which has indicated that patients with co-morbidities have formed a large percentage of the COVID-19 deaths,” said Mr. Sidhu. Punjab recorded 10 new cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 1,924. The health department said 1,692 are active cases and 200 patients have so far been recovered.
14 May 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19: Two more deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka reported two more COVID-19 deaths on Wednesday, one from Kalaburagi and another from Dakshina Kannada, taking the toll to 33. A 60-year-old man from a containment zone in Kalaburagi and a 58-year-old woman from Dakshina Kannada succumbed to the virus, even as 34 new positive cases on Wednesday increased the State’s tally to 959. The Kalaburagi resident was brought dead to a designated hospital on May 11 and his samples later tested positive. The woman from Dakshina Kannada, who was suffering from tuberculosis meningitis, was shifted from a private hospital to a government facility on April 24 and was being treated in the ICU. She succumbed to the infection on Wednesday. Of the 34 new cases, a majority are from containment zones in various districts. The new cases include 12 from Bidar, eight from Kalaburagi, four from a single family in Hassan, two each from Davangere, Uttara Kannada, Vijayapura and Bengaluru Urban, and one each from Dakshina Kannada and Ballari. While the four cases in Hassan have a travel history to Mumbai, the two cases in Bengaluru Urban, include a nurse from Victoria Hospital and a 24-year-old male who returned from London on Monday. Following a meeting by Health Minister B. Sriramulu, with representatives from various private hospitals and speciality associations, private hospitals have agreed to start treatment of non-COVID-19 cases from Thursday. This meeting was held in light of several complaints that patients are denied healthcare on the suspicion of having COVID-19. The Minister agreed to consider fulfilling various demands of the private hospitals, including payment of arrears due to the hospitals towards treating patients under government health schemes.  Sero-survey in three districts soon  Following directions by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a serological survey will be conducted in three districts — Bengaluru Urban, Chitradurga and Kalaburgi. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) said the survey was to estimate the prevalence of the infection in the community. “Each district will have 10 clusters with 40 individuals in each clusters. The survey involves collection of 3-5 ml venous blood for tests to determine the presence of IgG antibody against COVID-19 using ELISA. All sera samples will be tested centrally at ICMR-National Institute of Research in Tuberculosis, Chennai,” he said.
14 May 2020||Bengaluru,||CET to be conducted on July 30, 31||After a delay of over three months, the Common Entrance Test (CET) 2020 will now be conducted on July 30 and 31. The entrance examination for admissions to engineering and all undergraduate professional courses, except medical, dental and AYUSH, was originally scheduled to be held on April 22, 23 and 24, but was postponed owing to the nationwide lockdown. Biology and Mathematics tests will be held on July 30, while Physics and Chemistry will be conducted the following day. The Kannada examination for Horanadu and Gadinadu candidates will be held on August 1. Over 1.90 lakh students have registered for the CET. Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwathnarayan, while announcing the dates on Wednesday, said that the number of centres will be increased so that social distancing norms can be followed. Vikas Kishor Suralkar, executive director of the Karnataka Examinations Authority, said that two reusable masks and sanitiser will be given to students at the examination centres. “In the previous years, the examination centres were mostly at the district levels. Now we will conduct them even at colleges in the taluk levels as well,” he said. GetCETGo, a State government initiative to provide a free crash course to students to help them prepare for CET and NEET has received a good response, the Minister said. The programme was launched on April 20 and since then 76,913 students have logged into the app and web portal. The total number of views for the YouTube videos is 2,45,402. The programme has synopsis, tests, practice questions and videos and is available for free.  No hike in engineering fees  Engineering seat aspirants can heave a sigh of relief as the fees for the 2020-2021 academic year will not be increased. Although private college managements are asking for a hike, the Higher Education Department has decided against it.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Home run||
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||State to auction land to raise funds||The State government is all set to auction nine land parcels — six in Visakhapatnam and three in Guntur — under phase-I of Mission Build AP. An official statement released on Wednesday said the process would be carried out in e-auction mode (on as is where is basis) in phases. The e-auction will be held on May 29 and funds thus raised would be used for the government’s flagship programmes like Navaratnalu, Naadu-Nedu etc. and partly for the development of state infra. The details of the proposed e-auction are available on websiteswww.ap.gov.in,www.nbccindia.comandwww.tenderwizard.com /NBCC.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Nothing for migrants, says Chidambaram||Congress leader and former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram said there was no relief for the poor migrants in the package announced by the Finance Minister. “There is nothing for the lakhs of poor and hungry migrant workers who have walked — and many thousands are still walking — to their home States. There is also nothing by way of cash transfer to the bottom half of the population,” he said at a joint press meet with party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala.page 8
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Taiwan wants to join hands with India||Taiwan has proposed a regular communication channel with India to link up medical agencies to better cooperate in the fight against COVID-19, Foreign Minister Joseph Wu told The Hindu in an interview on Wednesday. He said Taiwan’s sharing of information on COVID-19 with countries had been limited by its arrangement with the World Health Organization. “[India and Taiwan] have engaged in dynamic ongoing communication on many levels. Our sharing of information... has been restricted to relying on the IHR [International Health Regulations] focal point... The arrangement is far from satisfactory. Information has not been shared in a timely fashion,” he said.
14 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Panel to initiate steps to cut expenses||The State government on Wednesday initiated severe austerity measures to reduce public expenditure. As a first step, it formed an expert committee under Sunil Mani, chairman of the Centre for Development Studies, to submit a report on ways and means to reduce the spending of government departments, State-run corporations, commissions and boards. It said the drying up of conventional streams of revenue had forced the measure. It has sanctioned Rs. 658 crore from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board to construct the Anakkompoyal-Kalladi-Meppadi tunnel.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Requests for FB user data by India up 28%||The number of user data requests from the Government of India to Facebook increased 28% from July to December 2019 at 26,698 queries for 39,664 users or accounts — the second highest globally, according to a latest Transparency Report by the U.S.-based social media network. In the same period in 2018, the number of such requests was 20,805 for 27,410 users or accounts. The number for the first half of 2019 was 22,684 for 33,324 users or accounts. Of the 26,698 queries, Facebook said some data was produced in 57% cases.
14 May 2020||Hyderabad,||Page-1-Nearby-2||Puttapaka in Nalgonda is now on the global map as the centre for a handloom technique known as Puttapaka Telia Rumal. It secured the coveted Geographical Indication tag recently. Telia Rumal is a unique tie and dye technique that uses oil for treatment of yarn that helps it to retain softness and has a distinct smell of gingelly oil.
14 May 2020||Hyderabad,||Page-1-Nearby-1||The spike in COVID cases continued for another day with 41 more persons testing positive on Wednesday, taking the total number of affected persons to 1,367. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area continued to be the focal point in virus spread with 31 more cases being reported during the day.
14 May 2020||New delhi,||Student gets bail in Delhi riots case||A Delhi court on Wednesday granted bail to Gulfisha Fatima, an MBA student and an activist associated with Pinjra Tod, in a case related to communal violence during the protests against the amended Citizenship Act in north-east Delhi in February.
14 May 2020||New Delhi,||After audit, death toll jumps to 106 in city||The total number of COVID-19 deaths in Delhi increased to 106 on Wednesday as 20 more were added to the toll after an audit committee went through case sheets received from hospitals. The city reported 359 new COVID-19 cases  in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 7,998.
14 May 2020||Chandigarh,||Haryana to resume public transport on ‘trial basis’||Haryana Chief Minister M.L. Khattar on Wednesday announced that public transport will resume in the State on an “experimental basis” from Friday, with a limited number of buses plying on select routes. He said he will not hesitate in imposing stricter curbs if things don’t go as planned.
14 May 2020||Bengaluru,||HC declines PIL against ‘hate speeches’||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday declined to entertain a PIL petition seeking directions to the State and Central governments to take action against those allegedly giving “hate speeches”.
14 May 2020||Bengaluru,||SOPs for those returning from abroad changed||The Health Department has now revised the SOPs for Category 2 asymptomatic passengers returning from abroad. As per a new circular issued on Wednesday, pregnant women, children below 10 years, among others, will be exempted from institutional quarantine if they test negative for virus.
14 May 2020||Bengaluru,||APMC Act: Ordinance on changes likely today||The State Cabinet, scheduled to meet on Thursday, is expected to clear the Ordinance to bring in APMC reforms, which the government says are aimed at facilitating market access for farmers during the prevailing lockdown.
14 May 2020||Belagavi,||Lab inaugurated||Minister for State of Railways Suresh Angadi inaugurated a Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) testing facility at KLE Society’s Prabhakar Kore Hospital on Wednesday. He said that it would be a boon to North Karnataka and urged the people to extend full cooperation to the government in its battle against COVID-19.
14 May 2020||Belagavi,||Woman held after she pushes child into well||The District Police arrested Pooja Kamble (25) on the charge of pushing a child into a well after robbing her of a currency note on Wednesday. The woman is a member of a group of sugarcane-cutting workers from Maharashtra that is staying in Jaganur village near Chikkodi in Belagavi district. She snatched the currency noted from Divya Ugade (4) and pushed the child into the well, the police said.
14 May 2020||KALABURAGI,||Kalaburagi dist. registers seventh COVID-19 death||Kalaburagi district recorded its seventh COVID-19 death on Monday (the deceased was confirmed positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday), with a 60-year-old resident of the city succumbing to coronavirus. The Health and Family Welfare Department is, however, yet to release details of how the deceased contracted the virus. The district reported the country’s first COVID-19 death on March 10.
14 May 2020||Chennai,||Some PHCs will admit COVID-19 patients soon||Thirty-bed upgraded primary health centres will be designated as COVID-19 care centres in Tamil Nadu. There are a total of 412 upgraded PHCs in the State. “We have given general instructions to turn 30-bed PHCs into care centres. We are yet to decide on the number of PHCs to be covered,” an official said.
14 May 2020||Chennai,||All healthcare providers given PPE, State tells HC||The State government on Wednesday informed the Madras High Court that personal protective equipment (PPE) had been distributed to all healthcare providers involved in arresting the spread of COVID-19.
14 May 2020||Chennai,||Screen visiting lorry drivers, Collectors told||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday instructed District Collectors to screen lorry drivers and cleaners entering the State with supplies. “Else, the [COVID-19] disease might spread from them,” he told Collectors at a virtual meet.
14 May 2020||New Delhi,||Vocal about local, but no snub to globalisation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech on Tuesday sought to outline his vision for India in a post-coronavirus world order. It was a reiteration of his world view and his faith in India’s manifest destiny, seeking validation in the crisis of the old order. Mr. Modi’s pro-market supporters and his Left critics both understood him as an ally of global capitalism in 2014. Stephen Bannon, the ideologue of the Trump uprising in the U.S., termed Mr. Modi’s politics anti-globalism — a point that he reiterated in a recent interview to an Indian channel. There are at least four discernible strands in Mr. Modi’s speech. First, import substitution, an objective that drove nationalist economic policies in the 20th century, is back. Profit-driven globalisation had brought to the fore multiple insecurities of countries already when the pandemic struck, and it multiplied these fears manifold overnight. The biggest superpower’s struggles with procuring enough masks and paracetamol, for instance, has exposed its vulnerabilities. Self-reliance is suddenly not a bad idea again. Mr. Modi’s policies had already reflected this thinking earlier, but the new context has given him the courage to be “vocal about local”. In a crisis, only the local capacities can be useful. People-centric Second, this is not a rejection of globalisation, but a call for a new form of globalisation — from profit-driven to people-centric, as Mr. Modi said. He believes that India is the repository of such a wisdom, it’s the “Vishwa Guru”, teacher of the world. “The global brands of today were sometimes also very local like this… they became global from (being) local.” He elaborated further on India-led globalisation — on climate, on being helpful to other countries by offering them supplies in a time of crisis, led by the principle of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam . Third, the manner in which he brought China into the picture, without naming it. India’s self-reliance can only be at the cost of China. The current crisis could work to China’s advantage further if it is business as usual. His speech obliquely questioned the Chinese grip over global supply chains, and was an invitation to western partners such as the U.S. for closer partnerships. Notion of reforms Fourth, his notion of reforms for self-reliance, not for globalisation. The word reform is an ambiguous one but widely used as a code for pro-capital measures. In 2016, in his keynote speech at 41st AGM of U.S. India Business Council (USIBC), in Washington DC, he explained his views on “reforms”. “I have said several times that my aim is to reform to transform. For me, reforms are those policies that transform the lives of ordinary citizens,” he said, adding that “policies to ensure that growth benefits the poor and the weaker sections” and “a frontal attack on corruption”, were reforms. On the same lines, on Tuesday, he counted as a reform, the government’s ability to make cash payments to the poorest. “Bold reforms to create a self-reliant India,” he said, will now be “broadened, giving a new height”. His list of reforms overlaps substantially with the demands of owners of capital — rational tax system, simple and clear rules-of-law, good infrastructure, etc. But the slant clearly is state support for the national capitalists. Read with the emphasis on local companies going global, it becomes clearer. His speech narrows the gap between the government and the rest of the Sangh Parivar. “Small scale industries, farmers and labourers are the three pillars of the Indian economy. The emphasis of the PM’s speech was on these three,” said Saji Narayanan, president of the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS). The BMS has been scathingly critical of the changes in labour laws made by the BJP governments in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh in recent days, but Mr. Narayanan does not expect anything similar coming from the Centre. “There are still advisers within the government who have different views, and we will wait for the details in new announcements. But the political vision in the PM’s speech is very encouraging,” he said. The Swadeshi segments within the Parivar are buoyant. But this is not an easy act to pull off. India has severe limitations in capital, technology and human resources. Balancing the interests of capital and labour is not easy. But as a political statement, this could not have been clearer or stronger, though his vocal, free-market interpreters are unlikely to make his case this time.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Huge loss for 21 major States’||The lockdown caused 21 major States to suffer a collective revenue loss of about Rs. 97,100 crore for the month of April alone, according to estimates from India Ratings and Research (Fitch Group). “Both Union and State governments are struggling due to the dried-up cash inflow; but, the problems of States are more precarious because the actual battle against the COVID-19 and the associated expenditure being incurred by them,” said India Ratings’ Associate Director Anuradha Basumatari. “Under the current circumstances there is a fair amount of uncertainty regarding the quantum and timings of the State governments’ receivables from the Union government. Moreover, their own sources of revenue have fallen to abysmally low levels,” she said, adding that this situation was pushing the State governments to adopt austerity measures and also explore new revenue generation pathways. States such as Gujarat, Telangana, Haryana, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu get more than 70% of their revenue from their own sources, and will be the worst impacted. Maharashtra and Kerala also get almost 70% of their revenue on their own. States’ own revenue mainly comes from seven heads — State Goods and Services Tax (SGST), State VAT, mostly on petroleum products, State excise, mostly on liquor, stamps and registration fees, vehicle tax, tax and duty on electricity, and own non-tax revenue. Despite the lockdown, nearly 40% of the economy considered “essential” was allowed to remain operational, allowing some revenue to accrue to State governments under these heads, including 40% of SGST, 30% of State VAT, and 10% each of the electricity tax and non-tax revenues, said the India Ratings analysis, based on States’ 2019-20 budgets. “Things may improve somewhat in May 2020 due to the easing of some restrictions — allowing the liquor sale being the most prominent one,” said the report.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. gears up to evacuate seafarers||Indian seafarers stranded in different parts of the world will have to register for evacuation through the Vande Bharat Mission so that the government can evacuate them, sources said here on Wednesday. The External Affairs Ministry is compiling data about the seafarers who are likely to be part of the third phase of the evacuation towards May-end. Informed sources said the COVID-19 module of the Ministry is tracking around 20,000 seafarers in the Caribbean, Latin America, the Spanish coast, the Gulf of Mexico and so on. “We have so far received 1,77,000 registered requests for evacuation of Indian nationals stranded in different parts of the world. This count is expected to go up in the coming few days as more people, especially the seafarers are being added. The seafarers will be part of the same ongoing global evacuation process and we are at present adding the data to our system as the requests pour in,” said a source familiar with the COVID-19 related response of the Ministry of External Affairs. Earlier, Minister of Shipping Mansukh Mandaviya had said organisations willing to arrange for evacuation of seafarers can reach out to the government as the authorities will organise charter flights for them. However, MEA sources said the evacuation would be through the Vande Bharat Mission.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army proposes 3-year stint for civilians||In a first of its kind proposal, the Army plans to take civilians on a three-year “Tour of Duty” (ToD) or short service” on a trial basis to serve as officers and in other ranks initially for a limited number of vacancies which will be expanded later. This is expected to result in significant reduction in the expenditure on pay and pensions and free up funds for the Army’s modernisation. “The proposal is under consideration. If approved, it will be voluntary and there will be no dilution of criteria in selection,” an Army source said. Cost factor The overall purpose of the ToD concept is ‘internship/temporary experience’ and so there will be no requirement of attractive severance packages, resettlement courses, professional encashment training leave, ex-servicemen status, ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme for ToD officers and other ranks. Analysing the cost of training incurred on each personnel compared with the limited employment of the manpower for three years, the proposal calculates that it will indeed have a positive benefit. It states that the cumulative approximate cost of pre-commission training, pay, allowances, gratuity, proposed severance packages, leave encasement and other costs is nearly Rs. 5.12 crore and Rs. 6.83 crore on a Short Service Commission (SSC) officer if he or she is released from service after 10 and 14 years, respectively. The overall cost goes up even further as 50-60% of the SSC officers opt for permanent commission and continue in service till the age of 54 and thereafter get pension benefits. “Similar costs for those released after a three-year ToD is just Rs. 80-85 lakh,” it says. Similarly, estimates for a jawan with 17 years of service as compared to a ToD recruit with three years’ service shows that the prospective lifetime savings of just one jawan is Rs. 11.5 crore. “Thus, savings for only 1,000 jawans could be Rs. 11,000 crore, which could be used for the much-needed modernisation of the Army,” the proposal says. Many advantages Highlighting the advantages of this scheme, the sources said this scheme is for those who did not want a full career in the Army but still wanted to put on the uniform. Individuals who opted for ToD would get a much higher salary than their peers in the corporate sector. They would also have an edge after leaving the service and going to the corporate sector. The Army hoped that this would attract individuals from the best colleges, including the Indian Institutes of Technology. The proposal states that as per an initial survey, corporates favour individuals aged 26 or 27 who have been trained by the military. The proposal suggests several incentives such as tax-free income for three years and a lumpsum at the end of three years of about Rs. 5-6 lakh for officers and Rs. 2-3 lakh for others. The Army’s pay and pension bill has been increasingly steeply over the years, accounting for 60% of its budget allocation. In the last five years, though the growth in the defence budget has been 68%, and for defence salaries 75%, defence pensions have increased by a staggering 146%. The proposal adds that in addition “the nation and the corporates are likely to benefit from trained, disciplined confident, diligent and committed men and women who have completed the ToD.”
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Stimulus package has nothing for migrants’||The Union government’s Rs. 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package managed to grab headlines but was a ‘cruel blow to the the poor and devastated migrant workers’, senior Congress leader and former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram said on Wednesday Addressing a joint online press conference with Randeep Surjewala, he said that except a modest package for the MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) sector, the details of the package announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman were ‘disappointing’. The total stimulus package for the MSMEs amounted to Rs. 3.6 lakh crore but ‘where is the remaining Rs. 16.4 lakh crore,’ he wondered. ‘Cruel blow’ Mr. Chidambaram said, “Let me first point out that there is nothing in what the FM said today for the lakhs of poor, hungry and devastated migrant workers who have walked — and many thousands are still walking — back to their home States. This is a cruel blow dealt to those who toil every day. There is also nothing by way of cash transfer to the bottom half of the population [13 crore families] who have been pushed into destitution.”  “The FM announced some support measures for the MSMEs, although my comment is the measures were skewed in favour of the larger MSMEs [about 45 lakh MSMEs]. I think the bulk of the 6.3 crore MSMEs were left high and dry. We welcome the offer of subordinate debt [Rs 20,000 crore] and equity corpus fund [Rs 10,000 crore] but we will await the ‘terms and conditions’. The devil is in the detail,” he said. “Except for the modest MSME package, we are disappointed with today's announcements,” he noted. “Where is the rest of the Rs 16.4 lakh crore? This government is a prisoner of its own ignorance and fears.” Demand issue Besides the incentives for the MSME sector, there was nothing in the package that could stimulate demand, said the Congress leader. The government should not be unduly bothered about running up a high fiscal deficit and could monetise part of the deficit if it reached a worrying level, he added. More spending “The government must spend more but it is not willing to do so.” The States should also be allowed to borrow more, he said. Asked about the BJP-ruled States like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat suspending labour laws, he said,“Drastic changes in labour laws that have been in existence from 1948 or so must not be done in a crisis situation. They should be done when normalcy returns and after consulting the stakeholders”.
14 May 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra crosses 25,000-mark||The COVID-19 pandemic continued to wreak havoc across Maharashtra, with the State reporting a massive surge of 1,495 new cases on Wednesday. Its cumulative case tally breached the 25,000-case mark to reach 25,922, while a record single-day high of 54 new fatalities took the State’s total death toll to 975. As per the State Health Department, 40 of the fatalities were reported from Mumbai city to take the city’s death toll to 596 till date, while Pune district reported six fatalities to take its death toll to 170. Two deaths each were reported from Solapur city, Aurangabad and Jalgaon, while one each was reported from Vasai Virar and Ratnagiri. “67% of the deaths reported today had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. As many as 422 persons were discharged today, taking the cumulative discharged till date to 5,547, said Dr. Awate. Of the new cases, Mumbai city reported a staggering 800 new cases as the city’s cumulative tally crossed the 15,000-case mark to touch 15,747. Pune district’s case tally, as per the State Health Department figures, has risen to 3,169, with the district reporting at least 125 new cases today. Thane, Navi Mumbai Besides Mumbai and Pune, the other sharp spike in cases came from parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) with Thane reporting 135 new cases to touch 1,279, while Navi Mumbai reported 23 new cases to reach a total 1,018. Kalyan-Dombivli, too, reported 28 new cases as its cumulative tally reached 412, while Vasai-Virar reported 23 new cases to take its total to 286. At least 25 new cases were reported from Akola district today to take the district’s cumulative tally to 192. Till date, 2,30,857 samples have been tested in Maharashtra of which 2,03,439 (more than 90%) have returned negative while 25,922 have tested positive.
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Lavish spending’ worries Railway Ministry||The Ministry of Railways has expressed serious concern over the “uncontrolled” excess in estimates and spending of funds much beyond the sanctioned limit in the new line, gauge conversion and gauge doubling works in the country. Identifying specific areas of “extravagant” and “lavish” spending, the Ministry has written to the Chief Administrative Officers (Construction) of all zonal railways, pointing out that loans were being taken for executing projects for which interest had to be paid, and therefore any change in the detailed estimate for the proposed projects should be “summarily rejected”. The Railways spends thousands of crores of rupees every year for executing projects of new lines, gauge conversion and broad gauge doubling. The finding of the Railway Board is that revised estimates are submitted after expenses beyond the sanctioned limit are incurred. Blatant deviations Though repeated instructions were given to the Chief Administrative Officers that revised estimates should be submitted in time for approval by the competent authority and no contractual liabilities should be entered into till then, there were violations, leading to the “uncontrolled excess in the estimates over the sanctioned qualities”. Some of the deviations identified by the Railway Board were raising of the embankment while laying track to accommodate limited height subway/road under bridge, causing large variation in the cost of land acquisition as well as earth work. Track centre, the spacing between tracks in doubling projects, were more than what was prescribed, resulting in more land acquisition and cost. In the new line, gauge conversion and double line projects, passenger amenities like high level platforms were provided in excess of what was mandated in the detailed estimate. Extravagant expenses During scrutiny, it was observed that in a 29-km gauge doubling work, more loop lines than were required were laid without the train traffic in the section being taken into account. “Station buildings and other passenger amenities are being charged in an extravagant manner without the sanction of the detailed estimate and in much more quantity than to be provided as per rules,” B.K. Gupta, Executive Director (Projects), Railway Board, said in a note dated May 11, 2020. Noting that funds were limited, he said: “Therefore, the tendency to provide facilities in an extravagant and lavish manner has to be severely curbed.” Any violation of the instructions could lead to action against the officer responsible.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nepal can let India use link road: Oli||Nepal’s Prime Minister K. P. Sharma Oli on Wednesday proposed a solution to the ongoing border tension saying that Nepal can allow India to use the link road to the Lipulekh Pass as part of an agreement, but will not surrender the Kalapani territory on which India has been carrying out construction. Addressing an all-party meeting in Kathmandu, Prime Minister Oli said that he was against India’s unilateral actions in the region but agreed that a solution can be found that will preserve Nepal’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. His observations came on a day when Nepal deployed a contingent of soldiers in the westernmost part of the country near its border with India. “The government will save the land that was added to Nepal by our ancestors. PM urged the leaders not to make their positions based on things that have come from outside,” Foreign Minister Pradeep Gyawali was quoted as saying in online publication Setopati. ‘Diplomatic solution’ Wednesday’s meetings were attended by a large number of political parties, and also several former Prime Ministers. Mr. Gyawali said that the leaders sought a diplomatic solution to the crisis that involves the territory of Kalapani that India depicts as a part of the easternmost region of the State of Uttarakhand. A similar meeting was also held earlier after India depicted the contested region as its territory in a new set of political maps published in November 2019. Nepal expressed regret after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated the link road that will cut travelling time to the Tibetan plateau and the Kailash Mansarovar. Kathmandu maintains that the territories to the east of Mahakali river are a part of its domain, as agreed in the Treaty of Sugauli of 1816 between the East India Company and the King of Nepal.
14 May 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra has sought 20 companies of CAPF: Minister||The Maharashtra government has sought 20 companies of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) to give a breather to the exhausted State police force, State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Wednesday. The police are working in extremely challenging conditions for long hours due to the pandemic and the resultant lockdown, Mr. Deshmukh said. “Besides, Id falls on May 25 when we will need augmented security to maintain law and order. Hence we have sought urgent deployment of 20 CAPF companies,” he said. The 32 Central Reserve Police Force companies already deployed in the State are working in tandem with the Maharashtra police. “Many police personnel have tested positive for COVID-19 and need time to rest and recuperate,” the Minister added. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray too had indicated in his recent address that the State would approach the Centre. “The State police have been working tirelessly for months now. The government may ask for the Centre’s help so that they can rest,” he had said. Mr. Thackeray, however, had denied that the Army would be deployed in Mumbai.
14 May 2020||Chennai,||Staggered exit to cut peak hospitalisations, says study||A staggered resumption of work following the end of the nationwide lockdown may reduce peak hospitalisations due to COVID-19 to almost 50% as compared with a total resumption that would force authorities to impose intermittent lockdowns to contain surges in the incidence of the disease, a model built by a group of scientists estimates. With the third phase of the lockdown set to end on May 17, Indians are set to resume work once the lockdown is lifted. The lockdown has clamped down on the number of infections and hospitalisations due to COVID-19. Lifting the lockdown immediately would imply an intensive interaction as compared to the lockdown period and an ensuing rise in infections. How does one play off the benefits of a lockdown against the economic need, but growth in infection rate of an active workforce? The best way may be to send 33% of the workforce to work at a time, in a staggered manner, finds a study by nine Indian scientists. Lockdown scenarios The scientists from across India involved with the initiative — Indian Scientists’ Response to CoViD-19 — have built up a model of COVID-19 disease that can estimate how well different scenarios of lockdown work. They find that the best way to return to work after the lockdown is to have 33% of workers in any organisation work for say, two days. The second 33% should take over on the third day, and the third set replaces the second of the fifth day. This cycle, which they call a staggered workforce or a periodic asynchronous lockdown, is preferable to a scenario where 100% of the workforce works for some days followed by a second lock down and so on (periodic synchronous lockdown). In their estimate, the former method (staggered workforce) reduces the peak number of hospitalisations in the workforce by almost 50% compared with the latter (synchronous lockdown). This is of course in combination with testing-quarantining. “Large-scale testing, contact tracing and quarantining must happen in conjunction with the asynchronous periodic lockdown, to keep the infected and hospitalisation numbers in check – this is well demonstrated via our model calculations,” says Pinaki Chaudhuri of The Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, one of the people who developed this model, in an email toThe Hindu. “In comparison to periodic synchronous lockdowns, there can be a 50% reduction in the peak number of hospitalisations for periodic asynchronous lockdowns. The hospitalisations for the synchronous case also continue for a longer period compared to the asynchronous case,” Dr. Chaudhuri adds. Complex model The standard model used for disease modelling is called the SEIR (Susceptible, Exposed, Infected, Recovered) model. The model developed by these scientists is more complex and takes into account particular features of COVID-19. Vishwesha Guttal from Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, explains, “The standard SEIR model does not take into account the particularities of the specific disease (e.g. symptomatic or asymptomatic patients for CoVid19 or what fraction needs hospitalisation and so on) and the timescale of disease progression in each case. Considering all these aspects, we have a nine compartmental model as against four compartments in the standard SEIR model.”
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC trades black robes for white shirts, salwar-kameez||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed advocates to shed their traditional black robes and jackets for simple white cotton shirts and salwar-kameez as a precautionary measure against the spread of COVID-19 virus. “The competent authority has been pleased to direct that the advocates may wear plain white-shirt/white-salwar-kameez/ white sari, with a plain white neck band during the hearings before the Supreme Court of India through virtual court system till medical exigencies exist or until further orders,” the circular issued by the court’s Secretary General Sanjeev S. Kalgaonkar said. Colonial dress code The drastic change in attire owes to medical advice. Thus the virus has become a reason for the court to relax its colonial dress code. For years, many prominent voices within the legal fraternity have been campaigning for a dress code more suitable to our tropical climate. Earlier, before the issuance of the circular, Chief Justice S.A. Bobde broadly hinted about an intended change in dress code for lawyers during a case hearing via videoconferencing. The Bench had assembled in the CJI’s courtroom while the lawyers were present in their respective offices. Chief Justice Bobde had told senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who was appearing in the case, that the change in attire was based on medical opinion that the coronavirus could spread through the gowns. While there is still no official word on whether the court would continue to function or go on summer vacation from May 17, the court has nevertheless indicated that it would be working on a “large scale” through videoconferencing. The judges have hinted that more Benches will assemble to function as virtual courts in the coming days. Justice Nageswara Rao, who is part of the committee supervising the court’s functioning during lockdown, said an arrangement would be made for judges to sit in their respective courtrooms while lawyers could argue their cases from their offices or chambers.
14 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Stop forest, environment clearances’||A group of 291 conservation scientists and allied professionals has asked Environment, Forest and Climate Change Minister Prakash Javadekar to withhold forest and environment clearances during the COVID-19 pandemic. The group includes 12 former members of the Standing Committee of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL), the highest advisory body on wildlife chaired by the Prime Minister. An Assam-based environment activist has also written to Mr. Javadekar, seeking the preservation of the autonomy of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), along with other specialised Environment Ministry (MoEF&CC) wings, such as the Forest Survey of India (FSI), the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) and the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB).  The Hindu had broken the story on the MoEF&CC’s bid to restructure its regional offices by subsuming the NTCA and all the other specialised wings. The letter by the conservationists’ group is in reference to the decisions and clearances given by the 57th meeting of the Standing Committee on April 7 for 31 proposals affecting 15 tiger reserves, sanctuaries, notified eco-sensitive zones, deemed eco-sensitive zones and designated wildlife corridors. These include the private sector Etalin hydro-power project in Arunachal Pradesh and a coal mining project in an Assam elephant reserve. “The MoEF&CC is under orders of the Supreme Court to strictly comply with the Lafarge judgement (2011, related to limestone quarrying in Meghalaya) guidelines to tighten the clearance process. Shockingly, key guidelines are being ignored, including the failure to appoint a national regulator for appraising projects...Granting fast-track clearances has now become the rule,” said Praveen Bhargav, a former member of the NBWL.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC sacrificed core principles during lockdown, says CJAR||The Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR) issued a statement on Wednesday criticising the Supreme Court for “sacrificing the core principles of fairness and transparency in justice delivery system” during the COVID-19 lockdown. The NGO has former judges, and lawyers like Prashant Bhushan as members. The statement said the court has accepted without demur whatever the Union Government has put on affidavit and not carried out its constitutional duty of holding the government to account through powers of judicial review. “Whether on the issue of the rights of stranded migrant labour, the curbs on 4G internet in Kashmir or in important habeas corpus cases, we believe that the Court’s passivity in the face of dire need is difficult to comprehend,” it said. CJAR said the manner in which certain cases are being heard at great urgency, while other similar matters are kept pending without a hearing for long, is likely to make the public lose faith in the fairness of the Court’s processes.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 3,100 crore from PM CARES allocated for COVID-19 relief||The Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund, better known as PM CARES, will allocate Rs. 3,100 crore to COVID-19 relief, including funds for ventilators, migrant workers and vaccine development, according to an official statement from the Prime Minister’s Office on Wednesday evening. The announcement comes one-and-a-half months after the Fund was set up on March 27. There is no indication in the statement or on the PM CARES website how much money the Fund has collected from donors in that time. 50,000 ventilators In order to augment the health infrastructure needed to tackle the pandemic, the PM CARES Fund Trust has decided to spend Rs. 2,000 crore to buy 50,000 Indian-made ventilators, which will be provided to government-run hospitals designated for COVID-19 treatment in all the States and Union Territories, said the statement. Rs. 1,000 cr. for migrants Another Rs. 1,000 crore will be used to support the States’ welfare measures for migrant workers, and will help provide accommodation, food, medical treatment and transport. State-wise allocations will be determined on the basis of population (50% weightage), the number of positive COVID-19 cases (40% weightage) and a 10% share split equally to ensure a basic minimum sum for all States. The money will be released to the district administration through the State Disaster Relief Commissioners, said the statement. PM CARES will give Rs. 100 crore to support those in the Indian academia, start-ups and industry who are working on designing and developing a vaccine against COVID-19. The money will be spent under the supervision of the Principal Scientific Adviser. The PM CARES Fund Trust, which decided these allocations, is headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his official capacity.
14 May 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata rubbishes Centre’s Rs. 20 lakh crore stimulus plan||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday questioned the “actual size” of the economy revival package announced by the Prime Minister and explained by the Union Finance Minister. The “total [thing] is a big zero,” she said. ‘Misleading message’ The State’s Finance Minister Amit Mitra said that the said the actual size of the economic package was “two percent of the GDP and not 10.” “We expected that the States will get something, which it did not. There is nothing for market development to encourage public spending, employment generation or development of health infrastructure to combat the post COVID situation. Nearly 10 lakh of 20 lakh crore is already given,” she said. Mr. Mitra said the Prime Minister’s announcement was misleading. “Out of 20 lakh crore, eight lakh has already been given as liquidity. 1.7 lakh more also has been given. So what is left is about half of 20 lakh crore, that is 10 lakh crore. Out of that a limit of borrowing – 4.2 lakh crore – is fixed which finally will reach people. It is 2% of GDP, not 10%,” he said. Mr. Mitra added that the 8 lakh crore would not reach people immediately because of the lockdown and the entire process was slowed down.
14 May 2020||Patna,||With one more death, toll rises to 7 in Bihar||Bihar reported another death due to COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking the toll in the State to seven. With 29 new cases reported during the day, the total tally of positive cases in the State has risen to 908. A 56-year-old woman from the Alamganj area in Patna tested positive on May 10. She was admitted to the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on May 8. She was also suffering from carcinoma of the gallbladder, obstructive jaundice, acute renal failure, sepsis and multi-organ failure. “7th death of COVID-19 positive patient at NMCH, 56 years old female from Patna,” State Principal Health Secretary Sanjay Kumar tweeted. “She has no travel or contact history but tested COVID-19 positive on May 10,” he said. As many as 390 people have recovered, while 483 cases are active.
14 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat reports 364 new cases||Gujarat on Wednesday recorded 29 deaths and 364 COVID-19 cases, taking the case tally to 9,268 and death toll to 566. It has become the second State after Maharashtra to have crossed the 9,000-mark in total infections. Gujarat’s trend of 300 plus cases continues for the last 10 days while its per day fatality numbers remain above 20. Out of 29 deaths occurred on Wednesday, 25 are from Ahmedabad, three from Surat and one from Patan. Out of total 364 cases, 292 came from Ahmedabad alone. Ahmedabad’s cumulative numbers are: 6,645 cases and 446 deaths, highest reported deaths in a single city after Mumbai. After Ahmedabad, Surat is the worst affected with 967 cases and 43 deaths in Gujarat. There are 39 patients who are on ventilator support, while 5,101 others are stable. New guidelines On Wednesday, 316 patients were discharged as per the new guidelines of the Central government, which require no retesting of asymptomatic patients after 10 days of hospitalisation and they can be discharged if they don’t develop symptoms. The State’s total recovery numbers are 3,562. So far, a total of 1,22,297 samples have been tested in the State. Meanwhile, the exodus of migrant labourers from various parts of Gujarat continues. So far, nearly four lakh migrant workers in 300 trains have been moved to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and Madhya Pradesh. On Wednesday, hundreds of migrant workers in Gandhidham near Kandla Port came on the national highway and blocked traffic demanding that they be allowed to return to their homes in Bihar in a special train.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Parties protest against dilution of labour laws||Leaders of eight political parties on Wednesday held a protest at the Communist Party of India (Marxist) headquarters here against dilution of labour laws in a few BJP-ruled States. They alleged that the ruling party was imposing its political agenda during the COVID-19 pandemic. The symbolic protest comes after leaders of the CPI(M), the CPI, the CPI (ML), the Forward Bloc, the Revolutionary Socialist Party, the Rashtriya Janata Dal, the Loktantrik Janata Dal and the VCK sent a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind last week.  “The country should be united in fighting the coronavirus and there should be a single minded focus. So, we are saying, please stop your agenda and immediately give Rs. 7,500 to all those families that won’t come under income tax net and do this for the next three months. And every person who is hungry today should be given 10 kg of food grains for six months. Leave alone suspending labour laws, there shouldn’t be any dilution and the Prime Minister should fulfil his promise of protecting jobs” CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said. “We are following physical distancing but expressing social solidarity,” he added. Apart from Mr. Yechury, who participated in the protests included Sharad Yadav (LJD), D. Raja (CPI), Dipankar Bhattacharjya and Kavita Krishnan from CPI (ML), Manoj Jha (RJD), Tapan Sen and Nilotpal Basu (CPI-M). “In the name of fighting the corona pandemic, the government should not dilute the existing laws and aggressively pursue neo-liberal policies,” Mr. Raja said. The government had meted out inhuman treatment to migrant workers, he said. “After 50 days of lockdown the Prime Minister’s speech was disappointing ... What he said in the name of self reliance is also worrying as not just labour laws but even laws relating to land acquisition and banking could be changed,” said Mr. Dipankar Bhattacharjya. “Migrant workers and dignity of labour are a fundamental issue for us,” Mr. Manoj Jha said.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Major stimulus package announced for MSMEs||Power distribution companies, which are facing an unprecedented cash flow crisis, will receive a Rs. 90,000 crore liquidity injection. Contractors will get a six month extension from all Central agencies, and also get partial bank guarantees to ease their cash flows. Registered real estate projects will get a six-month extension, with COVID-19 to be treated as a “force majeure” event. “What was announced today is not a stimulus package. It is in effect a survival package, so that MSMEs can survive the lockdown and restart production,” said economist and former Chief Statistician of India Pronab Sen, welcoming the measures but adding that a further stimulus may be needed after the lockdown is lifted. He expressed concern that risk-averse bankers may not extend the loan benefits to all MSMEs despite the government’s 100% credit guarantee. EPF support Employee Provident Fund (EPF) support, provided to low-income organised workers in small units under the PMGKY is being extended for another three months and is expected to provide liquidity relief of Rs. 2,500 crore. Mandatory EPF contributions are also being reduced from 12% to 10%.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||$3.6 mn in U.S. funding to labs may be delayed||On October 30, 2019, the Union Health Ministry wrote to both the CDC and the Manipal Centre for Virus Research (MCVR), ordering them to shut down the study. In a reply to The Hindu in February, the CDC said, “There was initial confusion about the requirement for the Health Ministry’s Screening Committee clearance for private institutions.” It added that once the government had objected to the project, the CDC closed the project and withheld further funding to the MCVR. The U.S. Embassy, from which the CDC operates, did not disclose specifics of which agencies would be the recipients of the funding. However, sources said the funding would not go to any one agency, and would be spread over a number of technical partners working with the agency based in Atlanta, Georgia. Any NGO or association has to register themselves under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA), 2010, to receive foreign funds. Foreign donors can directly send funds to the NGOs and institutes registered under the FCRA; but if a foreign donor has been placed on the watch list or in the “prior permission” category, the donor cannot directly send money without clearance by the MHA, another government official said. The MHA informs the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), which asks banks to look out for any transaction to the accounts of the beneficiary NGOs from the foreign donor on the watch list. ( W ith inputs from Bindu Shajan Perappadan )
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Deadlines for real estate projects to be extended||The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry will advise States and Union Territories and their regulatory authorities to extend the registration and completion date of real estate projects by six months as part of economic relief measures announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday. Referring to the announcement, Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said in a tweet: “Relief measures announced by @FinMinIndia for India’s real estate sector will benefit home buyers, builders & other stakeholders who have been demanding these initiatives to counter the adverse effect of the pandemic crisis on construction activities in our urban areas. (sic).” In another tweet, he said the six-month extension and treatment of the COVID-19 pandemic as an event of force majeure, like a natural calamity, under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act would “de-stress the sector and ensure completion of projects.” The States’ Real Estate Regulatory Authorities would give a six-month extension to registered projects expiring on or after March 25. If required, a further extension of three months could be given.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||India records 3,525 more COVID-19 cases||Speaking about India’s participation in this endeavour, ICMR Director-General Balram Bhargava said: “ICMR-National AIDS Research Institute (NARI) is the national coordination site for the trial in India.” Sheela Godbole, senior scientist, NARI, said the regulatory and ethical approvals had already been obtained and clinical trial sites had started recruiting patients. “Till now, a total of nine sites have been approved,” she added. The ICMR noted that the trial provided for simplified procedures to help even overloaded hospitals participate.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Requests for FB user data by India up 28%||“Facebook responds to government requests for data in accordance with applicable law and our terms of service. Each and every request we receive is carefully reviewed for legal sufficiency and we may reject or require greater specificity on requests that appear overly broad or vague,” the company said in the report. In the last six months of 2019, globally government requests for user data increased by 9.5% from 1,28,617 to 1,40,875. Of the total volume, the U.S. made 51,121 requests, followed by India, the U.K. (8,378), Germany (8,013) and France (7,001 requests). In a blog post, Chris Sonderby, VP & Deputy General Counsel at Facebook, said, “As always, we scrutinise every government request we receive to make sure it is legally valid, no matter which government makes the request. If a request appears deficient or overly broad, we push back, and will fight in court, if necessary. We do not provide governments with ‘back doors’ to people’s information.” Internet disruptions As per the report, in the second half of 2019, Facebook witnessed about 50 instances of Internet disruptions affecting 11 countries. India topped the list, accounting for 78% or 40 such disruptions. The total duration of these disruptions affecting Facebook services was 36 weeks, 6 days and 9 hours. Other countries that were a part of the list were Chad, Egypt, Ethiopia, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Mauritania, Myanmar, Sudan and Swaziland. Some incidents of Internet disruption in India that Facebook has taken into account includes 21 weeks, 1 day and 20 hours in Shopian district in Jammu and Kashmir from August 5 onwards.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Booking of waiting list tickets allowed with cap||The Railway Board on Wednesday issued an order stating that waiting lists would be introduced from May 22 for the current special trains as well as the ones to be notified later, in an indication that more trains may be announced for travellers. In its initial guidelines, the Railways had said only confirmed e-tickets would be booked and the booking of RAC/waiting list tickets and on-board booking by ticket checking staff would not be permitted. According to Wednesday’s order, there will be a cap on the waiting list. For the sleeper class, the waiting list will be capped at 200, while for AC 3 tier and AC chair car, it will be 100 each. Additionally, it will be 50 for AC 2 tier and 20 each for first AC and executive class. All 15 pairs of special trains being run to and from New Delhi have only AC coaches. Since the reservation period for special trains has been kept at a maximum of seven days, travellers will be able to book waiting list tickets from May 15. However, there will be no RAC on these trains. The Railways said that if a passenger is unable to travel owing to high temperature or COVID-19 symptoms, he/she will be given full refund.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Integrated Battle Groups will soon be operational’||The Army’s new concept of agile Integrated Battle Groups (IBG) as part of the overall force transformation will be operationalised very soon, Army chief Gen. Manoj Naravane told officers on a visit to the South Western Command on Wednesday. “The Army chief also advised optimisation of funds allotted under defence Budget in view of the economic constraints due to COVID-19 and said the funds should be utilised judiciously giving highest priority to operational needs,” Col. Sombit Ghosh, PRO Defence Rajasthan, said in a statement. The IBGs are brigade sized agile self-sufficient combat formations which, can swiftly launch strikes against adversary. Each IBG would be tailor made based on Threat, Terrain and Task and resources will be allotted based on the three Ts. They will be able to mobilise within 12-48 hours based on the location. The Army has extensively “test bedded” the IBGs to fine-tune the concept.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Single judge Benches function as virtual courts||Three single judge Benches functioned as virtual courts in the Supreme Court on Wednesday, in a bid to improve work-efficiency during the COVID-19 lockdown. Justices Krishna Murari, S. Ravindra Bhat and Hrishikesh Roy, sitting as three separate single Judge Benches, heard and passed orders in 20 transfer pleas through video conferencing. The court had on May 11 announced its decision to have its judges sitting alone instead of in the usual combinations of twos and threes from May 13 to hear bail, anticipatory bail and transfer cases. According to a notice, besides other amendments the competent authority has provided that certain categories of matters may be “heard and disposed of finally by a judge sitting singly nominated by the Chief Justice.” The single Judge Benches will hear Special Leave Petitions arising out of grant, dismissal or rejection of bail application or anticipatory bail application under various sections of CrCP.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Sat-chit-ananda swaroopa||The most wonderful result of the Lord’s avatars apart from the main purposes, protecting the good, destroying the evil and establishing dharma, is the fact that all including the learned and the unlettered are given a chance to realise the Supreme Brahman. This is exemplified in the soul stirring hymns on deities such as Rama, Krishna, Subramanya, Sharada, Bhavani, etc, of Adi Sankara, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. Reputed for his brilliant expositions of the highest Vedantic texts wherein reason and logic are handled by him to establish the Advaita doctrine of the oneness of Brahman, these stotras reveal the fact that worship of one’s favourite deity, the Ishta Deivam is also a form of Brahma Upasana. At the outset of the famous Rama Bhujanga Stotra, the acharya states that this hymn is the essence of the Vedas. It is held that the Vedas descended in this world as Ramayana during Rama avatar. By worshipping Rama one can easily imbibe the essence of dharma and thereby attain the highest, Brahman. So the upasana is by reading this hymn and always thinking about Rama. It is reiterated that Rama in human form is also simultaneously the eternal Brahman of the very Sat-chit-ananda essence. This ananda swaroopa is not a quality but is His very essence. There is no God greater than Rama. To seek Him should be one’s purpose in life. He alone is enough to help us through our life in this world and also guide us to salvation. But all this is attainable only through His grace. Human effort is only as far as sincere meditation is practised. It is every individual’s good samskaras that prompt one to be aware of the higher truths and He enables this to happen. From this awareness one is led to pursue them in earnest.
14 May 2020||Kolkata,||Nine more die of COVID-19 in Bengal||West Bengal on Wednesday recorded nine more deaths due to COVID-19 infection in the past 24 hours taking the total number of dead to 207. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said the Sentinel Survey will be conducted in every district. “West Bengal is the first State to start community prevalence survey,” a statement said. It said the data will help the State develop dynamic, real-time response at the field level. According to the government, 135 deaths were due to the pandemic and 72 due to ‘comorbidities’ where “COVID-19 was the incidental finding”. The number of cases touched 2,290 with 117 new cases and active infections stand at 1,381. On Tuesday, the State had recorded a decline in active infections at 1,364.
14 May 2020||Chandigarh,||Haryana to restart public transport||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday announced that public transport will resume in the State on an “experimental basis” from Friday, with a limited number of buses plying on select routes. Even as the State looks to ease coronavirus restrictions to spur economic and other activities, Mr. Khattar made it clear that his government will not lower its guard and will not hesitate in imposing stricter curbs if things don’t go as planned. On resuming public transport, which has been shut since the lockdown was announced on March 25, Mr. Khattar said, “Local State transport, we are starting from Friday on an experimental basis. We will run a few buses on some routes.”
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Editors Guild slams action against scribes||The Editors Guild of India on Wednesday condemned two recent incidents of police action against journalists in Gujarat and Delhi. It noted that there was a growing trend of “misuse of criminal laws to intimidate journalists” in the country. The first incident the Guild expressed concern over was the Gujarat police booking and detaining Dhaval Patel, editor and owner of Gujarati news portal ‘Face of Nation’, for sedition on May 12. The police took the action after the portal published a report suggesting possible leadership change in the State because of the increase in COVID-19 cases. “The second instance of egregious and high-handed action has come from the Delhi Police,” the Guild said in a statement, referring to the police notice to The Indian Express special correspondent Mahender Singh Manral on May 10. The notice required “the journalist, who had reported that police investigations found the possibility of the audio clip of Tablighi Jamaat leader, Maulana Saad, being doctored, to join a probe on this matter on May 10”, the Guild said. While Mr. Manral was not charged under any law, he was threatened to join the probe or face legal action under the Indian Penal Code. “This appears to be a little more than a fishing expedition to try and extract the journalist’s source and, thus, warn other reporters.” “The government and the police must recognise that the media is an integral part of the governance structure in any democracy,” the Guild noted.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Gujarat Minister moves SC||Gujarat Law and Education Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court against a High Court decision nullifying his 2017 election. The High Court had held that the returning officer “illegally rejected” 429 postal ballots during the counting, while the victory margin was a mere 327 votes. Congress candidate Ashwin Rathod had challenged the victory of his BJP rival from Dholka. Seeking a stay, Mr. Chudasama said the High Court had committed an error. The court had found that the counting procedure went against the orders of the Election Commission of India.
14 May 2020||New Delhi,||Special package lacks focus:Yechury||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said the government, while announcing the Rs. 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic, had lost focus of the actual problem. “This is supposed to be the first tranche of special package and the focus should have been how to strengthen the fight against this pandemic and provide relief to crores of people who are suffering...” Mr. Yechury said.  Migrant workers, the question of hunger, job loss and support to the States were not touched, he said.
14 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha sees 101 new cases, tally at 538||Odisha registered a three-digit jump in a single day by adding 101 COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday, taking its total to 538, the State Health and Family Welfare Department said. As many as 27 patients were also discharged from hospitals during the day, the Department said. The number of cases has increased by more than two times in less than one week, with many people who returned from Gujarat and other States testing positive for the virus. Of the new cases, 52 were detected in Ganjam district, 33 in Balasore district, seven each in Jajpur and Sundargarh districts and two in Keonjhar district. Of the 538 cases, 392 persons were admitted to exclusive hospitals, while 143 recovered and three died. So far, 21 of the 30 districts have reported positive cases.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Guidelines issued on use of AC in offices||The decision to switch on central air-conditioning units in government offices should be taken in concurrence with the administrative heads of the Ministry or the Department concerned, according to the guidelines to prevent transmission of COVID-19 issued by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) on Wednesday.  The guidelines said “maximum caution should be exercised to minimise the chances of spread of coronavirus through air flow in enclosed spaces like residences, offices, meeting places and assembly places”. Among the general principles were keeping the temperature between 24°C and 30°C, maintaining a relative humidity of 40%-70%, increasing the intake of fresh air and avoiding recirculating of air as much as possible and regular cleaning of filters.
14 May 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Groups slam preparations for Rath Yatra||Rationalists in Odisha criticised the continuing preparations for the Rath Yatra of the Shree Jagannath Temple in Puri, as well as statements from some of its servitors that the annual outing of the deities will end the threat of COVID-19. Servitors of the Sri Jagannath Temple are pressurising the government to allow the Rath Yatra to be performed without devotees. They say that devotees can see the event on TV. Debendra Sutar, secretary, Odisha Rationalist Society (ORS), said no festival can be held without sacrificing the precautions taken to curb the spread of COVID-19. Pratap Rath, president, ORS, criticised local media for publicising superstitious statements by the servitors without accommodating scientific views to counter them.
14 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||1,225 Nanded returnees test positive: govt.||Among the 4,216 who returned to Punjab from Nanded in Maharashtra, 1,225 positive COVID-19 cases have been reported, according to government data. The information was shared by Dr. S.K. Singh, Director National Centre for Disease Control, during a video conference with Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday. The meeting was part of a series of discussions with States and UTs’ Health Ministers and Collectors of red zones and high priority districts. “As on May 12, all 22 districts [in Punjab] stand affected by COVID-19 with 1,913 cases. The Nanded Hazoor Sahib returnees constituted the bulk of cases,” said a statement.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC rejects Sajjan Kumar’s bail plea||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined a bail petition moved on medical grounds by former Congress leader Sajjan Kumar, who is undergoing life imprisonment in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots case. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, observed that Kumar did not require hospitalisation. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, representing Kumar, said his client should be granted bail because if something happened to him, his life imprisonment would become death penalty.
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Sanitisers on flights||The Bureau of Civil Aviation Security has authorised passengers to carry hand sanitisers up to 350 ml in hand baggage as part of COVID-19 safety guidelines. Aircraft opera- tors should give publicity on the instructions and inform passengers to declare at the security checkpoints items carried in conformity with the latest guidelines.
14 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana Cong. pays Rs. 40 lakh for migrants||Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja said on Wednesday a cheque of Rs. 40 lakh had been sent to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on behalf of the party as contribution towards the train fare of migrant labourers. “There is a big crisis of livelihood that these workers face now. Desperate and frustrated, they now want to go back to their ancestral places but they have no means, no money and no food. In such a situation, it is our duty to extend all possible help to them,” she said.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Archaeological Survey of India gets new chief||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) got a new Director General with the appointment of IAS officer V. Vidyavathi on Tuesday. Ms. Vidyavathi is a 1991 batch Karnataka cadre officer, according to the order of the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet on Tuesday. She will be serving in the rank of Additional Secretary to the Government of India. As on Wednesday, she was yet to take charge of the post, according to ASI officials.
14 May 2020||Mumbai,||66 new cases in Dharavi||Dharavi crossed the 1,000-mark after it reported 66 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. The area now has 1,028 cases. Besides, nine deaths reported this month have been added to the tally, taking the toll to 40. G North ward consisting of Dharavi, Mahim and Dadar now has the highest number of cases in Mumbai. Among the new cases is a 9-year-old girl.
14 May 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||16 bootleggers detained||The police on Wednesday detained 16 bootleggers under the Goondas Act for brewing arrack in different parts of the district. The action comes days after complaints on brewing of arrack in rural areas in the wake of closure of TASMAC liquor shops. Superintendent of Police V.R. Srinivasan formed a special team consisting of Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW) personnel to take action against those brewing and selling arrack. The team carried out surprise raids in different parts of Andimadam and nearby villages and destroyed country made liquor kept in barrels. Several persons were arrested on the charge of arrack brewing. Taking the crimes seriously, particularly when the curfew is in place to control the spread of pandemic, the police have decided to invoke the Goondas Act against the offenders. Based on the recommendations from the Superintendent of Police, Collector D. Rathna issued orders to detain16 bootleggers under the Goondas Act on Wednesday. K. Sakthivel (30) of Silambur, C. Poyyamozhi (43) of Agaram street, T. Ajith (23), A. Sudhakar (48), R. Kamaraj of Silambur and K. Sankar (40) of Alapuram were among the arrested. All of them were sent to the Central Prison in Tiruchi. The arrest of 16 persons under the Goondas Act in a day is said to be a record in Ariyalur district in recent years. The police had earlier arrested 11 persons under the Goondas Act a few days ago. With this, the number of persons arrested under the Goondas Act has gone up to 37 within two weeks. Mr. Srinivasan said that no one would be spared if they indulged in arrack brewing. Special teams would continue to conduct surprise raids to detect illicit brewing. Tiruchi The police have so far arrested over 300 persons for prohibition offences. Since March 24, special teams conducted raids at Thuraiyur, Uppilliyapuram, Thottiyam, Kattuputhur, Ramji Nagar, Musiri, Manachanallur, Vathalai, Lalgudi and Kallakudi. They seized 3,580 litres of fermented wash, 918 litres of illicit arrack and 160 litres of toddy. The seized consignments were destroyed. They registered 106 cases and arrested 129 persons, a press release said. Six four-wheelers and 24 two-wheelers used in the offence were seized. The teams seized 5,493 TASMAC liquor bottles and six Puducherry liquor bottles. They registered 227 cases, arrested 248 persons and destroyed these bottles.
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Resettlement colonies at risk of becoming COVID-19 clusters||Cramped for space, resettlement colonies in and around the city are now staring at the threat of COVID-19. Three of the major Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) resettlement colonies at Kannagi Nagar, Perumbakkam and Semmenchery have already reported cases. According to officials, 27 residents of Kannagi Nagar have tested positive. Thirteen are index cases and the remaining household contacts. Of the index cases, seven to eight persons are linked to the Koyambedu cluster. In Semmenchery, six persons have tested positive, while two have tested positive in Perumbakkam. Maintaining physical distancing and isolation at home is next to impossible in both slums and resettlement colonies. Consider this: it is estimated that there are over 3 lakh households in nearly 2,170 slums in the city, according to officials in TNSCB. The three major colonies account for over 50,000 houses and the size of each house ranges between 120 to 400 sq.ft. A cross-section of residents of TNSCB resettlement colonies said they fear that the infection may spread quickly as houses are located close to each other and containment measures are not enforced properly. “There are over 23,000 houses in Kannagi Nagar and Ezhil Nagar. All of them are located close to each other. It is very difficult to follow personal distancing as the size of the houses ranges between 120 sq. feet to 220 sq. feet and people sit outside to get some fresh air,” said Stephen, a resident of Kannagi Nagar. Despite COVID -19 cases in the locality, residents claim that Kannagi Nagar has not been demarcated as a containment zone. “The entry and exit points have not been blocked. Many residents are daily wage earners, and they step out hoping to get some work,” added another resident. Similar is the complaint from residents of Perumbakkam and Semmenchery. “The entry and exit points to the Perumbakkam tenements were blocked two weeks ago after the first case was reported. However, they are not enforced strictly as people from other parts of the city continue to visit their relatives,” a resident said. In Semmenchery, residents said metal sheets with ample space for a person to pass through have been placed to block entry to houses of infected persons. “However, people continue to enter and leave the dwelling units,” said K. Kanchana, a resident. “No physical distancing is followed. People also walk around without masks,” she said. P. Kuganantham, former city health officer, said, “There is no spacing and so, the chances of disease transmission are high. All elderly residents should be screened. Many of the women here are anaemic and should be given zinc and vitamin tablets to build immunity. It is important to provide supplements.”
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tally past 9,000-mark with 509 new cases||The State’s overall tally of COVID-19 cases crossed the 9,000-mark after recording 509 new cases on Wednesday. Three days after reporting more than 500 cases, the number of cases marginally dipped to 380 in Chennai, even as its total count climbed to 5,262. With fresh cases — 288 males and 221 females — being reported in 16 districts across Tamil Nadu, the State’s total number of COVID-19 cases stood at 9,227*. The total number of deaths due to COVID-19 increased to 64. Three men — all in their 40s — died in Chennai. According to a bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, a 41-year-old resident of Chennai died at the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on May 12. He was a diabetic and died due to respiratory failure. The second person — a 43-year-old resident of the city — was referred from a private hospital and admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on May 13. He too was a diabetic and died on the same day due to pneumonia and respiratory failure. A 48-year-old man with systemic hypertension was admitted to RGGGH and died on May 12 due to bilateral pneumonia and respiratory failure. A health official said that many people who had died in the State had co-morbidities and tested for COVID-19 incidentally. “The direct cause of many of the deaths reported so far may not be COVID-19. We have had patients with multiple complications due to co-morbidities and COVID-19 could have been the triggering factor,” he said. Another 42 persons were discharged from hospitals in the State. This took the total number of persons discharged after treatment to 2,176. Along with Chennai, cases continued to surge in neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur. There were 25 cases each in the two districts. With this, the total number of cases climbed to 416 in Chengalpattu and 492 in Tiruvallur. In fact, Tiruvannamalai too has been reporting COVID-19 cases regularly. The district had 23 new cases. There were 17 cases in Cuddalore, seven in Villupuram, five each in Theni and Tirunelveli, four each in Ariyalur and Kancheepuram, two each in Karur, Madurai, Nagapattinam, and one each in Perambalur, Thanjavur and Thoothukudi. Five more passengers, who arrived on a repatriation flight to the Chennai airport, tested positive for COVID-19. Another 42 children, aged 0-12, tested positive for COVID-19, while 34 persons aged above 60 also tested positive for the infection. A total of 12,780 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 2,79,467. One more private laboratory — Nu-Med Labs, Kancheepuram — has been approved for testing. With this, there are a total of 38 testing facilities in the government and 18 in the private sector.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross notified to other states and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Select 30-bed PHCs to be designated as care centres||Thirty-bed upgraded primary health centres (PHC) will be designated as COVID-19 care centres (CCC) in Tamil Nadu. In addition, deputy directors of health services (DDHS) have been instructed to select unused new buildings on the block PHC campus with 10 or 20-bed facilities. State Helpline numbers | State-wise tracker | A map of confirmed cases in India Officials said that select 30-bed PHCs would be designated as CCCs. These should preferably be PHCs with less than five deliveries a month, they added. Each of the 385 blocks in the State has an upgraded PHC, while there are a few blocks that have two such centres. There are a total of 412 upgraded PHCs in the State. Officials said that the move was part of guidelines from the Government of India. “We have given general instructions to turn 30-bed PHCs into CCCs. We are yet to decide on the number of PHCs to be covered. These will primarily be for accommodating patients in the future,” an official said. In a circular, the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine said that very mild/pre-symptomatic COVID-19 patients may be housed in CCCs for 14 days. Persons living in kutcha houses and those with no separate room for home isolation can be accommodated at the CCCs. All deputy directors of health services were instructed to identify suitable places, the number of beds and submit the details. Also read: Coronavirus | Citing COVID-19 spike, TN CM urges PM not to resume air, rail services till May 31 Issuing guidelines for CCCs, the directorate said that an adequate number of water taps with washbasins and liquid soap should be made available at the entrance of the PHCs. Three-layer masks should be provided to all patients and non-touch infra-red thermometers should be used for screening of fever. Limiting contact All CCCs should earmark separate areas for conducting fever and Influenza-Like Illness outpatient services, along with specific waiting areas for people with respiratory symptoms. At least a two-metre distance should be maintained to limit close contact between the health staff and “potentially-infectious patients” in OPD rooms. All COVID-19 patients should be housed in single rooms. If sufficient single rooms are not available, beds could be set up at least a metre away from one another. Oxygen provision should be made and at least two to three cylinders should be in working condition. Non-critical patient care equipment should be available for patients. Sharing of equipment should be avoided. If not, it should be ensured that reusable equipment is appropriately disinfected between patients. All health staff with symptoms of ILI should be under home quarantine.
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Postpone Class 10 exams, JACTTO-GEO appeals to CM||The Joint Action Council of Tamil Nadu Teacher Organisations and Government Employees Organisations (JACTTO-GEO) has appealed to the Chief Minister to postpone the Class 10 board exams, scheduled to begin on June 1. In a statement, it said that the sudden announcement of the examination schedule by the School Education Department has shocked thousands of teachers and students. “When no decision has been taken by the Central and State governments about the extension of the COVID-19 lockdown yet, we condemn that the School Education Department has gone ahead and scheduled exams,” the statement said. JACTTO-GEO further said that the situation was not conducive for students to start studying for the exams. “We should remember that 35,000 students ended up missing the final Plus Two examination due to restrictions during the lockdown,” it said. The announcement that evaluation of Plus Two exam papers will begin on May 27 has further added to the confusion of the teachers, it added. JACTTO-GEO said that exams could be scheduled after the lockdown ends and the spread of COVID-19 decreases, after which students could be given time, be guided and motivated well by the teachers.
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PPE given to all healthcare workers, State tells HC||The State government on Wednesday informed the Madras High Court that personal protective equipment (PPE) had been distributed to all healthcare providers involved in arresting the spread of COVID-19, depending upon the nature of their work. They were being continuously educated about the need to follow basic preventive public health measures, it said. Last week, Justices Vineet Kothari and Pushpa Sathyanarayana had called for a status report from the government on a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate S. Jimraj Milton. Accordingly, the report, filed on Tuesday, stated that healthcare providers had been divided into three risk categories — high, moderate and low. High-risk doctors, staff nurses, paramedics in critical care management, ambulance staff involved in transportation of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) patients and lab technicians involved in sample collection and testing had been provided with a full complement of PPE kits, the report said. The full complement contained a triple-layer face mask, a gown with a hood, shoe covers, hand gloves and protective eye gear. Moderate-risk doctors, nurses, paramedics in clinical management, sanitary/laundry staff at hospitals and ambulance staff attending to emergencies had only been provided with N95 masks and gloves. Further, doctors, health inspectors, village health nurses, anganwadi workers, the police, sanitary workers and revenue officials had been given triple-layer masks, the report read. It stated that a 14-day work-free quarantine period was provided to all healthcare providers, including sanitary staff, serving at COVID-19 treatment and management facilities. The report went on to state that 2.19 lakh PPE kits, 1.54 lakh N-95 masks and 23.52 lakh triple-layer masks were available in the State, as of May 8. Unfortunately, a few healthcare providers at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai had recently tested positive for COVID-19, it noted. “But there was no callousness on the part of the administration that can be attributed to some HCPs (healthcare providers) acquiring the infection…It is submitted that much greater attention is being bestowed and a vigorous check mechanism is being made,” the Health Department’s report said. After taking it on file, the judges asked the litigant to file his response to the report by Monday.
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traders protest, demand reopening of Koyambedu||Several merchants at the Koyambedu wholesale market protested on Wednesday, seeking the reopening of the market or an alternative space to resume trade. Many of them remained without work for several days, they said. The retail market at Koyambedu was closed as physical distancing norms were not followed. With the market turning into a COVID-19 hotspot, the entire complex has been shut since May 5. Traders noted that only 200 wholesale shops were allotted space at the new Thirumazhisai market that opened this week. However, there were nearly 1,700 licensed semi-wholesale and retail traders engaged at the market. Members of the various vegetable traders’ associations said they have closed shops for several days now and do not have space to continue the trade. The closure led to loss of livelihood for many workers, who were dependent on daily trade. Similarly, many fruits and flowers merchants have halted business since April-end and have not moved to the temporary market at Madhavaram citing insufficient facilities. Vegetable traders demanded that the Koyambedu market be disinfected and reopened soon, or they be provided an alternative space for business. They suggested traders be allowed to work with restrictions, like splitting them into batches and allowing each to function on certain days. Thirumazhisai market is continuing to have a steady flow of produce from neighbouring States, which has led to a dip in wholesale prices. However, wholesale traders wanted retail vehicles to be distributed to shops as those located on the rear did not have many takers.
14 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Railways may stop specials between New Delhi and city||Indian Railways plans to stop the special train service that is being operated to the city from New Delhi in the coming weeks. Though an official announcement is yet to be made by the Railway Board, highly placed sources confirmed plans which would to be implemented soon. The first train service is set to begin from New Delhi on Wednesday and reach the city on Friday. The Indian Railway announced bi-weekly special services from New Delhi to the city operated on Wednesdays and Fridays, and from Chennai to New Delhi on Fridays and Sundays. A senior official of Southern Railway said bookings for the bi-weekly Rajdhani Super Fast special trains on the IRCTC website would not be opened in future and the special trains between New Delhi and Chennai would be stopped after this next week. Incidentally, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami wrote a letter to Union Home and Railway Ministers to make arrangements for passengers arriving in special passenger train services to the city to be quarantined in railway station premises due to the possibility of COVID-19 infection spreading in the air-conditioned coaches.
14 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Screen visiting lorry drivers: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday instructed District Collectors to screen lorry drivers and cleaners entering the State with supplies. “Else, the [coronavirus] disease might spread from them,” he warned at a virtual meeting with Collectors. Many Collectors told the Chief Minister that though they initially did not have any COVID-19 cases in their respective districts, eventually, when several natives employed in other districts returned, they had tested positive for the infection. Many people from Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Thanjavur and Tirunelveli districts, among others, were working in Chennai. The Chief Minister assured that such natives, when they return from Chennai, would be tested within three or four days and given necessary treatment. As for the movement of migrant workers, Mr. Palaniswami said that the delay in arranging trains for them was due to the delay in getting approvals from Chief Ministers of their home States and the number of trains allotted on Tamil Nadu’s request, every day. Only about 8-10 trains were allotted to the State a day, he pointed out. “We will arrange trains for workers to return, but until then, they should remain patient,” he reiterated. Steps were on to bring back stranded Tamils, he said.Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy and senior officials participated.
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Secy. humiliated DMK MPs: Baalu||DMK Parliamentary Party leader T.R. Baalu on Wednesday alleged that Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam “treated without minimum courtesy and humiliated” the team of party MPs which called on him at the Secretariat on Wednesday. The team, led by Mr. Baalu, included Dayanidhi Maran, Kalanidhi Veerasamy and Tamizhachi Thangapandian. They met the Chief Secretary to draw the government’s attention to the problems during the COVID-19 lockdown expressed by one lakh people through ‘Ontrinaivom Vaa’, an initiative launched by party president M.K. Stalin. “The Chief Secretary did not take into consideration that I and Mr. Dayanidhai Maran were Union Ministers for many years and the way he treated us was shocking. He did not accord the reception due to the Members of Parliament. His act is highly condemnable,” Mr. Baalu said in a statement. He alleged the Chief Secretary did not pay attention to what the team was saying and instead “he was watching television”. “When Mr. Kalanidhi made a request to an employee of the Chief Secretary’s office to reduce the TV volume, Mr. Shanmugam prevented him from doing so,” he charged. “But we tolerated his attitude and urged him to take action on our demands. He said no time limit could be fixed for taking action since there are not adequate employees,” Mr. Baalu said. He recalled Mr. Shanmugam as saying, “This is problem with you people.”
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC to hear cases against reopening of liquor shops||A Full Bench of the Madras High Court, comprising Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justices Vineet Kothari and P.N. Prakash, is scheduled to hear all cases filed against the State government’s decision to reopen Tasmac shops, amid the COVID-19 lockdown, on Thursday. Also read: Long queues, umbrellas used to reserve spots, as TASMAC outlets open across Tamil Nadu The Chief Justice had decided to constitute the Full Bench following a reference made to him by a Division Bench led by Justice Prakash on Monday, after concurring with an order passed by a Bench comprising Justices Kothari and Pushpa Sathyanarayana last Friday to close all liquor shops until the lockdown is lifted. In the meantime, though Tasmac had taken Friday’s order on appeal, the Supreme Court is yet to hear the appeal. In its verdict, the Bench led by Justice Prakash had said that the right of the State to carry out liquor sales through Tasmac shops is not an absolute right, but a qualified one, and when that right seeks to trample on the right to life, the former has to give way and remain subservient to the latter. Also read: On Day 1, chaos prevail at TASMAC shops in Chennai’s neighbouring districts The Bench stated: “In a Republican democracy [such] as ours, when the executive wing were to pursue a policy that is likely to destroy the right to life, the judicial wing cannot afford to sleep like Kumbhakarna.”
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs not enthused by stimulus package||While several industry captains and chambers of commerce lauded the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ package, the MSME sector, which has a huge presence in Tamil Nadu, appeared less enthused. A handful of other sectors too felt that the economic package under the scheme for a self-reliant India, unveiled by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, may not be of help to them in the immediate future. “It is disappointing for small and medium enterprises as none of the announcements will help us immediately. The only relief is that all pending payments from government will be cleared in 45 days,” said S. Vasudevan, joint secretary, Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries’ Association. K.V. Kanakambaram, president, The Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association, felt no financial support was provided for micro and small units to resume operations, which would require immediate funds. . Padam Dugar, president, CREDAI- Chennai Chapter, was disappointed that no relief was offered to homebuyers. Madras Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Ramkumar Ramamoorthy, said that with banks becoming severely risk averse to lending and parking significant amounts with the RBI, the government creating an avenue for the surplus in the banking system to find its way into the economy by standing guarantee at 100% should enable MSMEs to kick-start their operations. R. Ganapathi, president of the Southern India Chamber of Commerce and Industries, said that the decision to disallow tenders up to Rs. 200 crore in government procurement was path-breaking and was a step towards self-reliance.
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police seize over 700 autos for violating lockdown||The City Traffic Police on Wednesday seized autorickshaws plying in several parts of city, violating prohibitory orders promulgated to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This action was taken after many autos were plying in defiance of the lockdown in the last couple of days. From Wednesday, traffic officials accompanied by law and order police, intercepted autos in T. Nagar, Guindy, Egmore, Anna Salai, Rajiv Gandhi Salai and E.V.R. Salai, and seized them. A senior police official said, “In many stretches, auto drivers started services defying prohibitory orders. Some were seen carrying passengers in the front seat as well. We have seized over 700 autos so far and reiterated that they should not venture out without a valid reason. However, we are allowing people who have genuine reasons such medical emergencies.”  We have reiterated that people should not venture out without a valid reason Senior police official
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traders’ association moves court to resume work||A writ petition has been filed in the Madras High Court to permit the members of Koyambedu Food Grain Traders’ Association to open their shops and function as usual after following all necessary guidelines to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Justice M. Duraiswamy ordered a notice, returnable by two weeks, to the Chief Administrative Officer of the Market Management Committee of Koyambedu wholesale market and adjourned the case to May 26. Notices were also ordered to the State and Greater Chennai Corporation. In his affidavit, the litigant accused the government authorities of having failed to prevent the market from turning into a COVID-19 cluster. He said such a situation could have been avoided if the officials had followed all precautionary measures.
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Neurosurgeon’s wife moves HC, seeks reburial||The Madras High Court on Wednesday sought the response of the State government and Greater Chennai Corporation on a writ petition filed by the wife of a neurosurgeon, who died recently after testing positive for COVID-19, to ensure that his body was buried at the Kilpauk cemetery where it could not be laid to rest due to objections from local residents. Justice M. Duraiswamy directed the Corporation to file its counter affidavit to the writ petition by June 10. The direction was issued after Special Government Pleader V. Kadhirvelu and standing counsel Karthikaa Ashok accepted notices on behalf of the government as well as the corporation respectively and sought four weeks’ time to file counter affidavits. Initially, a public interest litigation petition was filed in the High Court by an unconnected individual for exhuming the body from a burial ground at Velangadu near New Avadi Road and burying it at the Kilpauk cemetery. That case was dismissed by the court with an observation that it would be open to the family members of the deceased to file a writ petition.  Initially, a separate plea was filed for exhuming the body from a burial ground at Velangadu and reintering it at the Kilpauk cemetery
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SHRC seeks report on incident in two weeks||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Tuesday took suo motu cognisance of the “high- handedness” of Vaniyambadi Municipal Commissioner Cecil Thomas in upturning fruit carts while implementing the COVID-19 lockdown. Detailed report sought State Human Rights Commission acting chairperson D. Jayachandran and member A.C. Mohandoss sought a “detailed report” into the incident within two weeks from the Commissioner of Municipal Administration and Mr. Thomas. Citing a television media report in which Mr. Thomas was seen throwing fruits from carts of vendors as well as upturning carts, the SHRC said: “This shows the Commissioner’s high handedness towards the fruit vendors and violated the human rights of the fruit vendors.” ‘Exceeded his powers’ The Commission pointed out that if the street vendors or fruit vendors violated the rules and regulations laid down during the lockdown period, the Commissioner should have taken action against them “in accordance with law”. It added: “But in this incident, the respondent/Commissioner had exceeded his powers and has taken the law into his hand, which resulted [in] vandalism.” The SHRC further sought to know whether his actions would not amount to violation of human rights and why action should not be taken against him for this.
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Empty slogans and no relief, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday criticised the COVID-19 economic stimulus package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the action plan of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. He charged that the package had failed to address in a humanitarian manner the plight of the poor, migrant workers, employees of medium and small industries, farmers and the middle class who had lost their livelihood in the last three months. “Both the stimulus package and the action plan have come as a great disappointment. There is actually no connect between the two,” he said in a statement. According to him, there was no plan to credit money into the bank accounts of those who were not able to return home and were struggling for food and medicine. Mr. Stalin said that State governments were facing an unprecedented financial crisis and each State had sought Rs. 1 lakh crore as relief. “But there is no allocation to strengthen the State finances,” he charged.
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL against holding exams||A public interest litigation (PIL) petition has been filed in the Madras High Court to restrain the State government from going ahead with its plan to conduct public exams for Class 10 students between June 1 and 12. The petition is expected to be listed before Justices Vineet Kothari and Pushpa Sathyanarayana this week.
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Transport for students||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami instructed District Collectors to arrange transport facilities for Class 10 students whose public exams have been scheduled to start from June 1. During the virtual meeting, he said: “Arrangements should be made in consultation with Education Department officials.”
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Coastal areas may get hotter from May 17||The day temperature may spike in coastal areas from May 17, under the influence of the weather system brewing in the Bay of Bengal. The maximum temperature in coastal areas, including Chennai, has been close to normal this summer. However, the low pressure over southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining south Andaman sea, which was expected to intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 16, may trigger hot weather conditions over the coastal region, according to the Meteorological Department. On Wednesday, the city recorded 37 degree Celsius, which was close to normal for the period. N. Puviarasan, Director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, said the weather system was expected to recurve to the north-northeast wards. This may trigger a change in wind direction to northwesterly winds and bring in hot air to the coastal areas, including Chennai. “There may be an increase in maximum temperature by one or two degree Celsius in the State from May 17. We are not expecting a heatwave condition for the next few days. Interior areas may see a spike above 40 degree Celsius,” he said. Weather expert Y.E.A. Raj said the prevailing cool easterly winds helped to control mercury levels in the city. The weather stations like Ennore, which were close to the coast, recorded low day temperatures around 34 degree Celsius due to the cool sea breeze.
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Donations of rations, PPE kits continue||HCL Technologies said that it had distributed over 6,00,000 nutritious and hygienic meals and over 5,000 dry ration kits in Chennai, NCR, Bengaluru and a few other cities. In a statement, it said that the distribution was done in collaboration with local government authorities in Chennai and HCL’s partner NGOs. NGO Sevalaya said it had donated relief items worth Rs. 65 lakh, sponsored by Fiat Chrysler Automobiles and the beneficiaries were from villages in Tiruvallur district. About 100 PPE kits and three ventilators were handed over to District Collector Maheswari Ravikumar for healthcare staff. Around 1,166 poor families, including members of the Irular community, daily wage earners and brick kiln workers and destitute were given groceries kits and 10 masks were given away to each family, it said. Dr. A.C. Shanmugam, founder chancellor, and Er. A.C.S. Arun Kumar, president, Dr. M.G.R. Educational and Research Institute, said they had donated 10-kg rice bags to around 1,500 families.
14 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||No active cases in Coimbatore||With a 31-year-old woman getting discharged from the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital here on Wednesday, Coimbatore district does not have any active case of COVID-19 as on this day. The district has also not seen any fresh case for the last 10 days. The woman from Karumbukkadai returned home with her six-day-old son who was born at the hospital and later tested negative for COVID-19. The district also did not report any fresh case of the disease for the 10th consecutive day on Wednesday. District Collector K. Rajamani told The Hindu this was the result of coordinated efforts by various departments, including Health, Revenue and Police, and the people in COVID-19 management. “We will continue to combat the disease. We are doing 200 to 250 tests per day. Apart from suspected cases, those tested include pregnant women who get admitted to hospital and people who undergo surgeries. The district will have to wait for the notification from the State Government whether its grade is to be changed from orange zone to green zone,” said Mr. Rajamani. Since the first COVID-19 case reported in Coimbatore district on March 22, 146 persons tested positive for the disease till May 3. While 145 persons recovered from the disease, one person, who was also suffering from cancer, died in Chennai. According to A. Nirmala, Dean of ESI Hospital, the nodal treatment centre for Coimbatore, Tiruppur and the Nilgiris districts, the youngest COVID-19 patient it had was a 10-day-old baby while the oldest was an 87-year-old hemiplegic patient. Of the total patients who underwent treatment, nearly 70 of them had comorbidity, a risk factor that could escalate COVID-19 infection. Of 145 persons recovered in the district, 11 including six police personnel were treated at PSG Hospitals. A health department team, under the leadership of Deputy Director of Health Services G. Ramesh Kumar and City Health Officer K. Santhosh, tested samples collected from 7,843 people, so far.  Maldives returnees  Mr. Rajamani added that 78 people from Tamil Nadu who were repatriated from the Maldives and reached Coimbatore via Kochi were also subjected to COVID-19 test. Three out of 53 people, who came in the first batch tested positive and they belonged to Tiruchi and Cuddalore districts. Of the 25 persons who came in second batch, two were from Coimbatore. While 22 persons were sent to their respective districts, one person got admitted to a private hospital, he said.
14 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries can apply for passes||Industries that want to bring its workers who have returned to their home towns in the State can apply for passes to help them come back to work. The industries can apply online or offline for the passes and the District Industries Centre (DIC) issues the passes, which is monitored by the District Collector. The passes are valid throughout the State, said a senior official. The government has permitted industries to operate with maximum 50 % workers. So most of the industries should be able to manage with the workers who have stayed back. In case there are units, construction firms where all the workers have left Coimbatore, they can apply for passes to help the workers return to Coimbatore, the official said. Since the beginning of lockdown, the DIC received 10,985 applications for industries, construction companies to start operations, for movement of vehicles and personnel. Of these, 5,021 were for movement to other districts or coming back to Coimbatore district. In the case of employers who want to bring back workers from other States, they need to approach the Collector.
14 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Textile industry, MSMEs welcome FM announcement||Textile industry and micro, small and medium-scale enterprises (MSMEs) in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts have welcomed the announcements by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday. Coimbatore District Small Industries’ Association president R. Ramamurthy said most of the demands of the associations in Coimbatore are met, especially related to definition for MSMEs. The industries can start buying raw materials and can commence operations with confidence. According to V. Krishna Kumar, president of Southern India Engineering Manufacturers’ Association, the decision to give priority to products made in the country and opening some tenders only to domestic industries are welcome measures. But, the loans announced by the government should be available at lower interest rates. President of Coimbatore and Tirupur District Tiny and Micro Enterprises’ Association C. Sivakumar welcomed the announcements and said the micro units can start operations and depending on need seek further support from the government. The government should look at waiver of loans for micro units, he said. J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, added that the micro sector, which is peculiar to Coimbatore region, needs more focus. There should also be clarity on how the announcements will be implemented. In the textile sector, Confederation of Indian Textile Industry chairman T. Rajkumar said the move to redefine MSMEs will benefit the sector. The Rs. 30,000-crore special liquidity scheme will supplement the measures announced by the RBI Governor to augment liquidity. Chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council A. Sakthivel said the measures announced will give more money in hands of people and factories and spur economic growth. Disallowing global tenders will give opportunities to local industries. According to Ashwin Chandran, Chairman of Southern India Mills’ Association, 60 % of the textile industry in the country are MSMEs and these will benefit. There should be a special package for exports. Tiruppur Exporters’ Association president Raja M. Shanmugham welcomed continuance of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package and payment of 12 % of employer and 12 % employee contributions into EPF accounts of eligible establishments for another three months to salary months of June, July and August 2020 also. S. Nagarajan, president of Dyers’ Association of Tiruppur, while welcoming the announcements said industries abroad get loans at lower interest rates. The units in India should get loans at the international rates.
14 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Safety concerns weigh on minds of students, parents||With the government announcing that Class X public examinations would commence on June 1, many students and parents are worried about safety when COVID-19 cases in the State are on the rise. B. Mahalakshmi, a Class X student at a government-aided school in the city, said she stayed with her grandparents in Coimbatore and had gone to her residence at Pongalur in Tiruppur district on March 21 shortly after the State government ordered the closure of educational institutions. “All my textbooks and notes are in my grandparents’ house and I could not revise properly in the past two months,” she said. Her parents are unsure about sending her to Coimbatore in view of lack of public transport. U. Abbay Singh of a private school in Siddhapudur said he had revised the portions well during the lockdown, but was worried over inadequate safety measures, especially in regard to physical distancing norms and hygiene in examination halls. G. Malarvizhi, whose daughter is studying in a private school at Selvapuram, said June 1 was too early. With the possibility of crowding at examination centres, parents would dread the risk of their children contracting COVID-19. “As parents, the safety of our children is our first priority,” she said. “Nobody expected that the examinations would be held this early,” said T. Arulanandam, State Auditor of Tamil Nadu High Higher Secondary School Graduate Teachers Association (TNHHSSGTA). The State government must clarify on the precautionary measures taken for the conduct of the examinations, such as safe transportation, ensuring physical distancing and wearing of masks. Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer P. Usha said specific guidelines from the Department of School Education on the conduct of the examinations and aspects such as transport had not been received yet. “Once we get the guidelines, it will be implemented,” she said. A total of 41,148 students will sit for Class X examinations in Coimbatore district this academic year.
14 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||NTC workers stage protest||Workers of the National Textile Corporation (NTC) mills here, affiliated to the CITU Mill Workers Union, staged a protest at the NTC office premises demanding April month wages to the workers and resuming operation of the NTC mills in the State. The NTC has seven textile mills in the State, including five in Coimbatore district. Thousands of permanent and contract workers are employed in these units. While the Central Government has asked private mills not to reduce workforce during lockdown period and to pay full wages to workers, the NTC mills have not paid the wages to the workers, the union said. Following the protest, the management held talks with the union leaders and has assured them that it will pay the wage arrears shortly and the mills can resume operation only based on the government decision as there is no demand for yarn.
14 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||15 held for selling liquor||Coimbatore rural police on Tuesday arrested 15 persons on charges of selling liquor illegally. While 12 persons were arrested for illegally selling Indian-made foreign liquor that they had bought from Tasmac outlets before their closure, three others were held with toddy. In another case, Kangeyam police arrested six persons, including two Tasmac employees, on charges of illegally selling liquor.
14 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Govt. museum invites entries for contest||The Government Museum, Coimbatore, will conduct a photography contest to mark Museum Day on May 18. According to press release, every household has some antique item that is treasured. Those who want to take part in the contest, which is open to residents of Tiruppur and Coimbatore districts, should take a photograph of the antique or product used by their ancestors. The details can be shared on WhatsApp (8680958340), Telegram (Govt Museum Cbe) or by mail (kovaimuseum@gmail.com) before May 16. The entry should have the name, address, and contact details of the contestant. All the photos sent will be shared on the social media platforms of the Coimbatore Government Museum. For details, call 8680958340 or 8072351388
14 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Gani market traders feel it will take months to recover from lockdown||With textile industry hit hard by COVID-19 pandemic, traders at the E.K.M. Abdul Gani textile market (Gani market) in the city fear that that their business would take many months to recover. There are 730 weekly shops and 370 daily shops selling all type of garments, both in wholesale and in retail. Merchants from various districts and other States place bulk orders for festivals and during summer and winter seasons. Due to closure of the market in the past two months, the livelihood of over 5,000 workers, including loadmen, drivers and others dependent on the market were affected. “We have already lost our major orders for Ugadi and Ramzan and now we lost our orders for school uniforms”, said S. Sakthivel, secretary, Erode Gani Market Weekly Textile Traders’ Association. Speaking to The Hindu , he said that 80% of the traders had obtained loans and has to pay Equated Monthly Instalments (EMI) which they could not do in the past two months. He said that each shop has a minimum of one worker and most of them were paid their one month salary. “Since there is no business activity, traders are left with no money now”, he said and wanted assistance to be provided to the workers till trading activity resumes. Mr. Sakthivel said that when shops are reopened, merchants will seek credit facilities while purchasing goods which they cannot afford in the present situation. “We have no money left with us”, he said and added that sales for Deepavali will only make the market back on track. Traders wanted GST rate for all textile products to be reduced from 5% to 2%, extend interest-free credit facility for the sector and also support the workers during crisis. “Since many migrant workers prefer to return to their native, we may face shortage of labour too”, they added and wanted the government to support workers until normalcy returns.
14 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||AITUC seeks relief for workers||The Erode District Council of the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) has urged the State government to provide COVID-19 relief to all workers, irrespective of whether they are members of welfare boards or not. In an email sent to the Chief Minister, AITUC’s district president S. Chinnasamy said that over one crore daily wagers in the State had lost their livelihood.Though the government asked all the companies to pay salary to the workforce, contractors had failed to pay workers. The petition sought a monthly assistance of Rs. 7,500 for all workers, assistance to all pensioners, immediate convening of district welfare board monitoring committee, payment of full salary to all permanent, casual and contract workers, stop sacking workers or salary cuts and providing solatium to the family of workers who died while on duty.
14 May 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Floriculture federation appeals for relief package from government||Hi-tech floriculture, hit by COVID-19 pandemic, is in dire need of relief and stimulus, lest its survival is at stake, according to the Krishnagiri Floriculture Federation. In an appeal to the Prime Minister, the Federation has called for both short-term and long-term relief measures to wade through the crisis. The market for flowers has come to a standstill with a freeze on weddings, festivals, hotel industry, social gatherings, and events in the wake of COVID-19. The restrictions in the foreseeable future have made it impossible for a gradual revival of the industry. In its wake, farmers in Krishnagiri contributing to 30% of Indian floriculture exports have called for a relief package from the government. As a short-term relief measure, the hi-tech floriculturists or greenhouse farmers have sought a compensation package based on the actual capital loss incurred and the actual revenue loss incurred. They have also sought a loan of Rs. 5 lakh per acre to tide over the present crisis and to revive and maintain the farmers for at least the next three months. The federation has also demanded that the emergency loan be interest-free or with a nominal rate of interest with a repayment period of five years. As a long-term relief measure, the federation has called for application of the Reserve Bank of India’s Master Direction in 2018 to help distressed farmers in the event of natural calamities. According to the federation, since the government of India had declared COVID-19 as a “Notified Disaster” the RBI’s Master Direction – relief measures by banks in areas affected by natural calamities, 2018, comes into effect. Under this, the long-term measures should include moratorium on loans, re-scheduling (restructuring of loans), non-levy of penalty, reduction of interest on existing loans, and sanctioning of fresh loans at reduced interest rates.
14 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Send us back home, migrant workers urge governments||Hundreds of migrant labourers from West Bengal, Odisha and Bihar working on constructing the Natham elevated flyover gathered in large numbers on Alanganallur main road, urging the Centre and the Tamil Nadu government to help them go back home, here on Wednesday morning. Most said that they did not get their salary for the month of April and were losing their stock of food. Anarunya Aziruddin, one of the workers from West Bengal, said that most were facing hostility from residents of Oomachikulam - the area where they reside- as they are seen as intruders. “Although shopkeepers do not say much when we sometimes step out to buy vegetables, people often say ‘Corona, Corona’ when we arrive,” he said. Like him, several workers from North, East and Western India have been struggling to head back home. While some people have found means to go back through help from the government, several others have been using private transportation to head back. Everything comes at a cost, they say. Sandeep Maithi, a resident of West Bengal says that hundreds of people from different parts of India have been thronging the Collectorate in a hope to somehow either acquire an e-pass for travel or a berth on any train heading back to his State from Chennai. Sandeep belongs to the Sri Bengali Durgadevi Welfare Association. “On Monday, I visited the Collectorate and got around 2,000 forms for our brothers from our association to fill. By filling the form, we will get inter-State e-passes,” he says. After Mr. Sandeep distributed 1,200 forms to people from Bengal, he says he gave the other 800 forms to other migrants from Rajasthan. “They too are just as desperate to go back,” he says. Sonam Kunti, a goldsmith who works with a small-scale jeweller near Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple, is from West Bengal’s Asansol city, says that those who procured e-passes paid a total of Rs. 8,000 each to secure a birth in a private bus plying from Madurai to West Bengal. “Two buses carrying 90 people left yesterday. Those who have the money can go back. Many others I know are deeply in debt and are still looking to borrow. It is a bad time for us,” he says. All workers say that they have applied online long ago but are yet to get any response. Collector T. G. Vinay says that a total of 23,167 applications to go back home have been registered through the Tamil Nadu government portal but there are several hundred duplications. The district administration is working to eliminate these duplications and sending information of these migrants by combing through the available list. They are also compiling a list of migrant workers who have registered directly with the district administration through tahsildars, village administrative officers and officers at the Collectorate. According to the Collector’s estimates, there are 4,000 applications from West Bengal but only 3,500 without duplication. While 3,410 have registered from Bihar, only 2,800 are valid. For Rajasthan, 4,900 have registered but only 4,400 is the real estimate of people looking to go back. Only 1,330 people from North Eastern States, including Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya have registered. The rest are from Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and other States. The Collector says that as soon as they get approval from respective State governments to receive the workers, buses will be arranged to take workers from Madurai to Chennai. They will travel by State government arranged trains, he says. “We have already sent 27 people in a bus to Meghalaya today. Yesterday, we sent migrants from Manipur and Sikkim. We are attending to the crisis,” he said.
14 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Don’t take coercive action against HT consumers: HC||Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has preferred an appeal before the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL) against Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission’s (TNERC) suo motu order that has directed it to collect 20% of the sanctioned demand or recorded demand, whichever is higher, as minimum demand charges from high tension (HT) consumers. The State informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court of the development on Wednesday after Tamil Nadu Spinning Mills Association, Dindigul, and Thiagarajar Mills, Madurai, filed writ petitions before the High Court, aggrieved by the actions of the Superintending Engineers in billing the current consumption charges for April at 90% of the sanctioned demand. The petitioners argued that in view of the nationwide lockdown, all mills had stopped their operations. Their consumption of electricity was only minimal to the extent of maintenance for safety and security purposes. As per the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Supply Code, 2004, in normal circumstances the Superintending Engineers would issue current consumption charges bills on actual consumption of electricity at the fixed tariff and also a fixed charge called maximum demand charge at 90% of the sanctioned demand or recorded demand, whichever was higher. However, taking into account the extraordinary circumstances, Tangedco should act as per Regulation 6 of the Code by levying minimum demand charges to the extent of 20% of the sanctioned demand or the recorded demand, whichever was higher, when the consumer was not getting supply of electricity either fully or partially, the petitioners said. They said that following a number of representations sent to the TNERC by various trade bodies, it directed the Tangedco on May 4 to levy the minimum demand charges for industrial consumers as provided under the Code from March 24 till the lockdown was fully lifted. However, this order was not followed and HT consumers were charged maximum demand charge of 90% for April. Taking into account the submissions made in the case, Justice C.V. Karthikeyan directed Tangedco to file a counter in the case and not to take any coercive steps against the mills till then. The case was adjourned till May 26.
14 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Community participation must to fight COVID-19, says MP||“Various disasters and crises have shown that human help and cooperation have been crucial to overcome them. Kerala has performed well in fighting coronavirus as the public cooperated with the government in adopting safety precautions. Students must be on the frontline by creating awareness among the public and help in containing the pandemic,” said Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan here on Monday. He was addressing around 70 NSS volunteers of Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College during the inaugural session of a two-day training programme on ways to effectively spread awareness of coronavirus pandemic. With a module prepared by the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences in Bengaluru, the training is given by the mental health professionals of M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation. The training was completed at Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU), Lady Doak College and The American College. These students will spread awareness of ways to identify COVID-19 symptoms and the importance of adopting safety precautions such as wearing face masks, maintaining personal distancing and frequent hand-washing. The MP said the public were loaded with unnecessary news about the pandemic, resulting in mental stress and anxiety. “Hence, the awareness created by the students is crucial to protect their mental well-being,” he said. MKU Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan said through this initiative they were aiming to train around 3,000 students. “Each student will spread awareness to 100 people,” he said. Government Rajaji Hospital Dean J. Sangumani said while medical professionals were treating patients, the students would play an important role in primary prevention by creating awareness.  Only community participation would help in making this fight against COVID-19 successful, said M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation Founder C. Ramasubramanian. Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College Principal B. Manoharan and secretary M. Vijayaragavan were present.
14 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Five fish shops sealed||Five fish shops at Mattuthavani bus stand that violated norms related to physical distancing were sealed by the Madurai Corporation and the Revenue Department, on Tuesday night. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said that the shops will no longer be allowed to operate at the Mattuthavani bus stand where the makeshift market has been established. Apart from this, the shops which had their main branch at Karimedu market were sealed as well. The move came after several violations were noticed by the Corporation since the lockdown. Apart from this, the Mattuthavani fruit market, vegetable market as well as Paravai market were shifted outside their original location in order to ensure physical distancing. All shopkeepers as well as visitors were advised to wear masks.
14 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘They must not be allowed to go’||Entrepreneurs of Kappalur Industrial Estate here said that migrant workers who had travelled from different parts of North India must not be allowed to go back home as small-scale industries would not be able to kick-start their work. P. N. Raghunatha Raja, president, Kappalur Industrial Association, told The Hindu the labourers at the industrial estate contributed between 20% and 40% of the total workforce. “The reason we sought to hire people from outside was because workers from Tamil Nadu often do not prefer doing blue collar jobs. North Indian labourers end up working for affordable salaries. Without the workforce, how will we get back to work?” he asked. He said North Indian labourers were well trained by their entrepreneurs. “Apart from worrying about paying our respective taxes and electricity bills, we need to think as how we can generate a whole new workforce for low salaries.” He said until the time the labourers worked in Kappalur, they were provided food, accommodation and partial salaries during the lockdown. Now, a majority seeks to go back, causing a problem for entrepreneurs. “We would like to ask the government to reconsider its decision to help labourers who want to go back home. They may not get good job opportunities in their hometowns,” he said.
14 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Caste system violates human rights’||Urging people to abide by Article 51 A of the Constitution (Fundamental Duties), Madras High Court Judge Justice N. Anand Venkatesh said that if people forgot their duties, they had no locus standi to talk about rights. Justice Anand Venkatesh addressed the gathering at the inauguration of a 21-day Certificate Course in Human Rights launched by People’s Watch, a city-based organisation, via video conferencing. Lamenting the fact that caste system was a violation of human rights and still played an important role in society, he said that people still saw each other through the tinted glass called ‘caste.’ Unfortunately, even for formation of governments, castes played an major role, he said. Awareness should be created at home to wipe out discrimination from society. Even respecting human rights begins at home and through awareness. One should treat parents, husband/wife, neighbours with respect, he said. Human Rights expert Miloon Kothari discussed contributions made by India to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Senior Advisor of Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative Maja Daruwala and former vice-chancellor of Manonmaniam Sundaranar University V. Vasanthi Devi discussed the plight of migrant labourers. The event was moderated by People’s Watch Executive Director Henri Tiphagne.
14 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Activists seek redressal||Pointing out to various issues like caste atrocities, labour problems and harassment of women and children plaguing the State at the time of COVID-19 pandemic, Save the Nation, a city-based Human Rights Forum wrote to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday seeking redressal. They pointed out that there was a rise in the number of cases related to caste atrocities and religious hatred during the pandemic. Immediate steps must be taken by the State to address these issues and form committees to look into and address the problem, they said. The activists in their letter requested the State to re-consider its decision to appeal against the High Court’s order on the functioning of Tasmac shops. They said that the decision to re-open the Tasmac shops went against the welfare of women and children. They condemned the Villupuram incident where a 14-year-old girl succumbed to her injuries after being set on fire by two AIADMK functionaries. They demanded action against the men involved and adequate compensation to the family. Though financial assistance was provided to the workers in the unorganised sector, only those who were registered through welfare boards were benefited. The assistance must be extended to all the workers as most of them in the unorganised sectors were unregistered, they said. Further, the activists also urged the State government to make the employment of health workers permanent.
14 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Provide non-medical front line staff gear too’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the Tamil Nadu government to file a detailed status report in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the State to provide personal protective equipment (PPE) to non-medical front line workers in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Hearing the PIL petition filed by Madurai-based NGO People’s Watch, a Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi directed the State to file a detailed status report on the steps taken so far in providing PPE to front line workers. The case was adjourned till May 20. Need for protection In his petition, R. Sathiamoorthy, executive trustee of People’s Watch said that there was an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu and media reports had pointed out that front line workers were getting affected. This showed that there was a need to provide effective PPE to these workers, he said. He said that non-medical front line workers like police personnel, fire service personnel, sanitary staff, revenue officials, ambulance staff, mediapersons and official and unofficial volunteers are also affected as they come in contact with people. They do have masks, but are seen without PPE. Police personnel are among the most vulnerable, he said. He urged the State government to ensure that PPE, including gloves, masks, gown, face shield, head cover and rubber boots, are provided to non-medical front line workers. The State must take necessary steps to ensure that protective gear is provided to them, as these workers have shown their dedication by working continuously, he said.
14 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC allows man’s plea||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has come to the relief of a 60-year-old man by allowing his plea to undergo his sentences for committing theft at different places concurrently. Otherwise, he would have to spend at least 10 years in prison for the offences. It was hearing the petition filed by Sheik Madhar who was sentenced for burglary and theft. On January 9, 2017, he broke open five optical shops one after the other and stole money, and five separate cases were registered. He was sentenced to three years’ simple imprisonment by the trial court in Tiruchi and imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 for each offence. When he appealed against the sentence, the Sessions Court modified and reduced the sentence to two years and the fine to Rs. 100 in each case. Both the trial court and the appellate court did not pass any direction as to whether the sentences in all the cases would run consecutively or concurrently. The petitioner filed the petition before the High Court, seeking to undergo his sentences concurrently. Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that under Section 427 of the Cr.P.C. if the sentencing court failed to pass any specific direction that the subsequent direction should run concurrently with previous sentence, it would run consecutively. Suppose on a single day, an accused was found guilty in more than one case and sentenced, it was for the court concerned to clarify as to when the sentence in the subsequent case would take effect.
14 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Footwear, garment stores can open||Collector T.G. Vinay announced that stores selling readymade garments, fabric and footwear will be allowed to function throughout the district from 10 a.m to 7 p.m. except in containment zones. The Collector said that the move was made after several representations from entrepreneurs. This is a means to boost trade, he said. Shopkeepers and workers must ensure they wear masks and maintain physical distancing. All steps to avoid spread of COVID-19 must be taken, he said.
14 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Relief measures hailed||The Sourashtra Chamber of Commerce president Kumaran B. Jaghuva in a press release welcomed the Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s relief measures announced through a media conference to the industry on Wednesday. He said that the announcements would mean a lot to the tiny, small and medium sectors in the COVID-19 pandemic times. The Centre should also consider giving similar relief to exporters, startups and women entrepreneurs.
14 May 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||15 patients discharged||As many as 15 COVID-19 patients, who were undergoing treatment at the District Headquarters Hospital, recovered and were discharged here on Wednesday. A total of 77 persons tested positive in the district of which 62 were admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Karur and were discharged after recovery, while 15 others were admitted to the GH. On Wednesday, six lorry drivers, six labourers, two pregnant women and a person from Chennai were discharged from the hospital.
14 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Those working beyond eight hours will get double wages’||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Wednesday clarified that the labour laws of the Union Territory stipulated only for eight hours of work but those working beyond that would be entitled to double wages. In an audio message to reporters, the Chief Minister said that if anyone worked beyond eight hours the person was entitled to double wage. The Labour Department had earlier issued a notification extending working hours to 12 hours to boost efficiency of industries reopening with reduced workforce following gradual lifting of lockdown regulations. The Chief Minister said that the notification had clearly mentioned about the eligibility for double wages. Meanwhile, the district administration had declared Arumparthapuram as a containment zone, after a person from the locality turned positive for COVID-19. The patient’s wife, children and 50 persons who had worked with him in a factory are under observation.
14 May 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Karti Chidambaram for regulated liquor sale in Tamil Nadu||Sivaganga Lok Sabha MP Karti Chidambaram on Wednesday said that instead of demanding prohibition in Tamil Nadu, the State Governmentcould regulate sale of liquor through online and setting up outlets in select locations alone. Speaking to reporters here, he said the Congress in the State might have demanded prohibition. But there was nothing wrong in airing a different stand. Explaining that the Congress, as a ruling party in many States including Puducherry, sold liquor. “I am practical. I feel prohibition as a policy would be a failure. Not that I am advocating people to drink. But I am only trying to convey the message for sale with regulation,” he said. Instead of having too many outlets in Tamil Nadu, the State could examine the modalities of having select outlets with limited timings that would not inconvenience residents. A majority of consumerscould be given the option of purchasing liquor online, Mr. Karthi said. Expressing disappointment and dissatisfaction over the measures taken by the Centre in tackling COVID-19, he said that though it was not the time to indulge in politics, the ruling party had miserably failed in containing the virus. “What prevented them [the Centre and State] from holding all party meeting at periodic intervals,” he asked. There were good number of experts in the Congress and many regional parties, including the DMK, who would have come up with better ideas to tackle the challenge. It could have been a collective approach against the pandemic. The plight of migrant workers was so pathetic that many were seen trekking to their homes for days together, he responded to a query. He said the lockdown might slow down the spread of COVID-19, but ultimately it would reflect badly on the economy. The Centre had no idea of the dwindling scenario faced by industry, he said and hoped relief to the sectors would come in a big way in the coming months. The Congress MP was here to distribute essential commodities, organised by the District Congress Committee, to below poverty line residents.
14 May 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Boy killed||Jeffrey Rohith, 5, son of Suresh Kumar and Saranya of Gandhi Nagar here, died when a wall under construction suddenly fell while he was playing with his friends on Tuesday. Police said Manish Kumar, 10, and Prescilla, 31, suffered injuries. Though they were rushed to the Government Hospital, doctors said that Jeffrey Rohith died on the way. The other two were admitted with multiple injuries. Police registered a case.
14 May 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Folk artists seek assistance||With no weddings and temple festivals conducted due to lockdown, members of Naiyandi Melam (folk artists) have sought assistance from the State government. There are over 500 families in the district who were involved in playing music during temple festivals and marriages. “Since no temple festivals and marriages were conducted in the past 45 days, we have no income”, said an artist who fear that the worst is not yet over as normalcy would take more than two months to return. A group of artists on Wednesday assembled at Ammapet and played their instruments urging the government to provide assistance during the lockdown. “We play music for the happiness of the people, but now, we play seeking food for us”, a few line of their songs said.
14 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Wholesale textile dealers seek permission to operate||Wholesale textile dealers and beauticians appealed to the District Collector to permit them to operate their businesses. On Tuesday, members of All India Hair and Beauty Association petitioned the Collector that the industry had been severely affected due to lockdown and the business would not revive immediately even after the lockdown. The petitioners said they were already operating in hygienic conditions and requested the government assistance to take the business forward. They demanded that the government should provide them relief of Rs. 15,000, power and rental bill relief for six months, extension of loan instalments by six months and reduction of GST from 18% to 5%. They also sought health insurance. Similarly, members of wholesale textile traders association requested the Collector to let them operate their business within the Corporation limits. The petitioners said that they would oblige by all safety protocols advised by the government.
14 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Police to hold contest for students||The police will conduct an oratorical competition for students on May 17 through the Zoom application. A press release said contestants would have to speak on their lockdown experiences or how did they spend the days during the lockdown. The competitions will be held at the sub-division level in Thanjavur range and the time limit for each participant will be five minutes. Students from standard 5 to 9 ( juniors) and those in standard 10 (seniors) have to register their names with address at the COVID-19 police control rooms in their respective revenue districts – Thanjavur (04362 – 278100); Tiruvarur (04366 – 290110) and Nagapattinam (04365 – 248539) before 5 p.m. on May 16. The participants can speak in Tamil or English and should remain online till completion of the competition which will commence at 10 a.m. on Sunday. Those who did not have the requisite facilities to take part in the competition using ‘Zoom application’ can video record their speech after obtaining prior approval from the respective Deputy Superintendents of Police and forward the same through the following WhatsApp numbers: Thanjavur district – 98434 17213; Tiruvarur district – 88382 82232) and Nagapattinam district – 94459 50584 depending on their place of residence. While participation certificate will be issued to all students participating in the competition, cash rewards of Rs. 3000, Rs. 2000 and Rs. 1000 will be given to the winners of the top three positions respectively. Consolation prizes of Rs. 500 each will also be given to five participants.   Tiruchi The police in Tiruchi range has decided to organise elocution contest on May 16 from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. The contest will be conducted under the supervision of DSP of respective sub-division in Tiruchi Range encompassing Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Karur, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. The phone numbers of special corona control room of each district is as follows: Tiruchi 0431- 2333638; Pudukottai – 04322- 266966; Karur-04324-255100; Perambalur- 04328 -224962; Ariyalur 04329-222216. The last date for registration of names and addresses is May 15, 2 p.m. The contest will be organised for junior and senior categories. Those in the junior category should be in Classes VI to X and those in the senior category should be beyond standard XI. Students should keep ready their cell phone / laptop/ computer/ network connection, data and head set. Those students without this facility could inform the respective control room and due arrangements would be made. Contest for the top three winners selected at the sub divisional level would be conducted the same day at the district level from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. Cash prizes would be given to top three winners at the district level and appreciation certificates to all participants.
14 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||107 works to be executed||A total of 107 works are to be executed under the ‘kudimaramathu’ scheme in Thanjavur district this year. In a press release, Collector M.Govinda Rao said the Public Works Department has been directed to expedite the process of formation and registration of water users associations so as to take up works in the coming weeks. He urged Agriculture Department officials and rural civic body authorities to discuss and deploy farmhands for works for which farmers have sought labourers through the civic body. As far as the opening up of containment zones for public movement, the concerned revenue and civic body authorities could take a decision based on the ground situation. They have been directed to declare a street or an area in which a COVID-19 positive persons lived or moved around as containment zone instead of declaring the entire area falling in the 5 km radius of the house of the COVID-19 virus positive case. Meanwhile, a total of 3171 migrant workers from other States have opted to move out of the State and registered their names in the Tamil Nadu government website. However, before making arrangements for their travel to their native places, they would be given an option to continue with their employment in Tamil Nadu in view of relaxation in the lockdown norms or stick to their decision, he said.
14 May 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||SMS pass finds favour with Theni residents||A SMS pass facility for movement of people for various purposes, including shopping, has gathered momentum in Theni district. As many as 15,878 residents used the newly launched facility to go out for shopping and other purposes during the last three days, said Collector M. Pallavi Baldev on Wednesday. Addressing reporters, she said the police and district administration jointly launched the facility to keep a tab on the movement of people and discourage unnecessary travel. The operation was simple and user friendly. Residents should send SMS to 9488056600 from their mobile handsets and they would get a six-digit number (Public Access Pass) in response. The SMS, which had a QR code, was valid for three hours. They could also give a missed call from their mobile numbers to 080-45936055. A traffic policeman in Theni Town said there were doubts about whether people would pay heed. But when the consequences of moving about unnecessarily were explained to them, the system started to work. For instance, the bus stand area and roads leading to NRT Nagar, Allinagaram and other locations in the vicinity usually witnessed heavy traffic during the day. However, after the move to curtail travel, residents began to SMS for QR code. This could lead to a decline in traffic. In Cumbum, shopkeepers near the bus stand welcomed the police initiative. Lessons learnt According to K. Antony, a footwear shop owner, COVID-19 had taught many new lessons. Cleanliness was one of them; the SMS facilty was another. Bhagavathi, a school teacher, felt that the SMS facility appeared to have had a check on her 19-year-old son, who ventured out on his bike at least five or six times a day. Superintendent of Police Sai Saran Tejaswi said the idea evolved after a series of discussions on how to make people stay indoors. While it might not be possible for everyone to remain at home for days together, it was also equally important to ensure that those who had to genuinely step out should be allowed to do so. Using the technology, residents would be monitored closely. Random checking had already begun across the district. Those categorised under essential services would be permitted to travel without any restrictions, he added. With the government relaxing curfew norms in a phased manner, the SMS facility could help to prevent crowding and maintain social distancing, officials said.
14 May 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Seven booked for jumping quarantine||Seven persons, who jumped home quarantine, were booked under the Disaster Management Act here on Wednesday. During a random check carried out by the district administration, it came to light that seven persons, who had returned from other districts and States and directed to remain in home quarantine, were not physically present at their dwellings. Questioned, they conceded that they had gone out, which was not only a violation but also a health hazard, officials said. The safety protocol must be strictly adhered to and as per an undertaking given to officials, the returnees should remain in home quarantine for 14 or 21 days as prescribed. Public (neighbours) can alert the control room by dialling 04546-261093 and give information about such violators. The caller’s identity would be kept confidential in public interest, a press release said. Five more cases On Wednesday, five more persons tested positive in Theni district, which had a tally of 66 persons till Tuesday. So far, 42 patients had been discharged from Government Medical College Hospital, according to a medical bulletin. The five fresh cases were reported from Odaipatti and they had close contact with a positive patient who had travelled to other districts recently. A total of 243 samples comprising from arrivals from other districts (61), other States (32), random sampling from containment areas (95) and Government Hospital/Government Medical College (55) were taken and sent to laboratory for inference.
14 May 2020||THENI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||5 more test positive in Theni||Five more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Theni district on Wednesday, according to the medical bulletin issued by the health department. So far, 42 persons have been discharged from Government Theni Medical College Hospital. Officials said that the new positive cases were from Odaipatti, and they had close contact with a positive patient who had travelled to other districts recently. A total of 243 samples from people from other districts (61), other States (32), containment areas (95) and Government Hospital and Government Theni Medical College (55) were collected and sent for testing. Madurai district reported two new positive cases on Wednesday. The total count of patients who have contracted the disease stands at 123. One of the new cases was a 42-year-old man from Mumbai, who had reached Madurai on May 11. The man did not display any symptoms but was tested positive at a screening at a primary health centre. The second patient was a 30-year-old man from Kottampatti, who had travelled from Chennai to Madurai. He had a cough and cold when he arrived here. He was shifted to Government Rajaji Hospital after displaying COVID-19 symptoms. Ten persons were discharged after complete recovery on Tuesday. They were residents of Anaiyur, Karisalkulam, Karumbalai, Villangudi, Reserve Line, Anuppanadi, Rajakoor and Keelavalavu.
14 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||172 discharged and 10 new cases in central region||As many as 172 patients, who had tested positive for the novel corona virus, were discharged after treatment from hospitals and quarantine centres in central region on Wednesday while 10 more persons from region tested positive for the virus during the day. Among the discharged, 160 were in Ariyalur district. Thirty of them had been undergoing treatment at the District Headquarters Hospital, while the rest were asymptomatic and were being monitored by a team of doctors and nurses at the various COVID Care Centres set up in the district. The recovered patients were given a warm send off by doctors and officials and were provided with nutritious food and fruits to take home. Doctors instructed the individuals to stay indoors and self-isolate for a period of 14 days before they go outdoors. So far, 229 people have recovered and have returned home in the district. Of the remaining 115 patients, five were undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, 50 at the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital and 60 are under observation at various quarantine facilities. Meanwhile, five patients, one from Karur and four others from Dindigul and Namakkal districts, were discharged from Karur Government Medical College Hospital, which is a designated COVID-19 hospital in the region. In Tiruchi, a 14-year-old girl hailing from Pudukottai ,who recently tested positive for COVID-19 and underwent treatment at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, was discharged on Wednesday. The girl hailing from Tirumayam taluk returned home where she would be in home quarantine for 14 days continuously and monitored. Six patients including two from Adhirampattinam, one each from Kumbakonam, Tiruvaiyaru, Orathanadu and Tiruvarur were discharged from the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. Officials have instructed them to eat nutritious food and avoid stepping out for at least 14 days. Among the new positive cases, four were from Ariyalur District, two each from Karur and Nagapattinam and one each from Perambalur and Thanjavur. In Ariyalur, four men, all contacts of previously positive patients, tested positive on Wednesday. The addition of new cases has increased the total number of positive cases in the district to 348. Chinthamani in T. Palur Block, Vanjinapuram in Sendhurai, Muniyankurichi and Rayampuram in Ariyalur block, where the patients reside, were declared containment zones on Wednesday. The district administration urged the public to inform officials if they know of neighbours or family members who have returned from Chennai or from other states. The people can contact the COVID-19 helpline 1077 or the district administration for queries and concerns. In Perambalur district, a man who returned from Chennai after working at the Koyambedu market tested positive for the virus. The 49-year-old man, a native of Jamin Attur, in Kunnam, was returning to his village with many other workers hailing from Ariyalur. Samples were lifted at Ariyalur and the patient has been admitted to the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital. In Karur district, two men, aged 60 and 44, hailing from Pallapatti have tested positive. Both had travelled to their hometown from Maharashtra where they had been working. A 64-year-old woman tested positive in Thanjavur and was admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. In Nagapattinam, two men, a 59-year-old and a 27-year-old, tested positive. The patients have been admitted to the Nagapattinam Government Hospital. The total number of positive cases in the district is 47 of which 44 have recovered and have been discharged. As on Wednesday, 22 people from other districts and 216 people from other States have entered the district. Samples have been lifted from all and results are awaited. Six temporary facilities have been set up to isolate the people coming from other districts and their contacts in Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai.
14 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Down shutters, textile shopkeepers told||Revenue and police authorities on Wednesday forced wholesale and retail textile shops on Big Bazaar Street, N.S.B. Road and nearby streets to close shutters for violating the government order on relaxation of lockdown restrictions. More than 60% of shops and business establishments, except large scale textile, silver metal and jewellery showrooms, resumed business in the city from May 6 following the relaxations of lockdown rules. Since the State government issued a fresh order for further relaxation on curbs that came into being on Monday, more traders followed suit and began resuming business as usual. However, it is alleged that several textile shops, which were only permitted to function in rural areas, had violated the orders and continued to transact business since Monday in the city. Following this, officials and police visited Big Bazaar Street, Super Bazaar, Singarathope, Nandikovil Street, N.S.B. Road and other areas and forced them to close shops. They warned them that shops, which were found to be violating the G.O., would be sealed. Upon seeing officials, almost all shops including those permitted to run business, downed their shutters immediately. A revenue official said 34 types of businesses were allowed to function as per the latest GO. Some of them were permitted only in rural areas and town panchayats. Textile shops in city limit were not in the list. So, textile traders were asked to close. However, there was no bar on business in the permitted list. But, the action did not go down well with traders. Some of them, who objected to the action, questioned the rationale of officials for forcing them to down shutters after they resumed business after about 45 days. The officials told them that the action had been taken based on the Collector’s direction. “It will take months together for us to offset the loss and regain our business. The officials should understand our struggle for livelihood. It was unfortunate that some of them acted in a high-handed manner,” said a textile trader on Big Bazaar Street on condition of anonymity. Stating that Ramzan festival was round the corner, he said the State government should take immediate steps to permit textile shops to open. Otherwise, the traders would have to forgo another important sales season.
14 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Construction of ‘smart drain’ begins||The corporation has begun constructing ‘smart drains’ on West Boulevard Road under the Smart City Mission project fund. The project will cost at least Rs. 2 crore and will be completed by next year, sources said. Work on the usually heavily crowded stretch has begun with earth-movers digging up either side of the road on Wednesday morning, including demolition of the bus stand near Main Guard Gate. Officials said the project has been undertaken at a cost of Rs. 95 lakhs per side. “The entire road will have a platform on both sides for pedestrians and cyclists. The important feature of the Smart Drains is that an underground duct will be created to carry cables of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco), telephone service providers and others,” an official said. Separate underground drainage, water supply and electricity lines run under the footpath. Special feautre Another special feature of the Smart Drain is that it will have removable openings on the platform through which the duct could be accessed, therefore avoiding digging and relaying of tar which is a common practice so far.
14 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||10 child marriages prevented||The district social welfare office and the Childline ‘1098’ service has prevented 10 child marriages during the lockdown period. Most distress calls were made by the children themselves, officials here said. Since March 24, 10 calls have been received, said A. Thameemunisa, District Social Welfare Officer, Tiruchi. The calls, received by Childline ‘1098’ is routed through the DSWO and both teams rush to the spot and take necessary action. Two calls came from Musiri, two from Vaiyampatti, Manachanallur, Marungapuri while one call was made from Thennur. Of the 10 cases, nine were rescued before the marriage, and Community Service Register (CSR) were filed in a few cases and in one an FIR was filed, Murali Kumar, Project Coordinator, Childline ‘1098’ in Tiruchi said. “The families are sometimes shocked because they do not expect us to stop them during the lockdown,” he said. Some families have taken advantage of the lockdown to conduct these child marriages. They will not have to print wedding invitations, invite a large group of people and spend on food and festivities. These days, the calls they receive on a daily basis at the Childline are for physical abuse, child marriage while some children call seeking nutritional support, Mr. Kumar said. So far, families of nearly 70 children have been provided with groceries and counselling has been given to several families against physical abuse. However, the number of calls received in comparison to last year is significantly low, he said. “Last April-May we prevented at least 20 to 25 child marriages. It is the season for such events as children complete Class 10 and 12 and are ready for marriage according to the parents.” This time around, either the children are not making the calls because they do not expect us to pick up or because of the lockdown, the incidents are actually really low, he added.
14 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||New platfom for online teaching and learning||Bharathidasan University has developed e-Content Development Cloud (EDC) for online teaching-learning. The user-friendly cloud platform would serve as a permanent ‘e-content repository’ of the university for students of affiliated colleges. The university’s home-grown web application (web link: http://oms.bdu.ac.in/ec) would host e-content and digital study materials uploaded by teachers. Students could view, download the e-content, learn and prepare themselves for the semester exams, G. Gopinath Ganapathy, Registrar, said. The EDC has obviated the need for affiliated colleges to have digital infrastructure. Links to the EDC will be provided to all colleges at any time, anywhere access by teachers and students. As the university has acquired licence for all google services including Google Meet, the affiliated colleges can avail the utility free of cost. Colleges have been encouraged to use any tools of their choice. The university was envisaging ‘crowd sourcing’ for creating a huge repository as a ‘one-stop-shop’ for unfinished as well as entire syllabus along with question banks, by any faculty on any discipline, he said. It received enthusiastic response from college principals and faculty members of affiliated colleges for the region-wise webinar on ‘online virtual classes and e-content development for the unfinished syllabus’ it conducted on Monday and Tuesday. The Registrar joined S. Parthasarathy, Director, University Informatics Centre, in orienting as many as 319 participants in three batches on the best practices of virtual learning and ways to reboot the educational system. The participants were exposed to methods of leveraging online tools. A review meeting will be conducted on May 20 to take stock of the progress of the initiative, he said.
14 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Two persons held for murder||The recent death of P. Pachaiammal, 65, a widow, at Keezhakudikaadu in Perambalur district between the late night hours on May 7 and in the early hours on May 8 has turned out to be a case of murder. The Mangalamedu Police, which registered a case of suspicious death, altered it as a murder case and arrested the woman’s 16-year-old foster daughter and P.Manikandan, 23, on the charge of killing her. Manikandan was staying in the same house with Pachaiammal and her foster daughter. The aged woman chided Manikandan when he came home after consuming alcohol. He pushed her down and she died on the spot. He dragged the body to the kitchen and set her on fire. The duo thereafter went to the terrace to sleep. The next day, both tried to portray the death as a case of accidental fire and escaped triggering suspicion. The police nabbed the duo on Tuesday and they reportedly confessed to have committed the murder. They were arrested and the police altered the case under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence). The aged woman’s only son died a few years ago.
14 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat Union schools expect good patronage||There is a rather strong reason why teachers of Panchayat Union primary schools who usually go on enrolment drive in a few km radius for continuous days or even weeks at this time of the year are not unduly perturbed. The pandemic, they say, could well turn out to be a blessing in disguise for them as the situation of joblessness caused by the lockdown is bound to reflect in higher admission in panchayat union schools. The government has prevented private schools from collecting fees from students. A section of parents, who despite their poverty had chosen to admit their wards in private English-medium schools will, in all probability, knock at the doors of the panchayat union schools, a senior teacher in Tiruverumbur Union said. Though Tamil Nadu has been one of the few Indian States to achieve almost 100% Net Enrolment Ratio (NER) in primary education in recent years, there used to be a steady decline in enrolment of students in panchayat union schools. ‘The prospects for increasing the student numbers looks good. Leveraging of student strength will also help panchayat union schools in getting more number of sanctioned teaching posts,’ a headmaster said. With smart class rooms being established in primary and middle schools, teachers devise creative ways of using ICT solutions to teach their students effectively. The students benefit substantially from welfare schemes such as free supply of nutritious noon meal, textbooks, notebooks, laptop, uniform, footwear, school bag, crayons, colour pencils, geometry box, atlas, woollen sweaters, rain coats, boots, socks, bus pass and bicycles, a senior official said. According to official data, the government has opened 248 new primary schools and upgraded 117 primary schools to middle schools from the year 2011-12 to 2018-19, as per the provisions in the Tamil Nadu Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Rules, 2011 (RTE Rules, 2011). Parents who choose government schools for their wards are bound to realise the effectiveness of Simplified Activity Based Learning (SABL) for standards 1 to 3; Simplified Active Learning Methodology (SALM) for standards 4 and 5; and Active Learning Methodology (ALM) for standards 6 to 8, the official said.
14 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T to conduct theory exam online||National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T) has decided to conduct the theory examinations for final year students online from May 26 based on a positive feedback from students in a survey. The Computer Support Group in the institution has made the arrangements for conduct of the examinations. The examination will be conducted on the lines of the online Joint Entrance Examination conducted for admitting students into IITs and NITs, sources said. The decision on conduct of online examinations for final year students and online viva for research scholars were taken after eliciting the opinion of the students, NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said. To ensure the health, safety, and security of students, faculty and staff, academic activities will be continued in the digital mode. The semester classes for the year have already been completed in the digital mode. NIT-T has the IT infrastructure, has prepared the faculty for the online exams, and the gadgets required for conduct of the final year theory examinations online, besides the gadgets and technical support. The online examination will be of two-hour duration instead of the usual three hours. The institution has readied a server with three portals, one each for students, staff and the administration. The questions uploaded by the staff will be downloaded at specified timings by the students and the answers will be uploaded within the duration of examination. The idea is to ensure that students have the satisfaction of earning their degree, she said. According to UGC guidelines, the grading of intermediate students will be based on the internal assessment of the present and previous semester. The UGC has constituted a committee for recommending the modalities of conduct of examinations, award of marks and passing criteria in examinations. As for internship, the UGC has clarified that students could fulfil the requirement in December 2020 if they are unable to pursue it during the summer vacation.
14 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Over 140 shops sealed||The police have registered cases against 663 shops for not making markings in front of their establishments to ensure personal distancing to curb spread of corona virus. Out of 663 shops, 146 were sealed by revenue officials. In a press release issued here on Wednesday, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi range, said Deputy Superintendent of Police of the respective sub-division had been instructed to ensure that markings were made in all shops to ensure personal distancing. There were 12,647 stand alone shops in Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Karur, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. The police asked shopkeepers to mark using paint instead of lime powder or ‘kola’ powder which would get erased. Shopkeepers have been instructed to ensure personal distancing by making markings as per the government’s directive failing which shops would be closed, sealed and action initiated.
14 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,400 migrants leave for home||A second ‘Shramik’ special train carrying 1,429 migrant labourers left Tirunelveli railway junction for Hatia in Jharkhand on Wednesday. The train, which departed at 6 p.m. is scheduled to reach its destination at 9.10 a.m. on May 15. Among the passengers, 1,240 are engaged in construction work at Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project (KKNPP), 67 in private projects in Tirunelveli and 122 in Thoothukudi. Following a medical check-up organised at KKNPP premises, Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi, the labourers were taken to the railway junction in buses. They were given food packets and drinking water before the train left. The first ‘Shramik’ special train left for Bihar on Tuesday night.
14 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Leopard caged, released in sanctuary||Forest personnel have successfully caged a fifth stray leopard, which was causing panic in villages situated close to the foothills of the Western Ghats near Papanasam. Sources in Kalakkad-Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve’s Ambasamudram Range said a special team was deployed recently in Aladiyoor beat near Papanasam following complaints from villagers about a stray leopard entering their hamlets such as Koraiyarkulam, Vembaiahpuram and Chettimedu. A special team installed surveillance cameras at vantage points. On confirming the movement of a stray leopard into Koraiyarkulam, a cage with bait was placed two days ago. “The female leopard, aged around two years, was caged around 11 p.m. on Tuesday. It was taken to a sanctuary beyond Servalar dam where it was released on Wednesday,” sources said.
14 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Growing sense of disquiet as five Mumbai returnees test positive||Five more persons, all returnees from Mumbai to their native Tirunelveli district, have tested positive for COVID-19. The five, including two women, were part of different groups crossing the check-post at Gangaikondan on Tuesday night. They were sent to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TVMCH) for treatment. Others, who were tested along with them at the check-post, showed negative and were asked to be in home-quarantine for at least for two weeks. Three of the patients were from a family belonging to Madhavakurichi near Manur, while the other two were a 67-year-old male from South Ariyakulam and a 35-year-old woman from Kavalkinaru close to Tirunelveli-Kanniyakumari border. Most of the positive cases reported in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts over the past 10 days were returnees from either Chennai or Mumbai. The natives, who migrated to the metro capitals a few decades ago for work, visited their home towns only during festivals or marriages. But now, with the Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra governments allowing them to return during a pandemic, the district administrations find themselves on tenterhooks. Anticipating a massive surge in positive cases due to their possible arrival from places such as Dharavi in Mumbai, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish created a testing facility at Gangaikondan check-post. A similar arrangement was made in Thoothukudi district’s northern border. “Now, our major concern is that the good work done here — from Collector to conservancy worker — should not go waste by allowing people to flee from hotspots to other areas including their native places,” warned a doctor at TVMCH. “Since it will only add fuel to fire, the State government should intervene immediately to stop them. Else, the situation will be uncontrollable before May-end,” the doctor added. Meanwhile, 26 persons from Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar districts, who were brought to Kochi from Maldives by a naval ship, were tested at Government Siddha Medical College Hospital in Palayamkottai. “If they are found to be positive, they will be shifted to TVMCH. Else, they will be allowed to remain in home-quarantine for at least two weeks,” said a senior health official.
14 May 2020||TIRUPATTUR,TAMIL NADU||Civic official shunted out over ‘action’||Vaniyambadi Municipal Commissioner P. Cecil Thomas was moved out on Wednesday, following the controversy over damaging goods of pavement vendors, and put on the wait list. A video clip showing Mr. Thomas and other officials destroying fruits and vegetables went viral on Tuesday. Though it was claimed to be action against violators of lockdown rules announced by the State government in the wake of spread of COVID-19 in Tirupattur district, the officials’ deliberate wrecking of a pushcart vendor’s produce did not go down well. The video clip on social media received negative feedback. Several commentators have claimed that the officials went overboard against the vendors/ violators. Violations can be dealt with through imposition of fines or by filing cases, but the commissioner chose to trash the produce. The issue escalated with the State Human Rights Commission too getting involved. A few roadside vendors in Vaniyambadi claimed that the officials were ruthless against them, while the big ships were offered a lot of leeway. As soon as the news went viral, Mr. Thomas apologised to the vendors and said that it was intended to remind them ‘not to violate rules’. On Tuesday, he met the vendors and expressed regret for his action. He handed them compensation and relief materials. Similarly, vendors too expressed regret for not following rules.  Tirupattur Collector M.P. Sivanarul said, "He shouldn't have done this even though he has worked day and night during these challenging days. A team has visited the houses of the affected persons and the issue is being sorted out."
14 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Vending machine runs out of masks||The mask vending machine on the Tiruppur Corporation premises was said to have ran out of masks a day after it was inaugurated on Wednesday. Sources privy to the issue said the machine, which provided three-layered masks for the public at Rs. 1 each, was inaugurated on Tuesday. Not refilled After the initial set of masks was dispensed, the machine was allegedly not refilled on Wednesday, the sources said. When contacted, City Health Officer N. Boopathy said the masks would be loaded at the earliest.
14 May 2020||TIRUPPUR/COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers leave for home in trains and buses||Two Shramik special trains left Tiruppur on Wednesday with a total of 1,464 migrant workers. While one train left for Balasore in Odisha, the other one was headed to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. The trains had 24 disinfected each. All the passengers were provided with food packets and water bottles by the Tiruppur District Administration prior to boarding the trains, railway officials said. As of Wednesday, four Shramik special trains have been operated from Tiruppur Junction. The first two trains were bound for Muzaffarpur and Hajipur in Bihar. District Administration officials said that apart from trains, 210 workers were sent in government buses to Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh. Another 242 workers were sent in government buses to Chennai, from where they boarded trains to Mizoram, Sikkim and Meghalaya. Taking all the modes of transport into account, 6,743 migrant workers were sent to their respective hometowns in eight States as of Wednesday, according to the officials. Coimbatore to Bihar The tenth Shramik special train for migrant workers was operated from Coimbatore Junction here on Wednesday. The train was bound for Bihar Sharif Junction. With 1,464 migrant workers from various parts of Coimbatore District, the train left at around 4.30 p.m. All the 24 coaches were disinfected and the body temperatures of all the workers was checked before they were allowed to board the train, railway officials said. The first special train was operated from Coimbatore on May 8. Out of the 10 Shramik special trains, five trains, including the one on Wednesday, was bound for Bihar. Two trains were operated to Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand each and one to Odisha. Several migrant workers who have not registered online but wanted to travel are also accommodated depending on the availability of space, said a revenue official. Since they can travel free of cost, workers who hear about the train facility come to the railway station in groups.
14 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||No fresh positive case in Virudhunagar||With no fresh positive case reported on Wednesday, the total number of COVID-19 patients in Virudhunagar district stood at 44. The district administration has called for meetings with textile shop owners on Thursday. “We need to discuss the modalities to be followed by the shops to ensure social distancing and other safety measures to be taken,” Virudhunagar Collector, R. Kannan said. He added that multi-storied textile shops would not be allowed to open. Similarly, showrooms with airconditioned facilties also were not allowed to resume business. The officials would also discuss the issue of small fireworks units run with District Revenue Officer licence. The units did not opened claiming that they could not work with 50% strength when their workforce was already very small. Similarly, shops in complexes would not be allowed to function.
14 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Three held||Virudhunagar West police have arrested three persons, K. Kamatchi, 30, a railway track maintainer, K. Tirumalairajan, 30, of Pandian Nagar and K. Prabhu, 27, from Muthu Street for illegal possession of 571 liquor bottles near a TASMAC shop in Pullalakottai Road here on Tuesday. They were held under the Epidemic Diseases Act, TN Public Health Act and TN Prohibition Act.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Post relaxations, police stress on caution||With majority of shops and establishments reopened following lockdown relaxations, the Coimbatore city police are doing their part to regulate the crowd and ensure that people maintain further vigil against COVID-19.  ‘Wear mask’ City police pasted caution notices at several shops which asked customers to wear mask and ensure that they maintain physical distancing while coming for purchases. City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan told The Hindu that the notice pasted at some shops was a template which can be replicated by shops and establishments. “We have also shared the template with various trade bodies so that they can print and paste them in shops and establishments of their members. Wearing mask and maintenance of physical distancing can reduce the risk of COVID-19 infection,” he said. According to him, use of gloves by shop owners, cashiers and sales persons at shops and establishments could further reduce the risk COVID-19 spread. “The police took up a tough task during COVID-19 management and effectively handled the situation by taking apt and strict decisions,” said Mr. Sharan in response to the news that the last COVID-19 patient in the district got discharged from hospital on Wednesday. Police station reopened Podanur police station which was shut on April 24 after four police personnel contracted COVID-19 reopened on Wednesday. Kuniyamuthur police station, which was also shut after a policeman tested positive for the disease was reopened, a few days ago. A total of six police personnel contracted the disease in the line of duty in Coimbatore and all of them recovered.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||All containment zones released in Erode district||With the release of the last two areas from the containment zones, the district has no containment zones as on Wednesday. After five Thailand nationals were picked up from mosque near Kalaimadu Statue on March 16, Kollampalayam Housing Unit and Sultanpet areas were cordoned off and were declared as containment zones. With more COVID-19 positive cases reported in the district, a total of 18 areas in the district, including 10 areas in the corporation limits, were marked as containment zones and the residents in these areas were quarantined for 28 days. At the end of the quarantine period, Kollampalayam and Sultanpet were released on April 18 followed by other areas. The quarantine period of K.N. Palayam Town Panchayat in Sathyamangalam block and Karumandichellipalayam Town Panchayat in Perundurai Block ended on May 13. With this all the 18 containment zones were released in the district and currently there are no zones in the district with no new positive cases reported in the district for over a month. The government had recently notified Lakkapuram and Solar Pudur in Modakurichi block in containment list where no positive cases were reported. S. Soundammal, Deputy Director of Health Services, said that the two villages had figured in the list as positive-tested patients’ mobile signals were tracked to the towers located in the villages. “The areas were not in the containment zone”, she clarified.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Labourers from T.N. reach Krishnagiri||Over 32 migrant labourers from Tamil Nadu were ferried from Andhra Pradesh’s Anantapur district and dropped off here on Wednesday. The workers were among the 42 migrant labourers, who were dropped off on the Salem-Chennai national highway before the AP government bus proceeded towards Chennai to drop off the remaining workers. The workers were part of the construction contract labourers employed in Anantpur district. According to their accounts, they were tested and certified before they were made to board the truck that ferried them from Anantapur. The 32 workers dropped in Krishnagiri belonged to various districts including Thoothukudi, Sivaganga, Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Salem, Madurai and Dharmapuri. The remaining 10 workers hailing from Kanchipuram and Chennai were transported by the truck that proceeded towards Chennai. The workers were first spotted on the highway by some activists and the officials were alerted. The district administration provided them with food and later shifted to the Government Men’s Arts College. They will be put up there before they are transported to the respective districts. The district sharing borders with Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh has been seeing a steady flow of people arriving here. This has also posed concerns of reporting on the new arrivals to the authorities. As of Wednesday, as neighbourhoods saw a sudden flow of people returning from Bengaluru and Chennai, they were also revealing of the absent mechanisms to enforce reporting of such new arrivals for COVID-19 testing.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Decision to conduct Class 10 exams flayed||The urgency in conducting Class 10 examination is also a violence against the student community, said S.C. Natraj, Director of Service Unit for Development Activities in Rural (SUDAR), a Sathyamangalam-based NGO, who wanted examinations to be postponed and regular classes be conducted for students at least for 15 days. While online classes were conducted for students of private schools, students in rural areas, whose parents lost their livelihood due to lockdown, need revisions and they need to attend the schools. Mr. Natraj said that a few students in hilly areas of Bargur and Kadambur had gone with their parents for sugarcane cutting and are yet to return homes. Also, operating buses for students in remote areas that has no road connectivity is not practically possible, he said. “Commuting in hilly areas, particularly in Kongadai and Osur, is always a challenge for students, he said.” A government school teacher at Devarmalai in Bargur hills said that many of his students could not be contacted over phone on Wednesday as their villages have no mobile connectivity. “There are 71 SSLC students in the school and I could contact only 40 students to inform about the examinations”, he said and added that many students are living in relatives houses during the lockdown. “Students have not touched their books in the past two months and asking them to write the examination in 15 days will result in dropouts”, he said,. An office-bearer of Tamil Nadu Postgraduate Teachers Association said, "the whole idea sounds impractical. With COVID-19 cases on the rise, how would the government conduct examinations in cities like Chennai.”
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||3 active cases in the Nilgiris||District Collector J. Innocent Divya has said that there are three active COVID-19 cases in the Nilgiris after two more persons thought to also be infected have tested negative for the novel coronavirus in Coimbatore. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Ms. Divya said that a total of 45 lorry drivers, who had delivered vegetables to the Koyambedu market as well as 238 drivers who had travelled outside the district had been tested for COVID-19. Out of the total number of people tested, four drivers who visited Koyambedu tested positive, and later, one more person, a primary contact of one of the drivers, too, tested positive. All the five people had been taken to the ESI hospital in Coimbatore for treatment. Further rounds of testing in Coimbatore revealed at two of the five were not infected with the virus, and as a result, they were brought back to the Nilgiris, where they are being kept in isolation at a special ward in the government headquarters hospital.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tablets, bleaching powder distributed in containment zones||The Salem Corporation has distributed homeopathy tablets and over 3,000 kg of bleaching powder to 12,475 households in the containment zones at all the four zones in the city. Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh said that disinfectants were sprayed five times a day in the containment zones while toilets were cleaned thrice a day and disinfectants sprayed. He said that vegetables, essential commodities, groceries, medicines, milk and other necessary items are supplied to people in the zones through vehicles and people are advised to stay indoors. Conservancy workers involved in cleaning and disinfection activities were subjected to medical screening twice a week and they were also given zinc, vitamin and homeopathy tablets, nilavembu kashayam and kabasura kudineer to boost their immunity. Mr. Sadheesh said that each household was given 250 gram bleaching powder and homeopathy tablets. Health officials said that 11 persons had tested positive in corporation limits, so far, and all were discharged from the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital here. They said that 3,077 swab tests were conducted and the last positive case was reported on April 23. “In the last 21 days, there is no active COVID-19 positive case in the corporation limits”, they added.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Not flying high||
14 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cabinet may clear Ordinance on changes to APMC Act today||The State Cabinet, scheduled to meet on Thursday, is expected to clear the Ordinance to bring in changes in the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act, which the government says are aimed at facilitating market access for farmers during the prevailing lockdown. The Cabinet is expected to take decisions on further relaxations of lockdown norms from May 18. The third phase of the lockdown ends on May 17. Governor Vajubhai R. Vala has reportedly returned the Ordinance to the APMC Act and directed the government to get it approved in the State Cabinet. Sources in the Cooperation Department told The Hindu that the Cabinet was expected to clear the Ordinance on Thursday. Centre’s push Following the Centre’s suggestion to States, the Karnataka government has proposed to take the Ordinance route to bring in amendments to the APMC Act and adopt the Model Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2017, of the Centre. While BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have made amendments to the APMC Act, Karnataka is expected to follow the Centre’s suggestion to adopt the model Act, sources said. The proposed Ordinance is aimed at bypassing the APMC Act by removing restrictions on sale of farm produce and helping farmers severely hit by the COVID-19 induced lockdown, the government claimed. In fact, many farmers have been providing door delivery of their produce in residential complexes in cities. The Opposition parties in the State have opposed the government move by calling it “anti-farmer” and stating that it will benefit only MNC retail chains and supermarkets. Another package The Cabinet is expected to clear another small package to cover workers who had been left out from the Rs. 1,610-crore package announced last week. Since the government is keen on operating inter-district KSRTC buses and BMTC buses in Bengaluru soon after May 17, the Cabinet is likely to discuss modalities of bus transport to enable employees to go to offices, official sources said. With the term of the gram panchayats scheduled to end on May 24, the issue of extending the tenure of GPs is also likely to figure in the State Cabinet meeting scheduled at 4 p.m.
14 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Farmers’ organisations up in arms over move to bring in amendments to Act||KarnatakaRajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene State president Kodihalli Chandrashekar on Wednesday said the proposed amendments to the APMC Act would “sound the death knell for farmers” and declared that farmers’ organisations would not allow such amendments to come through. Ata press conference here, Mr. Chandrashekar pointed out that State governments had been told by the Centre to bring about such amendments through the Ordinance route. He put the onus of convincing the Centre about not forcing the States to go ahead with the amendments on Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. “Mr. Yediyurappa says that he is the son of a farmer, and he took oath as Chief Minister by wearing a green shawl. He even keeps saying that his government is pro-farmer in its approach. If his claims are true, let him prevail upon the Centre not to insist on such draconian amendments,” he said. Pointing out that amendments proposed to the APMC Act had been dropped by the Centre earlier in 2017, he alleged that such changes were being brought in now as it was an “opportune moment” to push such reforms since there was no provision for large- scale protests in the wake of lockdown. “These amendments are more dangerous than COVID-19,” he said. He alleged that the proposed amendments would not only dilute the authority of the APMC, but also provide for establishment of private markets by big players. “In essence, farmers will be under the mercy of big buyers such as MNCs and big retail chains,” he said. The proposed amendments would pave the way for private markets that would be devoid of competition among buyers unlike APMCs, he said. It would also result in loss of revenue for the government as the buyers would not be paying the APMC cess as they would be allowed to buy elsewhere, he said.
14 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Trade bodies find FM’s package a mixed bag||The industry has had mixed reactions towards the package announced by the Centre to give a fillip the MSMEs that make up the bulk of employment in the industrial sector which has been in dire straits following the COVID-19 pandemic. While some industrialists were happy with the package, a few felt it was grossly adequate. Some cited tight liquidity as the chief challenge faced by the MSMEs. Devesh Agarwal, President, BCIC, said while the sector welcomes the intent of the “Atma Nirbhar” package, it is “grossly inadequate.” The lockdown has left the entire business community bereft of cash. Until the government issues mandatory directions to banks and financial institutions to lend to MSMEs instead of deploying funds into markets and government securities, we are looking at a dark future, he said. BCIC has recommended utilisation of ESI funds to provide unemployment benefits to workers, among other things. Chandrajit Banerjee, Director General, CII, however, argued that the finance minister had unveiled an “impactful package.” The first phase targets the key sectors of MSME, Employees Provident Fund, Discoms, and taxation, among other major areas that are the most impacted, he said. The six measures announced by the finance minister for MSME sector are very well-targeted and meet the immediate as well as longer-term requirements of the sector, he added. The CII had suggested that credit be provided for MSMEs without collateral requirement and with a guarantee from the government. The proposal to make the delayed payments from the government and PSEs to MSMEs was a long-standing request of the industry. “The most important announcement with long-term implications is the quantum jump in the definition of MSME, which had not been changed since the MSME Development Act of 2006 and was long-awaited. Along with the decision to not have global tenders for government procurement up to Rs. 200 crore, the redefinition will assist the MSME sector to grow and emerge as a vibrant and dynamic sector, contributing to self-reliance and employment in a big way,” said Mr. Banerjee. KASSIA too welcomed the relief package. “We particularly thank the government for the collateral-free automatic loan which will be funded up to Rs. 3 lakh crore and benefit over 45 lakh MSMEs with a loan tenure of four years moratorium on repayment of one year,” said R. Raju, President, KASSIA. “While, the measures announced will be beneficial and hopeful, everything will depend on how these are implemented on the ground, particularly how the banks will look at these schemes and how proactive they will be in providing funds to the MSMEs to revive sector which is in deep crisis,” added Mr. Raju.
14 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Padarayanapura testing postponed by a day||Collection of swab samples from residents of Arafat Nagar containment zone in Padarayanapura ward has been postponed by a day after the councillor and residents of the neighbouring Rayapura ward started protesting when they realised that those who were going to be tested would be taken to a hospital in their area. The BBMP will now start the testing process only on Thursday. While health officials claimed that the swab collection had been put off due to logistics issues, senior officials claimed it was due to the resistance on the part of the Rayapura councillor and residents. BBMP’s Special Commissioner Lokesh M. told The Hindu that the health officials convinced Shashikala J.V., Rayapura councillor, to allow testing of residents of Arafat Nagar at the JJR Nagar General Hospital in the ward. Meanwhile, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar, in a video message on Wednesday, said that the primary and secondary contacts of patients from Hongasandra, who had finished their quarantine, would be accommodated in the train to Bihar on Thursday.
14 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RTC employees donate Rs. 9.85 cr. to CM relief fund||After the State government released the amount for paying salaries of employees of the State-owned road transport corporations (RTCs), Deputy Chief Minister Laxman S. Savadi, who also holds the Transport portfolio, on Wednesday handed over a cheque for Rs. 9.85 crore to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa towards the CM COVID Relief Fund. The amount is one-day salary contributed by employees of the four State RTCs. The RTCs have not been operating buses for the last two months owing to the lockdown. This has resulted in a huge revenue loss to the RTCs.
14 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Gyms, hotels may resume activities after May 17||The State government is expected to allow gyms, hotels, and golf clubs to resume their operations with some riders after May 17. Tourism Minister C.T. Ravi, who held discussions with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, on Wednesday, said the Chief Minister had promised to grant permission to gyms, hotels, and golf clubs to reopen. But gyms and hotels located within COVID-19 containment zones would not be allowed to operate. Mr. Ravi told presspersons that hotels, including darshinis (fast food chains), have sought clearance to start serving food on their premises by promising to maintain social distancing norms. They urged the government that they should be allowed to fill up at least 30% of their lodge or boarding facilities in order to make their business survive. He said fitness centres and golf clubs have sought permission to restart activities. Mr. Ravi, who also hold the Youth Empowerment and Sports portfolio, said representatives of golf clubs have assured of maintaining social distance and ruled out having personal contact. However, swimming pools would be allowed subject to conditions and restrictions, for the benefit of athletes, he said. Granting permission to hotels to provide service can help revive local tourism, argued Mr. Ravi.
14 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Anxiety among Victoria Hospital nurses as colleague tests positive||There was anxiety in the nursing community in Victoria Hospital on Wednesday after a 37-year-old COVID-19 ward nurse tested positive. The nurse, who was about to complete her 14-day quarantine period after completing a week’s duty in the COVID-19 ward, was tested on the 13th day along with 11 other batchmates. While the 11 tested negative, she tested positive. While this has raised several concerns over the quality of PPE kits and other protection equipment given to the nurses and doctors at the hospital, hospital authorities said there was no compromise on this. Recently, staff, including nurses at the Vani Vilas Hospital on Victoria Hospital premises went on a snap protest after a pregnant woman admitted at the high-risk isolation ward tested positive. “The entire batch is shocked over their colleague testing positive. We have met the ward nodal officer and have demanded that our colleague be kept in a separate isolation facility. As she is psychologically disturbed, we have asked the hospital authorities to provide her and the entire batch counselling by psychiatrists. We have also requested that the nurse should not be left alone,” said BMCRI Permanent Nursing Officers’ Association president Santosh Kumar B. BMCRI Dean and Director C.R. Jayanthi said the PPE kits given to the nurses and doctors were of good quality. “We are surprised how the nurse got the infection. We have given them adequate training on infection control practices and protocols to be adopted while handling positive patients. We are looking into whether there was an error in the donning/doffing procedure adopted by her,” said Dr. Jayanthi. Stating that the nurse was asymptomatic, the dean said she had been admitted in a separate room within the COVID-19 ward. “We are also repeating her swab test and have extended the quarantine of her batchmates,” she said. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, who is the COVID-19 spokesperson in the State, said there was no compromise on the quality of PPE kits. This is the sixth case of a healthcare professional getting infected in Karnataka. The others are a private doctor and two nurses in Kalaburagi, followed by a nurse and doctor in Shifa Hospital in Bengaluru, and a nurse from a primary health centre in Davangere.
14 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||After protest, labourers get dues of over Rs. 3 crore||As many as 700 labourers from Salarpuria camp in Byatarayanapura, who had staged a protest and filed an FIR against two real estate companies for allegedly failing to pay their wages, were reimbursed on Wednesday. It was a jubilant moment for them as representatives of the companies handed them a cheque of over Rs. 3 crore. They were assured that the remaining Rs. 1.8 crore would be given shortly. Anang Naik, a labourer from Odisha who was a complainant in the case, said that they have decided to donate 10% of the funds to the welfare of other labourers who are stranded in and around the city. “We hail from West Bengal, Bihar, U.P., and Odisha. We empathise with the distress our fellow labourers are going through and we hope that the money will help them. We will hand it over to an NGO,” he said. Advocate Zia Nomani who helped them take legal action lauded the gesture. Workers to go home More than half of the labourers are planing to return to their hometown, while the rest have decided to stay back in Bengaluru and complete work on the pending project.
14 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Unauthorised vending at Kalasipalyam market cleared, ruckus ensues||Fruit, vegetable, and flower vendors at Kalasipalyam market were evicted by the BBMP and the police early Wednesday morning following complaints from residents and the local councillor who alleged that they were not following social distancing norms. According to Prathibha Dhanraj, councillor for Dharmarayaswamy Temple ward, both Kalasipalyam and City Markets were closed following the lockdown. “However, some miscreants started ‘allotting’ space to vendors on Kalasipalyam Main Road, A.M. Road, New Extension Road. They were even collecting money for allotting space,” she alleged. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said that the vendors had been asked to trade at Singena Agrahara. “However, in the light of unauthorised vending, lack of social distancing and many not wearing masks, the police and BBMP officials have cleared the area,” he said. After vendors protested, the police deployed additional personnel in the area to maintain law and order.
14 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM welcomes Centre’s aid; HDK calls it hollow||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has welcomed the Centre’s Rs. 3 lakh crore financial support to industrial sector. In a release he said: “This is a very timely and scientific move with expertise, and collateral-free loans for MSMEs will boost them to resume operations. This will benefit 45 lakh MSMEs in the country.” He said it was a “bold step towards motivating people post lockdown and to resume work.”  Meanwhile JD (S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy said that the package was no more than a set of “colourful words” with little substance. He said that it was industry-centric and paid little attention to farmers and the poor. Mr. Kumaraswamy argued that the Centre should have lent a helping hand to States rather than announce a package at its own will and “leave States with begging bowls”.
14 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Home quarantine for pregnant women, children returning from overseas||The State Health Department has now revised the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for Category 2 asymptomatic passengers returning home from foreign countries. As per a new circular issued on Wednesday by Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), pregnant women, children below the age of 10, senior citizens aged 80 and above, and terminally ill patients (those suffering from cancer, chronic kidney disease, and stroke) will be tested for COVID-19 using RT-PCR technique soon after their arrival. If they test negative, they will be exempted from institutional quarantine. As per the earlier SOP, institutional quarantine was compulsory for all who are returning to their home States/country. “Such passengers (who test negative) will be stamped and sent for home quarantine for 14 days. All passengers belonging to the above category will be subjected to a check-up to confirm their health status,” stated the circular. Asked why a similar exemption was not given to those coming from other States, Minister Suresh Kumar, who is the COVID-19 spokesperson for Karnataka, said officials would discuss the issue and take a decision shortly.
14 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six ‘Shramik Special Trains’||The Bengaluru division of SWR operated six ‘Shramik Special Trains’ to north India. From Chikkabanavara station, one train departed for Gwalior in M.P. and three to Gorakhpur in U.P. Two trains were operated from Malur – one to Udaipur and the other to Darbhanga.
14 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NIA reward for info on accused||The National Investigation Agency has announced a Rs. 3 lakh cash reward for information on Abdul Matheen Taahaa, an accused in the Al-Hind IS Bengaluru module case. Tahaa, 26, who hails from Shivamogga, has been on the run after the NIA busted the module in January. At the time, they arrested 12 people including Mahboob Pasha and his associates who were allegedly involved in the murder of a Hindu leader in Tamil Nadu. According to the NIA, Pasha had conducted several meetings in 2019 at his residence in Gurappanapalya to hatch the conspiracy and radicalise and recruit others to join IS. Tahaa is the link between Pasha and a handler, who was monitoring the module activities and giving instructions online, say officials.
14 May 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Tension prevails in Chikkamagaluru||There was tension in Chikkamagaluru town on Wednesday evening as a suitcase had been left abandoned under a tree on Basavanahalli Road. Locals informed the police. A video clip captured by CCTV cameras shows a woman placing the suitcase and leaving the place. The police rushed to the spot with a dog squad. They shifted the suitcase to an open place on the outskirts of the city. Superintendent of Police Harish Pandey told The Hindu that neither the dog nor the metal detector found anything. “We have shifted the suitcase to an open place. It will be disposed of in due course,” he said.
14 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||1,452 leave Hubballi for Jodhpur||As many as 1,452 persons began their journey from Hubballi towards Jodhpur in the first Shramik Special train operated by Hubballi Division of South Western Railway on Wednesday. Before the Shramik Special left Hubballi at 12.30 p.m. all the passengers were screened by the railway health staff at a temporary set-up. They were all sensitised to the precautionary measures to be taken during their journey to Rajasthan. Before they boarded the train, the passengers were asked to wash their hands with alcohol-based sanitisers. They were allowed to board the train ensuring social distancing. Since all the 1,452 passengers had to be screened before they were allowed to board the train, many had reached the railway station at 5 a.m. and the State government authorities had arranged for their breakfast. They were given packed breakfast (upma) and one litre water bottles. Subsequently, before the train’s departure, the passengers were given meal packets and another litre of drinking water. IRCTC will be providing the passengers meals en route , at Miraj and Ahmedabad. Based on a request from the State government, South Western Railway is running the Shramik Special and passengers comprise migrant workers, students, tourists and those who were unable to return to their places. There will be no stoppage en route . An RPF team is escorting the train and details of all passengers, coach wise with address and mobile numbers, have been obtained, a release said.
14 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Containment area in Bidar city sees 11 new positive cases||Bidar, which opened its COVID-19 account with 11 cases in a single day on April 2 and continued to register positive cases since then, registered 11 new cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 41 that included a death and 14 discharged patients. The new cases are P-931, a 30-year-old man, P-932, a 26-year-old woman, P-936, a 36-year-old woman, P-937, a 17-year-old boy, P-938, a 36-year-old woman, P-939, a 31-year-old woman, P-940, a 15-year-old girl, P-941, a 16-year-old girl, P-942, a 14-year-old girl, P-943, a 34-year-old woman, and P-959, a 44-year-old man. As per the media bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, all the new cases were reported from a containment zone in the old city in Bidar and the specific source of infection is not known, leaving the district administration with the tough job of identifying the source of infection to prevent further spread of the deadly disease from the same source. However, Bidar Deputy Commissioner H.R. Mahadev categorically concluded that the source of infection is one of “those who had returned from Delhi”, obliquely referring to the participants of Tablighi Jamaat religious congregation organised at Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz. Addressing a media conference on Wednesday, Mr. Mahadev said that the administration suspected that the old city area, now a containment zone after it reported several positive cases of COVID-19, might have more number of active cases. He has decided to test more number of people from the area for the disease. “We need not jump to the conclusion that it has now become community transmission. We had decided to examine 5,000 people in that part of the old city which has reported more number of positive cases, and finally, we sent the swab samples of around 3,500 people. Around 2,500 more samples from the same area would shortly be sent for test. Now, as you see, our decision has been right as we have found more number of positive cases from that area,” he said, pointing to the 11 new cases reported from the same area. The officer also appealed to the people not to panic as the district administration is trying to identify every infected person in the area and isolate him so that the area could be free from COVID-19 in a fortnight.
14 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 positive woman with brain infection history dies||A 58-year-old COVID-19 positive woman from Boloor in the city, who had medical history of brain infection and was under ventilator support at the Government District Wenlock Hospital here, passed away on Wednesday. The woman is the fourth victim of COVID-19 from Dakshina Kannada. The woman (P-536) had infection related to brain and undergone treatment at the First Neuro Hospital at Padil in the city between April 10 and April 17. She was one among the 210 people whose throat and nasal swab samples were tested after the death of a 75-year-old COVID-19 positive woman (P-432) on April 23. Patient 432 from Bantwal was under treatment at the hospital for paralysis attack. Wednesday’s victim tested positive on April 28 and she was immediately shifted to the designated COVID-19 hospital. Her condition remained critical throughout and she was on ventilator support. Her husband, son-in-law, daughter and granddaughter too tested positive subsequently and are under treatment at Wenlock Hospital. According to a statement from Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh, P-536 died at 12.45 p.m.  Tests positive A 38-year-old woman from Pilar in Someshwar village (P-947) tested positive on Wednesday. Her daughter was under treatment at First Neuro from April 20 to April 22, according to Health Department officials. Both the woman and her daughter were under quarantine since April 23. Consequently, the Deputy Commissioner declared the specified area in Pilar village with 95 houses and 10 commercial establishments with a population of 430 as an active containment zone. The area has been sealed now. Meanwhile, a 47-year-old worker of First Neuro from Bantwal taluk who tested positive for COVID-19 on April 26, was discharged from Wenlock Hospital on Wednesday after two tests on May 11 and 12 turned negative. In all, 15 active persons are undergoing treatment at the Government Wenlock Hospital, while nine have been discharged.
14 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Chamarajanagar won’t let in people from red zones, high-risk States||Chamarajanagar district has barred entry of people coming from red zones and high-risk States. Chamarajanagar has not reported even a single COVID-19 case so far and remains one of the few green zone districts in the State. The district administration will allow the return of migrants only from green and orange zones.
14 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Team sent to Nippani to help people wishing to return to Udupi district||A team of officers from here has been stationed at Nippani in Belagavi district to facilitate those returning to Udupi district from Maharashtra. A press release here on Wednesday said that the officers team has gone from here to Nippani on the directions of Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha. People from Udupi district who are working in Maharashtra wanted to return to their native places here. The team verified the address of such persons. They were giving them information on the institutional quarantine facilities and other facilities provided by the administration in Udupi district. This was also helping the administration here to get advance information of how many people were returning to the district. Before this team of officers was deputed to Nippani, people seeking to return to Udupi district were facing many problems. The deputation of this team was expected to reduce such problems. On an average, nearly 600 persons from Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra were coming to Nippani daily with the intention of returning to Udupi district. The team comprising Assistant Director of Sports and Youth Services Roshan Kumar Shetty, Project Director of Nirmiti Kendra Arun Kumar and Kashinath of Urban Development Cell was helping people to return to Udupi, the release said.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||First AC train from Delhi to arrive this morning||As many as 921 people from Karnataka, who were stranded in various places in north India, will arrive in Bengaluru on Thursday in the first special train to the State from New Delhi. The air-conditioned train is expected to pull into KSR City Railway Station around 6.30 a.m. As the national capital has been badly affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, elaborate arrangements have been made by South Western Railways, the BBMP and the Health Department to screen passengers. SWR Divisional Railway Manager (Bengaluru) Ashok Kumar Verma told The Hindu that in order to ensure that social distancing norms are being followed, no visitor will be allowed inside the railway campus. “Family members of passengers have been given strict instructions to not come to the station. We have deployed around 130 staff,” he said. One booth per coach has been set up to screen passengers. “We have booked 4,500 rooms in four different categories of hotels for their institutional quarantine. Health teams have been deputed at the station; 30 BMTC buses will ferry the passengers to hotels of their choice,” said civic Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar. A senior BBMP official told The Hindu that they had formed 15 teams for thermal screening. “After screening, people will have to avail the quarantine facility as per their requirements. Based on their selection, we will ferry them to their chosen quarantine centres keeping in mind all precautionary measures,” he said.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Second flight from Singapore||One more repatriation flight from Singapore with 151 passengers landed at KIA late Wednesday night. Bengaluru Rural Deputy Commissioner P.N. Ravindra said that after mandatory screening, the passengers will be sent to institutional quarantine.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Back to work||
14 May 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Entry for returning people only via Kumily||The border check-posts at Kumily, Cumbom Mettu, Bodimettu and Marayur are being monitored by personnel of various departments of Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Those coming from other States are allowed entry to the State only through Kumily. Only vehicles carrying food items are allowed through the Bodimettu check-post. Vehicles carrying vegetables and fruits are screened and the passes issued by the two States are verified. On an average, 10 to 20 vehicles pass through the check-post a day. Vehicles are checked by officials of the Health, Police, Forest and Excise Departments. Vehicles coming from Tamil Nadu should return in six hours after offloading the goods. Police officers upload the details and photo of the vehicle and the driver on the COVID-19 app. When the vehicle passes through a check-post, the details will be available there. Some vehicles transferred goods to another vehicle from the State at the check-post and return as those coming from other States have to undergo 14 days of quarantine, said an official at the Bodimettu check-post.
14 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||A short-lived joy and togetherness||The State government’s move to reopen toddy and liquor outlets has cast a shadow over the lives of thousands of tribal families in Wayanad, a district with a major tribal population. The closure of liquor outlets as part of the nationwide lockdown had brought back happiness and joy to the homes of the marginalised sections. “A few decades ago, rustic music, primitive dance forms, and ethnic food used to sweep away the sweats and aches of the day,” said Vella, a tribal woman of Payyampally Adiya. “When our men became addicted to alcohol, the simple joys and warmth of togetherness were gone from the tribal landscape. Night life in several hamlets was punched with drunken brawls, shouts and curses, shrieks of women, and squabbles at homes,” Vella, who led a 1,515-day agitation demanding the closure of a government-run liquor shop at Mananthavady, said. Nearly 95% of men of 30 tribal hamlets were addicted to liquor and had the habit of betel chewing, but all of them had given up the habits after the lockdown, she said. “Though the lost happiness and joys have returned to our hamlets since March 25, it seems the government’s decision will ruin their tranquillity,” she added. According to Meenakshi of Vengaramkunnu Paniya hamlet, people had spent all their money on liquor. “When they ran short of money, they sold house utensils. They also used to get violent, hurting children and women at homes. This made our lives miserable,” she said. “However, we are happy that our men have stayed away from liquor after the lockdown,” she added. When the government ordered temporary closure of liquor outlets, the Excise Department had cautioned that it would lead to illicit trade in liquor. But such incidents are yet to be reported in the district, said K.K. Mujeeb Rahman, tribal activist.
14 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Collector takes over Wayanad resort||The Wayanad district administration on Wednesday took over a private resort at Thariyode after the management of the property denied permission to quarantine a group of tribal people who returned from Karnataka. The district administration had prepared a list of hotels and resorts to be converted as COVID care centres, including the resort at Thariyode, and informed the managements, District Collector Adeela Abdulla said. But when Health officials went to the resort at Patham Mile, near Thariyode, along with an 18-member tribal group who had returned from various ginger farms in Karnataka, the management denied entry to them, she said. Ms. Abdulla directed the police to take over the resort as per the Disaster Management Act, 2015, and admit the tribal people. Later, the police quarantined the tribesmen at the resort. Ms. Abdulla also directed the police to register a case against the resort management under various sections of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.
14 May 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Intensify preventive steps, local bodies told||The District Planning Committee (DPC) has directed local bodies to intensify preventive activities against COVID-19 in the wake of the arrival of expatriates and those stranded in other States to the district. DPC Chairman and District Panchayat President K.V. Sumesh suggested that local body secretaries submit a daily report on the activities to the Deputy Director of Panchayat. A team comprising local body head, secretary, primary health centre officer, and a police officer will be appointed. They will meet every day to discuss the situation in their respective areas, he said. Officials should regularly visit the homes of quarantined persons. Announcements should be made in panchayat and municipality-level on May 15 and 16 to create awareness about quarantine procedures. The meeting also directed local body secretaries to submit to the deputy director of panchayat a list of guest workers who are keen to return home.
14 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Job guarantee may help State retain migrant workforce||Guaranteeing jobs post-lockdown may enable Kerala to retain a majority of its migrant workforce, which is pivotal to its economy, indicates a recent survey. Gram Vikas, a Bhubaneshwar-based community development organisation, in partnership with the Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development (CMID), has conducted a rapid assessment among labourers from Odisha, a majority of whom have migrated to Kerala, to assess their post-lockdown coping strategies. The study comprised a sample size of 392 migrants, mostly males with a median age of 23, from 13 community development blocks in Odisha. Though the survey indicated that nearly 77% of migrants planned to return home after the lockdown and only 10.70% wanted to stay back, it did not reveal the complete picture. “The uncertainty over jobs is what fuels their desire to return home. If there are guaranteed jobs after the lockdown, most will opt to stay back,” said Liby Johnson, executive director, Gram Vikas. This could prove critical to Kerala since 45% of those surveyed were migrants to Kerala while Tamil Nadu, which is second in the list, accounted for only 12.80%. When asked about their plans to return to workplace, over 35% chose not to respond, nearly 30% gave a time frame of within three months while 18% were undecided. That 56.60% were looking for immediate support to return home compared to 11.20% to find job indicated their proclivity to choose home over their workplace unless there is certainty about work post-lockdown. “With States like Uttar Pradesh adopting anti-labour policies and suspending labour laws in the guise of pandemic-induced challenges, Kerala remains a beacon of hope for migrants. It could be a win-win situation for both parties since the State need migrants for their economic resilience which in turn would keep their households and native villages afloat,” said Benoy Peter, executive director, CMID.
14 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Short supply takes fizz out of tipplers||“Open the bottle carefully, as the fizzy toddy may spill out,” warned salesman Biju Jose as he handed over a bottle of freshly tapped drink to a customer. Jose then collected the cash and dropped it into an open wooden cash chest. “Toddy Rs. 80 a bottle,” read a hand-written poster at the entrance of the shop on the Kaloor-Kathrikadavu road stretch. Though the price was hiked by Rs. 10 a bottle, there was not even a whimper of protest from tipplers. Unusual scenes unfolded at the shop on Wednesday as the business resumed at the outlet, nearly one-and- a-half months after the COVID-19 lockdown. The usual cacophony of noises of the toddy parlour was missing. There were no clinging of glasses and loud calls of tipplers for a quick refill. Instead, several glum-faced customers silently queued outside the shop. Social distancing A salesman had earlier marked out the space for the customers to stand in queue using bleaching powder. A temporary washbasin and soap was kept outside the shop for the customers to use. A freshly opened bottle of hand sanitiser was kept ready on the desk. The all-pervasive smell of fermented toddy filled the poorly-lit, smoky parlour as the salespersons, who wore face masks and surgical gloves, filtered the drink from two big blue barrels into an open container. The plastic chairs and table of the parlour were stalked up in a corner. The kitchen remained closed as consumption of food and toddy from inside the parlour was banned. As Jose poured toddy into the plastic bottles brought by the customers, another worker was busy filling the beer bottles kept in a plastic crate to dispense it quickly. Sold out Binu, a daily wages earner, was the first customer. The Kottayam native reached the shop by 8 a.m. though the sale started at only at 9 a.m. Two officials of the Excise Department stayed through out the business hours supervising the resumption of the sales. Nearly half of the 90 litres of toddy brought in was sold out in 30 minutes as the queue gradually grew outside the shop. Each customer was allowed a maximum of 1.5 litres though many asked for more. In one hour, the toddy was sold out and the shop shut, leaving out a few unlucky customers in deep despair. According to agency reports, there are close to 3,590 toddy shops in the State. In Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Kannur, shops did not open as there was no liquor to be served. Those shops which opened had to close them down soon after their stock was sold in a flash.
14 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Dengue clusters in 3 districts keep Health dept. on its toes||Amidst COVID-19, the Health Department is on alert with monsoon-time diseases dengue fever and leptospirosis being reported from areas where summer rain has been copious. Already there have been three suspected and two confirmed dengue deaths in the State besides 885 confirmed and 2,126 suspected cases till May 12. Reports of more clusters have come in from Ernakulam, Kannur, and Kasaragod. With most of the departments and personnel involved in the fight against COVID-19, communicable diseases, tackled by the Health Department in pre-monsoon activities, are perhaps not receiving the required attention. As problems are being identified, it is being dealt with, said the official. There were issues of slag in waste disposal, which lay bare unused containers open that collected water. Breeding sources There were also issues of the use of tarpaulin in keeping things covered. Water gets collected in the grooves if not properly cleaned. This had led to several breeding sources of mosquitoes. Health authorities expect dengue fever cases to reach the peak this year following its three-yearly peak. Already, there are three times the cases compared to last year this time. There have been 384 suspected and 189 confirmed leptospirosis cases, with 16 suspected and four confirmed deaths. Dearth of workers  However, senior health officials told The Hindu that the vector-borne diseases are being attended to in the same vigour as earlier. There are problems in getting workers on the ground, especially in the pineapple and rubber plantations in Ernakulam where there have been a small outbreak. But the Health Department has engaged Aarogya Sena workers formed at the ward level to overcome most of the problems. An awareness campaign involving people’s representatives at the Assembly and ward levels is on to sensitise people to the need to avoid rainwater stagnation and maintain clean surroundings. “The dengue virus carrying mosquitoes do not have a flight of more than 150-200 metres. Hence, if every person keeps their premises clean, people can avoid dengue infection,” a senior health official said. “However, freshwater is allowed to collect in scattered scrap materials around houses that could become a source of breeding for dengue vector.” In Ernakulam, dengue clusters have been found in the eastern hill belts of Varapetty, Payipra, and Kothamangalam. Index cases The index cases this year were found during the period of water scarcity, when people left open water containers. From April 1 to May 3, 141 suspected cases of dengue and 20 confirmed cases were confirmed in Ernakulam alone. With intermittent rain now, freshwater sources are abundant. Following the lockdown, freshwater is getting collected at scrap materials and such things lying unattended at many places. From April 1 to May 3, 141 suspected cases of dengue and 20 confirmed cases were confirmed in Ernakulam alone.
14 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||KMRL takes up projects to clear waterlogging||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has taken up projects worth Rs. 42 lakh to address waterlogging in Kochi. The projects are construction of cross-drain at Changampuzha Park and JLN metro stations and providing additional drain holes on the Aluva-Kaloor stretch. KMRL has completed the construction of a cross-drain to connect the drains at both sides of Changampuzha Park metro station. Arrangements to provide drain holes along the Kalamassery-Kaloor stretch are progressing. “KMRL had taken a decision to complete the pre-monsoon work as early as in March itself. We are also part of Operation Breakthrough and have been giving technical support for pre-monsoon initiatives of the district administration,” said KMRL managing director Alkesh Kumar Sharma.
14 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Naval award||Lieutenant Commander Akshay Kumar of the Anti-Submarine Warfare School of the Southern Naval Command in Kochi was awarded the Vice Admiral G.M. Hiranandani Memorial Rolling Trophy for the year 2020 by Vice Admiral A.K. Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the SNC, at a ceremony held at the Maritime Warfare Centre (Kochi) on Wednesday.
14 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Details of flood prevention work sought||The Kerala High Court has directed the Ernakulam District Collector and Kochi Corporation to inform the court about details of the steps being taken for completing the works to prevent flooding in the city. Justice Devan Ramachandran directed them to file an affidavit in this regard. The order came on a petition filed by K. J. Treasa and another resident of the Gandhinagar for a directive to remove the solid waste and aquatic plants from canals in the city to ensure free flow of water.
14 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Measures against dengue in Kollam||The Health Department has stepped up preventive measures after dengue fever cases were reported from various parts of the district. Provision for conducting dengue surveillance test has been arranged at Government Medical College, Parippally, District Public Health Lab and taluk hospitals at Punalur, Kottarakara and Karungappally. The district vector control unit has started fogging and indoor space spraying in areas where dengue has been reported, which includes Vaddy and Kayikualngara that comes under Kollam Corporation and Edamulakkal and Eroor panchayats. As part of strengthening dengue preventive measures, rapid response teams will be functioning in grama panchayats. A committee that includes people's representatives, medical officers from PHCs, health inspectors, staff nurses, public health nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians will be in charge of coordination.  “We have started an awareness drive in the areas that reported dengue and measures to eliminate mosquito breeding sources are also in place. An action plan will be prepared to coordinate field-level activities without affecting COVID-19 control,” said District Collector B.Abdul Nasar. The administration has instructed the public to clear potential breeding sources like open vessels and tanks, discarded tires, stagnant water and blocked pipelines.
14 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||25 homeless people shifted to care homes||The district administration on Wednesday shifted 25 homeless persons who were living in temporary shelters during the lockdown to various homes for destitutes. Most of them are migrants from other States with no roof over their heads and they were moved to rehabilitation centres in the city around one and a half months back as part of COVID-19 control measures. Steps to trace kin “There are people from West Bengal, U.P., Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Bihar, Odisha and Rajasthan who have been living on the street. There are elderly persons and those with mental disabilities. We will be providing them psychiatric help and currently efforts are on to trace their relatives,” said Shantakumar, chief social worker, Ashraya Charitable Society, Kalayapuram, who welcomed 15 new residents on Wednesday. All destitutes shifted to various shelters during lockdown were under the strict monitoring of Health Department with volunteers and police providing them all the help. They were staying at some government schools in the city and at present the authorities have found shelters for 25 persons including 13 elderly. “Since there is a possibility for them to go back to street, it was decided to move them to homes functioning under Social Justice Department,” said an official. District Collector B.Abdul Nasar and district social justice officer Siju Ben coordinated the activities.
14 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Pregnant woman tests positive||Kottayam on Wednesday reported one more case of SARS-CoV-2 infection with the 29-year-old mother of a two-year-old COVID-19 patient testing positive for the disease. According to officials, the mother and child had landed from Kuwait on May 9 and were shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital from home quarantine on Tuesday evening. The woman, a native of Uzhavoor, is seven months pregnant. An earlier serum sample collected from her had been rejected due to technical reasons, following which the authorities sent a fresh sample the other day. One more hospitalised As per estimates, 224 people including 64 pregnant women and 10 children have landed in Kottayam from various overseas destinations since May 7. Besides the mother-infant duo, one more pregnant woman has been admitted to hospital here for observation. Of the remaining persons, 105 are in institutional quarantine while the remaining 16 in home quarantine. Migrants restive Meanwhile, discontent is brewing among a section of migrant labourers over the inability of the authorities in sending them back home. Earlier on Tuesday evening, a group of migrant workers in Paippad had approached the police seeking urgent action to take them home. After repeated attempts to convince them did not yield, the police resorted to a mild caning to disperse the crowd. Taking a serious note of the situation, the police have heightened security in and around the region. Paippad village, a hub of interstate migrant workers in Kottayam, has been on the edge ever since a massive protest was staged by about 2,000 workers in March with a demand to send them back. Refusal of States Officials attribute the non-cooperation from the destination States, including West Bengal, to the delay in operating Shramik Special train services from the district. Indeed, they had completed the proceedings to send back nearly 21,000 migrant workers from various States around a week ago.
14 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Calicut airport gears up to operate commercial flights||The Calicut International Airport is gearing up to implement the standard operating procedures (SOP) to be followed by airlines, airports, and passengers following the resumption of flights. Airport director K. Srinivasa Rao said an SOP was being followed amid the COVID-19 pandemic with the start of the Vande Bharat Mission to bring Indian citizens stranded abroad. “So far, we have taken into account only the arrival of passengers. Now, we will be focusing on departures as well after the resumption of domestic flights,” he added. Though commercial flights remain suspended, relief flights are being operated. The Director General of Civil Aviation had held discussions with stakeholders on the SOP to be followed at the airport. As such, Mr. Rao said entry to the airport would be restricted to those with the necessary protective gear. Additional thermal scanners and sanitisers will be available at all entry and exit points. Moreover, exclusive isolation zones will be maintained at all terminals. Disinfection inside and outside will be mandatory, he said. According to Mr. Rao, sanitisation of checked baggage and social distancing norms among the airport staff and passengers will be strictly followed. Web check-in has been proposed in the initial phase. Airline companies will have to check the history of passengers with regard to COVID-19 and quarantine. The reporting time of passengers will be possibly increased by two hours. Another proposal is not to allow cabin baggage for some time. Besides, only one piece of checked-in baggage will be allowed. On-board sales and meal service will also be suspended.
14 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Only 17 toddy shops opened in Kozhikode||Only 20% of the toddy shops in Kozhikode district opened on Monday after the State government decided to allow resumption of the business during the lockdown period with stringent restrictions. Deputy Excise Commissioner V.R. Anilkumar said that 17 shops that opened in the morning downed shutters by 11 a.m. Kozhikode district has 205 toddy shops. However, only 85 shops had been sold in the first round of sale in March. The lockdown had halted the sale. Previously, toddy shops were auctioned. But now shops are sold at fixed rates in the first round and at 50% reduction in the second round. Toddy shops would be fully functional after the sale of all the shops, Mr. Anilkumar said. A.V. Sivadasan , leader of the CITU-affiliated Chethu Thozhilali Union, said that the decline in production was one of the reasons behind shops closing early. Stocks were sold in a flash after toddy arrived in the morning. The government has allowed shops to function from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. An individual was given only 1.5 litres as parcel, he said.
14 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||226 in quarantine in Pathanamthitta||As many as 179 people who came from other States and 47 from abroad were placed under quarantine in the district on Wednesday. With this, the number of people in quarantine went up to 1,421 in the district. While 1,266 came from other States, 145 had come by evacuation flights. An official bulletin released here in the evening said five primary contacts of a COVID-19 patient in Tamil Nadu too were among the quarantined. However, no new case of COVID-19 was reported in the district on Wednesday while samples of 50 quarantined persons tested negative for SARS-CoV-2. A total of 4,879 samples had been sent for clinical examination so far. While 18 of them tested positive, 4,466 tested negative for the infection. As per the bulletin, seven persons, including a COVID-19 patient, are under observation at the isolation wards in hospitals in the district. A total of 278 persons were quarantined at 56 Corona Care Centres in the district. Meanwhile, the 151 surveillance squads deployed by the Health Department screened 17,767 people for symptoms of COVID-19 at the 15 border points in the district on Wednesday.
14 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fear of job loss grips IT sector||On May 11, Ramesh (name changed), a senior software engineer at a product engineering company at Technopark here, received a communication from the human resources department asking him to resign within two days or face the risk of being terminated from service. A day later, the office sent someone to his home to collect his laptop. With 12 years of experience in the field, such an unceremonious lay-off came as a rude shock for him. “It all happened over the phone. Despite my requests to send me mails regarding this, they refused, for they knew what they were doing is not right. The reason given was low performance, but usually they put such people in a performance improvement programme. I have rents and EMIs to pay, a family dependent on this salary. My daughter is about to join first standard. I requested them to give me some time to mentally prepare or put me into some other project, but they refused,” says Ramesh. No compensation Following the COVID-19 pandemic, IT companies in Kerala, including those in Technopark and Infopark in Kochi, have started laying off employees without even the necessary compensation. Although ‘performance issues’ are being cited in all cases, those who have got the pink slips say this is just a reason being made up to cut down on the numbers and save on employee cost. On May 8, a 25-year old IT employee working at Infopark committed suicide allegedly after she was informed that she would be laid off. Early this month, Sandhya, a digital marketing professional at a Technopark firm, was told to put in her papers soon. The daughter of a security guard, her family is dependent on her salary. Flimsy reasons Another IT employee, Ramkumar, who has 10 years of experience, had to go through a humiliating ‘interview’ process, after which he was told that he was not technically fit and hence should quit.  Plea to Labour dept. Prathidhwani, a welfare organisation of IT employees which has taken up the cause of the laid-off employees, has appealed to the IT companies to work together to overcome this crisis without looking at layoffs as the only solution. “The Prime Minister and Chief Minister of Kerala have repeatedly appealed to companies to refrain from sacking employees during this crisis. We have been receiving a lot of complaints from laid-off employees. We have sent these to the Labour Department,” says Rajeev Krishnan of Prathidhwani.  Following the pandemic, IT companies are laying off employees without necessary compensation.
14 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Decision on new Budget by month end, says Isaac||The State government will take a decision on presenting a new Budget by this month end after gauging the gravity of the crisis triggered by COVID-19, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. Dr. Isaac told reporters here on Wednesday that the State would take a cue from the Centre on preparing a new Budget. The Union Budget for 2020-21 had not factored in the impact of the economic slowdown and hence may have to go for a new one. The State’s decision also hinged on it, he said. An expert committee appointed by the government is studying the impact of COVID-19 on the State’s finances. Influx of Keralites It would recommend the austerity measures and resource mobilisation proposals, among others. The Planning Board would fix the Plan priorities on the basis of the report and then the government would take a call on presenting a new Budget, he said. The heavy influx of Keralites from other States in violation of the COVID-19 protocol and without availing themselves of the mandatory passes is posing a potential threat of community spread. Inter-State and international migrations are subjects on the Union list. Still, the State government would give due support and protection for the repatriates. Local bodies could use the Plan fund at their disposal for taking care of them, he said. Though the Cabinet had decided to hike the tax for liquor, the government had no plan to impose any more taxes, he said.
14 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police to keep watch on those in quarantine||The City police are strengthening surveillance of people who had arrived from other States and were placed in home quarantine as part of the COVID-19 containment measures. Inspections would be carried out by Janamaithri Community Relations Officers and beat officers to ensure compliance by individuals, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. Quarantine violations would be dealt with sternly, Mr. Upadhyay said. People who jumped home quarantine would be shifted to institutional quarantine facilities. The violations would attract police cases, he said. The police planned to enlist the services of the residents’ association to carry out the surveillance in this regard. App-based Mobile app-based surveillance also would be carried out, he said. Petty cases were charged against 122 people on Wednesday for failure to wear masks. Cases were charged against 41 others under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020 for violating COVID-19-related safety measures. On Wednesday, 474 were placed under surveillance in the district as part of the disease containment measures. As many as 230 others completed the observation period without exhibiting symptoms. As on Wednesday, 4,295 people are in home quarantine in the district while 158 people are accommodated in COVID care centres. Of the latter group, 47 people are at the Mar Ivanios hostel, three people at Hotel Hilton, two at Hotel Mascot and 10 people at Hotel Chaitram. Forty people are staying at the IMG training centre while 48 others are at the LNCPE and eight people at the KSEB inspection bungalow. Dengue threat The District Medical Officer (DMO) has sought the cooperation of the public for vector-control interventions to prevent dengue transmission in the district. Such measures needed strengthening as dengue cases were increasingly being reported in the district, the officer said. As part of mosquito-control measures, people should ensure that water did not get collected in discarded flowerpots, bottles, toys and tyres and spaces such as rooftops and sun-shades, the DMO said.
14 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus Two exam valuation begins||The Plus Two examination valuation that got under way at 88 centres across the State on Wednesday recorded 40% attendance, Education Department officials said. Of the nearly 13,500 teachers who were on valuation duty on the first day of the camp, nearly 5,000, including camp officials, turned up, higher secondary examination secretary S.S. Vivekanandan said. The camps are arranged with 33% attendance to ensure social distancing norms, but the turnout was higher. Attendance Mr. Vivekanandan said the attendance was expected to go up in the coming days as those who stayed away or were unable to come were likely to turn up, he said. However, teachers’ organisations such as the Kerala Aided Higher Secondary Teachers’ Association, Kerala Higher Secondary Teachers’ Union, and the Aided Higher Secondary Teachers’ Association alleged that the attendance was less than 30% and the government was turning the evaluation of answer scripts into a farce. They demanded that in the absence of public transport, the government should intervene to ensure transport facilities or put a temporary stop to the valuation camps. Masks and sanitisers have been made available to teachers. Two batches of five teachers each are conducting the evaluation in one classroom or hall. Teachers who reach the camps at 8 a.m., ahead of the scheduled start at 9.30 a.m., have been permitted to do more than the 26 stipulated papers a day.
14 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Summer showers take their toll on farm sector||The scorching heat of the initial summer weeks and the heavy rainfall which has since then steadily lashed Kerala are taking their toll on the farm sector, which is already reeling under the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. While a detailed assessment of the damage in terms of monetary loss and area-wise impact is still in progress, preliminary data from the districts reveal crop loss in over 30,800 hectares, affecting 1.28 lakh farmers in 14 districts between March 1 and May 12. Leaves it mark on crops The summer rainfall has left its mark on most of the crops, including paddy, coconut and vegetables, but the worst-hit are banana and nutmeg. Most of the agrarian districts, including Idukki, Wayanad, Thrissur, Alappuzha and Thrissur, had received copious rainfall this season. “We are in the process of assessing the losses. Crop loss is normally reported during the summer showers, although its impact varies every year. This year, nutmeg and banana farmers have been badly hit. We are collecting reports from the farmers to arrive at a consolidated picture of the damage,” Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar said. In April, the Agriculture Department had announced plans to bring 25,000 hectares of cultivable fallow land under food crop production as part of preventing a post-lockdown food shortage in the State. Under this initiative, paddy, vegetables, fruits, tuber crops, pulses and millets will be grown with the help of farmers, NRI returnees, NGOs and the youth.
14 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Local bodies facing double whammy||A heavy influx of Non-Resident Indians and Keralites (NoRKs) residing in other States to their home towns on easing the lockdown curbs have dealt a double whammy to the local bodies. Elected members and officials of local bodies who have been tasked to monitor and take care of those placed on institutional and home quarantine and also those placed on observation are finding the going tough, mainly for want of resources and also on the surge of complaints from those reaching the centres about the facilities arranged for accommodating them. The members and officials are striving hard to find accommodation, for sourcing funds and are also risking their own lives while closely interacting with those accommodated at the centres. But some of those in quarantine tend to gloss over such risks and cry hoax over minor issues, sources said. Protocol A spurt in complaints from those made to go on institutional quarantine and the demand for providing cosy accommodation and other facilities are perplexing the local body members and many fear that those not satisfied may go out in search of better facilities, violating the protocol. Much more than in urban centres, members of rural local bodies are finding the going even more tough. On condition of anonymity some of them revealed that a change in the profile of visitors, especially NRIs, reaching the quarantine centres is vexing those who are putting in a selfless service to contain the virus spread. Some of them refused to reveal the nature of the complaints fearing their political foes may use it to their advantage. The only option is to reiterate the need for keeping aloof, making minor sacrifices as part of the containment activities. A real picture about the gravity of the situation and the imperative for adjusting themselves with the facilities provided within the available time should be provided to those being quarantined by the respective district administration before being taken to such centres, sources said. The only solace is the government announcement that Plan funds could be used for such efforts. Still, the local bodies would have to garner additional resources for managing the centres as well as community kitchens and other facilities, sources said.
14 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Doha flight brings 181 NRIs||The maiden repatriation flight under the Vande Bharat Mission to the Thiruvananthapuram international airport arrived in the early hours of Wednesday with 181 Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) from Doha. The IX 0374 flight of Air India Express touched down at 1 a.m. Of the passengers, 18 were from adjoining Tamil Nadu, one each was from Karnataka and Maharashtra and the rest were Keralites, mainly from Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta districts. Home quarantine Of the 80 passengers allowed to go for home quarantine, 39 were pregnant women, 18 children and two senior citizens. As many as 81 opted for government quarantine facility. Those from other districts were sent by KSRTC buses from the airport itself. Tamil Nadu had arranged a bus for its natives. One of the flyers who had come in contact with a COVID-19 patient while in Qatar and one pregnant woman were hospitalised.
14 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||INTUC protest against dilution of labour laws||Flaying BJP-ruled States for diluting labour laws to subserve the interests of corporates, Indian National Trade Union Congress vice president R. Chandrasekharan said here on Wednesday that trade unions in the country would join hands to approach the Supreme Court against the move. Inaugurating a dharna before Raj Bhavan, he said the unions would launch a nationwide agitation against the move to suspend their rights and increase the working hours. The BJP government, he said, would have to face a severe setback if it went ahead with the efforts to dilute labour laws under cover of the COVID-19 crisis. Mr.Chandrasekharan called on the Central government to strengthen the agricultural and industrial sectors and empower workers instead of stripping them of their rights. He added that the trade unions would also move the International Labour Organization against the attempt to increase the working hours. INTUC district president V.R.Prathapan presided.
14 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Many Keralites in US awaiting evacuation||Anxiety looms large among several Keralites in the United States of America who await repatriation with their extended stay there becoming untenable due to the COVID-19 situation. Around 900 Keralites have reportedly registered to return to the State under the ongoing evacuation mission. Besides pregnant women, elderly people and students, the registrants include people whose visas and residential lease agreements have expired. Visa expired Prashanth Venugopalan, an IT professional in Houston, Texas, had planned to return along with his eight-month pregnant wife and six-year-old daughter on March 29 following the expiry of his H1-B visa. However, the suspension of flights to India affected the family’s travel plan. Making matters worse, the lease period of his accommodation is about to end. The Thiruvananthapuram native had decided against flying to Mumbai, Hyderabad, Chennai, Delhi or Bengaluru during the first phase of evacuation. “As my wife is nearing her due date of delivery, we did not want to fly to an unfamiliar place where none of our relatives would be able to reach due to the lockdown,” Mr. Venugopalan said. The family is now pinning its hopes on the possibility of a direct or connecting flight to Kerala during the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission.
14 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Now, post offices to provide MVD services||Services being offered by the 80 offices of the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) will soon be available through the 5,000-odd post offices across the State. For offering the services to motorists, MVD e-seva kendras will come up at post offices. These centres will be manned by personnel of India Post. Apart from the fee notified for the services by the MVD, postal authorities will collect an additional service charge. Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran gave the nod for the project after a meeting here on Tuesday. Chief Post Master General Sarada Sampath, who attended the meeting along with Principal Secretary, Transport, K.R. Jyothilal and State Transport Commissioner R. Sreelekha, has been asked to submit a report on the modalities of the project, official sources told The Hindu . The new innovative role for post offices in Kerala is coming at a time of technological innovations that have sidelined the role of post office’s role as a communication channel and they are being developed as common services centres. For the MVD, no additional infrastructure needs to be created at the post offices and only India Post personnel should be trained. Of the 5,000 post offices, 1,500 are full-fledged and manned by more than one personnel. Apart from providing postal, banking, and insurance services, post offices can upgrade into single access points in future, offering e-services of various departments. In the United Kingdom, citizens get the services through post offices.
14 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SSLC, VHSE exams from May 26, HSE May 27||The dates for the remaining SSLC, Higher Secondary Education (HSE), and Vocational Higher Secondary Education (VHSE) examinations have been announced. The government on Wednesday issued the revised notification for the examinations that were put on hold owing to the lockdown. The SSLC examinations will be held from May 26 to 28. The Plus One and Plus Two examinations will be conducted from May 27 to 30. The VHSE examinations will be held from May 26 to 30. Students will appear for the SSLC Mathematics paper on May 26, Physics on May 27, and Chemistry on May 28. All the examinations will be held in the afternoon. The first 15 minutes from 1.45 p.m. will be cool-off time. The Technical High School Leaving Certificate (THSLC) examinations will be held in the afternoon from May 26 to 29 — Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, and Electronics Trade Theory (in order of dates). The SSLC (Hearing Impaired) examinations will be held from 1.45 p.m. on May 26 and 27. The Mathematics paper will be followed by Physics. The Hearing Impaired Engineering Drawing/Composing examination will be held on May 26. The Art High School Leaving Certificate Examination will be held in the afternoon from May 26 to 28. The Mathematics examination on May 26, will be followed by arts subjects the next day, and literature on May 28. The new dates for the higher secondary examinations are a departure from the earlier decision to start the examinations on May 21. While the Plus One examinations will be held both in the morning and afternoon, the Plus Two papers will be held entirely in the morning. Plus One The Plus One VHSE examinations too will be held both in the morning and afternoon hours, while the Plus Two examinations will be held entirely in the morning. The Plus One Entrepreneurship Development examination on May 26 will be followed by Accountancy/Geography on May 27, Economics on May 28, Physics (1.45 p.m.) the next day, and Chemistry/Management (1.45 p.m.) on May 30. The Plus Two VHSE examination will begin with Entrepreneurship Development/GFC on May 26, followed by Biology on May 27, Business Studies the next day, History and Mathematics on May 29 and May 30, respectively. Details of all students who are likely to face difficulties in reaching the examination centres are being collected, along with those who are stranded somewhere and those returning from the Gulf region and Lakshadweep so that they can be provided the option of selecting examination centres convenient to them. Notification on these will be issued in a few days. All steps for conducting the examinations as per the COVID-19 advisory of the Health Department such as observance of social distancing, use of masks, and sanitisers would be taken
14 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rain to continue||Rain is likely to continue in most districts, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasts. Idukki and a number of other districts can expect isolated heavy rainfall in the days ahead. Yellow alerts indicating this possibility has been issued for Idukki till Sunday, Ernakulam and Palakkad on Saturday and Sunday, Malappuram on Friday and Alappuzha on Sunday. Squally weather persists along the coasts of Kerala, the Maldives and Lakshadweep. Fishermen have been asked to stay away from these areas.
14 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Masks must at workplace||The police have decided to initiate stern action against people who fail to wear masks in public places and at workplace. State Police Chief Loknath Behera has issued instructions in this regard to District Police Chiefs and Station House Officers.
14 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Advisory to special train passengers||Railways have asked passengers travelling on special trains to and from New Delhi to Thiruvananthpuram Central to carry hand sanitisers and wear masks throughout the journey. Commuters should not move around coaches unnecessarily, stand near doors and avoid littering inside the coaches, a travel advisory says. Hands must be sanitised or washed frequently and unnecessary touching of objects like door handles avoided. Passengers should not spit in vestibule areas and from doors and windows. Social distancing should be observed inside the train and at station. Passengers should reach the station 90 minutes before the departure of the train and install Aarogya Setu app in their phones.
14 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||1.09 crore saplings to be planted||The government has unveiled an ambitious programme to plant 1.09 crore saplings over a period of one year to enhance the green cover and protect the environment. As many as 81 lakh saplings will be planted on World Environment Day on June 5. In the second phase from July 1 to 7, as many as 28 lakh saplings will be planted. The Forest and Agriculture Departments together have prepared bulk of the saplings for the project. Another 12 lakh have been prepared under the employment guarantee programme. A meeting convened by the Chief Minister on Wednesday reviewed the arrangements for the initiative. About 75% of the saplings will be supplied to households free of cost.
14 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Isaac rejects Centre’s new package||The Rs. 20,000-crore Central package does not have any component that will directly put cash into the hands of the people, said Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac on Wednesday. Dr. Isaac said shops, industries and other institutions would resume work only on enhancing the spending capacity of the people. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said banks would give more loans. This was no solution. Banks have been entrusted with disbursing loans for Rs. 3 lakh crore to MSMEs, but banks seem to have stopped lending since the crisis began. Kerala had proposed an interest waiver and an extension of repayment of loans for farmers and the MSMEs, for which it would have to apportion Rs. 1.75 lakh crore. It has not been included in the package, he said.
14 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Directive to complete work||Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran has asked officials to complete pre-monsoon related works on road corridors maintained by the Public Works Department before May 31. In an interaction via video link with executive engineers on Wednesday, the Minister asked them to ensure that there was no flooding in the road corridors. Additional Chief Secretary Public Works T.K. Jose took part in the meeting.
14 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||MP’s charge||The State government was neglecting the needs of Non-Resident Indians who returned home due to the COVID-19 pandemic, T.N. Prathapan, MP, has alleged. “The government has failed to arrange sufficient facilities at the quarantine centres,” he said.
14 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Cops under observation||Six police personnel who rescued an NRI family from Doha involved in a car accident at Koratty on Tuesday night are under observation. The family was going to Chelakkara from Nedumbassery when the car overturned on the National Highway. The Koratty police station was disinfected as the family spent some time there after the accident.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Mother and child test positive in Wayanad||A 26-year-old woman and her five-year-old daughter from Panavally of Thirunelly grama panchayat tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 13. They were admitted to the COVID hospital at Mananthavady, R. Renuka, District Medical Officer said. Apart from this, two civil police officers – a 42-year-old officer from Kelakam in Kannur and a 31-year-old officer from Peruvallur in Malappuram who were on duty at Mananthavady police station – were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, Dr. Renuka said. They were admitted in COVID hospitals in Kannur and Malappuram districts respectively, she said. The woman and her child had primary contact with her father, a truck driver, who had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 after his recent visit to Chennai, Dr. Renuka said. In Malappuram Two more expatriates who returned home in the district in special flights from the Gulf were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. District Collector Jafar Malik said that a 50-year-old man from Purangu, near Maranjeri, and a 64-year-old man from Tavanur had returned from the Gulf on May 7. The Purangu man returned from Abu Dhabi to Kochi and the Tavanur man returned from Dubai to Karipur. Both of them were shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri. The number of Malappuramites who returned from the Gulf with COVID-19 has risen to eight. The Purangu man was a tailor at Abu Dhabi. He returned on Air India Express flight IX-452 to Nedumbassery on May 7 night. He was shifted to a COVID care centre on the Calicut University campus along with 13 others. He was admitted to the medical college hospital on May 10 when he started coughing. And he tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. In Palakkad Two more persons who returned to the district from Chennai tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. They were part of a nine-member group which arrived from Chennai on May 6. A 50-year-old man from Sreekrishnapuram had tested positive on May 11. On Wednesday, two of his co-passengers from Kadambazhipuram and Sreekrishnapuram were confirmed to have contracted the virus. They were 62 and 39 years of age respectively. District Medical Officer K.P. Reeta said that with this, the number of COVID-19 cases in the district had risen to three. In Kozhikode A 37-year-old native of Vadakara, who returned from Bahrain on May 12, was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. A release said he had been shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital soon after his arrival after he exhibited symptoms. The number of COVID-19 patients in Kozhikode district has gone up to 25 now.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Free fall||
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back to work||
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Last of the first phase||
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Taking no chances||
14 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur quarantines 1,329 persons||The district administration has quarantined 1,329 persons at various places after they arrived from other States and districts, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu has said. He said migrant labourers, tourists, and students, who had arrived here in various modes of transport, had been accommodated in government-run quarantine centres with all facilities. None of them would be allowed to go home without being tested, the Collector added. In all, 659 labourers from Mumbai, 24 students from Osmanabad, 31 tourists from Ajmer in Rajasthan, 25 tourists from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, 21 Navodaya Vidyalaya students, 58 passengers from Gujarat and 4 teachers along with 8 students from Rajasthan Agriculture College arrived in the district. As many as 499 people, including 378 farm workers from Guntur district and students from other districts who arrived in the district were being tested in the quarantine centres, and after 14 days of quarantine stay, they would be tested again before being let off, he added. 3 more cases Three new cases of COVID19 positive cases were reported on Wednesday, while three patients got discharged from the RDT COVID Hospital at Bathalapalli. With the three new positive cases, the total has gone up to 145 (118 + 27 others).
14 May 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘250 people hit by gas leak fit for discharge’||A day after some gas leak victims undergoing treatment at the King George Hospital (KGH) refused to go home after treatment, hospital Superintendent G. Arjuna on Wednesday said that as 250 of the 288 patients are fit for discharge. Notwithstanding the reassurance of doctors, many patients pleaded with the doctors not to discharge them, citing persisting smell of gas in their villages and symptoms such as giddiness. “As many as 250 of the 288 gas leak victims are fit for discharge. However, some of them want to remain in the hospital for some more time saying that there are having burning sensation in their chest, dizziness and other problems,” said Dr. Arjuna. Some patients staged a protest at KGH on Tuesday evening alleging that they were being discharged deliberately early as the government wanted to give lesser compensation. “Some victims have, however, expressed their readiness to get discharged and meet their family members back home,” he said. Equipment issue Most of the victims suffered skin rashes. An expert committee has been appointed by the government under the chairmanship of P.V. Sudhakar, principal of Andhra Medical College, to study the long-term effects on the health of the victims. Meanwhile, it is learnt that the equipment needed to perform the urine mandelic acid test is available only in Mumbai. Mandelic acid is an important metabolite of styrene. Measurement of concentration in urine helps assess overall styrene exposure, sources said. 24/7 YSR Clinic “The expert committee will study various health aspects of the victims for a year. In addition to the area hospitals at Gopalapatnam and Pendurthi, the government is planning to construct a 24/7 YSR Clinic at Venkatapuram,” said Dr. Arjuna. “Parents of a few children are not willing to take them home saying that gas smell is still hanging in the air. Most of the children were admitted with complaints of vomiting, loss of consciousness and lightheadedness. A few of them who are still under treatment are suffering from pneumonia, conjunctivitis and photo phobia,” said P. Venugopal, Head of the Department of Paediatrics of KGH.
14 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC rejects PIL plea against ‘hate speeches’||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday declined to entertain a PIL petition seeking directions to the State and Central governments to take action against political leaders for allegedly giving “hate speech” targeting members of a minority community in connection with the spread of COVID-19, and the media houses for telecasting and reporting such statements. A Division Bench comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice M.G. Uma, while dismissing the petition, said there were sufficient and effective remedies available in various enactments that the petitioners and the aggrieved persons could set in motion in connection with the instances of incitements. The PIL was filed by Campaign Against Hate Speech (CAHS), an unregistered organisation, A.R. Vasavi, a social anthropologist, and Swathi Sheshadri, a researcher, all based in Bengaluru. The Bench noted that substantive remedies were available under the Indian Penal Code, Representation of Peoples Act, Information Technology Act, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, Cable TV Networks (Regulations) Act, and other legislations. “... it is also to be borne in mind that there is no legislation on hate speech. It is for Parliament to define ‘hate speech’. In the absence of legislation, it would not be proper for the High Court to make substantive analysis and issue direction on the claims of hate speeches,” the Bench observed. The High Court cannot issue directions under Article 226 of the Constitution of India merely on the basis of claimed impact of instances of incitement on society in general or on certain sections, the Bench said. It said that the State and Union governments have power under Article 19(2) of the Constitution for breach of reasonable restriction on freedom of speech and expression.  CAHS contention The petitioners had contended that the authorities of the State and Union governments had failed to consider various representations given by CAHS, pointing out instances of hate speech in the media, including social media platforms, and to initiate action against them.The media coverage and statements of the political leaders had resulted in several instances where the minority community had been economically and socially boycotted, CAHS contended in the petition.
14 May 2020||Chennai/Bengaluru/Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five succumb to coronavirus in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka||Karnataka reported two more COVID-19 deaths, from Kalaburagi and Dakshina Kannada. Andhra Pradesh witnessed one more death due to the virus and reported 48 fresh cases on Wednesday. Eight of the new cases were migrant workers from Odisha and seven from Chittoor and, East Godavari had visited Chennai’s Koyambedu market. The State’s tally rose to 2,137 and the toll touched 47. Also, 86 persons from Guntur (27), Krishna (25), Kurnool (13), Kadapa (10), East Godavari (4), West Godavari (4), Anantapur (1), Nellore (1) and Srikakulam (1) recovered and were discharged, bringing recoveries to 1, 142. Also, 948 patients were under treatment in hospitals. New cases were from Guntur (12), Chittoor (11), Kurnool (7), East Godavari (4), Anantapur (3) and Krishna (3). With 9,284 samples tested over 24 hours Andhra Pradesh had carried out 2,01,158 tests. The first one lakh tests were in the first 51 days since the first case and 1,463 of them were positive: a positivity rate was 1.4%. In the next 12 days, the rest of the tests followed and 674 samples tested positive, a rate of 0.68%. The district tallies were: Kurnool (591), Guntur (399), Krishna (349), Chittoor (142), Anantapur (118), Nellore (111), Kadapa (97), West Godavari (68), Visakhapatnam (66), Prakasam (63), East Godavari (51), and Srikakulam (5), Vizianagaram (4) and other State cases, 73. Ten more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Kerala on Wednesday, including six who were either expatriates or those who had come home from other States. With the two additional fatalities, Karnataka’s toll rose to 33. A 60-year-old man from a containment zone in Kalaburagi and a 58-year-old woman from Dakshina Kannada died, even as 34 new positive cases were reported on Wednesday, raising the State’s tally to 959. The Kalaburagi resident was brought dead to a designated hospital on May 11 and his samples later tested positive. The woman victim, who was suffering from tuberculosis meningitis, was shifted from a private hospital to a government facility on April 24 and was in the ICU. She succumbed on Wednesday. Of the 34 new cases, most were from containment zones in various districts. The new cases included 12 from Bidar, eight from Kalaburagi, four from a single family in Hassan, two each from Davangere, Uttara Kannada, Vijayapura and Bengaluru Urban, and one each from Dakshina Kannada and Ballari. While Hassan cases had a travel history to Mumbai, the two in Bengaluru Urban included a nurse from Victoria Hospital and a 24-year-old man who returned from London on Monday. Following a meeting by Health Minister B. Sriramulu, with representatives from private hospitals and speciality associations, private hospitals agreed to start treatment of non-COVID-19 cases from Thursday. The spike in the COVID cases continued for another day in Telangana with 41 more persons testing positive to the virus on Wednesday, taking the total number of affected persons to 1,367. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area continued to be the focal point in virus spread with 31 more cases being reported during the day while the number of migrant workers returning to the State is turning out to be the major inflection point for the third consecutive day. Three deaths in T.N. Three men, all in their 40s, died in Chennai and Tamil Nadu’s overall tally of COVID-19 cases surpassed the 9,000-mark with 509 new cases added on Wednesday. After three days of reporting more than 500 cases, the number of cases marginally dipped to 380 in Chennai, and its case count climbed to 5,262. With the fresh cases — 288 men and 221 women — reported in 16 districts across Tamil Nadu, the State’s total number of cases stood at 9,227. The total number of deaths due to COVID-19 increased to 64. A bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine said, a 41-year-old resident of Chennai died at the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on May 12.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad and Chennai and Thiruvananthapuram Bureaus)
14 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||11 new cases surface in Chittoor district||Chittoor district registered eleven positive cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday taking the total number to 142. Of them, seven cases were reported from Srikalahasti, two from Varadaiahpalem mandal, one each from Thottambedu and Madanapalle mandals. According to officials, the new cases included six members of a family from Srikalahasti. A youth in the family, a student at a college in Guntur, who contracted the virus, visited the house at Srikalhasti recently, thus transmitting it to others in the family. His friend also tested positive. In Madanapalle, a person, who distributed invitation cards for his daughter’s marriage, tested positive. The officials are on the job of tracing those who received the cards from him. Of the fresh cases reported on Wednesday, four had the Koyambedu link. While those tested positive were shifted to COVID hospital at Tirupati, the persons with possible secondary contracts were sent for quarantine centres in their respective areas. In view of the steady increase of the cases after the Koyambedu episode, Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar has formed special teams in Satyavedu, Pichatur, Nagalapuram, Nindra, Nagari, Puttur, V. Kota, and Madanapalle mandals to identify the persons, mostly small traders of vegetables, besides appealing to the public to go for tests voluntarily. So far, the police have zeroed in on about 1,000 persons who travelled to Chennai since April 20. Senior IAS officer R.P. Sisodia on Wednesday made a whirlwind tour of the red zones from V. Kota to Satyavedu in the district. He said the number of samples being collected from people who are suspected to ahve contracted the vrus had increased. In Satyavedu circle, a wine shop at Dasukuppam village, an intersection zone close to Tamil Nadu border, was closed on the request of local MLA Koneti Adimulam following a constant flow people from across the border. Three discharged Meanwhile, three persons were discharged from the district hospital in Chittoor on Wednesday. They included two from Srikalahasti and one from Ambur in Tamil Nadu. According to District Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta, of the total 142 cases in district, 77 persons have been discharged so far, while 65 are undergoing treatment and would be discharged in phases.
14 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Emotional scenes at Chittoor station as migrant workers leave for Odisha||The joy of 1,413 migrants workers knew no bounds when a Shramik Rail special carrying them left Chittoor for Bhadrak in Odisha at 3 p.m. on Wednesday. The workers were held up at various places in the district following COVID-19 lockdown since March 24. The special train was scheduled to leave Chittoor on Saturday, but was cancelled in the backdrop of Visakhapatnam gas leak incident. Medical tests A group of about 500 workers who were mustered from the Tirupati urban limits were shifted to the shelters at Chittoor, facilitating their journey on Wednesday. Similarly, the workers hailing from various parts of Odisha and working at different places in Chittoor district were made to register their names through Spandana website by revenue officials, and e-passes issued. Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta said three days prior to their journey, all the migrant workers underwent tests for COVID-19. The workers who boarded the train were subjected to thermal scanning at the entrance of the railway station. They were instructed to strictly follow social distancing norms and sanitisation of hands. Food packets and drinking water was provided to them, while in course of their journey, their requirements would be met at specified halting stations en route, the official said. As the train rolled out, jubilant workers waved their hands to the revenue, police and medical officials on the platform. The workers expressed their wish to return to Chittoor once the lockdown was lifted and things improved. The personnel of the Government Railway Police (GRP) and Railway Protection Force (RPF) escorted the train.
14 May 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polavaram works severely hit as migrant workers leave||Work on the Polavaram project has been hit due to the lockdown as more than 1,000 migrant workers engaged at the work site have left for their home States. In all, 2,161 workers have been engaged for various works such as spillway, cofferdam and earth-cum-rockfill dam. Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (MEIL) has taken up the works. The government has set a target to complete the project by 2021. Recently, the migrants from Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Assam engaged at the site staged protest demanding that they be sent to their native places. Collector Revu Mutyala Raju, SP Navdeep Singh Grewal, Deputy Labour Commissioner M. Sunitha, and other officials held discussions with them a few days ago and tried in vain to convince them to stay back. Many workers left the Polavaram village on foot. ‘Target will be met’ Speaking to The Hindu on Wednesday, Polavaram MLA Tellam Bala Raju said the workers promised to return soon. “The works will be completed as per the schedule,” he added. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is monitoring the works regularly. The machinery works are under progress,” Mr. Bala Raju said. Jangareddygudem Revenue Divisional Officer Y.N. Prasanna Lakshmi said 1,200 workers registered themselves for returning to their home States, 509 of them from Bihar, 93 from Odisha, 80 from Chhattisgarh, and others from Jharkhand, West Bengal and other States. “About 150 workers agreed to stay back. We arranged transport facility for the others,” Ms. Sunitha said. MEIL media relations personnel said that they were making efforts to resume work soon.
14 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrange direct flights for Gulf returnees from State: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has urged Minister for External Affairs S. Jaishankar to arrange direct flights to Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, and Tirupati airports to facilitate travel of hundreds of workers stuck in Kuwait and other Gulf countries. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy wrote a letter to the Union Minister, urging him to arrange more number of flights so that the workers could safely travel back home. “I wholeheartedly appreciate the gesture of flying back stranded Indians out of the Gulf countries by arranging special ‘Vande Bharat’ flights. While some of the Indians are using this facility by spending their own money, 2,500 workers from A.P. are unable to buy tickets. The Government of Kuwait has waived off immigration fee and has given exit clearances, but still they are unable to fund their travel. Now, since the Government of Kuwait has agreed to bear their travel expenses, I urge you to arrange direct flights to Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada and Tirupati,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Stating that most of the workers had been living in dire conditions at makeshift camps, he also mentioned that the State government was ready to receive them, test and place them in quarantine facility after their arrival. He also appealed to extend the facility to those stuck in other Middle East countries.
14 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||12 new cases emerge in Guntur||Twelve new cases reported from Guntur district taking the toll to 399 cases as the nationwide lockdown enters the fourth stage, according to the bulletin released at 10 a.m. Four of the 12 new cases, are reported from Prakasah Nagar at Tadepalli and are linked to a man who died at Machavaram in Vijayawada. The man had recently died and his funeral was held at Tadepalli. All the four persons were believed to be secondary contacts of the man who died in Vijayawada. Six fresh cases were reported from Narasaraopet. Two new cases have been reported from Guntur city, one each at China Bazaar and Bara Imam Panja. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar and SP, Guntur Urban, P.H.D. Ramakrishna, visited Tadepalli and inspected the quarantine facilities. Addressing a review meeting held in Tadepalli, the Collector said that the cluster containment strategy should be followed to ensure that the infection did not spread to other parts of the town. All the remaining primary and secondary contacts of the deceased should be tested and if necessary quarantined, he said.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Community transmission feared in Hyderabad locality||As the lockdown restrictions are being phased out one by one, unspoken are the fears about community transmission of COVID-19 across the city. Indications of Stage-III community transmission are already palpable in a few areas, though authorities have not admitted it so far. Jiyaguda is one such locality where no single reason for the rampant spread could be zeroed in so far by the authorities. All that the officials could do was to make surmises based on the patients’ movements. With nine containment zones, close to 70 persons testing positive for coronavirus, and seven deaths, Jiyaguda is one among the worst affected areas in the city. Very recently, 27 persons who are the kin of COVID-19 index cases from here tested positive in a single day. The infection could be sourced for a few cases here. According to officials, the first case was that of a person from Uttar Pradesh, who had travel history to Agra and to Delhi from there. From Delhi, he boarded Telangana Express to the city, where, officials surmise, he might have contracted the infection. One more person who had travelled to UP for brother’s marriage has tested positive too, sources say. The source of infection remains even more obscure for others. Among them is a vegetable seller from the Sabji Mandi of Jiyaguda who had tested positive. From him, 12 of his family members contracted the virus. Two more vendors of betel leaves too tested positive, forcing authorities to close down the market, sources informed. Bank visits A person who worked in a paan shop at Somajiguda was also diagnosed positive. He and three others were surmised to have contracted the virus from a Karwan mosque where they went to pray. “People seemed to have also got infected at a public sector bank’s local branch where they went to withdraw money deposited by the government,” an official said under the condition of anonymity. Missing trail Evidence of Stage-III transmission comes from other localities too. A fresh case surfaced in Dhobighat, Yakutpura where the infection trail is missing. The patient in question went to a corporate hospital in Jubilee Hills with fever, where his samples were collected and sent for testing. His daughter, too, contracted the virus from him. In Vanasthalipuram, 10 persons who bought milk from an infected person have tested positive when they approached with symptoms, officials said. Many others who might have bought from the same person have remained anonymous, as they may have been asymptomatic, and no efforts are made to trace them out. “Community transmission has already started, owing to several asymptomatic patients moving around without any restrictions. With more relaxations in lockdown, we dread that the situation could go out of hand,” an official monitoring the situation said.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana BJP, Cong. oppose Pothireddypadu regulator work||Top Telangana BJP leaders led by party president Bandi Sanjay took up a one-day fast in protest against the Telangana government’s failure to halt the Andhra Pradesh government from taking up capacity enhancement of the Pothireddypadu head regulator lift irrigation scheme on Wednesday. While Mr. Sanjay took up the fast at the party office in Nampally, other leaders were protesting in their respective homes across the State. The party leadership condemned AP government’s decision and also criticised the TS government for its “failure” to prevent the neighbouring State from going ahead with the construction of increasing the capacity of the head regulator enabling drawing of more water from Srisailam reservoir which goes against the Krishna River Management Boad (KRMB) and Brijesh Kumar tribunal orders. If the works are allowed to go ahead, farmers in Khammam, Rangareddy, Nalgonda and Mahabubnagar would be affected. “ Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao does not seem to be bothered about this development though it affects the irrigation interests of Telangana. His friendship with AP CM Jaganmohan Reddy and secret pacts led to this situation. We have not been able to fully utilise the 299 TMC water allocated by the KRMB,” charged Mr. Sanjay. The BJP accused the AP government of lifting 44,000 cusecs of water illegally instead of the permitted 11,000 cusecs from Srisailam and this was being enhanced to lift 80,000 cusecs through the latest government orders issued there. The party pointed out that TS has more ayacut and catchment area of Krishna than AP, hence needed more water. Former MLC P Sudharkar Reddy also took the opportunity to demand withdrawal of irrigation tenders for Kaleshwaram and Sitarama Sagar multipurpose project. In a separate statement, city president & MLC N. Ramchander Rao has urged the city police commissioner to immediately take steps to ensure lockdown norms are strictly enforced in several parts of the twin cities considering that there has been a spike in cases.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS takes water diversion issue to KRMB notice||The Telangana government, which has objected to the plans of A.P. to divert 8 tmcft water per day from Srisailam without allegedly obtaining the approval of the Apex Council and the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB), has explained the “injustice planned to be heaped by A.P. on it (Telangana)” to the KRMB. Principal Secretary (Irrigation) Rajat Kumar met KRMB Chairman J. Chandrashekhar Iyer on Wednesday, and described in detail the injustice likely to be done by A.P. to Telangana with its plans to divert huge quantity of Krishna water without approval. Mr. Kumar said Telangana had been requesting the board to set up the telemetry equipment to account for water drawals by A.P. from the Pothireddypadu system, but it remained unheeded. He was understood to have pointed out that the sharing ratio of 512:299 tmcft by A.P. and Telangana was only a temporary arrangement, and that Telangana had already been arguing for higher allocation before the Brijesh Kumar Tribunal. Mr. Kumar explained that the catchment area of the Krishna in Telangana was much higher compared to A.P. and natural justice would be to allocate more water, at least 575 tmcft, to it on that account, as was being done in the case of the upper riparian States of Karnataka and Maharashtra. He told the KRMB Chairman that the basin areas in Telangana would suffer badly, both in terms of drinking water and irrigation, if A.P. went ahead with its plans to divert water to outside the basin at the cost of basin habitants. Irrigation officials said Mr. Kumar requested the KRMB to restrain A.P. from taking up new project before settling the disputes.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||CSIR-IICT signs pact with Carbanio||CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) has entered into a memorandum of understanding with Carbanio, a business-to-business chemical marketplace, to work together for anti-COVID-19 solutions. The research and development work at IICT on re-purposing of drugs such as Favipiravir, Remdesivir and Hydroxychloroquine as solutions in collaboration with pharmaceutical companies was facilitated with an unhindered supply chain of raw materials by Carbanio during the lockdown period, director S. Chandrasekhar said. The timely support extended by Carbanio, country’s leading B2B chemicals marketplace, founded by Rafi S in catering to the demand of all raw materials and the key building blocks as per custom requirements is of great help for the COVID-19 research, he explained. Mr. Chandrasekhar stated that the institute scientists working on COVID-19 projects have realised the potential of digital platforms in quick chemicals sourcing, which is the key to meet the challenges of milestone deliverables of projects, and hence, there was a need to enhance the collaboration with Carbanio. Carbanio has a strong customer base and has been recognised by the Union Government’s Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade. It has over 51 lakh (5.1 million) chemical products from sellers from all States and also offers unused chemicals for free to research institutions that quench costs and make R&D affordable, he added.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doctor drives woman to PHC, performs delivery||A doctor in Mahbubabad used his vehicle to drive a pregnant woman to a Primary Health Centre (PHC) for delivery. Dr Mohd. Mukram, medical officer of the PHC in Gangaram, also performed the delivery. The 28-year-old woman gave birth to a girl late on Tuesday night. District Medical and Health Officer Sriram said as per established procedure, Accredited Social Health Activists and Auxiliary Nursing Midwives keep track of condition of women as their expected date of delivery approaches. The pregnant women are taken to the hospital before the due date in ‘108’ ambulances or ‘102’ vehicles. However, in case of the 28-year-old, health staff informed Dr Mukram about the woman experiencing labour pains at 8.30 p.m. on Tuesday and that she had to hospitalised immediately. Since 108 ambulances and 102 vehicles were busy, Dr Mukram used his own car. “The hamlet in Polaram village is located 20 km from the Gangaram PHC. We travelled through a narrow route running through a forest to reach there. We picked her up and reached the PHC by 9.45 p.m. She delivered the baby at around 10.30 p.m.,” Dr Mukram said. Both mother and child are doing well. Mahabubabad Collector V.P. Gautham appreciated Dr Mukaram’s efforts in these tough times. A total of 63 deliveries were performed at 20 PHCs in Mahabubabad in April and 53 deliveries between May 1 and 13.
14 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||114 drivers who visited T.N. market identified in E. Godavari||The East Godavari district authorities have identified as many as 114 drivers from the Konaseema region who visited the Koyambedu vegetable and fruit market in Tamil Nadu during the lockdown period. “Until now, as many as four drivers have been tested positive for COVID-19 in the Amalapuram Revenue Division and all of them had visited the market in the recent past,” East Godavari District Medical and Health Officer(DMHO) B. Satya Suseela told The Hindu. They were transporting coconut, banana, and tomato to the neighbouring State. “Till Wednesday, 56 of them have been traced while rest of the drivers are stranded in Tamil Nadu. Of the 56 who returned to Andhra Pradesh, 30 drivers are engaged in the transportation activity out of East Godavari. The other 26 drivers, who were here, have undergone the COVID-19 tests,” said Ms. Suseela. The Medical and Health and Revenue authorities have identified nearly 500 persons who had primary contact with the four persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Amalapuram region. Meanwhile, East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has appealed to the drivers to undergo the medical tests to break the chain of transmission in the district. “All the drivers who had travelled to Tamil Nadu should cooperate with the authorities and undergo the tests,” said Mr. Muralidhar.
14 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP team to visit mangrove forest in Kakinada||Peddapuram MLA Nimmakayala Chinarajappa and former Home Minister on Wednesday said a delegation of TDP leaders would visit the Kakinada mangrove forest on Friday. The government’s decision to utilise it for housing purpose has kicked up a row. Addressing a press conference here, Mr. Rajappa said the group consisting of senior leaders from different districts would inspect the mangrove cover to document the damage being done to the ecologically sensitive area. The MLA said the Kakinada mangrove forest, Kolamuru, and Burugupudi sites are not suitable for housing facility but the government was going ahead, “ ignoring the reality.” The former Home Minister lamented that the “excess power billing” had only added to the woes of people who were reeling under the impact of the lockdown.
14 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool slowly coming out of COVID-19 shadow||Kurnool district is slowly coming out of the shadow of COVID-19 with a large number of patients getting discharged every day and the number of new cases getting restricted to single digit. With seven new cases on Wednesday, the tally has gone up to 591 in the district. Six of these cases came from Kurnool city and one from Bethamcherla municipal limits, District Collector G. Veerapandian said. The district administration meanwhile, has focussed on setting up of new COVID Care Centres in the mandals — Yemmiganur and Adoni — where new cases have emerged With 20 persons getting discharged from various hospitals in the district on Wednesday, the total number of patients getting recovered from COVID-19 had gone up to 317, while 257 persons are currently getting treated in the hospitals. There was one COVID-19 death taking the total to 17. New centres The Collector inspected the progress of work on setting up of new COVID Care Centres and Quarantine Centres at Yemmiganur and Adoni TIDCO Housing clusters. With a number of positive patients showing up with mild symptoms or being asymptomatic, the district administration proposes to treat them closer to their native places in these centres. The first one in Kurnool was very successful, with many of the patients already getting discharged. Members of Central Health Team Madhumitha Dobe and Sanjay Kumar Sadhukhan on Wednesday visited containment zones and quarantine centres at Adarsh School in Kodumuru mandal and gave some tips to the medical fraternity and the volunteers. The police personnel have been implementing all the lockdown measures and doing the containment enforcement measures diligently, said Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli. In all, 5,361 cases were filed against 15,929 persons under different IPC Sections from March 23 to May 13 for opening shops.
14 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC prepares for ferrying foreign returnees from airports||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation(APSRTC) is getting ready for ferrying foreign returnees arriving at Hyderabad and Bengaluru airports by the flights arranged by the Central government. Several NRIs, tourists, and students, stuck in Europe, the United States and South Eastern countries during the lockdown are likely to arrive at these airports from May 16 or 17. Depending on the destination of these persons, the RTC Regional Managers of those districts will compile a list of people desirous of availing its services. Online application form “The returnees need to fill an application on the ‘Spandana’ website, with details including their preferred mode of transport- public or private. These applications will be sent to the authorities for approval, which will be given depending on a district’s capacity to accommodate the returnees in the quarantine centres after screening,” said Kurnool Regional Manager T. Venkataramam. Limited seats Those registering on the Spandana website would get an option to choose Indra, Super Luxury or other buses with relevant fare. “Each bus will carry only 20 persons and a booking option for alternate seat numbers (1,3,5…) will be enabled,” the RM added. Alternate seats would be marked with a red sticker to indicate where a person can sit. Kurnool district has a capability to accommodate 200 foreign returnees in quarantine centres for 14 days, Mr. Venkataramam said. So the number of buses to be pressed into service would be 10. Anantapur Regional Manager Sumanth R. Adoni said while the region had not received any request, the Karnataka government proposes to quarantine all people coming from foreign countries for 14 days, hence it was not clear if buses could be run from May 16 or 17.
14 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana need not worry about diversion of Krishna waters: MLA||The special GO brought out by Andhra Pradesh to draw 80,000 cusecs of Krishna water from Pothireddypadu Head Regulator of Srisailam Reservoir should not be a cause of concern for Telangana as the withdrawal will be within the quantum of water allocated by the Krishna River Management Board(KRMB), said Nandikotkur MLA Thoguru Arthur on Wednesday. Reacting to the controversy with regard to State’s proposed withdrawal of additional water from Krishna river, he said it would be only from the flood waters that the river gets for at the most 10 days in a year. The total quantum of allocated water will, however, be within the limits fixed and mutually agreed quantities, he said. After visiting the Pothireddypadu Head Regulator on Wednesday along with farmers and YSRCP leaders, he thanked the late chief minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy for bringing water to the parched Rayalaseema region by developing the capacity to draw 44,000 cusecs, which later was increased to 80,000 cusecs by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, which was a welcome measure as thousands of farmers in Kurnool and Anantapur districts were eagerly waiting for the Krishna waters.  Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao knows the travails of Rayalaseema region farmers, hence he would act sensibly on this issue, he hoped.
14 May 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bribe charge: axe falls on two police constables||Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu on Wednesday suspended two constables for allegedly accepting a bribe for permitting illegal transportation of liquor and granting travel permission on the Andhra Pradesh-Telangana border in Krishna district. In an official release, Mr. Ravindranath Babu said the constables — J. Nagamalleswara Rao (PC-1140) and G. Ajay (PC-855) — had been found accepting a bribe of Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 500 each. Mr. Nagamalleswara Rao had been found accepting a bribe from a party that was illegally transporting liquor through Gampalagudem police limits on May 10.  Internal probe Mr. Ajay, posted at the agriculture market committee checkpost under Vissannapeta police limits, had been found accepting a bribe to allow a vehicle to enter the district despite the travellers not having the necessary permission, on May 8. The petitioner had captured the incident on his mobile phone and shared it with district police officials. “The decision to suspend the two constables has been taken based on an internal investigation by the respective DSPs,” the SP said.
14 May 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||No new cases in Nellore, Prakasam districts||The authorities heaved a sigh of relief as no fresh case was reported either in SRSP Nellore district or Prakasam district on Wednesday. However, an eerie calm prevailed in Stonehousepeta in Nellore as also Sullurpet where 13 persons having contact with traders from Koyambedu in Chennai had tested positive for COVID-19. People remained indoors as police strictly enforced the lockdown in the red zone areas. The number of active cases stood at 37 in SPSR Nellore district, where 77 persons have been cured of the disease. Traders did not open their shops even during the relaxation period in the morning in Stonehousepeta, the main market centre in Nellore. Joint Collector assumes charge All roads wore a deserted look in Sullurpet from where people used to frequently make visits to Chennai to eke out livelihood. Police blocked all entry and exit points as part of cluster containment strategy in the town. Over 200 primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons were subjected to testing. Assuming charge as Prakasam district Joint Collector on Wednesday, J. Venkata Murali said the district administration accorded top priority to revival of economic activity. So far, 60 patients had been cured of the disease in the district and the remaining three patients in the Government General Hospital were also responding well to treatment, he said after taking stock of the health situation. “We will ensure that normal life returns to the district and that there is no social discrimination of those who are cured of the disease,” he told the mediapersons.
14 May 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Worried tobacco growers seek Centre’s intervention||Farmers in Prakasam and SRSP Nellore districts have sought the intervention of the Union government as the lockdown-hit e-auctions made the market for the export-oriented crop in the traditional tobacco growing areas lacklustre. Though the e-auctions began on a low key in select auction platforms from February 27, a precious 40 working days were lost as the lockdown coincided with the peak marketing season. Farmers’ hopes soared when the e-auctions resumed in a phased manner in the 12 auction platforms, the latest being in D.C. Palli and Kaligiri from May 11, following relaxation in lockdown conditions. “Now we are a disappointed lot as the traders drive down the prices on the pretext of reduced global demand in the wake of the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic,” said YSRCP farmers’ wing Prakasam district president Mareddy Subba Reddy. The Centre, which announced Rs. 20 lakh crore economic revival package, should provide a hand-holding to the tobacco growers who could so far market only about 5 million kg of the produce of the total production of about 85 million kg in the SLS and SBS regions, he said. Delay in auctions as a result of lesser number of traders turning up at the platforms results in deterioration in the quality of the produce. “It is time the Centre intervened and ensured buoyancy in the market,” said another farmer leader V.V. Prasad. In the present situation the farmers would incur a loss of about Rs. 3 lakh per tobacco barn, he feared.
14 May 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 special trains to arrive in city today||Two special trains will reach Vijayawada railway station on Thursday, after a gap of 50 days. All the stations in the division have been closed during the lockdown period. Special train No.12434 New Delhi –Chennai Central will arrive Vijayawada station at 2.35 p.m and leave at 2.37 p.m. Boarding and deboarding passengers are there in the train, according to railway officials. Another special train from Jalandhar will reach Vijayawada around 11 a.m. on Thursday, and about 1,060 students are travelling in the train. The train will halt at Vijayawada station. The railway and the district officials have made medical, sanitisation, food and other arrangements for the passengers as per COVID-19 protocol. Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) P. Srinivas, Senior Divisional Security Commissioner Sachin Balode, Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha and other officials visited the station on Wednesday. The passengers should undergo tests and all the passengers who alight the special trains should go for 14 days quarantine and cooperate with the officials. The district administration has arranged buses to transport the passengers to the quarantine facility. The New Delhi-Chennai Central special train will halt at Chennai after Vijayawada station, the DRM said. The Tamil Nadu government has appealed to the railway authorities to submit the list of passengers bogie-wise who will deboard at Chennai Central station in the special train. Officials have asked the details such as name, contact address, phone number and choice of quarantine facility the passengers prefer.
14 May 2020||Staff ReporterVijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID relief: Bar Council invites applications||Andhra Pradesh Bar Council called online applications from advocates who are on rolls from January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2004, for financial assistance during the lockdown in the third phase. Council chairman Ghanta Rama Rao stated in a press release that the applications have to be submitted from May 14 to 16 on https://barcouncilap.org/financial-assistance-covid-19. The financial assistance will be extended out of the Bar Council of India Advocates Welfare Fund and the Indigent and Disabled Advocates Fund of Bar Council. Action will be taken under the Advocates Act of 1961 if any advocate claims the benefit in spite of him or her being ineligible for it.
14 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Spurious toddy may flood market in Kerala’||The Excise Department has flagged the possibility that toddy laced with illicit spirit and other harmful substances could capture the reasonably large market for cheap liquor in Kerala with licensed outlets opening for takeaway sales on Wednesday. A meeting of top enforcers chaired by Excise Commissioner S. Aananthakrishnan highlighted the spectre of lawbreakers palming off arrack-fortified synthetic toddy to customers, given the considerable gap in the demand and production of organic coconut palm sap. Moreover, the meeting concluded that the increased movement of freight from across the border and easing down of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions have opened the door for the increased inflow of illicit spirit sourced by inter-State smugglers from sugarcane growing regions in North India. Excise officials said that as a general rule of thumb, bootleggers mix roughly 100 litres of organic palm sap with 70 litres of illicit spirit and 100 gm of sugar and water to make 1,000 litres of synthetic toddy. Synthetic toddy The estimated production cost of genuine toddy is Rs. 90 a litre by a conservative estimate. However, the same quantity of bootleg toddy costs less than Rs. 10 to produce. Synthetic toddy is indistinguishable in smell and flavour from natural palm sap. The department lacks a sufficient mobile testing laboratories to chemically examine toddy samples for the presence of added spirit and other spurious substances. An official said random tests have yielded the worrying presence of chloral hydrate, a sedative and hypnotic drug, and a chemical concoction of saccharine, lead, sulphated ash, and benzoic acid, in toddy samples. Mr Aananthakrishnan has called for stricter monitoring of toddy tapping and producing processes, especially in Palakkad and Alappuzha districts, in the wake of the intelligence warnings. The department has deployed plainclothes squads on motorbikes to comb byroads and trails that link Kerala to neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Karnataka to detect spirit smuggling.
14 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ordinance to hike liquor sales tax sought||The State government on Wednesday requested Governor Arif Muhammad Khan to promulgate an Ordinance to amend the Kerala General Sales Tax Act to hike the levy on legal liquor. The State has proposed a 35% sales tax hike on hard liquor. The increase will apply to low-priced, mid-priced, and premium brands. Currently, a 202% sales tax is levied on liquor that costs the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) less than Rs. 400 per case (12 bottles). The sales tax for liquor with a purchase price of over Rs. 400 per case is 212%. The purchase price also includes the warehouse margin of 20% charged by Bevco. Officials said the proposed tax regime would bring about an increase in price ranging from Rs. 70 to Rs. 130 per bottle. The sales tax on beer and wine has also been hiked by 10%. It justified the hike by stating that the COVID-19 crisis had caused conventional streams of revenue to dry up. The tax proceeds from the sale of lottery and liquor had dented the GST revenue returns. The government is yet to decide on resuming the sale of legal liquor. It has invited start-up IT firms to put in a bid for an online order-based virtual queue system to retail alcohol from State-run outlets. A proposal is also being considered to amend liquor law to let bars and beer and wine parlours to sell liquor as takeaways. Congress slams it The Congress slammed the hike. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said the State was trying to steal from the people. Legislator V.D. Satheeshan said the hike would not check alcohol demand in the State.
14 May 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for bid to carry meat, liquor to Tirumala||The TTD vigilance and security sleuths on Wednesday took a former video journalist of a reputed Telugu television channel into custody for allegedly trying to smuggle huge quantities of liquor and meat to Tirumala. Possession, carrying and consumption of liquor, meat and cigarettes is strictly prohibited atop the hill town. The incident came into light when the vigilance sleuths at the Alipiri security toll plaza stumbled upon the prohibited articles which were found hidden under the front seat of the car driven by the accused, N. Venkatamuni.
14 May 2020||Tumakuru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Muslims help perform last rites of Hindu man||Ten Muslim youth helped a Hindu family to perform the last rites of a person in the sealed down area in Tumakuru on Tuesday. At a time when people are not ready to touch anyone out of fear of contracting the COVID-19 infection, 10 Muslim youth who have been identified as ‘CORONA warriors’ in the Tilak Park police station limits provided the necessary help and financial assistance to the poor Hindu family of K.H.B. Colony, where a 60-year-old man died due to age-related illness on Tuesday. Narayana Rao, 60, a physically challenged person, was working as a tailor. He died on Tuesday. Relatives could not come due to the lockdown. K.H.B. Colony has been completely sealed after a man died due to COVID-19 and a couple, his neighbours, tested positive. Mohammed Khalid rushed to his friend, H.N. Puneeth Kumar Rao’s house after he came to know that Narayana Rao, his father, had died. He called his fellow Corona Warriors and supported the family in their moment of grief. All the ten Muslim youth, including Imran, Tipu, Sheru, Sharuq, Thoufiq, Mansoor and Mohammed Khalid went to the house of the deceased and told them that they would make all the arrangements to shift the body and conduct the last rites. Mr. Mohammed Khalid told The Hindu , “Our friend Imran gave Rs. 5,000 to the family and we carried the body from the house to the ambulance.” He said the deceased person’s younger brother and two sons (nephews), who stay in the colony, were not ready to come to arrange the last rites out of fear of contracting the infection. They convinced them that Narayana Rao had tested negative for COVID-19 four days ago and persuaded them to come to the house of the deceased. He said they would have gone to the cremation ground, but did not go as they were in the sealed down area. He thanked the district administration for extending cooperation. Mr. Puneeth Kumar told The Hindu , “My Muslim brothers helped us and looked after us so well. They assured us of making the necessary arrangements and stayed awake with us the whole night.”
14 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SSC examination papers reduced to seven: Minister||After announcing that the SSC (Class 10) Board exams will be held in July, the government has now decided to cut down the number of papers from 11 to seven. “Conduct of the SSC exams in adherence to the COVID-19 protocols is a challenge. We don’t want the students to get exposed to health threat during the examinations,” Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh told The Hindu on Wednesday. The Minister referred to suggestions from many quarters that the exams be done away with in view of the stringent restrictions on the movement of people due to the lockdown, and said, “It will not be in the interest of the future of the students.” Acknowledging the fact that “this period of uncertainty” had put tremendous pressure on students , he said the exams were first postponed as the dates overlapped with the local body elections, and later it was due to the lockdown . Fee reimbursement When pointed out that the High Court had observed that GO 15, issued on March 24, stands suspended till further orders, the Minister called it “unfortunate.” The GO deals with the Department of Higher Education and notified the fee structure for private unaided engineering colleges offering B. Tech courses for the year 2019-20. “GO 15 is the prerogative of the government. The fee reimbursement and fee fixation have been done based on the recommendations of the Higher Education Monitoring and Regulatory Commission. The idea is to make education accessible to all by creating a level playing ground,” he said, arguing that when educational standards were fixed by the All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE), a uniform fee should be charged from all students. Mr. Suresh said the government wanted the fee regulatory commission to strictly go by the expenditure the colleges incurred in providing education. “Based on that, we are giving fee reimbursement. But a few colleges are not happy .” He said the fee regulatory commission was a statutory body created by enacting a law in the Assembly and headed by Justice Eeswariah, and the fixation of fee was based on scientific analysis. “We will not encourage the commercialisation of education. The promise on full fee reimbursement is part of Navaratnalu and the government is determined to fulfil it,” he said.
14 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||9-month-old wins battle against coronavirus||Krishna district has witnessed the recovery of the State’s youngest COVID-19 patient, a nine-month-old baby, and also patients aged 80 and above, said Collector A. Md. Imtiaz. In a release, Mr. Imtiaz said so far, 349 persons have been infected and 202 of them have already recovered. Of them, 138 are male and the rest female, he said. One of them is an 88-year-old man, he added. 41 containment zones The Collector said so far, 20, 073 samples have been tested in the district in 41 containment zones and only 349 of them turned positive. Doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff and sanitation staff played a key role in the recovery of the patients. Diet provided by the district administration also helped patients improve immunity and fight the infection, he added. Central team Meanwhile, a team of doctors sent by the Central government inspected containment zones in the city along with district officials.
14 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Discoms told to do random checking of bills||Energy Secretary N. Srikant has directed the distribution companies (Discoms) to carry out random checking of electricity bills, and thereby dispel the consumers’ doubts. He, however, insists that the billing for March and April has been done in a scientific manner. ‘Pay before June 30’ Speaking to the CMDs of Discoms and superintending engineers, along with AP-Transco JMD K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu, through a video-conference on Wednesday, Mr. Srikant said the details of electricity bills of all the 1.45 crore consumers during the last two years should be posted on the Discoms’ websites in order to establish transparency and accuracy of the billing system. The government also decided to give time up to June 30 for paying the bills without any penalty. Though the industrial and commercial activity remained closed due to the lockdown, the electricity demand reached 150 MU per day due to the enormous increase in domestic consumption. Officials informed the Secretary that the total consumption for March and April had been divided on 50:50 ratio and old tariff category applied to March and new one to April. They also said the slab rates depended on monthly consumption during the present financial year (2020-21). Monthly consumption below 75 units falls in category A and 75 to 225 units in category B, and if the consumption is above 225 units, it falls under category C as per the 2020-21 tariff order.
14 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP Mahanadu will be a virtual affair this year||The TDP will organise Mahanadu, the party’s annual conclave, on May 27 and 28. The TDP politburo on Wednesday decided to organise the virtual meeting in view of the lockdown. Politburo members K. Srinivasulu (Andhra Pradesh) and Ravula Chandrasekhar Reddy (Telangana) said the party would conduct the Mahanadu using Zoom, a video and audio conferencing app, in strict adherence to social distancing norms. Chance for 100 leaders The party would pass resolutions on the political and economic situation in the country, more specifically A.P. It would also pass resolutions on the political line to be adopted in the State. As at least three to four leaders would be participating in moving, discussing and adopting each resolution, about 100 persons are likely to address the meeting. The party is exploring the possibility of giving access to 10,000 party workers to the virtual meeting, however all of them would not be able to talk. It could not conduct the annual meeting in 2019 due to the elections. In 2014, a two-day Mahanadu was held in Hyderabad .
14 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BIE puts cap on student strength||The Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) has put a cap on the strength of students in a classroom in private junior colleges from the fresh academic year (2020-21). According a GO issued on Wednesday, every private junior college will be sanctioned four sections (4x40=160), including originally sanctioned sections with a strength of 160 students. A ceiling of 360 students on the total strength in each year i.e., a maximum of nine sections (9x40=360) shall be imposed for admissions from 2020-21 in private junior colleges, except the ones with permanent affiliation, subject to availability of infrastructure facilities and staff. The decision is in response to reports that private junior college managements were running their institutions in apartment blocks which did not have adequate infrastructure facilities for students. A large number of students were crammed in small dingy rooms in unhygienic conditions. Citing the norms stipulated by Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan and the Central Board of Secondary Education that the maximum classroom strength should be 40, the government decided to implement it.
14 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Lockdown violation’: Telangana DGP urged to take action against Vijaya Sai||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader Varla Ramaiah has urged the Telangana Director-General of Police (DGP) to take action on YSR Congress (YSRCP) Rajya Sabha member P. Vijaya Sai Reddy for alleged lockdown violations. In a letter on Wednesday, Mr. Ramaiah said the Telangana police sent even badminton coach Pullela Gopichand to home quarantine after travelled from Vijayawada to Hyderabad. “For reasons best known to the government, it appears that quarantine is being selectively implemented in Telangana,” he added. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy conducted many public programmes in Andhra Pradesh during the lockdown without any hindrance. Later, he travelled to Hyderabad and again to different parts of A.P. “We are afraid that he is acting as super spreader of COVID-19. Therefore, I appeal to you to put Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy in home quarantine in case he visits Telangana again,” Mr. Ramaiah added.
14 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left urges Jagan to oppose electricity Bill||The 10 Left parties, including the CPI and the CPI(M), have urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to oppose the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 in Parliament to safeguard the interests of the State. CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna, CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu, Jasti Kishore Babu of CPI(ML), Katam Nagabhushanam of MCPI(U), B. Bangarao of CPI (ML) Liberation, Chittipati Venkateswarlu of CPI ML New Democracy, P.V. Sundararama Raju of Forward Bloc, Janaki Ramulu of Revolutionary Socialist Party and B.S. Amarnath of SUCI(C) wrote a letter to the Chief Minister on Wednesday. In the letter, they said that the State government has to mount pressure on the Centre to withdraw the Bill, which paves the way for privatisation of the power sector. The clauses in the Bill would harm the interests of common man. The proposals were a direct attack on the federal spirit of the Constitution. The national grid would have total control over the State and regional dispatch centres. The Central government is also proposing to set up the Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority to ensure the implementation of the contracts entered into with the private companies.
14 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||All-party meeting on Krishna water row sought||The CPI and the CPI(M) have demanded that the State government convene an all-party meeting to discuss the Krishna river water row. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday, CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna stressed on the need to utilise the Krishna waters through Pothireddypadu head regulator to provide water to Rayalaseema. The Chief Ministers of Telugu States should resolve the issue amicably, he said. In a separate statement, CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu said the issue should be solved amicably. The government should explain all parties on steps being taken to protect the rightful share in the Krishna waters.
14 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CJ status for Lokayukta||A GO was issued on Wednesday designating Lokayukta Justice (Retd.) P. Lakshmana Reddy as a full-time officer having the status of the Chief Justice of a High Court during his tenure. He was appointed through a notification issued last year, as per the A.P. Lokayukta (Amendment) Act, 2019.
14 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu lauds Modi for stimulus package||A day after the Cente announced a Rs. 20-lakh-crore stimulus package, TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has showered praises on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Modi announced lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus and the same was being implemented, Mr. Naidu said at the TDP Politburo meeting on Wednesday. In an apparent bid to build the bridge with the BJP, Mr. Naidu praised Mr. Modi for the second time in a little over a month. In March, he wrote a letter to Mr. Modi lauding him for announcing a relief package to the frontline warriors in the wake of COVID-19.
14 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Increasing Pothireddypadu discharge capacity justified’||Condemning Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s statement on G.O. 203 issued by the A.P. government for increasing the discharge capacity of the Pothireddypadu head regulator from 44,000 cusecs to 80,000 cusecs, Kisan Service Organisation (A.P) general secretary Akkineni Bhavani Prasad on Wednesday said that the Bachawat Tribunal had allocated 811 tmcft water to the combined State of A.P. After bifurcation, the quantum of water was being utilised by both A.P. and Telangana as follows: A.P. 511 tmcft, Telangana 289 tmcft, and common 11 tmcft, he said. The total utilisation (154.60 tmcft) was in addition to the 289 tmcft being used by the Telangana projects under the Krishna, he added. Mr. Bhavani Prasad said that the Telangana government had not conveyed its intention to construct several projects to the A.P. He said increasing the discharge capacity of Pothireddypadu head regulator was justified as water was drawn from Srisailam dam and the drawl was accounted for by the KRMB.
14 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Gas leak victims vulnerable to post-traumatic syndrome’||Even as R.R. Venkatapuram and other areas affected by the gas leak from LG Polymers in Andhra Pradesh on May 7 are limping back to normality, health officials and doctors fear that many people who fell sick after inhaling the styrene vapour may face post-traumatic syndrome and other psychological issues. Besides those who were hospitalised, those who lost a family member or were evacuated in the aftermath of the incident are also vulnerable to such problems. The tragedy claimed 12 lives. More than 300 were hospitalised and the condition of at least 20 among them was critical, requiring ventilator support. More than 2,000 residents were evacuated from areas in the vicinity of the LG Poymers plant. The residents of six villages and colonies such as RR Venkatapuram, Venkatapuram, SC-BC Colony, Kamparapalem, Nandamuri Nagar and Padmanabha Nagar surrounding the plant were the worst hit and are yet to come to terms with the tragedy. Long-term repercussions “The timing of the incident is critical. It happened around 3.30 a.m. and the majority of the residents were in deep sleep. They woke up to a shock and it is going to stay with them for a while,” says N.N. Raju, senior psychiatrist and former head of the department of Government Hospital for Mental Care. He says psychological issues can be broadly classified into two categories — immediate problems and long-term repercussions. The immediate problems are associated with a shock, which is re-living a shocking event as flashes or dreams. This may lead to panic reaction, insomnia, fearfulness, bouts of depression and loss of appetite. “People who have lost their dear ones may tend to develop suicidal tendencies,” says Dr. Raju. In the long term, the victims may suffer from prolonged depression after a gap of a few days or even months. “Even a small change in smell or sound will trigger bouts of anxiety in them. They tend to develop instant panic attacks,” he says. Anti-depressant drugs may help, but for long-term cure, there is a need for cognitive therapy with counselling sessions. “The victims need counselling to help them cope with the shock. And the best thing is to involve them in some activity,” suggests Dr. Raju. 250 fit for discharge King George Hospital Superintendent G. Arjuna said 250 of the 288 patients undergoing treatment are fit for discharge. Many patients pleaded with the doctors not to discharge them, citing persisting smell of gas in their villages and symptoms such as giddiness.
14 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||LG Polymers got all-clear from TDP govt.: Kannababu||Brushing aside allegations by the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) that the State Government had given the necessary permissions to LG Polymers for expansion, Minister for Agriculture K Kannababu said that it was the Chandrababu Naidu-led TDP government which had given the Consent for Establishments (CFE) and Consent for Operations (CFO) to the company. The Minister further alleged that instead of protecting Simhachalam lands, the TDP government had given the lands to the LG Polymers. Mr. Kannababu also alleged that he possesses information that TDP had put pressure on the A.P. Pollution Control Board to give permissions to the company at that time. “Of the 162.74 acres, the TDP government denotified 128.24 acres in favour of LG Polymers in August 2015. Now, they are behaving as if they are not aware of it,” said Mr Kannababu. The Minister said that Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is the only Chief Minister in the country to have announced such a large sum in financial help to people affected by the gas leak. “The TDP should also remember that within four days of the announcement, the YSRCP government handed over the cheques,” he said. “The TDP should come forward for a debate with the YSRCP to discuss how their party reacted and provided compensation to the victims during any mishap. When there was a gas leak in East Godavari, Mr. Naidu had given Rs. 25 lakh to the victims. But that amount included Rs. 20 lakh from company and Rs. 2 lakh from the Central Government,” he said. Refuting allegations that not all deceased families are being given compensation, the Minister said that the government has already given Rs. 1 crore each to eight families, while the other four families would receive it by Thursday morning. “By Wednesday evening, 287 patients who were being treated at KGH were fit for discharge. We have handed over the cheques to the victims as announced by the Chief Minister,” he said. Fresh enumeration The Minister also said that once the enumeration in the affected villages comes to an end, they would start another enumeration in the areas which surround LG Polymers to identify if there are any more affected people. “At present, six committees are functioning to deal with the issue and come up with solutions regarding the incident. Four teams have been inspecting 20 companies around Visakhapatnam to check safety measures. The YSRCP is leaving no stone unturned to ensure that locals are provided all help,” Mr Kannababu said. MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that Mr. Naidu’s only target is to make sure that Visakhapatnam does not become the Executive capital.
14 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nod for Pudimadaka fishing harbour||“Our long-cherished dream will soon come true,” says a jubilant fisherman activist, V. Jagga Rao, from Jalaripalem hamlet of Pudimadaka revenue village in Atchutapuram mandal. The recent announcement of the government to construct nine fishing harbours with an outlay of Rs. 3,000 crore revived the hopes of the fishermen in the State’s largest fishing hamlet, Pudimadaka, near here. They are now in a celebration mood, notwithstanding the lockdown, as the proposal for construction of a modern fishing harbour has been cleared. Mr. Jagga Rao told The Hindu that despite several surveys confirming the feasibility of the fishing harbour, none took up the issue with such seriousness. Pudimadaka has a population of 18,500, the highest in any fishing hamlet in the State. The harbour, once ready, will benefit fishermen from Rambilli, S. Rayavaram, Parawada, Peda Gantyada, Nakkapalli and Payakaraopeta mandals. A study conducted by the Central Institute of Coastal Engineering Fishery, Bengaluru, had also found that the proposal would benefit many for organised and sustainable fishing. Handling capacity Along with the fishing harbour, there is also a proposal to develop Pudimadaka into a tourist resort, without taking up huge constructions as per the Coastal Regulation Zone guidelines. Joint Director of Fisheries K. Phaniprakash said a modern fishing harbour with an investment of Rs. 350 crore would be built at Pudimadaka to provide livelihood to the fishermen of the area. The fishing harbour is proposed to handle nearly 30,000 tonnes per annum. It will have landing facility for 700 motorised boats, along with several catamarans. It will have facilities such as boat repair, cold storage, net weaving and auction hall. Though there is a proposal to relocate the Vizag fishing harbour to Bhimili to enable the Visakhapatnam Port Trust to expand in the area, it has been shelved due to opposition by the fishermen and political parties.
14 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Equity infusion for MSMEs hailed||Investors from North Andhra, while hailing the Rs. 20 lakh-crore stimulus package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, have welcomed the Rs. 50,000-crore equity infusion for the MSMEs through ‘fund of funds’. The package has been exclusively focused on reviving the MSME sector, a major employment provider and contributor to the nation’s GDP, they have said. CII national council member Gunturu Sivakumar told The Hindu that the package, which was 10% of the GDP, was a very good initiative that laid emphasis on local manufacturing and brands, extending government contracts for six months and clearing all the government outstanding amount to the MSMEs within three months. He said all the MSMEs such as normal NPA/stressed MSMEs and viable MSME-related issues had been addressed. “A.P. has a vast majority of private sector falling into the MSME sector, and it should benefit from this initiative,” he said. “Since the definition of MSME has been revised, more companies in A.P. will fall in this category and benefit from the package, provided the implementation of this revised definition is done quickly,” he said. ‘Industries will rebound’ CII State vice-chairman D.T. Raju said the package unveiled at a time when the economy was hit hard due to the COVID-19 pandemic, would help the industries bounce back after sometime. He said it would help India become a strong economic power with world-class infrastructure, promote 21st century technology-driven development and become a self-reliant country. He hoped that the package would help all the segments of people, including workers, farmers, taxpayers, MSMEs and cottage industries. Visakha Autonagar Small-Scale Industrialists’ Welfare Association president A.K. Balaji said the package would take care of the requirements of all category of entrepreneurs – those who are in stress, doing healthy business and aspiring businessmen. He also described as significant the decision to release all pending bills with specific timelines, stating that the Finance Minister had given a breather to the trade and industry.
14 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Environmental audit sought in N. Andhra||Uttarandhra Adhyayana Vedika president and former member of the National Human Rights Commission K.S. Chalam has sought an environmental audit of all the industries in North Andhra following the styrene monomer vapour leak at LG Polymers that killed 12 and left hundreds in hospital on May 7. Prof. Chalam told The Hindu that the audit should be conducted as per the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. “The whole of North Andhra has been converted into a dumping ground for polluting factories over a period of time,” Prof. Chalam said in a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. He recalled how North Andhra experienced a spate of accidents due to a violation of environmental conditions. “We remember the 2019 Balaji Chemicals Factory accident at Bobbili in which two persons were killed. About 40 industrial accidents were reported to have taken place in the three districts killing around 60 people during the last few years,” he stated.
14 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) condemns arrest of leaders outside KGH||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) condemned the arrest of its leaders - city secretary B. Ganga Rao, Subba Rao and Chandrasekhar, who went to King George Hospital (KGH) to check on the condition of people affected by the styrene gas leak, on Wednesday. CPI(M) State Secretariat member Ch. Narsinga Rao and district secretary K. Lokanadham alleged police highhandedness, and said that their party colleagues were also arrested on May 9 for protesting the decision to take the bodies of those killed in the gas leak directly for cremation. Mr. Narsinga Rao said that residents of RR Venkatapuram were agitated over the damage to essential commodities and clothes at their homes. The said that as officials had advised against their use, the value of the damaged items should be estimated and compensation paid accordingly.
14 May 2020||visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC does survey of wards||A health survey has been taken up in the wards hit by the gas leak by teams comprising ward volunteers, ANMs, ASHA workers and staff of the Urban Community Development wing of the GVMC. Commissioner G. Srijana and Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao inspected the process and gave suggestions on the survey.
14 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IMD predicts thunderstorms from May 15-18||Thunderstorms accompanied with gusty winds are likely at isolated places over north-coastal A.P., Rayalaseema and Yanam from May 14 to 18, and at isolated places in south-coastal A.P. from May 15 to May 18, the IMD said on Wednesday. A low pressure area has formed over southeast Bay of Bengal under the influence of a cyclonic circulation. The low pressure is likely to intensify into a depression over central parts of south Bay of Bengal on May 15 and further intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 16, the IMD said. The Cyclone Warning Centre in Visakhapatnam has warned fishermen of adverse weather over south and central Bay of Bengal and adjoining Andaman Sea from May 15 and advised them against venturing into south and central Bay of Bengal from that day.
14 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seoul expert team to probe accident at LG Polymers||South Korean firm LG Chem has sent an eight-member team from Seoul to probe into the circumstances that led to the leakage of styrene vapour form its plant LG Polymers in Visakhapatnam on May 7. The company, which has apologised earlier for the incident that claimed 12 lives, said in a statement on Wednesday that the technical team led by it executive vice-president and president of Petrochemicals Business Noh Kug-lae would also assist the authorities concerned with the real-time remedial and rehabilitation measures. Rehabilitation measures The technical team comprising experts from production, environment, and safety areas will investigate the cause of the incident and promptly support ‘responsible rehabilitation.’ “The team will meet the victims and affected families, and explain the support measures in detail. It will also hold meetings with the government officials,” the statement said on Wednesday.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Soldiering on||
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left in the lurch||
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||For safe ‘darshan’||
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||iceu||The Visakhapatnam division of the Insurance Corporation Employees’ Union (ICEU) has sought the immediate shifting of the LG Polymers factory from RR Venkatapuram and action against the management for the leakage of styrene monomer vapour that killed 12 people. In a statement, ICEU divisional president M. Kameshwari and general secretary N. Ramanachalam sought judicial action against the management and conveyed their condolences to the bereaved families.
14 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Flag march in Bhainsa||Nirmal Superintendent of Police C. Shashidhar Raju on Wednesday led a flag march by police contingents in Bhainsa town in the district in the back drop of the clash between two communities which took place on Sunday night. The contingents marched through the lanes and by lanes of the town to instil confidence among common people as well as show the resolve of the department in preventing communal clashes. Later, addressing newsmen, the SP assured people that those responsible for the clash and damage of property would not go scot-free. Mr. Raju informed Bhainsa town residents of development taking a back seat if communal violence takes place. Additional SPs Srinivas Rao and Venkat Reddy, Bhainsa DSP Narsing Rao and Special Branch Inspector Venkatesh were among the officers who participated in the flag march.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Central package a big ticket offer to Discoms||The special economic and comprehensive package of Rs. 20 lakh crore announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman had much in store for cash strapped power distribution companies (DISCOMs) of Telangana. It has given an opportunity for DISCOMs to clear in one stroke its dues of over Rs. 13,000 crore to generating stations that piled up before introduction of Letter of Credit (LoC) system on August 1 last year. As per the LoC norms, the DISCOMs have been paying in advance and buying power from generators against projected demand on weekly basis. Yet, the dues of Rs. 13,000 crore accumulated earlier for lack of repayment capacity had remained. Much of the outstandings owed to 24-hour free power to agriculture sector and certain other concessions to various consumers. In this context, the State government agreed in principle to let the DISCOMs raise a loan of Rs. 5,500 crore through issue of bonds for the specific purpose of payment of dues. But, orders to the effect were not issued. In the Rs. 90,000 crore liquidity injection for DISCOMs announced by Ms. Sitaraman, the focus was on revenues of power distribution companies plummeting and their unprecedented cash flow problem accentuated by demand reduction. Therefore, it was declared that the Power Finance Corporation and the Rural Electrification Corporation will infuse liquidity of Rs. 90,000 crore to DISCOMs against receivables. The loans will be given against State guarantees for exclusive purpose of discharging liabilities of DISCOMs to generating companies. The Average Revenue Requirement (ARR) of DISCOMs rose sharply since the introduction of uninterrupted 24-hour power to agriculture from January 1, 2018. The ARR, which was Rs. 26,894.67 crore in 2016-17, shot up to Rs. 34,885.04 crore in 2018-19 and gradually swelled to an estimated Rs. 36,000 this year (2020-21). Though the demand on account of free power to agriculture went up, the State government did not hike its subsidy to DISCOMs proportionately. This led to losses of DISCOMs growing in proportion to power demand. The State government had owned up Rs. 8,923 crore out of Rs. 11,244 crore dues of the two DISCOMS -- southern and northern -- at the time of Ujwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana (UDAY) agreements. The UDAY was a revival package of Centre for DISCOMS to find a solution to their financial crisis. It allowed State governments to take over 75% of their debt as of September 30, 2015 and pay back lenders by selling bonds. The latest package announced by Ms. Sitaraman was another big ticket offer to State governments to let DISCOMS overcome financial stress but the debt service rate of PFC and REC was said to be high.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mixed response from trade, industry to stimulus package||It was a mixed welcome from trade and industry in Telangana to the set of ‘getting back to work’ measures, particularly for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday. While CII Telangana State Council chairman Krishna Bodanapu said it was a much-needed package for MSMEs, co-convenor of CII-TS MSME panel Abhijith Jayanthi thanked the government for “putting up a decisive step forward during these unprecedented times.” The quantum of support extended is definitely an encouraging step. An announcements that will positively impact MSMEs is the decision not to float global tender for government procurement order upto Rs. 200 crore., Mr. Jayanthi said. General Financial Rules will be amended to disallow global tender enquiries in procurement of goods and services of value of less than Rs. 200 crore, an official release on the announcements said. Welcoming the tender norms, Telangana Industrialists Federation President Sudhir Reddy said overall MSMEs were expecting more. During COVID-triggered lockdown, they had to pay salaries, power bill and and service bank loans. On the emergency credit line to businesses/MSMEs from banks and and NBFCs, upto 20% of entire outstanding credit as on February 29, to be made available with no guarantee fee and no fresh collateral, he said it will only help the units pull along for a few more months. The Centre should have considered reducing the interest rate on loans and reimbursed at least 50% of salaries paid by the enterprises. The announcement revising the definition of MSME by raising the investment limit and introducing an additional criteria of turnover was a long pending demand, Mr. Reddy said. Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FTCCI) president Karunendra S. Jasti said it is an excellent move. He also welcomed the government decision to release all pending payments from PSUs and CPSUs over the next 45 days. With regard to decision to extend by three months a scheme under which Centre contributed 12% of salary each on behalf of both employer and employee to EPF, for wage-earners below Rs. 15,000 per month in enterprise having less than 100 workers, Mr. Jasti said it was disappointing as the scheme should have been extended to all MSMEs. He said with discoms of all states given Rs. 90,000 crore to tide over their financial crisis, the utility in Telangana should waive the fixed charges for industries for at least April, May and June. TS Federation of Textile Associations president Prakash Ammanabolu said it is unfortunate and disappointing that there is no package for the trade.  With discoms given Rs. 90,000 crore to tide over their financial crisis, the utility in Telangana should waive fixed charges for industries for at least April, May and June. Karunendra S. Jasti,FTCCI president
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CWC asks AP, TS to furnish details of water drawn||A technical committee appointed by the Central Water Commission (CWC) to look into Telangana’s charge against Andhra Pradesh of utilising a lion’s share of water available in the 2019-20 water year without accounting for it has asked the two States to furnish details of water availed from the two common reservoirs Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar by the month-end. The five-member technical committee headed by CWC Chief Engineer in its irrigation management organisation (IMO) Vijai Saran held a video conference from New Delhi on Wednesday with engineers of Telangana, AP and Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) and discussed the issue in detail. According to sources, the representative of AP insisted that there was no need to account for surplus water availed by the State, although Telangana official persisted with the argument that there was every need for it to avoid controversies in future too. The KRMB represented by its member Harikesh Meena, explained to the committee chief that as against 811 tmc ft of water allocated to combined AP by the R.S. Bachawat Tribunal (KWDT-I), which is in force now, the water realised in the basin in Telangana and AP was about 980 tmc ft this year with surplus flows of 169 tmc ft. Telangana has been contending that a lion’s share of surplus water was availed by AP and it should be accounted for but Andhra has been insisting that there was no need to account for it since it was surplus flow. Sources stated that AP has either already availed or plans to avail 680 tmc ft water and the quantity availed or planned to be availed by month-end when the water year comes to an end is 300 tmc ft. As per the working arrangement in vogue between the two States after bifurcation of combined AP, the two States are supposed to utilise the allocated water in 512:299 tmc ft ratio. With a view to preventing controversies cropping up again in the matter of availing surplus water, the KRMB too has been in favour of having a formula to share the surplus flows too by the two States, till the award of Brijesh Kumar Tribunal (KWDT-II) comes into effect in the years to come. Having a similar view, the CWC too has insisted on the two States to furnish details of water realised and availed from the two common reservoirs this water year. The details to be furnished by the two States as well as by the KRMB would be discussed at the next meeting of the technical committee slated in June first week towards finding a solution to the issue arising out of surplus water utilisation by the two States.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Another COVID patient delivers baby||A 30-year-old city resident, who is undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at Gandhi Hospital, became the second such patient in Telangana to deliver a baby on Wednesday morning. The first such delivery was also recorded at the same hospital last Friday. The woman was admitted to hospital on May 10. Doctors of the gynecology, anasthesia and other departments performed Caesarean delivery. Both the mother and the baby boy, her fifth child, are safe. Weighing 3 kg at birth, the baby has been kept separate, in the neonatal ICU of the hospital. Swab samples were collected from the baby to test if he has contracted the infection. In the first case of delivery by the COVID-positive patient, the newborn had tested negative for the virus. Wednesday’s delivery was performed by doctors Sharmila and L. Rani Kumari under the guidance of gynecology department head G Mahalakshmi.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Don’t insist on biometrics to supply ration: High Court||The Telangana High Court on Wednesday directed the government to distribute rice and other essentials to all tribals in the State without insisting on biometric authentications. A Bench of Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Justice K. Lakshman, having taken up a letter written by social activist S.Q. Masood as PIL petition, observed that there could be technical glitches in matching biometric identifiers like fingerprint, palm print or face recognition. Factors like working in extreme climatic conditions and age could affect the biometric identifiers of tribals. In such circumstances, insisting on biometric authentication could deprive them of securing essentials supplied by government during lockdown period, the Bench said. The Bench asked the government as to why it cancelled thousands of white rations cards without prior notice to the respective card-holders. The cards were issued apparently after the authorities conducted proper inquiries. Hence, the cancellation of the same can not be justified. Advocate General B.S. Prasad assured the Bench that all beneficiaries, including those whose ration cards were cancelled, would be provided 12 kg rice and other essentials without insisting on production of ration cards. Migrant workers living in the State, who would have left their ration cards back home, should also be given the 12 kg rice and other groceries, the Bench said. The petitioner contended that a large number of poor families were being denied help as their white ration cards were cancelled by the government. Many families below poverty line were suffering in the lockdown period as they could not find work while the government was not providing them any relief on the pretext of their cancelled cards.   Hearing another PIL plea, the bench directed the government to provide Rs. 1,500 one-time financial assistance to all white ration card holders in the State during the lockdown. The card holders should not denied of the financial assistance even if they had not collected ration in the past three months, the bench said. While announcing the assistance, the government said those who had not taken ration in past three months were not eligible to avail it. Referring to cancellation of white ration cards by the government, the bench said the decision would affect thousands of poor families and more so during the lockdown.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Stray animals find their messiahs||Srilu Bhopal was on her way back home from the U.S. when she heard of the lockdown. “My first thoughts were of the street dogs,” she reveals. Srilu’s been caring for street dogs in the city, along with well known animal rescuer T.V. Siva Prakash, under Sarva Jeeva Society, long before the pandemic hit us. However, during the lockdown, she realised that they may have to feed hundreds of stray animals “It’s the first time I had to plan an initiative of such a large scale,” admits Srilu, who geared up to face the challenge. Siva Prakash, an engineer by profession, runs an automobile unit in Neredmet. With the lockdown, the space turned into the centre for animal feeding, almost overnight. The feeding programme that began on March 28 with 100 dogs in Sainikpuri area, has since extended to more dogs and areas. Srilu mobilised funds through her family and friends; very soon the money coming in was enough to feed a large number of strays. “Our 250 volunteers are reaching out to almost 5,000 dogs through 180 outlets in the city,” says Siva Prakash, who starts cooking at 4.30 a.m. along with a few friends. By 7 a.m., the food is loaded into a truck that heads out to various locations and handed over to the volunteers who in turn start feeding the dogs. Simultaneously, at 7 a.m., another consignment with 25 dozens bananas, 20 kg of tomatoes, 20 kg of cucumber, 50 kg of assorted vegetables and 5 kg of dog food is sent to Keesaragutta to feed 500 monkeys, 10 cows and 40 dogs affected by the closure of the temple during the lockdown. The birds, too, are being fed grains. Srilu, who coordinates the route maps with volunteers, says, “Our volunteers are mostly students, IT employees, homemakers etc. They all have the same compassion towards animals.” Uppal municipal veterinary department and dog-catching team are working with Sarva Jeeva Society to distribute dog food at industrial and residential areas of Uppal. Srilu says it helped that the High Court passed an order asking the police to provide protection to dogs and dog feeders and has made it a “punishable offence in case anyone restricts, prohibits or causes inconvenience to any person feeding a street dog or resorts to removal or dislocation or killing a dog”. Srilu also cites that under Section 503, IPC 1860, intimidation of dog feeders is a criminal offence. All the volunteers have been given passes to move across the city. However, the cops and GHMC staff pitch in to feed in the Red Zone areas. With the daily expenditure incurred ranging from Rs. 12,000 to Rs. 16,000, how hopeful are they about sustaining the feeding programme? “We have the raw stock for another 20 days. We are hopeful we’ll be able to continue after that,” says a confident Siva Prakash.  (To contact Sarva Jeeva Society, call TV Siva Prakash: 88855 77008; Srilu Bhopal: 99490 92194)
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||After more than 50 days, passengers land at Sec’bad||South Central Railway’s premier station of Secunderabad came alive after a gap of nearly two months when it handled passengers of two trains moving between Bengaluru and New Delhi on Wednesday. About 240 passengers alighted from Train No. 02691 KSR Bengaluru – New Delhi AC special train in the morning and a similar number of passengers boarded the special train to New Delhi. Similarly, Train no. 02692 New Delhi – KSR Bengaluru AC special train arrived in the evening and 275 passengers alighted from the special train and another 485 passengers boarded it towards KSR Bengaluru. General Manager Gajanan Mallya was at the station to personally oversee the safety protocols put in place for receiving the passengers arriving and also screening for those coming in to board the trains. The entire station was cleaned and disinfected with separate entry/exit gates for the incoming and outgoing passengers. Senior officials informed that only confirmed ticket holders were allowed in after temperature checks so that only asymptomatic passengers were allowed into the station. Sanitisers were made available for everyone with markings indicating the social distance to be maintained inside the platforms. The railway police ensured that there was an orderly alighting and getting down from the trains. Face masks were a must for those coming inside the station and those alighting from the trains. Home quarantine stamping was made for passengers disembarking for 14 days with TS health officials taking down contact details including mobile numbers and home addresses of each one for health monitoring later.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Real estate sector seeks better cash flow||The real estate sector, which is reeling under the impact of COVID-19, has called the pandemic a ‘Force Majeure’ and the extension of timelines for completion of projects under RERA crucial announcements by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. But representatives of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI) and Telangana Real Estate Developers Association (TREDA) have said that they were eagerly awaiting measures for infusion of liquidity, de-cartelisation of cement prices, and restoration of supply chain to ease construction activity. According to CREDAI, these measures were needed to increase the demand, by giving more sops to home-buyers by increasing the tax deduction limits for interest on home loans and facilitate the sector to regain momentum. In Telangana, though most developers resumed work on projects after the Ministry of Home Affairs eased the lockdown guidelines, the subsequent decision to allow migrants to go back home has seen up to 20 to 30% of construction workers going back. TREDA vice-president Vijay Sai said that the extension of timelines to six months may not be sufficient because of issues, including manpower. Cement prices that went up by 60% post COVID was another impediment. It will take at least three to four months for the industry to settle down even if the migrant workers return, he said. “The interest rate on home loans and GST must be reduced and a one-year moratorium be given on loans, and interest concession on existing loans, to improve cash flow,” he said. The cumulative impact of all factors will delay projects at least by one year. Also, middle-level builders will face hardships to complete their projects.
14 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Puttapaka Telia Rumal’ gets GI tag||Puttapaka in Nalgonda is now on the global map as the centre for a handloom technique known as Puttapaka Telia Rumal. It secured the coveted Geographical Indication tag recently. “I got a call on May 10 that our application has been accepted and Puttapaka Telia Rumal has been registered. We will get the certificate soon,” informed Gajam Govardhan, who filed the application in 2015 on behalf of Puttapaka handloom cluster. The GI label insulates the uniqueness of the product from duplicates and copycats from other regions. Telia Rumal is a unique tie and dye technique that uses oil for the treatment of the yarn that helps it retain softness and has a distinct smell of gingelly oil. The earlier patterns used to be strictly geometric or vegetal patterns due to the preference of the patrons, but after 1930s the craftsmen started incorporating figurative elements like lions, elephants, birds, clocks and even aeroplanes, which required better weaving skills. It is no longer handkerchief-size pieces that connoisseurs can buy. The families involved in weaving now create saris, dupattas, dress materials and other made-to-order pieces with the same techniques and exotic patterns. “In 1975 I visited Chirala while working for the Ministry of Textiles and then I decided to revive the craft which was part of my family heirloom,” says Mr. Govardhan, who hails from a family of weavers. A big marketing splash for the handicraft technique was when it was showcased as part of the Festival of India exhibition in 1980s that toured the world. “Our handlooms cannot be made quickly for online marketing as it requires a long time to create individual pieces. If some big retailer or the government gets involved then we may be able to hawk the products worldwide,” says Mr. Govardhan. Using just three colours: red ranging from crimson to orange red, brown red and maroonish red, white and black the craftsmen create their magic. Mr. Govardhan has trained 800 other craftsmen so that the technique becomes widespread in the region beyond the 20 families that used to practice earlier.
14 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR should resign if AP goes ahead with Pothireddypadu: Cong.||Telangana Congress has blamed Chief Minister, K. Chandrasekar Rao for Andhra Pradesh government move to draw additional water from Pothireddypadu and said KCR should resign if Jaganmohan Reddy government goes ahead with its decision. The party organised a deeksha at Gandhi Bhavan protesting against what it called the ‘collusion’ of Chief Minister KCR with the AP Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy for mutual benefit. Senior Congres leaders including TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, Malkajgiri MP, A. Revanth Reddy; MLA T. Jagga Reddy; AICC secretaries Sampath Kumar, G. Chinna Reddy and Vamshichand Reddy; former ministers, V. Hanumanth Rao, Nagam Janardhan Reddy and Marri Shashidhar Reddy, DCC president T. Rammohan Reddy, Vamshikrishna, Challa Narsimha Reddy were among those who participated in the deeksha wearing black ribbons. Mr. Uttam Reddy questioned the sincerity of the Chief Minister and demanded that KCR has to resign the day the works on the project starts. He didn’t understand KCR’s silence in allowing AP to draw 4 tmc water per day from Srisailam project while spending more than a lakh crore to draw 2 tmc water per day from Kaleshwaram. He said the AP ministers were openly claiming that they had discussed with Telangana Chief Minister and sought his approval for the project. Mr. Uttam Reddy also targeted Engineer-in-Chief of Irrigation, Muralidhar Rao, and asked how the government was allowing a retired employee to decide irrigation tenders worth thousands of crores. Mr. Revanth Reddy alleged that the new AP project has the blessings of KCR and recalled how he had promised more water to Rayalaseema region when he went for lunch at YSRCP MLA Roja’s house while going to Kancheepuram. He said the AP Cabinet had taken a decision on the project in last December itself though the G.O. was issued on May 5. He claimed that Jaganmohan Reddy’s decision cannot be looked in isolation as both Jagan and KCR share a good personal relationship. In a letter to the Chief Minister, Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkata Reddy demanded that Telangana move the courts immediately to stop the project or else entire south Telangana will turn a desert and Nagarjunasagar will not receive any water in the future.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Irrigation Secy. briefs KRMB chief||Telangana government, which brought the plans of Andhra Pradesh to divert about 8 tmc ft water a day from Srisailam without obtaining the approval of the Apex Council and Krishna River Management Board (KRMB), has explained the injustice planned to be heaped by AP on it (Telangana) with its controversial decision. Principal Secretary (Irrigation) Dr. Rajat Kumar met Chairman of KRMB J. Chandrashekhar Iyer here on Wednesday and described in detail the injustice likely to be done by Andhra Pradesh to Telangana with its plans to divert huge quantity of Krishna water without any approvals. He brought to the board chief’s notice that Telangana has been requesting the board for installing telemetry equipment to account water drawals by Andhra Pradesh from the Pothireddypadu system but it remains unheeded so far. He was understood to have pointed out that the sharing ration of 512:299 tmc ft by Andhra Pradesh and Telangana was only a temporary arrangement and Telangana has already been arguing for higher allocation before the Brijesh Kumar Tribunal. Mr. Rajat Kumar explained that the catchment area of Krishna in Telangana was much higher compared to AP and the natural justice would be to allocate more water, at least 575 tmc ft., to it on that account, as was being done in case of the upper riparian States of Karnataka and Maharashtra. The Telangana official further explained to the KRMB Chairman that the basin areas in Telangana would suffer badly both in terms of drinking water and irrigation if Andhrda Pradesh goes ahead with its plans to divert water to outside the basin at the cost of basin habitants. Officials in the Irrigation Department said Mr. Rajat Kumar also requested the KRMB Chairman to retrain Andhra Pradesh by advocating that taking up new project before settling the existing disputes is not good for all sides and would also complicate the matter further.
14 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Health dept. focused on screening migrants||The Health department has focused its attention on screening people, particularly migrant workers, returning to the State to ascertain if they have contracted COVID-19. The screening follows the influx of migrant workers consequent on the relaxations announced by the Central government recently after which a number of workers started returning to the State. Teams of the department are conducting thorough checks on the people returning by road at check points and are sending the returnees to 14-day home quarantine immediately upon arrival. CM’s directives The development comes in light of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s directions to ensure that there is no scope for the spread of the virus on account of these workers. The direction assumes significance after several migrant workers who had returned tested positive for coronavirus. Health Minister Eatala Rajender said the incidence of virus which started with foreign returnees escalated after the congregation at Nizamuddin in New Delhi and the government was now focussed on migrant workers coming back. “The arrival of these workers can pose difficulties if they are left unchecked,” he said, adding the government was therefore cautious about those workers. While the teams deputed by the department were screening those arriving in the State, ASHA workers were supervising the movement of people in and out of the villages. According to reports, 798 people arrived in the State by air and another 239 by trains. Nearly 41,805 people have come to the State by road so far. He said the government is taking adequate precautions to check people arriving in the State and it was for the people to follow the health protocols issued. People should, therefore, maintain physical distance and other measures to ensure that the scope for spread of the virus is minimised.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||DRDO centre at UoH granted patent for rocket propellent fuel||The Advanced Centre of Research in High Energy Materials (ACRHEM) — a DRDO centre of excellence at the University of Hyderabad (UoH) — has been granted a patent for “Hydroxyl Terminated Polybutadiene (HTPB)-based Polyurethanes”. HTPB is a viscous liquid with several uses, including in solid rocket propellant (SRP) where it binds the oxidising agent and other ingredients into a solid but elastic mass. It is an inert prepolymer contributing nearly 10-15% mass of the propellant compositions as it replaces the inert mass with energetic molecules yet retains inherent properties which is a very crucial step to obtain an energetic binder, said a press release. The present invention describes a process for the tethering of energetic molecules (nitrogen rich molecules) at the terminal end of HTPB, which has resulted in an energetic HTPB binder, and has also imparted superior properties than the native HTPB. Indian Space Research Organization, DRDO and various space and defence agencies across the globe employ HTPB-based binder to manufacture composite propellant systems, it said. Inventors of this patent are Tushar Jana (School of Chemistry and adjunct faculty in ACRHEM), and two of his associates — post-doctoral fellow Bikash Kumar Sikder (ACRHEM) and research student Moumita Dhara (Ph.D. student in the School of Chemistry). They believe the binder material has potential to replace the traditionally used HTPB binder in manufacturing of solid rocket propellant.
14 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||COVID surge continues as migrants raise alarm||The spike in the COVID cases continued for another day with 41 more persons testing positive to the virus on Wednesday, taking the total number of affected persons to 1,367. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area continued to be the focal point in virus spread with 31 more cases being reported during the day while the number of migrant workers returning to the State is turning out to be the major inflection point for the third consecutive day. After 14 migrant workers who tested positive on Tuesday, the number came down marginally to 10 on Wednesday even as Health Minister Eatala Rajender said the government cast special focus in checking the migrant workers. The Public Health and Family Welfare department said there were 394 active cases undergoing treatment in different hospitals as on date. Two deaths - a 38-year-old women in Jiyaguda and a 74-year-old man from Saroornagar, both with co-morbidity features like kidney ailments and diabetes succumbed taking the number of deaths to 34. The total number of people discharged from the hospitals reached 939 including 117 discharged on Wednesday. The increased number of discharges which is now more than double of the active cases is being attributed to the revised policy announced by the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry which was adopted by the State. The revised guidelines detail out the conditions when the patients could be discharged based on the degree of illness. In case of mild or pre-symptomatic cases, patients could be discharged after 10 days of the onset of the symptoms if there was no fever. There would be no need for testing such patients prior to discharge. If the patient develops symptoms of cough, fever or cold after discharge, he/she could contact the nearest health care facility so that they could be guided appropriately and sent to necessary treatment/cure.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tenders finalised for two elevated corridors||The government has finalised tenders for construction of two components of the Strategic Road Development Plan, both elevated corridors, respectively from Nalgonda Crossroads up to Owaisi Junction, and from Indira Park to VST main road. Orders have already been issued, and work will be started soon for the structures proposed to be constructed in steel, officials informed. Both the projects have been won by M. Venkat Rao Infra Projects, and the bids were sent for government’s approval as the agency has quoted excess. After the government’s approval, the contract was awarded, and Letter of Acceptance given, officials said. The proposed 2.5 km corridor from Nalgonda Crossroads to Owaisi Junction will fly over IS Sadan, and Chanchalguda and will require acquisition of 220 structures. Construction along with land acquisition is estimated to cost over Rs. 523 crore. The proposal for corridor at Indira Park involves construction of four-lane, bidirectional fly over crossing over NTR Stadium junction, Ashok Nagar crossroads, RTC Crossroads, and Baghlingampally junction, along with a three-lane, bidirectional grade separator from Ramnagar to Baghlingampally, crossing VST junction. Main corridor will be of 2.09 kilometres while the grade separator will be of 840 metres. Cost approved by the government is Rs. 426 crore, including land acquisition. Both projects are to be built in EPC mode.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Koheda fruit loads to go to Nagole-Bandlaguda||Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, at an emergency meeting convened with Agricultural Market Committee of the Koheda Fruit Market on Wednesday, suggested that till the market is reconstructed, temporary arrangements for wholesale transactions may be made at function halls on Nagole-Bandlaguda stretch. In view of a hailstorm uprooting the temporary sheds installed at Koheda, there is a need for temporary locations to receive the 700 to 800 trucks of fruits arriving every day. Mr. Ram Mohan suggested that local legislators take initiative to speak to the district Collectors of Medchal and Ranga Reddy about the temporary markets, and conduct field-level inspections to assess the facilities. The market at Kothapet has been discontinued and shifted to Koheda due to the problems encountered in maintaining physical distance during the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the hailstorm destroyed the sheds on May 4, within a week after shifting. To reconstruct the temporary sheds, it will take about 10 to 15 days, he said. The Mayor has informed that the government has asked ASCI to prepare Detailed Project Report for establishment of modern fruit market with all facilities in 190 acres of land at Koheda. The meeting was presided over by AMC chairman Veeramalla Ramanarsaiah.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tappers allowed to sell toddy||Relaxing the lockdown restrictions, the State government on Wednesday permitted toddy tappers wherever they felt to sell toddy by following social distance norms but the benefit will not be allowed to toddy compounds which will continue to be shut down like bars. The sale will not be allowed in containment zones. This was announced by Excise Minister V. Srinivas Goud at a press conference after the government issued an order.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||OU dept. to chronicle lockdown life||Osmania University’s Department of Journalism & Mass Communication is working on a digital platform — Covid Chronicles — to document experiences of people during lockdown. The platform envisages to record how the world survives the pandemic. The objective of launching the initiative is that COVID-19 has changed lives like never before and each person has developed his/her own mechanism to deal with the lockdown. The idea is to record this slice of history for posterity, said head of department K. Stevenson. People can send brief write-ups not exceeding two pages, paintings, videos, poems or reflections to covidchronicles20 @gmail.com. Last date for entries is May 25. The department will review entries, host them on a website and an e-version will also be published, he said.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS BJP hails package to MSMEs||Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay on Wednesday expressed his heartfelt gratitude to the NDA government, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for announcing a Rs. 3 lakh crore package for MSME sector as part of Rs. 20 lakh-crore Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. Relief measures such as Rs. 20,000 crore for debt-ridden units, loans without any collateral security for small industries, a moratorium on the loans for one year, setting up of fund with Rs. 10,000 crore, payment of Provident Fund by the Central government for employees drawing salary less than Rs. 15,000 and other decisions will help the overall growth of the MSME sector, he said in a press statement.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man held for cheating hitchhiker||Medipally police on Wednesday arrested a person for allegedly cheating a man while giving him a lift on his two-wheeler. Konda Balakrishna (30), a native of Bachanpeta village in Jangaon district, is a resident of Secunderabad. According to Medipally inspector B. Anji Reddy, the accused gave a lift to a man along the Warangal road. During the trip, he convinced the victim and managed to take money from him on the pretext of helping a friend’s son, who he said was unwell and required immediate treatment. He said that he would return the money as soon as he dropped the victim to his destination. The gullible victim went to an ATM on the way, withdrew Rs. 16,000 and handed it over to Balakrishna.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Several shops shut down and sealed||The Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management wing of GHMC conducted inspections and shut down a total of 14 shops, including air-conditioning services, mobile stores, bangle stores, marble shops, steel shops, kids stores, and garment shops for violating lockdown norms.
14 May 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Inept response: Bhatti||Congress leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka alleged that the TRS government’s inept response to the move by the AP government to upgrade the Pothireddypadu Head Regulator and construct a new lift irrigation scheme poses a serious threat to the riparian rights of Telangana over Krishna river. Mr. Vikramarka along with a few other Congress leaders observed a protest fast at Sanjeeva Reddy Bhavan here on Wednesday. Later, talking to newsmen Mr Vikramarka said the “delayed response” of the TRS dispensation to the decision of the AP government to divert additional water from the Srisailam reservoir is a matter of “grave concern.” Both the Chief Ministers of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh enjoy a special rapport, he said, alleging that the decision of the AP government to divert additional water from the Srisailam reservoir at the cost of the interests of Telangana farmers raised many eyebrows. Though the AP government issued a GO (RT No: 203) on May 5, 2020 giving administrative sanction for upgradation of Pothireddypadu head regulator and Rayalaseema lift scheme, the persons at the helm in our State took several days to respond to it, he charged.
14 May 2020||Nizamabad,TELANGANA||Minister warns lorry owners||Minister for Roads and Buildings V. Prashanth Reddy warned lorry transport owners against severe action if they do not send trucks to transport paddy under the pretext of absence or lack of drivers. In a statement on Wednesday, he called upon traders and transporters to send vehicles to paddy purchase centres (PPCs) without delay by arranging drivers. He suggested them to avail the hamalis of centres where purchases are over.
14 May 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DIST.,TELANGANA||NIT contributes to PM CARES Fund||Around 4,000 students of the National Institute of Technology, Warangal, contributed Rs. 23,76,840 to the PM CARES Fund. The students authorised the hostel management to deduct amount equivalent to one week mess bill, which is around Rs. 83 per day - Rs. 581 for each student. Earlier, the faculty, staff and pensioners contributed one-day salary/pension to the Fund. In addition, the institute alumni separately contributed around Rs. 6.5 lakh. Director Prof. N.V. Ramana Rao said the institute hopes to contribute Rs. 50 lakh.
14 May 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT.,TELANGANA||Protest over CPI-ML New Democracy members’ arrest||Leaders of CPI-ML New Democracy and their cadre in Warangal Rural and Mahabubabad districts staged a protest on Wednesday asking the police to produce two of their members before the court. They alleged that police had arrested State committee member Soma Bhaskar alias Suryam and Mahabubabad district committee member Burka Prathap alias Shyam in the wee hours of Tuesday near Arshanpalle under Nallabelly mandal in Warangal Rural district. Mr. Suryam, who hails from Duggondi mandal, has been with the outfit for over two decades. Mr. Shyam, who belongs to Pakhal-Kothaguda, has been with the party for about a decade. Telangana North East regional committee secretariat member Gouni Ilaiah said, “We demand the police to produce both the leaders before the court immediately.” According to sources, the two leaders had surrendered before the police.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Affluent US returnees want home quarantine||Several expatriates lamented at the airport that they are returning home having lost their jobs and forcing them to pay anywhere between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 30,000 for stay was beyond their capacity. Gulf Migrants Rights associations have taken serious exception to the forcible payment. “It is pitiable that these workers are asked to shell out money for quarantine stay. They had lost everything in Gulf and are eager to go home. Forcing them to pay is unfortunate. Government should allow free quarantine for such hapless expatriates,” a spokesperson of Migrants Rights body said unwilling to be identified. Official sources said the issue of the NRIs and Gulf expatriates came up for discussion on Wednesday at a meeting. It is understood that the Health Minister is likely to take up the issue with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and make a plea to the Centre to give certain relaxations to the foreign returnees.
14 May 2020||New Delhi,||After audit, death toll jumps by 20||The total number of deaths due to COVID-19 increased to 106 on Wednesday as the Delhi government added 20 more to the toll after an audit committee went through case sheets received from hospitals. All the 20 deaths did not happen in the past 24 hours. “They are deaths reported of April and May, as per case sheets received from hospitals, after audited by committee [sic],” read an official statement. The Delhi government did not provide details or dates on which the 20 deaths occurred or the actual number of deaths that occurred in the past 24 hours. According to the government’s health bulletin on Wednesday, 359 new COVID-19 cases  were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 7,998. Of the 7,998 cases, 2,858 people have recovered and there are 5,034 active cases. The Congress and the BJP have accused Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of hiding the actual number of deaths and positive cases from the public. The government has strongly denied the allegations and said that hospitals send the number of deaths to a Death Audit Committee, appointed by the government on April 20. Only the panel can certify the deaths and only those will be counted in the health bulletin, added the government. Different figures Though the total number of COVID-19 deaths reported by the Delhi government is 106, the number of such deaths from just two city hospitals until Tuesday, accessed by The Hindu, is more. “There have been 58 COVID-19 related deaths in our hospital and 17 people were brought dead or died within 24 hours of reaching the hospital. All of them were COVID-19 positive cases,” said Minakshi Bhardwaj, Medical Superintendent of Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. According to the Delhi government, the total number of COVID-19 deaths from the hospital is only 41. Similarly, there were 81 such deaths in Delhi government’s Lok Nayak Hospital till Tuesday, according to the hospital. But as per the Delhi government, there were only 19 deaths in the hospital. On Tuesday, Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said that some hospitals were not sending death summaries to the government in time. “We have written to hospitals to send reports of deaths immediately. Hospitals have started sending death summaries,” the Minister added. Rail Bhawan closed The Rail Bhawan will be closed on Thursday and Friday for sanitisation after a COVID-19 positive case was reported in the Ministry of Railways, according to an official statement. Meanwhile, the office of the New Delhi district magistrate was sealed on Wednesday after eight civil defence volunteers working there tested positive for COVID-19, officials said. All those who came in contact with the infected will be tested, a senior official said, adding that contact tracing has also been undertaken. The eight personnel were involved in field work such as distribution of masks and other relief works. Two Delhi court judges have also gone into self quarantine at home for 14 days after one of them came in contact with an infected patient, read a circular issued by the Saket District Courts.
14 May 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. provides aid to auto, e-rickshaw drivers||The Delhi government has transferred Rs. 5,000 each to 1,10,093 PSV badge holders, like autorickshaw and Grameen Sewa drivers, who provide last-mile connectivity in the Capital. The government has in the process paid a total amount of over Rs. 55,04,65,000 to beneficiaries, it said in a statement. In the second week of April, the Delhi government had decided to provide one-time financial help of Rs. 5,000 to drivers of autos, taxis, e-rickshaws and other para-transit vehicles to tide over the financial crisis due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Leveraging technology, the Delhi government said it developed several software applications and used Aadhaar-based DBT to transfer financial assistance directly to the bank accounts of the applicants. “In this whole process, the Delhi government ensured that no person will be required to come out of homes and stand in queues,” the statement said. “We developed mobile-based technology and software. The PSV-batch holders applied based on their name as written in the driving licence and submitted both their driving licence and Aadhaar card,” the statement also said. Name verification However, in over 60,000 cases, there was a mismatch in names between driving licence and Aadhaar leading to verification issues. All the 13 MLOs were then directed to manually cross-check and verify the names and details in the driving licence with the Aadhaar details, it said. “This way, through mobile technology and round-the-clock efforts of the Delhi Transport department officials, we are doing the verification process. We have received nearly 1,58,000 applications,” said Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot. The Delhi government has, he said, also initiated the process of registration for e-rickshaw owners and permit holders of para-transit vehicles who do not have PSV badges.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Passengers left stranded at railway station||Several passengers arriving at New Delhi railway station were left stranded on Wednesday as their was no public transport available to take them to their destination in the city. Trains reached the station early in the morning after Railways resumed services on May 12. Passengers said they were not aware that there would be no pubic transport available in the Capital. Camp near station Several passengers who had to travel further to their homes in Western Uttar Pradesh, said that they would camp near the station until they find transport. Taking note of the situation, the Delhi Police said passengers can now avail DTC shuttle service for their onward journey from the station. For people requiring public transport in the city, the DTC will operate buses from the railway station to 11 district headquarters with the terminal point being the District Magistrate (DM) office complex, the police said. People using private conveyance can either take Bhavbhuti Marg or Minto Road while those taking DTC buses will have to board from the parking area in front of Ajmeri Gate, the police said. All arrangements have been made keeping in mind the strict guidelines to be followed in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak, the police said. For passengers seeking to reach the station, the DTC has started 20 shuttle busses up to Shivaji Stadium and the Ambedkar terminal, officials said. Train services were stopped due to COVID-19 pandemic, but special trains meant for public began on Tuesday from New Delhi with three such trains departing for Bilaspur, Dibrugarh and Bengaluru, while four arrived on the same day from Patna, Ahmedabad, Mumbai and Howrah. Elaborate arrangements Deputy Commissioner of Police (Railways) Harendra K. Singh said they made elaborate arrangements on Wednesday in close coordination with railway authorities to ensure passengers experience no inconvenience while travelling, at the same time, following the guidelines issued to contain the spread of the virus. “For passengers boarding trains, dedicated corridor was made on the Paharganj side where people queued up, all wearing masks and maintaining social distance. After thermal scanning, they boarded the trains. Sanitizer dispensers were placed at prominent places for the passengers,” Mr. Singh said. Through public address system, police teams also guided passengers to take adequate precautions during their journey, he said.  Dedicated corridor was made on the Paharganj side where people maintained social distance Harendra K. Singh Deputy Commissioner of Police (Railways)
14 May 2020||New Delhi,||Traders discuss reopening markets in the city||Discussions over reopening city markets are ongoing as the nationwide lockdown nears its end on May 17. While some trade representatives want the markets to open but with riders, others are in favour of keeping them shut till the end of May. The Chamber of Trade and Industry (CTI), an umbrella organisation of traders, met through videoconferencing on Wednesday in which 100 traders’ associations participated, the CTI claimed. CTI convener Brijesh Goyal and president Subhash Khandelwal said representatives from Chandni Chowk, Kashmere Gate, Chawri Bazaar, Naya Bazar, Khari Baoli, Sadar Bazar, Kamla Nagar, Connaught Place, Nehru Place, Sarojini Nagar, Rajouri Garden, Gandhi Nagar, Shahdara, Mayapuri, Lajpat Nagar among other markets were present. “In today’s meeting, 90% of the traders said that markets and shops should open while 10% of the traders suggested that the lockdown should continue,” the CTI said. Odd-even policy “Most of the business entities suggested that relief should be given to open the markets in Delhi. Most traders suggested that markets be opened based on odd-even principles and that timings of some markets can also be changed,” the statement said. However, according to the Delhi Vyapar Mahasangh, it was decided at their own meeting that these not be allowed to open at all. “At an important meeting with all market associations and respective office-bearers, it was decided that all Delhi markets should remain closed till May due to the rising number of cases and deaths due to COVID-19,” it said in a statement. This was to ensure safety of not only traders but also the customers, the body said.
14 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Will bear fare for Bihar migrants’||The Delhi government will bear the expenses for sending migrant workers from Bihar in three special trains back to their State on Wednesday, the Delhi government spokesperson said. “For all the three trains, the Delhi government will be paying as the Bihar government has not yet responded to us on the matter of payment. All the three trains left by 6 p.m. and each of them was carrying around 1,100-1,200 workers,” the spokesperson said. “Today, three trains carrying migrant workers are leaving Delhi for Bhagalpur, Barauni and Darbhanga in Bihar. @ArvindKejriwal government will pay for fares of all workers,” Delhi Labour Minister Gopal Rai said in a tweet in Hindi. “We have given them food and ticket. We hope you all will reach home safe and meet your families,” Mr. Rai said in a recorded message.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Policeman raises concern over long duty hours||Concerned over his health and hygiene during the COVID-19 outbreak, a policeman deployed at Shahbad Dairy police station of Outer North district has written to the Police Commissioner seeking relief from long duty hours. The assistant sub-inspector wrote that due to long duty hours, he is unable to go home. He has to prepare his own food as he cannot use mess facility due to social distancing rules, and fears contracting the deadly virus. He asked for sentry duty at each police station to be cut short from 12 hours to eight hours. Poor immunity “We are unable to take care of ourselves and do not even get time to wash our uniform. We are also unable to exercise and do other activities to keep ourselves fit. All this can result in poor health and immune system of police personnel,” read the letter. The policeman said that they manage to consume half-cooked food and get to sleep for only a few hours. They are loosing their immune power which will make them prone to COVID-19. Even when the reserve staff has been pressed into COVID-19 duty, they still have to do 12- hour shifts. In such cases, regular staff should be better taken care of. He also alleged that several ‘influential’ police personnel have managed to skip regular duties. A senior police officer said that all concerns of policemen are addressed on priority and that the duty of the officer has been changed. The other grievances raised by the policeman are also being looked into, he added.
14 May 2020||New Delhi,||Police chief reviews steps taken to curb outbreak||Delhi Police Commissioner S.N Shrivastava on Wednesday held a virtual meeting with senior officers to review the status of preparedness taken by the force to contain the spread of the virus, said officials. Special Commissioner of Police (Operations) stated that 14 fresh cases were reported in the force in the last 24 hours.  Mr. Shrivastava also directed Special Commissioner of Police (Traffic) to circulate the mobile number of chowkidar incharge of designated COVID-19 hospitals to all police personnel through SMS. He further directed Special Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) North to coordinate with authorities concerned to suitably enhance the number of testing facilities for its personnel at Haiderpur Testing Centre.
14 May 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. receives over 4 lakh ideas to ease restrictions||The Delhi government on Wednesday said it had received an overwhelming response to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s call for suggestions related to easing the upcoming edition of the national lockdown. Mr. Kejriwal on Tuesday had sought suggestions from the public on the relaxations of lockdown after 17 May. “Till 5 p.m. on May 13, the Delhi government has received 4,76,000 WhatsApp messages, 10,700 emails, and 39,000 calls. 22,700 responses have been received on the Change.Org petition,” the government said in a statement. Various categories According to the government, the responses have been received under various categories such as industrial and MSME operations, transportation, education, and day-to-day activities of the people such as commercial and non-commercial activities. With the COVID-19 lockdown extending up to three phases, Mr. Kejriwal had said that based on the suggestions received by the people, the Delhi government will send a proposal on the same to the Centre on May 15. He had said that the suggestions received will also be discussed with doctors and experts. Addressing a digital conference on Tuesday, the Chief Minister had sought suggestions on the relaxation of lockdown.
14 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Discussions on for safe public transport’||Discussions are being held between the government and the Delhi Transport Corporation officers concerned to develop a protocol for safe public transport in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, government sources claimed. The Centre’s guidelines to resume public transport services, however, is awaited at the moment.
14 May 2020||noida,||Six new cases in Gautam Buddha Nagar||Six more people have tested positive for COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar, taking the total number of cases in the district to 236, officials said on Wednesday. Two patients have also recovered, leaving 90 active cases, the officials said. Gautam Buddha Nagar, adjoining Delhi, has so far recorded three deaths due to the virus. Among the new patients are a 51-year-old man from Sector 5, a 22-year-old man from Sector 22, a 24-year-old man from Sector 8, a 34-year-old man from Sector 66 and a 34-year-old woman from Sector 76 — all in Noida, said District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare. A 30-year-old resident of Jewar in Greater Noida has also tested positive for the infection.  Three men, two of them aged 60 and one 62, have died due to the virus. The recovery rate of patients is 60.59%, according to official statistics. Officials added that 4,376 samples have been collected for COVID-19 test in the district so far, while 501 people are currently under institutional quarantine.
14 May 2020||Bhopal,||Railway porters take to construction work||Hauling cement sacks on back, and hoisting tiles onto his head, gently carrying them upstairs on the foot overbridge is no different than shouldering passenger luggage for Imratlal Prajapati, except for three reasons. As a construction worker, he earns much less, can’t take breaks as per convenience and the job is irregular. And, the uncertainty of the work duration is anxiety-inducing. “We don’t even know till when will this work last,” said Mr. Prajapati, a porter at the Bhopal railway station. “Each tile we carry equals four passenger bags. We were labourers even before, and our own masters.” With trains suspended in view of the COVID-19 lockdown, around 40 of the 122 porters at the station have taken to construction work on the premises to battle hunger and tide over unemployment. Part of the overbridge on platform number 3 collapsed in February, and its revamp has been due since. The porters perform all kinds of unskilled labour — hammering into old tiles, heaving debris, and lugging rods, for eight hours a day. Whereas, masons take over laying of tiles and plastering them. Batches of porters work on alternate days for Rs. 350. “There is barely any food at home. But there is no work for every porter at the same time. We have to give our brothers a chance too,” said Mr. Prajapati. When the trains ran, he made Rs. 500 every day. The uncertainty of work pushed unskilled workers, mostly migrants from the hinterland, to return to their villages. And this caused a paucity. “So, we proposed to the porters if they wanted to work at the revamp site,” said the contractor’s representative, requesting anonymity. “The condition of porters has reached a hunger crisis,” said Radhesham Chouksey, a porter for 10 years.  Pending rent Furiously breaking older tiles, Rambabu Bhilala, from Shajapur, said his rent was Rs. 3,000 every month. “I haven’t paid it for four months now. There are two children, wife and parents to feed at home.”
14 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||85-year-old grandmother recovers from COVID-19||An 85-year-old woman, weighing just 22 kg, in Odisha’s Jajpur district has recovered from COVID-19, raising hopes for others fighting the disease in the State. Doctors and paramedical staff in the city’s SUM COVID Hospital were elated when she walked out of the hospital, holding her tiny grandchild in her arm. The elderly woman hails from Jajpur’s Katikata panchayat, which was declared a containment zone. She had remained with her family from March 22 to April 30. She is believed to have come in contact with another infected person between March 29 and April 25. The woman tested positive on April 30 and was shifted to SUM COVID Hospital the same day. ‘No co-morbidity’ “She did not have any comorbidity factors except having age-related issues. She was asymptomatic for the last three days before her discharge. Doctors kept her under focused observation for 12 days,” said Pusparaj Samantsinghar, Medical Superintendent, SUM COVID Hospital. Fourteen persons, including two three-year-old children from Jajpur district, were discharged on Tuesday. One of them was a 60-year-old diabetic who was unaware about his condition when he was admitted, hospital sources said. “He was diagnosed with diabetes in the hospital. The treatment also helped his pre-prandial blood sugar level to steeply reduce from 400 to 100 when he was released,” said hospital authorities. Dr. Samantsinghar said, “At a time when people aged over 60 years are believed to be very vulnerable to the virus attack, the confidence of our doctors, nurses and other paramedic staff soared following the recovery of the octogenarian patient.” The SUM COVID Hospital, set up in collaboration with the State government and supported by the public sector Mahanadi Coalfields Limited, has a total of 525 beds, including 25 beds in the ICU. Separate floors The four-storeyed complex has separate floors for positive cases and those kept in isolation. Asymptomatic and seriously ill patients were also being treated in separate places. As many as 82 doctors, drawn from various departments, have been deployed in the hospital, as have been 264 nurses.
14 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab announces compensation to liquor contractors for losses||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday approved changes to the excise policy following the COVID-19 outbreak, announcing compensation to liquor contractors for the losses incurred by them during the lockdown. While ruling out extension in the contract of liquor vends beyond March 31, 2020, the Chief Minister announced that the State government would provide adjustments to the licensees for losses incurred during the lockdown period, from March 23 to May 6, 2020. The Chief Minister also constituted a three-member committee of senior government officers to assess the actual loss resulting from closure of liquor vends. The State Cabinet had on May 11 authorised the Chief Minister to approve suitable changes in the State excise policy due to the pandemic and the resultant curflew-ockdown. An official statement said the Chief Minister has accepted the recommendation of the excise department, aligned to the advice of the finance department, to maintain the period of contract of liquor vends till March 31, 2021. He has also approved the finance department’s recommendation to provide proportionate adjustment of MGQ (the quantity that a retailer is bound to sell in one excise year) for the losses incurred in the nine days of lockdown in March, it added. The Chief Minister has also set up a Group of Ministers, which has been mandated to consider the issue of levying a special COVID cess on sale of liquor. Impasse continues Meanwhile the impasse between the Punjab Ministers and State's Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh over liquor policy continued even as the Chief Secretary was divested of the charge of Financial Commissioner (Taxation).
14 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||Death of businessman raises fears of virus spread in Aligarh||A curfew-like lockdown has been imposed in areas under three police stations in Aligarh after a real estate businessman and president of the managing committee of a reputed college of the city died in Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College because of COVID-19 infection on Tuesday. Local sources said two days before his death, the businessman, a resident of the posh ADA Colony in Sasni Gate area, observed the tehervi (13th day ritual) of his mother who passed away on April 28 in which around 200 people, including some local leaders of the ruling party, participated. “It is almost like a curfew. We can’t step out,” said a retired professor who lived in the colony. He said a large number of people turned up to condole the death of the businessman as well. Prof. Haris Khan, Medical Superintendent of JNMCH, said the businessman was brought in a serious condition on Monday and was put on ventilator. “He was diabetic and was suffering from hypertension as well,” he said. Five new cases Aligarh has reported five deaths because of COVID-19 and 63 persons have been tested positive. On Wednesday, five new cases emerged, two of which are related to the businessman. “We have imposed stringent lockdown in Sasni Gate, Kotwali, and Delhi Gate police stations. There will be no relaxation for at least a week. Essential services will be provided at the doorstep,” said Senior Superintendent of Police Muni Raj P. This, he said, was essential to break the chain. “The family members of the businessman have been sent into home quarantine and random sampling is being done in area,” he said. “Our information is 20-25 people attended the ceremony but over the week many people would have visited the residence. It feels sad that even educated people and people in responsible positions are not serious about the disease,” he observed. Another case of COVID-19 came to light in the Civil Lines area where a medical store owner was tested positive. He was admitted to the private hospital and was later referred to the private hospital in Noida when his condition deteriorated. Locals say this could lead to another chain as his shop is in the densely populated old city area.
14 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Miners threaten stir over coal ‘import’||Coal miners and traders in Meghalaya have threatened mass defiance of the lockdown over what is being seen as the State government’s move to “carry coal to Newcastle.” The government had on May 6 issued an order allowing transportation of coal from Assam and other States for cement plants here, some of them in East Jaintia Hills district. The ‘irony’ of the order was not lost on many in the district whose economy began suffering after the National Green Tribunal banned the rat-hole coal mining in April 2014. “We have set the government a four-day deadline,” said Shanbor Lamare, secretary of the Jaintia Coal Miner and Dealer Association. “We will defy the lockdown if the government fails to heed our demand,” said Albinus Lamurong of the Meghalaya People’s Labour Union, Jaintia Hills.
14 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Two migrant labourers die in U.P. mishap||Two persons died and several others were injured, with half-a-dozen of them grievously, after a supply truck carrying migrant labourers back home from Ahmedabad in Gujarat rammed into a truck near Kanpur Dehat. The incident happened early on Wednesday on a highway in the Akbarpur area of the district, police said. Ahmedabad is over 980 kms from Akbarpur. The supply truck, coming from Ahmedabad, rammed into a truck from behind. While two labourers have been reported dead so far, six were seriously injured, said Anurag Vats, SP Kanpur Dehat.
14 May 2020||PACHGAON (HARYANA),||Workers’ exodus resumes after brief lull||Despite the Haryana government allowing transportation of migrant workers by trains and buses, the workers, including women and children, continue to walk back to their hometowns in hordes along the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway. Hukum Singh, a priest at Fazalwas village near KMP toll, said around 200-250 men and women along with kids come daily to the temple and proceed with their belongings on their onward journey after taking a break for a few hours. “We provide them food and water,” he said. Another villager said the exodus had stopped briefly, but the workers have started walking back to their hometowns over the past couple of days in large numbers. Pappu, a construction worker, on his way back to Jalaun in Uttar Pradesh with his wife and children, said he had registered on the government website several days back but there was no response. He said that he sold his belongings to pay for the rent and decided to leave on foot. ‘No response’ Another worker, Sagar, from Patna, said he too had registered online and called several helplines but there was no response. He hoped to get a ride in some vehicle on his way back to his hometown. He was accompanied by 10 people, including his wife, niece and children. Vijay Bahadur, who works at a footwear company in Bahadurgarh, said he had not got salary for the month of April and was living hand-to-mouth. “My company sources raw material from China. It may take months before it starts operations,” he said. Hailing from Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh, Mr. Bahadur said no monetary help from the government came his way and that he need not at least worry about two square meals a day back home. “We arranged a cab for Rs.3,000 to reach Pachgaon from Tikri in Delhi. Now we will hire another cab to reach home. The landlord has taken the key to my room and threatened to sell off my belongings if we don’t return in a month’s time to pay the rent,” he said. Chanderjeet, walking back to Uttar Pradesh’s Azamgarh late on Wednesday evening, said his company was calling only regular workers for work and not the contractual workers. “We waited for more than a month after the Prime Minister’s appeal, but decided to return to our hometowns now. It might take us more than a week on foot. It is 800 km by train,” said Mr. Chanderjeet, who works at Satyam Autos in Manesar.  ‘Police helping at night’ A toll attendant at KMP toll here said hundreds of workers have been walking the highway to go back to their home States. “Though police don’t allow them during the daytime, they flag down vehicles at night to help the workers board them. The exodus has begun over the past few days after a brief lull,” said the toll attendant.
14 May 2020||Washington,||Trump aide Kushner hints at delay in poll, then backtracks||President Donald Trump’s aide and son in law Jared Kushner said he couldn’t guarantee the U.S. presidential election will take place on time, due to the COVID-19 pandemic — only to walk back his comment. The election is scheduled for November 3 by law and the White House has no authority to make a change. However, Mr. Kushner’s remark on Tuesday touched a nerve as Mr. Trump and Democratic rival Joe Biden head into the increasingly tense final six months of campaigning. Asked in an interview by Time magazine whether he could commit to the election being on schedule, even if a second COVID-19 wave breaks out, Mr. Kushner said: “I’m not sure I can commit one way or the other, but right now that’s the plan.” “Hopefully by the time we get to September, October, November, we’ve done enough work with testing and with all the different things we’re trying to do to prevent a future outbreak of the magnitude that would make us shut down again,” said Mr. Kushner, whose title is senior adviser. Although Mr. Kushner did not say he wanted a change in date and noted “it’s not my decision to make,” his remarks were attacked by Mr. Trump’s critics as evidence of overreach. Shortly after, Mr. Kushner issued a clarification to NBC News, saying “I have not been involved in, nor am I aware of, any discussions about trying to change the date of the presidential election.” The election date is under scrutiny given the massive logistical disruption caused by COVID-19 lockdowns and the risk that voters will stay away from crowded polling stations. However, both Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden have said they see no change in date happening. Hacking by China U.S. authorities also warned healthcare and scientific researchers on Wednesday that Chinese-backed hackers were attempting to steal research and intellectual property related to treatments and vaccines for COVID-19. Organisations researching the disease were warned of “likely targeting and network compromise by the People’s Republic of China,” a statement from the FBI and the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency said. The two organizations gave no evidence or examples of their allegation against Beijing.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||'Taiwan is eager to work with India to fight the COVID-19 pandemic’||Although they do not have formal diplomatic ties, Taiwan and India have been cooperating, from research on treatments to sharing Taiwan’s experience in controlling COVID-19. Setting up a regular communication channel between medical agencies will help coordination, Foreign Minister Joseph Wu said in an exclusive written interview. Taiwan, which had only 440 infections as of May 13, wants to share its experience with the World Health Organization (WHO) where it is not a member, but wants participation. Edited excerpts:  What are the main lessons from Taiwan’s experience in battling COVID-19? Our experience with SARS in 2003 was traumatic. The experience taught Taiwan that acting quickly and ensuring advanced deployment are the keys to preventing the spread of an epidemic. Our government, moreover, has been transparent and has kept the public up-to-date at all times. This is why the Taiwan model of fighting disease has proven effective. When the first case of the coronavirus arrived on January 21, we set up the Central Epidemic Command Center (CECC). We quickly issued an export ban on critical medical supplies. We have designated 160 testing facilities around the country. From these facilities, people with the disease are either sent to one of 134 medical facilities for milder cases, or 50 large regional centres for more severe cases. This system allows us to quickly isolate patients based on their severity, as well as allocate medical personnel and equipment. I would like to point out that National Health Insurance, which covers 99% of our people, is the key to our success in rationing critical supplies and contact tracing. Have Taiwan and India been in touch during the pandemic? Despite the lack of official diplomatic ties between Taiwan and India, both countries set up representative offices in each other’s respective capitals in 1995. Since then, we have engaged in dynamic ongoing communication on many levels. However, our sharing of information on COVID-19 has been restricted to relying on the International Health Regulations (IHR) focal point under the WHO. The arrangement is far from satisfactory. Information has not been shared in a timely fashion. The pandemic did not draw due global attention until late January, when it was finally declared a Public Health Emergency of International Concern by the WHO. In retrospect, it is clear that the international community was not fully informed as to the risk of a devastating pandemic. Are there particular areas where you think Taiwan and India can work together to fight the pandemic? Let me give you two examples of how we are doing so already. First, on February 20, researchers at Academia Sinica announced they had synthesised over 100 milligrams of Remdesivir, an experimental treatment for COVID-19, to 97% purity. It took the team, which includes two members from India, just two weeks. Second is how Taiwan’s medical institutions have been sharing related information. On April 2 and 14, two Taiwan-India Webinars on COVID-19 were held. These were a product of collaboration between National Cheng Kung University Hospital and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. Over 14,000 healthcare workers in India benefited from these webinars. Taiwan’s physicians shared their experience fighting the pandemic, including testing methods, treatments, approaches to containing infection, and measures concerning masks. Also Taiwan will provide face masks to India in support of frontline medical personnel. Taiwan is eager to work with India to fight COVID-19. Is Taiwan concerned by the disruption of global supply chains for both medicines and personal protective equipment? The continuing spread of COVID-19 has affected global pharmaceutical supply chains. Prices of active pharmaceutical ingredients have gone up. Taiwan has naturally been affected to a certain extent. Our government has been working with domestic manufacturers of pharmaceuticals to source needed inputs from, for example, India, Europe, or the U.S. Do you see room for India and Taiwan to coordinate on this front? Information sharing and multilateral coordination play a critical role in preventing pandemics. A joint effort is needed to keep the world safe. I would like to see closer interactions and engagement by our research teams on medicine and related technology. Taiwan and India could consider setting up a regular communications channel between our medical agencies in order to ensure the availability of medical resources. We could also work to explore the feasibility of mutually beneficial investments and cooperation to strengthen supply chains for pharmaceuticals, inputs, and equipment. Can you share with us when Taiwan first alerted the WHO on human-to-human transmission and the response? The Taiwan Centers for Disease Control learned from online sources that there had been at least seven cases of atypical pneumonia in Wuhan, China. In China, the term “atypical pneumonia” is commonly used to refer to SARS, a disease transmitted between humans caused by coronavirus. On December 31, 2019, Taiwan sent an email to the IHR focal point under the World Health Organization, informing the WHO of its understanding of the disease and also requesting further information from the WHO. The WHO IHR focal point only responded with a short message stating that Taiwan’s information had been forwarded to expert colleagues. No follow up information was provided. What in your view are the main lessons for the WHO going forward? Since the outbreak of the pandemic at the beginning of the year, although WHO has said little about Taiwan’s disease-prevention efforts, Taiwan is willing to share its experience with the WHO and other nations. If Taiwan could participate fully in the WHO and if it could interact with other countries on an equal basis under the WHO framework, more nations would receive Taiwan’s early warning. The world might be a different place today. Where possible, Taiwan is willing and eager to continue providing medical supplies to nations suffering badly from this disease. Taiwan has recently, for example, donated over 17 million medical masks to countries around the world. We are also making donation arrangements for India, which is an important partner for Taiwan. We will continue operating in the spirit of “Taiwan Can Help” and share Taiwan’s experience with the world.  Information sharing and multilateral coordination play a critical role in preventing pandemics
14 May 2020||Beijing,||Jilin imposes partial lockdown||A northeastern Chinese city has partially shut its borders, cut off transport links and closed schools after the emergence of a local coronavirus cluster that has fuelled fears about a second wave of infections in China. Jilin, with a population of more than four million, suspended bus services on Wednesday and said it will only allow residents to leave the city if they have tested negative for COVID-19 in the past 48 hours and complete an unspecified period of “strict self-isolation”. All cinemas, indoor gyms, Internet cafes and other enclosed entertainment venues must shut immediately, and pharmacies must report all sales of fever and antiviral medicines, the local government said in a statement. The city is located in the eponymous province of Jilin, which borders Russia and North Korea. A cluster of infections was reported in the suburb of Shulan over the weekend, with Jilin’s Vice-Mayor warning on Wednesday that the situation was “extremely severe and complicated” and “there is major risk of further spread”. Six new cases The city recorded six new cases on Wednesday, all linked to the Shulan cluster, bringing the total number of cases connected to a local laundry worker to 21. Shulan shut down public transport including trains leaving the city on Sunday. Jilin city, the second-largest in Jilin province, also suspended train services from its main railway station on Wednesday morning, state broadcaster CCTV reported. China has largely brought the virus under control, but it has been on edge about a potential second wave as it has lifted lockdowns across the country. The emergence of new cases in the Chinese epicentre of Wuhan in recent days, after weeks without fresh infections, has prompted a campaign to test all 11 million residents in the city where COVID-19 first emerged late last year.
14 May 2020||COLOMBO,||TNA seeks release of ‘political prisoners’ in Sri Lanka||Sri Lanka’s Tamil National Alliance (TNA) has sought the release of “political prisoners” who were arrested — some convicted — for their alleged association with or role in the rebel LTTE during the civil war. On Tuesday night, TNA spokesman and former Jaffna parliamentarian M.A. Sumanthiran handed over a list of the detainees under Sri Lanka’s controversial Prevention of Terrorism (PTA) Act to Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa. “There are 96 political prisoners in all and 47 of them were convicted. Only a presidential pardon can release them,” he said, referring to the Sri Lankan President’s discretionary power to grant amnesty. In March this year, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa pardoned a soldier who was on death row for killing eight Tamil civilians, including a five-year-old, during the civil war. “The Prime Minister asked me to discuss the matter with the President and I will be doing that,” Mr. Sumanthiran added. The meeting between the TNA representative and the Prime Minister, he said, was a follow-up to a recent discussion between Mr. Rajapaksa and TNA legislators in Colombo. Arrest without warrant Tamil political parties and civil society organisations have for long sought the release of PTA detainees — many of whom were not charged — while urging the Sri Lankan government to repeal the draconian PTA, which allows arrests for unspecified “unlawful activities” without warrant, and permits detention of the suspect for up to 18 months before a case is initiated. Of the 96 prisoners on the TNA’s list, the cases pertaining to 22 suspects have dragged for over 10 years, while some others who were convicted have spent more than 20 years in prison. Attempts by the former government, under then President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe, to draft a new counter-terrorism law were unsuccessful. Enacted in 1979, under President J.R. Jayawardene, the PTA was used mostly to quell the armed struggle of Tamil youth against the state. The PTA, which was modelled on South Africa’s apartheid-era legislation and laws used by the British against Irish militancy, became a permanent law in 1982. Though mostly used against northern Tamils, the PTA was also used in the island’s south to arrest Sinhalese youth during the second JVP insurrection from 1987-89. More recently, persons allegedly linked to the April 2019 Easter Sunday terror bombings were arrested under the PTA. Last month, police detained prominent lawyer Hejaaz Hizbullah for his alleged involvement in the terror attacks. His family has denied the allegation and a group of over 150 lawyers have condemned his “unlawful” detention.
14 May 2020||Jerusalem,||Pompeo meets Netanyahu to discuss West Bank annexation||U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo met on Wednesday with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to discuss Israel’s plans to annex parts of the West Bank, as Israeli troops shot and killed a Palestinian teen in a clash with stone-throwers in the occupied territory. Mr. Pompeo’s brief visit came at a tense time, as Israeli troops searched for the killers of a soldier killed a day earlier by a rock dropped from a rooftop during an army raid of a West Bank village. Standing alongside Mr. Pompeo, Mr. Netanyahu said the six-hour visit is a “testament to the strength of our alliance.” The two said their talks would focus on shared concerns about Iran, the battle against the coronavirus and Israel’s incoming government. Mr. Netanyahu and his new coalition partner, Blue and White party leader Benny Gantz, postponed the swearing-in of their government until Thursday to accommodate Mr. Pompeo’s visit.
14 May 2020||Washington,||Manafort freed, to serve prison sentence at home||Paul Manafort, Donald Trump’s one-time presidential campaign chairman who was convicted as part of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation, has been released from federal prison to serve the rest of his sentence in home confinement due to concerns about the coronavirus, his lawyer said on Wednesday. Manafort, 71, was released on Wednesday morning from FCI Loretto, a low-security prison in Pennsylvania, according to his attorney Todd Blanche. Manafort had been serving more than seven years.  The release comes as prison advocates and congressional leaders have been pressing the Justice Department for weeks to release at-risk inmates ahead of a potential outbreak. As of Tuesday, 2,818 federal inmates had positive test results for COVID-19. Fifty inmates had died.
14 May 2020||Kabul,||Ready to retaliate if govt. resumes strikes: Taliban||The Taliban warned on Wednesday that it was ready to fight back after Afghan forces were ordered to resume strikes in response to a series of deadly attacks, further unravelling a fragile peace process. A brazen daylight assault on a maternity hospital in Kabul on Tuesday — which killed at least 24 people including infants and nurses — was followed by a blast at a funeral in the country’s restive east, leaving 24 mourners dead. On Wednesday, health officials said the combined toll from the two attacks has risen to 56. Attackers killed Three gunmen stormed a Kabul maternity hospital Tuesday as parents brought infants and children for appointments. The attackers were eventually killed in a lengthy clearance operation during which heavily armed Afghan security forces carried babies from the scene. President Ashraf Ghani blamed both attacks on the Taliban and Islamic State (IS), ordering Afghan troops to “resume their operations against the enemy”. But the Taliban, which denied involvement in Tuesday’s attacks, warned that it was “fully prepared” to counter any strikes by Afghan forces. “From now onwards the responsibility of further escalation of violence and its ramifications shall fall squarely on the shoulders of the Kabul administration,” it said in a statement early on Wednesday. The aggressive posturing from both sides raises fresh questions about the fate of a peace process that is teetering just as Afghanistan grapples with a public health crisis. The authorities dismissed the Taliban’s warning, saying the group had always indulged in “violence and war”. The Taliban has not claimed any major attacks in Kabul and other cities since the deal was signed. It has, however, regularly targeted Afghan forces in provinces.
14 May 2020||Berlin,||Merkel blames Russia for hacking||German Chancellor Angela Merkel voiced frustration on Wednesday that Russia was targeting her in hacking attacks, saying she had concrete proof of the “outrageous” spying attempts. “I can honestly say that it pains me. Every day I try to build a better relationship with Russia and on the other hand there is such hard evidence that Russian forces are doing this,” she told Parliament. Calling such cyberattacks “more than uncomfortable,” Ms. Merkel raised the spectre of sanctions if such activity did not stop. Germany’s intelligence service has repeatedly called out attempts by Russian hackers to spy on lawmakers. German media reported that among information copied by hackers in 2015 was data from Ms. Merkel’s email account. That attack also targeted the Bundestag. Ms. Merkel said investigators into the hacking had identified a suspect.
14 May 2020||Brasilia,||Brasţlia, May 13, 2020 (AFP) -||Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro denied on Tuesday that he had top police officials fired to shield his family from investigations, as potentially damning revelations continued to fly in a case that has hurt the far-right leader.AFP
14 May 2020||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong, May 13, 2020 (AFP) -||Facebook has apologised for its role in the communal unrest that shook Sri Lanka two years ago after a probe found that hate speech and rumours spread on the platform may have led to violence. The riots in 2018 had erupted as anti-Muslim anger was whipped up on social media.AFP
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||A plan to revive a broken economy||The Prime Minister has just announced Lockdown 4.0. Despite some resulting increase in economic activity, vast numbers of working people will remain without their regular incomes. He also announced a package of Rs. 20-lakh crore, but this includes already allocated money of Rs. 6-lakh crore and monetary policy directives to banks and non-banking financial companies. The announcements by the Finance Minister thus far involve no additional public spending, even though this is urgently required to revive the economy and prevent further contraction. Here we discuss what the government should do immediately in fiscal terms for reviving the economy and supporting livelihoods. Food and cash transfers first The immediate need is to provide free food and cash transfers to those rendered incomeless. Providing every household with Rs. 7,000 per month for a period of three months and every individual with 10 kg of free foodgrains per month for a period of six months is likely to cost around 3% of our GDP (assuming 20% voluntary dropout). This could be financed immediately through larger borrowing by the Centre from the Reserve Bank of India. The required cash and food have to be handed over to State governments to make the actual transfers, along with outstanding Goods and Services Tax compensation. This is easily doable for several reasons. First, foodgrains are plentiful, as the Food Corporation of India had 77 million tonnes, and rabi procurement could add 40 million tonnes. Second, because of the lockdown restrictions, the multiplier rounds of such expenditure are heavily truncated at present and would not generate as much demand as in normal times. Third, cash transfers in many spheres will only enable current demand to continue (such as payment of house rent to continue occupancy) and not create any fresh demand. Fourth, when greater normalcy finally allows pent-up demand to surface, output could also expand because of resumed economic activity. Finally, putting money in the hands of the poor is the best stimulus to economic revival, as it creates effective demand and in local markets. Hence, an immediate programme of food and cash transfers must command the highest priority. Revamp MGNREGA work But the post-lockdown world will be different for several reasons. First, millions of migrant workers have endured immense hardships to trudge back home, and are unlikely to return to towns in the foreseeable future. Employment has to be provided to them where they are, for which the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) must be expanded greatly and revamped with wage arrears paid immediately. The 100-day limit per household has to go; work has to be provided on demand without any limit to all adults. And permissible work must include not just agricultural and construction work, but work in rural enterprises and in care activities too. The revamped MGNREGS could cover wage bills of rural enterprises started by panchayats, along with those of existing rural enterprises, until they can stand on their own feet. This can be an alternative strategy of development, recalling the successful experience of China’s Township and Village Enterprises (TVEs). Public banks could provide credit to such panchayat-owned enterprises and also assume a nurturing role vis-à-vis them. The second change is the palpable unsustainability of the earlier globalisation, which means that growth in India in the coming days will have to be sustained by the home market. Since the most important determinant of growth of the home market is agricultural growth, this must be urgently boosted. The MGNREGS can be used for this, paying wages for land development and farm work for small and medium farmers; apart from government support through remunerative procurement prices, subsidised institutional credit, other input subsidies, and redistribution of unused land with plantations. Agricultural growth in turn can promote rural enterprises, both by creating a demand for their products and by providing inputs for them to process; and both these activities would generate substantial rural employment. The urban focus In urban areas, it is absolutely essential to revive the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). Simultaneously, the vast numbers of workers who have stayed on in towns have to be provided with employment and income after our proposed cash transfers run out. The best way to overcome both problems would be to introduce an Urban Employment Guarantee Programme, to serve diverse groups of the urban unemployed, including the educated unemployed. Urban local bodies must take charge of this programme, and would need to be revamped for this purpose. “Permissible” work under this programme should include, for the present, work in the MSMEs. This would ensure labour supply for the MSMEs and also cover their wage bills at the central government’s expense until they re-acquire robustness. It should imaginatively also include care work, including of old, disabled and ailing persons, educational activities, and ensuring public services in slums. These measures are in direct contrast to those that seek to entice private investors by easing labour laws. The humanitarian crisis of the lockdown reveals the imperative for more, not less labour protection. Such measures, far from reviving investment or employment, would also further reduce domestic demand. The ‘care’ economy The pandemic has underscored the extreme importance of a public health-care system, and the folly of privatisation of essential services. The post-pandemic period must see significant increases in public expenditure on education and health, especially primary and secondary health including for the urban and rural poor. The “care economy” provides immense scope for increasing employment. Vacancies in public employment, especially in such activities, must be immediately filled. Anganwadi and Accredited Social Health Activists/workers who provide essential services to the population, including during this pandemic, are paid a pittance and treated with extreme unfairness. We must improve their status, treat them as regular government employees and give them proper remuneration and associated benefits, and greatly expand their coverage in settlements of the urban poor. These could easily come within the total package announced by the Prime Minister, which could be financed by printing money. But in the medium term, public revenues must be increased. This is not because there is a shortage of real resources which, therefore, has to taken from other existing uses through taxation. Rather, since much unutilised capacity exists in the economy, the shortage is not of real resources; the government has to just get command over them. A combination of wealth and inheritance taxation and getting multinational companies to pay the same effective rate as local companies through a system of unitary taxation will garner substantial public revenue. They will also reduce wealth and income inequalities which have become horrendous. A 2% wealth tax on the top 1% of the population, together with a 33% inheritance tax on the wealth they bequeath every year to their progeny, could finance an increase in government expenditure to the tune of 10% of GDP. It would be argued that this might cause large financial outflows, which the country can ill-afford. Contrarily, even foreign capital is more likely to be attracted to a growing economy than one in sharp decline because of lack of stimulus. Also, a fresh issue of special drawing rights by the International Monetary Fund (which India has surprisingly opposed along with the United States) would provide additional external resources. These additional resources, we estimate, would suffice to finance the institution of five universal, justiciable, fundamental economic rights: the right to food, the right to employment, the right to free public health care, the right to free public education and the right to a living old-age pension and disability benefits. The broken economy must be rebuilt in ways to ensure a life of dignity to the most disadvantaged citizen. Prabhat Patnaik is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies and Planning, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), New Delhi. Jayati Ghosh is a professor of economics at JNU. Harsh Mander is a human rights worker, writer and teacher
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The death of fatalism||The pandemic is an epoch-changing moment. Millions have fallen sick, hundreds of thousands have succumbed to the disease. We have been caught unawares and still do not know how to deal with it. Historic events such as this compel us to raise big questions usually submerged in the hustle and bustle of life: what is and what isn’t in human control? How to make sense of collective helplessness in the face of abrupt changes? What is the place of contingency, fortune and misfortune in our life? Fatalism provides one answer: human agency is insignificant. We are permanent victims of inscrutable forces beyond our control. With the arrival of the pandemic, the surge of fatalism seems inevitable within popular consciousness. What else can we expect in the land of Karma — the idea that birth, status, marriage, occupation, all life experiences, and death are predetermined? Isn’t our personal destiny inscribed on our forehead or in the lines of our palm? Are we not already allotted a share ( bhaga ) of fortune or misfortune at birth? Isn’t Hinduism virtually synonymous with fatalism? Surely, we must then expect a lot of fatalistic gloom in these times. The near-absence of fatalism Yet, there is scarce evidence for it. I don’t see ordinary people resigned to their fate — an inscrutable, unpredictable force that acts on humans against their will, mocks their agency and humiliates them. Instead, they expect governments to take charge, doctors and nurses to save lives, scientists to deliver a cure, fellow citizens to behave responsibly. The poor do not seem to abjectly surrender to their fate either. They are willing to take huge risks and return home, not die of hunger when abandoned by governments. In short, Hindu fatalism seems to be a myth spun by Western, orientalist imagination. Or, perhaps, sustained by the rich who imagine the poor to be victims of fate; it is not what the poor believe about themselves. This near-absence of fatalism in India is not a gift of modernity. Historically, large segments of Indian thought are non-fatalistic and give an important place to human agency. The philosopher Sukumari Bhattacharji made a plausible case for the absence of fatalism in various ancient texts: the Rig Veda, the Brahmanas, the Samhitas, the Upanishads, the Aranyakas, and in Jaimini’s Purva Mimamsa. The theory of Karma found in the teachings of Buddha and Mahavira are not just atheistic but valorise human agency. Though the idea of fate exists, it is immanent, inscribed in and dependent upon human action spread over many births. Likewise, in Puranic literature, fate and human agency coexist. In the Mahabharata, there are two kinds of Rishis. The pravrtti sages (engaged in the world) draw upon the power of tapas (religious austerity) to dominate their surroundings; the nivrtti sages (renunciates) actively acquire spiritual knowledge by which to escape their surroundings. Both reject the argument that humans are victims of forces beyond their control. In ancient India, perhaps only the atheistic Ajivikas embraced fatalism. In Indian folk literature, one frequently finds a god or goddess coming to write the bhagya (share of fortune/fate) on the forehead of the new born. Several Indian languages have a term for it: talaiyeluttu and talaiviti in Tamil; haneli barediddu and hanebareha in Kannada; phalalikhita in Sanskrit. In Hindustani too, phrases such as ‘Hamari kismet mein yeh likha hai’ are common. This is often taken as an affirmation of Indian fatalism. But then the same literature invites us to use one’s wit, to overturn or at least modify bhagya writ on our forehead. Fate can be thwarted by action, particularly by those prepared to take risks. It can also be challenged, especially among the underprivileged, by ‘witchcraft’, or worship of ancestors and local deities. Anthropologists like Kathleen Gough record the derision with which Dalits in Tamil Nadu dismiss ideas of bhagya, phalalikhita , or inexorable fate. For upper castes, astrology appears to perform the same function, for it suggests appropriate strategies to manage bhagya (fortune), or avert durbhagya (misfortune), not surrender to it. In conditions of extreme, prolonged distress, entire world views may emerge that make human vulnerability permanent, unexpected, unpredictable forces salient, and render human agency, order and reason insignificant. Consider the idea of the absurd which emerged during the Second World War, underscoring the futility of the search for meaning, quite like fatalism that stresses the futility of human action. But extreme action-negating world views like fatalism must not be conflated with perspectives that give importance to fate. Fate is an integral, recurrent feature of the human condition. In every civilisation, such concepts emerge unbidden. All ancient world views had a term for it: moira in Greek, ming in Chinese and bhagya in Sanskrit. Modern world views too must incorporate fate. Why? The human world can always be viewed as a great contest between human agency and nature, something currently beyond control. The more humans are able to control their destiny, the less room in their perspective they have for fate. The more the world is comprehended, the less inscrutable it is. But there are times when most human beings feel utterly helpless — say, in times of wars, natural calamities, social upheavals, or personal misfortune. In such moments of extreme vulnerability and loss of control, when things seem beyond rational comprehension, ordinary human beings with their practical consciousness rely on notions such as fate. They submit, surrender, resign themselves to and eventually accept their condition — ‘so be it’, ‘such is my lot’. Human powers versus chance In short, an ongoing battle rages between what the Italian humanist Machiavelli calls Virtù (human powers) and Fortuna (chance/fate). We need to constantly experience and evaluate which way the balance will tilt. Individuals, societies and, indeed, humanity must have a realistic view of what is given and the extent to which it can be altered. It is impossible to entirely give up a conception of something beyond us and equally, to entirely reject a modicum of responsibility for one’s actions. We are always in part responsible for what is happening to us, though this contracts or enlarges depending on circumstances. However, one element that perpetually evades control is sheer fortuitousness in our lives — accidents, coincidences, disease, disasters, sudden bereavements — all of which defy human agency and thwart the best of plans. They compel us to rely solely on the idea of fate. Indeed, more than good luck, fate is linked to misfortune and death. No wonder accidents that result in death are called fatal and human beings who perish in disasters are called fatalities. In sum, while fatalism whose over-valorisation of fate nullifies human agency must disappear, views that introduce the dialectic of fate and human agency to account for contingency, misfortune and bad luck cannot be erased. However, even their relevance or efficacy can be reduced by better understanding, sounder explanations, with the wisdom to know what can and cannot be controlled, indeed by properly evaluating what should or should not be controlled. Rajeev Bhargava is Professor, CSDS, Delhi
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Provide income support, restore jobs||Following the adage, “never waste a crisis”, the government of Uttar Pradesh, last week, introduced an ordinance that has scrapped most labour laws for three years — ostensibly for creating jobs and for attracting factories exiting China following the outbreak of the novel coronavirus. These laws deal with the occupational safety, health and working conditions of workers, regulation of hours of work, wages and settlement of industrial disputes. They apply mostly to the economy’s organised (formal) sector, that is, registered factories and companies, and large establishments in general. Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have quickly followed suit. Reportedly, Punjab has already allowed 12-hour shifts per day (72 hours per week) in factories without overtime payment to overcome worker shortage after the migrants have left in the wake of the national lockdown. Shock point Snatching away labour rights in the midst of a global pandemic and national lockdown is distressing and shocking. Over the course of the last seven weeks, we have witnessed unheard of human distress as lakhs of migrant workers continue to desperately trudge to their villages after losing their jobs, livelihoods, and toeholds in cities. Despite overflowing food grain stocks, governments have been miserly in providing adequate food security. Income support to workers to retain them in their places of work has also been lacking. Significantly, migrant labour will be critical to restore production once the lockdown is lifted. In fact, factories and shops are already staring at worker shortages. Instead of encouraging workers to stay back or return to cities by ensuring livelihood support and safety nets, State governments have sought to strip workers of their fundamental rights. Employers’ associations have urged the central government to do away with most labour rights to address temporary labour shortages. Trade union leaders from the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh to the Centre of Indian Trade Unions, and Opposition leaders in Uttar Pradesh have condemned the ordinance. It will face a challenge in courts, legal experts say. The abrogation of labour laws raises many constitutional and political questions. But will it expand employment and output growth, as claimed by its proponents? Such a step, by popular belief, will reduce wage costs, increase profits and augment productive investment and growth. Improved supply is expected to create demand (following Say’s Law in economics). Such (simplistic) reasoning assumes that labour laws are the binding constraints on expanding output. Surely, the lockdown has disrupted supply, but only temporarily. There are no inherent shortages at the moment as the inflation rate remains moderate. Agricultural produce is rotting in farms for lack of transport. Industrial production is held up as migrant workers have fled for their lives. Before the lockdown, annual GDP growth rate had plummeted to 4.7% during October-December quarter of 2019-20, from 8.3% in the full year of 2016-17. The slowdown is due to lack of demand, not of supply, as widely suggested. With massive job and income losses after the lockdown, aggregate demand has totally slumped, with practically no growth. Therefore, the way to restart the economy is to provide income support and restore jobs. This will not only address the humanitarian crisis but also help revive consumer demand by augmenting incomes. Scrapping labour laws to save on labour costs will do just the opposite: it will reduce wages, lower earnings (particularly of low wage workers) and reduce consumer demand. Further, it will lead to an increase of low paid work that offers no security of tenure or income stability. The rationale for scrapping labour laws to attract investment and boost manufacturing growth poses two additional questions. One, if the laws were in fact so strongly pro-worker, they would have raised wages and reduced business profitability. But the real wage growth (net of inflation) of directly employed workers in the factory sector has been flat (2000-01 to 2015-16) as firms have increasingly resorted to casualisation and informalisation of the workforce to suppress workers’ bargaining power, evidence suggests. Two, is it right to blame the disappointing industrial performance mainly on labour market regulations? Industrial performance is not just a function of the labour laws but of the size of the market, fixed investment growth, credit availability, infrastructure, and government policies. In fact there is little evidence to suggest that amendment of key labour laws by Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh in 2014 took them any closer to their goal of creating more jobs or industrial growth. The role of labour market regulations may be more modest than the strong views expressed against them in the popular debates. Rationalise labour laws Surely, India’s complex web of labour laws, with around 47 central laws and 200 State laws, need rationalisation. However, now more than ever before, reforms need to maintain a delicate balance between the need for firms to adapt to ever-changing market conditions and workers’ employment security. Depriving workers of fundamental rights such as freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, and a set of primary working conditions (such as adequate living wages, limits on hours of work and safe and healthy workplaces), will create a fertile ground for the exploitation of the working class. Presently, over 90% of India’s workforce is in informal jobs, with no regulations for decent conditions of work, no provision for social security and no protection against any contingencies and arbitrary actions of employers. Abrogation of labour laws, as proposed by the Uttar Pradesh government, will free more employers from the obligations they currently hold for ensuring the job security, health, and social protection of their workers. It will increase informal employment in the formal sector instead of encouraging the growth of formal work. As India battles the economic and social consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic, many State governments have seized the opportunity to scrap labour laws on the pretext of encouraging employment. Such a decision makes little economic sense currently, as it will reduce share of wages in output, thereby reducing growth in domestic demand and hurting output expansion. Significantly, exports cannot be an option for now as the global economy is staring at the possibility worse than the Great Depression. Hence, the Uttar Pradesh government’s move will only result in a race to the bottom on workers’ pay and labour standards, making workers worse off, without creating additional jobs, as it is a lack of demand that is currently holding up output growth. The Uttar Pradesh ordinance needs to be revoked, lock, stock, and barrel. Radhicka Kapoor and R. Nagaraj work with the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER), New Delhi and the Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research (IGIDR), Mumbai, respectively
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||It’s time to give IRS officers their due||The Central Board of Direct Taxation (CBDT), a wing of the Ministry of Finance, has initiated disciplinary proceedings against some Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officers for a report they submitted to the government recently. The officers are not corrupt, nor did they abuse any Minister or any functionary of the government. So, what was their crime? A group of 50 IRS officers thought it their duty to help the government in this hour of crisis. They prepared a report titled ‘Fiscal Options and Response to Covid-19 Epidemic’, or FORCE, and submitted it to the government. The IRS Association’s Twitter handle and website carried the report. In order to tide over the financial crisis, the report suggested raising the highest slab rate to 40% for income above Rs. 1 crore or re-introducing the wealth tax for those with wealth of Rs. 5 crore or more; providing an additional one-time cess of 4% on taxable income of Rs. 10 lakh and above for COVID-19 relief; providing tax relief for sectors hit hard by COVID-19; and re-introducing the inheritance tax. These suggestions are nothing new. Inequality is on the rise everywhere. This is bound to be so, as Thomas Piketty showed, as long as r (rate of return on capital) is greater than g (rate of growth in the economy). The views of the officers can be taken to be unexceptionable on merits. So, what brought the wrath of the government then? Generalist versus the specialist The Ministry of Finance is always headed by an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer. The Revenue Secretary, the Expenditure Secretary and the Finance Secretary are all drawn from the IAS despite the fact that they have little experience in handling the economy. Starting as local administrators they later hold top posts in the Ministry of Finance. On the other hand, the CBDT is managed by IRS officers with rich field experience. There were suggestions time and again that the Chairman of the CBDT should be of the rank of Secretary to the Government of India. The government raised the status of the Chairman to that of a Special Secretary and not a full-fledged Secretary. At the time of the Budget, it is an IAS officer who accompanies the Finance Minister for the press briefing. The IRS officer is totally invisible, despite the Budget being the handiwork of hard-working IRS officers. Senior IRS officers know the intricacies of taxation, whether national or international. On the other hand, IAS officers know little about base erosion and profit sharing, transfer pricing, etc. And yet Revenue Administration is not in the hands of an IRS officer, but an IAS officer. The result is that the income tax law is a mess. In the past 60 years, the income tax law has never been mauled in a period of 12 months as it was in 2019-20. The Budget presented on July 5, 2019 has become irrelevant now as all the provisions were altered radically within six months. In September 2019, the Finance Minister called a press conference and announced radical changes in corporate taxation. Then followed press releases from the CBDT making alterations in fiscal laws. Then there was an ordinance. Finally the due dates for filing the returns, fixed by the statute, were changed. The financial year was practically extended from March to June. The Income Tax Act is a national disgrace, said Nani Palkhivala. Tax publishers are not able to bring out a proper single volume of income tax law. The blame for this squarely rests on the IAS officers who are above the IRS officers. Occupying top posts It is mostly IAS officers who are made Governor of the Reserve Bank of India, Chief Election Commissioner, and Comptroller and Auditor General of India. IRS officers are rarely allowed to occupy top posts. And yet, a brilliant IRS officer became the Chairman of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority against all odds. Another, Sushil Chandra (in picture), became Election Commissioner and brought out a classic book on democracy in India after retirement (in picture). Yet another was chosen by the Prime Minister himself to head the Central Vigilance Commission. The IAS maybe the ‘steel frame of India’ but the steel frame has been rusting for quite some time. Can the IRS be given their due and be allowed to play a normal role? The present controversy reignites the debate on the generalist versus the specialist. The FORCE report is sound. The IRS officers who wrote it deserve admiration and not admonition. T.C.A. Ramanujam is former Chief Commissioner of Income Tax
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Forced to adopt new habits||Starting new habits is tough and requires overcoming inertia. Most of the time humans like maintaining the status quo. The majority of us don’t change the default settings when we buy a new mobile phone. Nor we do change the default settings of any new app we download. The tendency to stick with defaults happens across different aspects of our lives, from personal to social to office work. But this pandemic has jolted us out of our inertia. We’re now doing new things that we haven’t done before. Those not used to cleaning their own dishes or homes are doing so now. Those not used to working from home are forced to do so now. Managers who wouldn’t allow their teammates to work from home have no choice but to ask them to work from home now. The pandemic has forced us to start new habits. One habit that we Indians are not used to is maintaining sufficient physical distance from one another in public spaces. There are many reasons for this. Urban cities are densely packed with people. Houses in slums are cramped. Few roads have footpaths, forcing pedestrians to take up a portion of the road. Lanes are narrow; even main roads are narrow. Trains and buses are always packed. Queues are long. The population is overwhelming. Environmental factors Behavioural science studies are showing evidence that a large part of human behaviour is led by environmental factors. In normal times we don’t pay much attention to our environment because we don’t need to. If one has to take a crowded train to work because of lack of better choice, we get used to it because the goal is to get to office, in time. The environment becomes part of our sub-conscious. We navigate through life, lanes, stations, etc. without paying much attention to our surroundings. But the pandemic is now making us aware of our surroundings. Besides behaviours like hand washing, sanitising and wearing masks to prevent contracting COVID-19, the pandemic is driving another big behavioural change — keeping safe distance. Merely informing people that they need to maintain at least six-feet distance from one another is not enough. People tend to forget about distancing while talking to one another. Maintaining distance is an alien concept for us. That’s why we’re now seeing examples of behavioural design nudges in our environment that help us in maintaining distance in public spaces. Markings in the form of circles and squares are being painted outside grocery stores and pharmacies to help people maintain distance. People are now standing in these circles and squares while waiting in queues. I hope relevant authorities implement this rule, wherever crowds need to be managed. Maintaining physical distancing Around the world behavioural design nudges are being implemented to help people keep safe distance from one another. Restaurants in Hong Kong are putting tapes over alternate tables so that people do not occupy tables next to each other. A bus station in Thailand has put stickers on alternate seats so that people sit leaving one seat empty. Schoolchildren in Hangzhou, China are being made to wear caps with fan-like blades so that they cannot come close to other children. A police station in Thailand has placed transparent protective shields on desks creating a barrier between the police inspector and civilians. We are likely to see many more examples of such behavioural design in the near future that help us keep safe distance, because the lockdown will eventually be lifted. Anand Damani is behavioural scientist and partner at Briefcase
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Local motif||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s emphasis on Tuesday, on a renewed drive for a self-reliant India is not merely a reaction to the new global realities spawned by the COVID-19 pandemic. It is a throwback to the nationalist economic policies that India and other newly independent nations followed in the last century before the high tide of globalisation swept over. His statement also foretells a potential renewal of the swadeshi economic policies that continue to inspire Hindutva politics long after centrist nationalists have abandoned them. India opened itself to the global market in 1991 through its liberalisation, privatisation and globalisation policies, but remained cautious as it skirted around the whirlwind of international capital in the following decades. This hesitant approach of India often led to a clamour from various vocal quarters for faster and deeper opening of its economy but its relative insularity from disruptive global headwinds turned out to be helpful several times in the last three decades. When Mr. Modi took over as Prime Minister, there was a renewed cry from global corporations and foreign governments for bolder reforms. If anything, he travelled the opposite course — raising fresh trade barriers and seeking to strengthen India’s manufacturing base through the ‘Make In India’ initiative. In doing so, he has been true to his ideological calling and also to his mandates of 2014 and 2019 — which were not sought or won for expanding globalisation. Mr. Modi’s politics, in fact, rides on the mobilisation of people dispossessed and alienated by the rumbling march of globalisation by providing them new targets to vent their anger on. The pandemic brought to the fore at once the limits and inevitability of globalisation. Countries such as the U.S. that relied on others for the supply of essential medicines and medical equipment were suddenly vulnerable. China’s unmatched leverage in global supply chains and concerns that it may weaponise trade have prompted a renewed global discussion on the components of national security and how to protect them. At the same time, this pandemic continues to illustrate how inseparably shared is the future of humanity, across national boundaries. Mr. Modi understands this dynamics of global politics and has sought to advance India’s interest within an emerging framework. He did not repudiate globalisation, but proposed a new syntax for it — a human-centric one, as opposed to the current profit motivated model, according to him. He placed India at its centre. This is largely rhetorical and might be unmindful of India’s limitations. To the extent that such politics brings succour to the disadvantaged, it is to be welcomed. If this is only a facade for majoritarianism or authoritarianism, it will bring more harm to the same people that this approach professes to protect. His supporters and opponents alike would be eager to see how this philosophy translates into policy.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Liquidity lifeline||From an overall perspective, the first tranche of announcements made by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan on Wednesday is impressive indeed. There are, and will be, many issues in the details but taken as a whole, the measures announced will go a long way in lifting the spirits of the two key and troubled sectors of MSMEs and non-banking finance companies. While for the former it is an existential crisis, for the latter it is one of liquidity. The massive Rs. 3-lakh crore collateral-free assistance handed out to MSMEs will help them crank up their operations. Ms. Sitharaman has done well in extending a sovereign credit guarantee for the complete amount as banks may otherwise have been reluctant to support troubled borrowers. The government could have specified the interest cap on these loans without leaving it to individual lenders as each of them has its own rate structure. Again, the scheme could have been extended until the end of this financial year instead of until October 31. India is now entering the monsoon season when activity is traditionally dull, so it is not clear how many borrowers will get the benefit. The Rs. 20,000 crore partially guaranteed subordinated debt programme and the Rs. 50,000 crore fund of funds scheme will help boost the equity portion on MSME finances but again, the finer details need to be clear. NBFCs, housing finance firms and micro finance entities get a much required liquidity boost in the form of a Rs. 30,000 crore scheme wherein their debt paper will be fully guaranteed by the government. With this, and the partial credit guarantee scheme of Rs. 45,000 crore, the government has broken the logjam wherein banks were unwilling to extend credit despite the RBI’s strong push. This should largely attenuate the liquidity crisis in the non-banking space for now. The Minister has also done well in addressing the liquidity issues of power distribution companies through a Rs. 90,000 crore infusion that will be securitised on their receivables and backed by a State government guarantee. Wednesday’s announcements are focused on the liquidity part of the crisis. While the headline numbers appear big, the reality is that the government will be called upon to bear the liability only if the economic situation becomes hopeless; it may not come to that. What the announcements do is to break the confidence logjam in the credit market and give the assurance to lenders and borrowers that the government is willing to backstop their commitments. This is the signal that MSMEs and their lenders needed as liquidity was always there but only for the most credit worthy of borrowers. Here, the government has played its role to perfection.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Counter-attack in Cambodia||North Vietnamese troops mounted their first major counter-attack in Cambodia to-day (May 13) charging in waves through the barbed wire perimeter of an American base. Military spokesmen said 58 of the mostly teen-age attackers were killed against U.S. losses of one dead and eight wounded. The battle came as American headquarters was reporting the first withdrawal of U.S. troops from Cambodia involving an estimated 3,000 men. This morning’s attack was across the border. Strong Viet Cong elements were only 30 km. south of Phnom Penh with only a battalion of infantry and five French World War II tanks between them and the capital. The Viet Cong were applying pressure on several Cambodian towns, particularly Kampot, on the coast, and Kompong Cham and Takeo, respectively 120 km. and 80 km. from Phnom Penh, a military spokesman said in Phnom Penh. South Vietnamese land forces to-day launched a major thrust towards Phnom Penh aimed at opening the whole road between the Cambodian capital and Saigon.
14 May 2020||Mumbai,||Full guarantee may push banks to lend||Risk-averse banks may now have the appetite to resume lending operations, with the government deciding to provide full guarantee for the loans extended by them to borrowers to kick start the economy paralysed by the COVID-19 lockdown. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a Rs. 3 lakh crore emergency working capital facility for businesses, including micro, small and medium enterprises, as part of the Rs. 20 lakh crore financial package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday. This 100% credit guarantee will mean that banks do not have to make any provision for the loans, that is, they do not have to set aside capital in case the account turns non-performing. Bankers said they will wait for operating guidelines from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to understand whether the government will directly provide the guarantee or via agencies like the SIDBI. In case the government is directly providing the guarantee, there will be no risk weight attached to the loans. “The measures for MSMEs through guarantees, equity infusion and debt support will incentivise bank lending to MSMEs as well as providing crucial support to stressed entities in the current situation,” SBI Chairman Rajnish Kumar said. On banks’ reluctance to lend, which is evident from over Rs. 8 lakh crore being parked by these lenders with the RBI’s reverse repo window, Ms. Sitharaman said a lot of borrowers were not fully drawing up to the sanctioned loan limits due to the lockdown. As a result, banks have no other option but to keep the funds with the RBI. Liquidity for NBFCs With the government announcing a Rs. 30,000-crore special liquidity scheme for NBFCs, which will be provided by the banks, the non-banking finance companies now expect bank funding to start. While announcing the scheme, the government said investment would be made in primary and secondary market transactions in investment grade debt paper of NBFCs, HFCs and MFIs. Such investments will be 100% guaranteed by the government.NBFCs expect that banks will now be more willing to tap the RBI’s special window for liquidity exclusively meant for them. Banks were reluctant to borrow in the first such auction — only about 50% amount was availed by them out of the notified amount of Rs. 25,000 crore. “Under the full and partial guarantee scheme, we expect a boost to liquidity into the NBFC ecosystem which, in turn, would help MSMEs to resume their operations,” said Umesh Revankar, MD and CEO, Shriram Transport Finance. NBFCs also expect partial credit guarantee scheme will boost banks’ confidence to lend. The scheme will cover the borrowings of lower-rated NBFCs, HFCs and micro finance institutions (MFIs) and the government will provide 20% first loss sovereign guarantee to public sector banks. “The special liquidity support to lower-rated NBFCs will mean banks do not have to take credit risk and NBFC papers are likely to be lapped up,” said Sanjay Chamria, VC & MD, Magma Fincorp.
14 May 2020||New Delhi/Mumbai/Chennai,||India Inc. welcomes FM’s booster dose for industry||Industry captains have welcomed Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcements for the revival of various sectors, on Wednesday.  FICCI president Sangita Reddy said that the greatest takeaway from today’s announcement was the clear focus on getting liquidity flowing into the system. “Besides liquidity, we need to give equal focus on generating consumption demand and propping up investments. We hope that in the next set of announcements, these areas will be taken up in a comprehensive manner as well,” Dr. Reddy said. TVS Group chairman Venu Srinivasan said the collateral free automatic loan of Rs. 3 lakh crore for businesses will definitely help the MSME sector, which is facing serious cash crunch. The Centre is listening to grievances of industry and addressing them one by one, he said. Chandrajit Banerjee, Director General, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), said that one of the most important announcements with long-term implications is the “quantum jump in definition of MSME” that had not been changed since the MSME Development Act of 2006. RPG group chairman Harsh Goenka tweeted: “Prescription for Economy - Injections for MSMEs, sanitiser for NBFCs, masks for discoms, gloves for real estate. Other sectors placed in containment zone till other tranches are announced. Hoping FM #NirmalaSitharaman will not do social distancing for manufacturing sector.” Deepak Jain, president at the Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India (ACMA) expressed hope that the government will soon announce a package for demand generation for the automotive sector. “A uniform GST rate of 18% on all vehicles and auto components, backed by an incentive-based scrappage policy would bring the automotive industry back on track.”  TAFE chairman Mallika Srinivasan said that the announcement regarding MSME sector recognised the critical role that they played.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Maruti profit skids as sales take a hit||The country’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki India on Wednesday posted a year-on-year decline of 27.7% in consolidated net profit to Rs. 1,322.3 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2020, on account of lower sales volume and higher promotion expenses. The company had posted a net profit of Rs. 1,830.8 crore in the January-March 2019 quarter. Revenue from operations stood at Rs. 17,187.3 crore, down 20.6% from the year- ago period. The company said it sold a total of 3,85,025 vehicles during the fourth quarter, lower by 16% over the same period previous year. In the domestic market, the sales were down 16% to 3,60,428 vehicles, while exports fell nearly 17% to 24,597 vehicles, the company said. While it has cut its planned capital expenditure to Rs. 2,700 crore for the current year from the Rs. 4,000 crore in 2019-20, its chairman R. C. Bhargava said for the long-term, the company is confident of growth prospects in the country. Talking to reporters via video conferencing, Mr. Bhargava added that currently there were so many uncertainties that there was no point speculating when demand will recover. “...these relate to production, supply, demand, financing, affordability... a whole number of factors will go into it. How the economy is going to recover. Car sales can’t happen in big numbers if the GDP is down to 2% or 1%.” Asked if the company is planning to cut employee salaries, Mr. Bhargava answered in the negative. Further, he added though current safety protocols at the factories were ‘resulting in little bit lower productivity and lower output and will have an impact in increasing the overhead costs of production,’ Maruti Suzuki at present had no plans of passing on these costs to the customers. Amid calls from industry for a GST rate cut on automobiles, Mr. Bhargava said now may not be the right time for it. “... at least for the next month or two months, the production volume of all automobile makers is going to be very low. “And, at this point, the GST cut won’t make sense. It will become relevant when production can actually be increased to much higher levels,“ he said.
14 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Investors cry foul as server crash at Zerodha hits trading||Discount broking firm Zerodha, which is also India’s largest brokerage in terms of number of active clients, was the subject of a large number of tweets on Wednesday after investors took to the social media platform to complain against an alleged server crash at the entity that caused a delay in trade execution. Incidentally, the number of tweets were so high that “#zerodha” was among the top trends on Wednesday. As per most of the tweets, there was a delay in trade execution, especially during the first hour of the trading session, that allegedly led to huge losses on a day when the benchmark Sensex gained over 1,400 points in the morning session. “@zerodhaonline can you tell me what kind of nonsense is this... who is going to bear loss or are you looting clients? #zerodha,” stated one of the tweets with a screenshot that showed “server not ready” message in the Kite app “Seems like #Zerodha has crashed again. @zerodhaonline : this is happening very often now!,” tweeted another person. On its part, Zerodha said that the problem existed for just a couple of minutes. “Today is our most active trading day till date. Apart from a delay in order execution for the first two minutes for a small fraction of our customer-base, everything else has been working as normal,” stated a tweet by Zerodha. A person familiar with the developments said the problem occurred between 9:15 a.m. and 9:17 a.m. as one of the lease lines connected to the exchange got disconnected and though it got reconnected, two minutes were lost. Zerodha has an active client base of around 1.2 million, the highest in India, and processes around 7-8 million transactions daily.
14 May 2020||Mumbai,||Kotak bank net drops on higher provisions||Private sector lender Kotak Mahindra Bank reported a Rs. 1,267 crore net profit for the quarter ended March 31 compared with the Rs. 1,408 crore reported in the year-earlier period. The lower profit is due to the Rs. 650-crore provision made for repayment deferment on COVID-19 pandemic. As result, the total provisions made during the quarter went up to Rs. 1,047.47 crore compared with the Rs. 171.26 crore a year ago. Net interest income (NII) for Q4FY20 increased to Rs. 3,560 crore from the Rs. 3,036 crore in Q4FY19 while net interest margin (NIM) for the quarter stood at 4.72%. Uday Kotak, managing director and chief executive officer,Kotak Mahindra Bank said the lending strategy will be markedly different in the COVID-19 era even as the bank had become cautious in the pre-COVID era. “How do we decide in lending in this COVID-19 era? First is sector. We are very clear about the right sector which we will lend. Number two, specific businesses or companies in the sector. We are focused on what is the level of fixed operating cost of the company. Higher the fixed cost, the more difficult it is for the companies to sustain in COVID-19 era,” he said adding there will be consolidation due to the pandemic in various sectors, including in the financial sector. The gross NPA ratio of the bank went up to 2.25% as on March 31, 2020 compared with the 2.14% a year ago but came down from 2.46% at the end of December. Capital adequacy ratio Capital adequacy ratio of the bank as per Basel III, as on March 31, 2020 was 17.9% and tier I ratio 17.3%. Advances went up by 7% to Rs. 2,19,748 crore as on March 31 while average savings account deposits went up by 21% and current account deposits 17%. “Focus is on a strong deposit franchise. Our Casa [current and savings account] deposit is 56% of total deposits,” Mr. Kotak said.
14 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Equity analysts not upbeat||Capital market participants adopted a cautious stance after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman unveiled the first set of incentives as part of the Rs. 20 lakh-crore stimulus package. On Wednesday, after the stock markets closed for trading, the FM announced manysops for MSMEs, real estate, non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) and power distribution companies. Market experts, however, cautioned that while certain sectors could see some amount of upswing, an overall market rally is unlikely to happen. “Equity markets are expected to appreciate the measures and not celebrate it with a big surge due to two key uncertainties, including mechanism to fund the relief package, and quantum of immediate outflow from the government coffers,” said Gaurav Dua, head, capital market strategy and investments, Sharekhan. Dhiraj Relli, MD and CEO, HDFC Securities, said while the markets could be disappointed as the immediate spend out of the big fiscal stimulus is relatively small and hence, there could be doubts on whether economic growth will revive soon, sectors like banks, NBFCs, power generating companies and those with high linkages with MSMEs could see an uptick in their valuation. Incidentally, the cautious view also came from the fact that the recent past had seen regulators and the government announce waivers and liquidity infusion plans for certain sectors but the market had been largely trading weak due to the growing number of COVID-19 cases. “...we believe that the recovery will be slow and gradual for the Indian economy and we continue with our strategy of sticking to high quality business with revenue visibility like fast moving consumer goods, pharmaceutical, chemicals and agrochemicals and avoid vulnerable sectors like aviation, consumer durables, real estate hospitality sectors,” said Jyoti Roy, equity strategist, Angel Broking. adding providing a significantly larger stimulus in line with the U.S. may not be possible given the fiscal constraint.  We believe recovery will be gradual for the Indian economy and we continue with our strategy of sticking to high quality business with revenue visibilityy. Jyoti Roy,Angel Broking
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Landslide changes in MSME sector expected’||The economic stimulus measures announced by the Finance Minister are landslide changes which will lead India towards self-reliance as mandatory sourcing — up to Rs. 200 crore — would insulate local companies from external competition, said Ravi Uppal, chairman, SISCOL, and formerly the MD and CEO of ABB India and Volvo. MSMEs, including stressed ones, are being given financial support both in terms of loans and equity support for revival after the recent setbacks and activity paralysis suffered due to a series of lockdowns. Mr. Uppal said, “MSMEs will now be able to grow without fear of disqualification due to exceeding either volume of investment or turnover. This would definitely motivate MSMEs to grow without the need for creating more entities or such adjustments.” “The government at the moment has announced that such facility is available only up to October 31. I feel this should be extended at least up to the end of the financial year to realise full benefit of the scheme,” he added. “The government has taken a very pragmatic step by formally recognising the period of lockdown as ‘Force Majeure’ and thus avoid any possibility of conflict relating to contract completion dates and consequent delay In related claims,” Mr. Uppal added. Stating that the announcements for the MSME sector were insightful, Mallika Srinivasan, chairman,Tractors and Farm Equipment Ltd., said these recognised the critical role that MSMEs played. “MSME are the backbone of the economy and they are most needed. The vision also addresses the service sector MSME which played an important role as manufacturing sector. The definition change to MSMEs is welcome. This will have a important effect on both supply chain partners as well as distribution partners,” she said. According to her, the automatic loan of Rs. 3 lakh crore without any collateral will be of immense benefit to MSMEs.
14 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Realtors welcome timeline relief||Real estate companies, associations and analysts have welcomed the various measures, including extension of completion dates for projects, announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, stating these will help the sector to deal with the adverse impact of COVID-19. Niranjan Hiranandani, national president, NAREDCO, said, “Relaxation in project timelines under RERA Act will bring relief to developers and safeguard the interest of homebuyers with the revised new timelines for their home deliverables. This ensures homebuyers trust in the project and grants breather to the developers fraternity for coping up with backlogged work due to natural disaster delays.”
14 May 2020||New Delhi,||Holding all praise for Bumrah||Former West Indies cricketer Michael Holding heaped praise on India fast bowler Jasprit Bumrah and spoke about his ability to hit the deck hard which made him a difficult proposition for the batsmen across formats. He also gave a word of advice to him regarding his run-up and asked Bumrah to take care of his body as he has to put in a lot of effort to generate that kind of pace and bounce. “Jasprit (Bumrah) is a little bit quicker, he hits the deck hard. “People always talk about bowlers who hit the deck and bowlers who skid the ball off the surface,” Holding said on the Sony Ten Pit Stop show. Creating problems “Malcolm Marshall for instance — a great fast-bowler — used to skid the ball off the surface. Bumrah hits the deck hard and that creates more problems. “Especially on that short ball which put questions in the batsmen’s minds the pace with which the ball is coming towards you with that short run-up. “My problem with Bumrah is, and I mentioned it to him the last time I saw him in England, is how long that body is going to hold up with that short run-up and the effort he has to put in. “It’s a human body and not a machine,” added Holding. On use of saliva Holding also expressed concerns regarding different methods being mooted to do away with the use of saliva on cricket balls during matches. “It is going to be difficult. The natural inclination for any bowler, once he gets that ball in his hands is to apply saliva or apply sweat and then put it on the ball, that’s natural,” Holding said.
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Ferrari’s options in its search to replace Vettel||With Sebastian Vettel and Ferrari parting ways at the end of 2020, the coveted seat at the Italian team is up for grabs. The Hindu looks at possible contenders to partner Charles Leclerc in 2021.  Lewis Hamilton: The most exciting option but also the least likely to happen. There were a few clouds of smoke towards the end of last year when it was reported that the six-time champion and Ferrari chairman John Elkam had had a meeting. Ferrari will offer the Briton, who has dominated with Mercedes, a new challenge and perhaps an even bigger paycheque before he calls time on his career.  Carlos Sainz Jr.: Widely believed to be one of the top contenders. The former Red Bull academy driver joined McLaren in 2019, producing some stellar drives and finishing sixth in the championship. The Spaniard can execute strong drives and his stock has hit an all-time high despite not having won a race yet.  Daniel Ricciardo: The Australian with Italian roots has long desired to race for Ferrari but had to settle for Renault when he decided to leave Red Bull after 2018. Extremely quick in qualifying, Ricciardo is one of the best at pulling off moves on the track. But whether Ferrari has the desire to handle two alpha-males remains to be seen. And he is not going to come cheap either.  Valtteri Bottas: The Finn could be a left-field choice for his no-nonsense approach. He has shown at Mercedes that he is as fast as Hamilton, but has struggled with tyre management and season-long consistency. He could be the perfect No. 2 to Leclerc, capable of winning races and helping Ferrari in the constructors’ championship without upsetting team harmony.
14 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Don’t want to experiment: Surekha||Archer V. Jyothi Surekha is one of the few Indian athletes to have excelled at both sports and academics. She has a rich haul of 38 international medals — including seven in World Cups and three in World Championships — and also is a graduate in engineering and business administration (MBA). Despite having a lot of time to mull over things at home because of the lockdown — she says it has been the toughest challenge of her life — Surekha is not keen to switch from the compound bow category, which is not an Olympic event. She is, however, using the time to watch movies and try her hand at cooking for the first time. “I don’t think it is appropriate for me to switch my category at this stage of my career,” said the 23-year-old in a chat with The Hindu . “When I am not sure how successful I can be, I don’t want to experiment. More so when I am really doing well in the compound bow category. It doesn’t matter even if it is not in the Olympics,” she insisted. “Things certainly look gloomy and the future is definitely uncertain. I really feel sorry for all those fellow archers who are Olympic hopefuls. It is going to be really tough on them even in the post-COVID-19 scenario as it takes a long, long time to get back to regular training after this kind of a break.” Disappointing phase It has been a disappointing phase for Surekha, too. The three World Cups scheduled in April have been postponed to August, and now even that schedule is uncertain. “Luckily, I was able to train for the first one month at Gokaraju Gangaraju sir’s archery facility on the banks of river Krishna in Vijayawada before the spread of virus meant more restrictions confining me to home completely,” said the BPCL executive officer. “For me, training is not a problem. Since I do it alone, I don’t need anyone else to be with me. But, I really feel sorry for all those athletes who need a team to be with them to stay fit — mentally and physically,” she added.
14 May 2020||Berlin,||Can Dortmund catch Bayern Munich?||Bayern Munich is in pole position to win an eighth straight title, but Borussia Dortmund leads the chasing pack and is spearheaded by Erling Braut Haaland as the Bundesliga comes out of its coronavirus-enforced hibernation this weekend. Bayern had put a patchy start to the season before winning 10 and drawing one of its last 11 league games. The Bavarians are four points clear of Dortmund at the top and have been busy since their last game. With Robert Lewandowski scoring 25 goals in 23 games, Bayern is formidable. It still has to visit Dortmund and Bayer Leverkusen. It could still just about be a four-horse title race, with Borussia Monchengladbach six points off the pace in fourth, but Dortmund is best-placed to stop Bayern. Lucien Favre’s side was last seen going out of the Champions League to Paris Saint-Germain, but before that was in thrilling form led by young stars Haaland and Jadon Sancho.
14 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Nutrition essential for modern-day athletes||The stress on nutrition in modern-day sports is clear from the webinars being conducted for athletes and coaches during the lockdown. Commonwealth Games gold medallist boxer Akhil Kumar has seen myths being busted about the diet of sportspersons. “There were a lot of myths even in the late 1990s. For example, after the weigh-in we used to have sweets. Now boxers are advised against it. There was no idea about nutritious food, what to have and what not to have,” Akhil told The Hindu . Former India hockey captain Mohammed Riaz agreed. “Many players don’t have any idea about nutrition before they reach the National camp. I also did not know much initially. “It is a myth that vegetarian diet cannot give you strength. The Namdharis, one of the finest hockey teams, are strict vegetarians,” said Riaz. Sanjeeva Singh, an Arjuna and Dronacharya award-winning archer, shared an interesting anecdote. Objective has changed “In (1988) Seoul Olympics, a bus used to leave from the Games Village to the Indian embassy every evening and athletes from one or two disciplines used to be the first ones to get into the bus and grab Indian food after reaching the embassy. “The target was to fill the stomach,” said Sanjeeva. The objective, however, has changed. “Whoever aspires to do well in Olympics, he/she needs to spend 15-20 days in foreign land, get used to their food habits and develop a taste for it. “You cannot be starving because of your rigid food habits as it will affect performance. You need to know how much carbohydrate, protein and water you should have,” said Sanjeeva.
14 May 2020||CHENNAI,||CDBA awards: Weexpo comes on board||A new sponsor has come forward to support the Chennai District Badminton Association’s (CDBA) third annual awards ceremony. Weexpo India, a major contributor at the National junior-ranking tournament last year, has come on board, according to Aravindan Samiappan, Secretary of CDBA. For the past two years, Velammal Group of Institutions had supported the awards function. As many as 12 top players will be benefited from the cash rewards based on their performances at the State/National/International-level for the 2018-19 season. The total amount is Rs. four lakh. “We would normally hand out the incentives and trophies during the awards function in the later part of the year. “We thought it would be a great motivation for the players if we could do it earlier this time because of the prevailing situation,” Aravindan told The Hindu here on Wednesday. Vinothkumar, CEO, Weexpo India, said: “We are thrilled to be involved in this initiative by CDBA.”
14 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Golf clubs optimistic about reopening||Golf clubs are cautiously optimistic about the State government’s willingness to open golf courses after May 17. Hopes for the resumption of golf were given a big boost on Wednesday, when Karnataka Tourism and Sports Minister C.T. Ravi stated that the Chief Minister is set to give permission to open gyms, fitness centres and golf courses. KGA Hony. Secretary Prithvi Raj Urs stated that a formal approval from the government is awaited. “If we get the formal approval from the State government, we will be prepared. We have submitted a list of playing rules and precautionary measures to the government for their approval. The government will give the final list of rules — we will follow all the rules,” Prtihvi said. Prithvi added that permission has been sought only for the resumption of golf, not for the hospitality (food and beverages) section of the club. If the formal nod arrives, golf will be among the first sports to resume in the State in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic.
14 May 2020||New Delhi,||Bumrah likely for Arjuna nomination||India’s pace spearhead Jasprit Bumrah is expected to be the BCCI nomination for the prestigious Arjuna award this year after missing out on seniority to Ravindra Jadeja in 2019. If BCCI decides to send multiple names in the men’s category, senior opener Shikhar Dhawan could be preferred.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Maharashtra, UP to host Nationals: HI||Maharashtra would host the 2021 men’s National hockey championships while Uttar Pradesh would host the 11th edition of the women’s competition. Haryana would host both the junior and sub-junior events for men while Jharkhand would host the women’s events. The decisions were taken during a Special online congress of Hockey India with its Executive Board and State units on Wednesday.
14 May 2020||Hyderabad,||Former HCA treasurer passes away||Dr. C. Ram Mohan, former treasurer of Hyderabad Cricket Association, passed away here on May 11. He was around 80 and suffering from kidney ailment. He was a doctor by profession and an authority in forensic science. HCA president Mohd. Azharuddin and secretary R. Vijayanand expressed their condolence.
14 May 2020||Chandigarh,||Balbir Sr. still critical||Hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr. endured a “number of cardiac events” and remained in a critical state on Wednesday at a hospital here as he battled bronchial pneumonia. “The doctors at the Fortis Hospital at Mohali, where Balbir Sr. is admitted are doing their best,” sources said.
14 May 2020||Kozhikode,||Now, a COVID-19 themed dance by Paris Laxmi||A Tamil song written by a poet in Chennai, composed by a musician in Malaysia, and sung by a Carnatic vocalist based at Kochi has found beautiful expression in dance through a Frenchwoman living in the central Kerala town of Vaikom. The song about man’s fight against COVID-19 was released by actor Mohanlal on his Facebook page on Monday. Watching the superbly choreographed and executed piece of dance by Paris Laxmi, a Bharatanatyam dancer and actress who has made Kerala her home, one would hardly think that the whole thing was put together during the lockdown. Not that Kalaiselvi Puliyur Kesikan imagined that somebody would turn her song — Odi poyidu coronave — into a dance. Neither did Bhagyalakshmi Guruvayur when she recorded the song on her phone and posted on it her Facebook page, though she accompanies leading classical dancers as a singer. Ms. Laxmi is one of the dancers Ms. Bhagyalakshmi often sings for. “I have been thinking of choreographing a piece on the theme of this pandemic for a while and then I came across this song from Bhagyalakshmi,” Ms. Laxmi told The Hindu. “I straightaway felt this song can be just right for me.”  As Ms .Bhagyalakshmi had recorded the song without any music, Laxmi had the orchestra added by Vinod Chandra, who also plays the flute. During the lockdown, getting a new costume made was well-nigh impossible, so she delved deep into her wardrobe for the two characters she wanted to play. “I had this old, orange blouse, which I paired with a Kerala sari for the role of the woman, and I chose a black sari to portray the virus,” she said. “I got Umesh P. Nair to shoot the film. It was shot at my home.” The video opens with the virus entering the body and ends with visuals of Ms .Laxmi dancing away happily in the hope of brighter days. Her skills as a dancer and actor along with a pleasing screen presence, make the video an enjoyable watch that has elicited positive feedback. “I was happy to find it was liked by actor Mohanlal and dancer Rachana Narayanakutty and many others,” she says. Ms. Bhagyalakshmi loved it, too. “I don't think anyone could have done a better job,” she says. “When my aunt, Guruvayur Usha Dorai tuned the song and sent it to me, I didn’t think that Laxmi would be giving it such a lovely interpretation through dance. The song was based on a concept suggested by Thanesh Balakrishnan to my aunt.”
14 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||‘Born in 1920, I am only 100 years old’||Sitting in the cool portico of his son’s house in Thiruvalla, Kalipillai Gopinathan Nair, or K.G.Nair of Tripunithura, recalls going to sea as a member of Great Britain’s Royal Navy when he was 19 years old. It was his passion for travelling the world that made him join the British Navy immediately after finishing school, says Mr. Nair, and indeed he went on to see almost all parts of the world, other than the American continent, he adds. Mr. Nair turned 100 on Sunday. Chief of Southern Naval Command A.K.Chowla called the centenarian and conveyed birthday wishes to him on Tuesday. Lieutenant Commandant Arun from the Cochin Naval Base called on Mr. Nair and felicitated him on behalf of the Indian Navy. Mr. Nair’s youngest son, Dr. Gokulan, an Ayurvedic ophthalmologist in Thiruvalla, and Ms. Geetha, his eldest daughter, a retired teacher, said their father often shared his World War II experiences and wartime stories with his family. “We laugh a lot when we spend time with him,” says Dr. Gokulan. Celebrations online A simple celebration was arranged at Dr. Gokulan’s house in Thiruvalla on Tuesday. Mr. Nair cut a cake and lit a ceremonial lamp with other family members watching online from different parts of the country. Sharing his Naval experiences with The Hindu , Mr. Nair recalled the horrible hours on a Christmas Eve when the ship on which he was sailing was bombed by the German air force in the Atlantic during WWII. “We were rescued [and taken] to the Southampton port on the Christmas day,” he recalls. King George VI visited the port to congratulate the survivors and a dinner was hosted for them at Buckingham Place, later. Mr. Nair attributes his good health to regular exercise and a disciplined lifestyle. Jovial as ever, he says, “Born in 1920, I am only 100 years old.”
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 07:44 IST,||Sudoku - May 14, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Not knowing Hindi was a major regret’||Thanks to the lockdown, many of us have forgotten the scent of salty beach air and sound of soft waves crashing against the shore. Unless, like Aathmika, you happen to live by the sea on East Coast Road, Chennai. The Meesaya Murukku actor laughs at the suggestion that she is making a whole city jealous with her Instagram posts. “I didn’t want to create a controversy but you know, this time has allowed me to appreciate the beach and the view even more,” she says. It is a recurring theme in our telephonic conversation; the actor is philosophical about the time for introspection that lockdown has afforded her. “We live in this false reality, missing out on the essence of our livelihood. We run behind fame, money and popularity but have lost our basic happiness in the process. This situation we are facing is also Nature’s way of telling us to chill, and appreciate the little things we have missed out on. I have utilised this time to explore different things, learn new things like cooking and baking. I’m also learning Hindi language,” she adds. If you are thinking, like the rest of Tamil Twitter that, perhaps, the Prime Minister’s speeches are what nudged this Chennai ponnu to start Hindi lessons, think again. Aathmika was offered a role in an Aanand L Rai film but had to pass up on the Bollywood offer because the role required someone who is fluent in Tamil and Hindi. “That was a moment of regret for me. I have been an avid fan of Bollywood movies but I still am not able to pick up the language, so I thought no better time than now to start learning the language,” she says. Since her debut in Meesaya Murukku (2017), Aathmika has not had a Tamil film release on the big screen. The Karthick Naren-film Naragasooran was supposed to be her second outing, but the film ran into financial troubles. For now, Aathmika has Studio Green Productions’ horror-thriller Katteri , where she co-stars with Vaibhav and Varalaxmi Sarathkumar; the film would have released had it not been for the lockdown. Aathmika also has Kannai Nambathey directed by Mu Maran, which has Udhayanidhi Stalin in the lead, and an untitled film with Vijay Antony in the pipeline. She is also preparing to play the role of a chef in another Tamil film that is yet to begin production. “I am happy to wait for good films to come my way. It is worse to give one hit only to follow it up with four flops. So I’m not worried about the time frame it would take me [to do films] because I’m here for the long run,” she says. Part of the motivation to aim for a sustained run in films comes from a change to her fitness regime because, in her words, “mental and physical health are interlinked”. A diet plan which has seen her avoid dairy and gluten in her food has worked out well for the actor, although she has a word of caution for anyone wanting to follow someone else’s diet blindly. “There are many  options when it comes to diet. One needs to figure out what works for them because not always does one option work well for another person,” she says. She adds that she realized this herself when she attempted to turn vegan. “I tried [going vegan] but I ended up becoming malnourished. I needed the proteins,” she laughs. The actor is also in discussion to star in a web series and expects OTT platforms to pick up business steam in this year. She concludes saying, “My only concern is that I need to choose a project which has a good director and content that makes it worth the risk I’m taking.”  I’m an avid fan of Bollywood movies but still wasn’t able to pick up Hindi, so I thought no better time than now to start learning the language
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Wheels of the mind go...||How long after your break up is it okay to stalk your ex on Instagram? Is it possible to be a horrible texter and a great human being at the same time? How many emojis is too many emojis? These are thoughts that circle the drain of any 20-something millennial’s mind, but never quite leave; stashed away to be obsessed over. So, comedian Surbhi Bagga has taken it upon herself to voice them out in her podcast, The Overthink Tank . Its third season has been keeping people entertained through the quarantine, and features fellow comedians and content creators like Kanan Gill, Kenny Sebastian, Kusha Kapila, Mallika Dua, Karunesh Talwar and Srishti Dixit among others. Here, she discusses life’s many problems that people over-analyse, from productivity and dating, right to crying in public. Having shot until January, she has been releasing these episodes one at a time through the last month on her podcast, as well as abridged versions on her YouTube channel and on Instagram, (@surbhi.bagga) where she has over 20K followers. The podcast, which was launched in 2018 has made intermittent comebacks in 2019, and now in 2020. “I used to have so many overthinking sessions with my friends, and what generally happens is that your mind gets caught up in it, again and again. There’s no real answer that you get out of it,” Surbhi explains. “So I thought, imagine if you have someone to overthink for you!” She invites people on social media to send in their questions, which she then discusses with her guests. Some of these discussions have led to mid-episode epiphanies. In ‘Boredom, stalking your exes and horoscopes feat. Kanan Gill and Urjita Wani’ she comes up with the idea of a ‘zeroth’ date. “First dates are weird because you’re spending so much time with a complete stranger, there are so many things that can go wrong. People can be very different on text and in real life. That’s why you need a ‘zeroth’ date, like a quick coffee for half an hour, where you discuss your priorities, political beliefs, the important things, and then decide if you want that first date,” says Surbhi. While she wouldn’t normally listen to her own podcasts, the quarantine has had her doing so. “I realised that so many things I know now, or live by, are things that have occurred to me during recording an episode.” The evolution The podcast has evolved along its three seasons to become more formal. Now shot in a studio, its first season started out in her bedroom, and was a reminder of sleepover sessions. With an overhead camera in the first episode, Surbhi and Urooj Ashfaq discussed crying in public. Another one with Srishti, ‘Girls just want to oil their hair’, has them chatting in bed with glasses of wine. “I liked that angle! But everybody looked at it weirdly. They see two girls lying down on a bed and their mind goes straight to the gutter. This is something I overthought about so much, and finally decided to shoot videos while sitting upright,” she says. Now she plans on introducing another segment called Underthink. “Guests will have to give quick answers to questions like “What do you do with a gift that was given to you by your (now) ex?” Because overthinking is a very lonely business, she believes. “It is nice to know that you’re not the only one thinking about all these things.”  It features fellow content creators like Kanan Gill, Kenny Sebastian, Kusha Kapila and Srishti Dixit
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Songs for the strays||“I was approved to be a Blue Cross volunteer right before the lockdown began,” says 17-year-old singer-songwriter Manasa Sanjay. With the lockdown came a number of changes, one of them being the much-documented disappearance of scraps that thousands of stray animals depend on to survive. Aware of this, Manasa decided to combine her two passions — animal volunteering and music — for a cause. The result is Voices For The Voiceless, an online concert aimed at raising funds to feed Chennai’s strays as well as the dogs housed at the NGO. Hosted by Blue Cross, the concert will feature familiar up-and-coming names from Chennai’s indie music circles, including Sarah Black, Nitika Kurian, Yogi, Praveen Srinivas, Aira and Vishwa R Shankar. Most of these singers have already built a distinctive sound and image of their own — from strands of the Blues, to laidback, soulful moods that hover at the junction where pop and indie meet. Says Velu TM, manager, special ops, Blue Cross, via email, “The reach of our feeding programme has spread as far as Puzhal lake area in North Chennai, Thiruverkadu in the West, Sholinganallur along OMR and Selayiur/Tambaram in the South. Four batches of food are cooked every day — Hotel Green Park came forward to help us after a week of the first phase of the lockdown with one batch, while the in-house team at BCI’s Guindy campus cooks the other three. This includes food for the 2,000-plus in-house animals as well. In total, about 5,000 meals are cooked fresh every day while following strict hygiene and health safety protocol. Currently we’ve served over 80,000 meals (about 3,000 meals everyday) since the beginning of the lockdown. With over 150 feeders, we have managed to cover 90-plus areas on a regular basis.” Their last-mile feeding programme, which depends heavily on volunteers, is called Karuna. “We initially began feeding animals ourselves, in non-residential localities, but realised it will not be feasible to cover more areas.” They currently have a critical network of 150 citizen feeders. Blue Cross has a set recipe followed each day, he says. This includes 250 kilograms of rice, 30 kilograms oftoor dal, three kilograms of soya chunk powder and a large amount of ghee. “Some community feeders pitch in with food cooked in their homes on days we’re unable to provide meals,” says Velu, adding, “Most eateries are open now, so we’re slowly bringing down supplies based on our community feeders feedback.”  Voices For The Voiceless will be held on May 15 from 7 pm onwards. Tickets are priced at Rs. 300. For details, visit the link on the Instagram page @blue_cross_rescues   Currently we’ve served over 80,000 meals (about 3,000 meals everyday) since the beginning of the lockdown Velu TM
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||When wedding feasts shrink||“Our industry has literally come to a grinding halt,” says Sridhar Natarajan, son of Chennai’s legendary caterer Arusuvai Arasu. After four busy decades of cooking for weddings, religious ceremonies and large events, Arasuvai’s stoves were turned off when the lockdown to tackle COVID-19 began. “I have about 130 catering staff and 30 administrative staff: I spend close to Rs. 7.5 lakh per month on salaries,” says Sridhar. “Since March 15, bookings for weddings started getting cancelled. Some have been postponed to September, but a majority have been postponed indefinitely,” he states, adding that he is now busy returning advance payments collected from clients. Ladling out ideas In the meantime, they have launched a home catering service, Homely Fresh Foods, to stay afloat. Sridhar’s sister Soumya Ramesh says in addition to providing them with an inconme to stay afloat, this enables them to “stay in touch with our customers.” Homely Fresh Foods offers a “breakfast combo” comprising one kilogram ofdosabatter, along with a litre of sambar, as well as filter coffee decoction. To encourage customers to subscribe monthly, they have incentives such as adosa tawaandidlicooker. “We believe that our customers must get the satisfaction of preparingidliordosahot and fresh, which is why we decided to include batter,” says Soumya. “We are also experimenting withsambarandrasampacks, where one has to just boil vegetables along with the premix and prepare the dish,” Sridhar adds. S Ganesan, of Subham Ganesan Catering Services, who has been in the field for 25 years, says that his “cash inflow is now zero”. Over the past couple of months, he has catered for just one small wedding conducted at a client’s home in Rajakilpakkam. “We prepared a simple muhurtha saapad (wedding feast), which was served in the car park. For huge caterers like us, who are used to serving meals for 3,000 guests, this was such a contrast,” says Ganesan. He adds that wedding menus will need to be modified to make sure they are cost-effective, as people may not be willing to splurge any more. Well-known wedding caterer LV Pattappa’s son, Balaji Pattappa, of Pattappa Catering Service, says at least one lakh people are dependent on the wedding industry for their livelihood in and around Chennai. He explains that Chennai has almost 750 big, medium and small wedding halls, with about 1,000 weddings conducted across these venues during ‘auspicious’ months. “With a number of restrictions and physical distancing in place we do not know if, going forward, weddings will be conducted in a grand manner. What are we to do? It is a big blow after being in this service for four decades,” he states. Balaji adds, “Through March and April I could somehow pay my staff. They are not on our payroll, but work with us only for weddings, yet they have nowhere else to go, so I am responsible for their welfare.” He explains that most caterers hire huge kitchen spaces in the city, which they also use as godowns to stock raw material. “We have to pay the rent for these. We have mini trucks, purchased on loan, and have to pay EMIs.” He adds, “I don’t see any weddings being conducted till October, which means we need to stay afloat for well over five months.” To do this, Balaji has launched Pattappa’s Sweets and Savouries, which will be home delivered based on pre-orders. He says he is also contemplating launching “carrier meals”. Ganesan, who already has outlets selling sweets and savouries at Mandaveli, T Nagar and Pallikaranai, says that he plans to offer takeaway breakfast, lunch and dinner at his outlets after the lockdown. “Currently, my plan is to offer a combo, keeping the cost affordable. Feeling the pinch Lakshmi Narayanan of Sri Lakshmi Narayana Catering Service, who usually caters to small and medium weddings, says he is now working on returning all the advance payment collected, though he needs it to pay his staff of 20. He is also looking for a space along the highway on the outskirts, in and around Red Hills, to set up a takeaway restaurant. His idea is to make a nominal profit, by selling staples such asidli/dosa, lemon rice,sambarrice and birinji rice, in order to provide two square meals for his staff and their families, many of whom plan to work as agricultural labourers in the surrounding villages. Although these enterprises are unlikely to bring in the kind of profits that weddings do, the caterers say they will be useful as a stop-gap arrangement, and keep their staff employed. “I belong to the sixth generation of my family that is into catering,” says Balaji. He adds, “We believe that ours is a noble profession. We are the samayal kalaignargal , who have provided feasts for many weddings and celebrations, serving up to 5,000 guests. Look at the irony of the situation, now we are left without even one square meal a day.” Septuagenarian LV Pattappa, who has been in the field since he was 16, says that simpler weddings might become the norm. “Caterers have to brace themselves to cater to 200 to 500 guests instead of 1,000 to 2,000 or more. Weddings could be conducted over two days, inviting batches of guests for different events.”he says. Pattappa suggests that caterers could employ contract workers on rotation, where there will be jobs for 20 to 30 people per wedding. He doesn’t believe that clients will cut costs for weddings even post-COVID19. He states, “There is no chance of reduced rates, as the traditional wedding feast has a set menu which no one would want to compromise on”.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||In search of God||It might seem a little odd that a filmmaker who documents human interest stories and cultures, has never set oot beyond the Vindhyas. That, however, became the premise of his short film, The Theyyam Ritual of Kerala , when Delhi-based filmmaker Ayush Dinker decided to take a trip to Kerala in search of a movie on Theyyam, practised predominately in North Kerala. What appealed to Ayush were the visual images that emerged out of the performance and the myths and origin stories around the traditional art form. “I was more intrigued to learn about its history, in the way that it reshaped my idea of gods and humans,” says Ayush Dinker, adding, “There have been several videos on Theyyam, but I wanted this to be from a filmmaker’s perspective.” He acknowledges his lack of knowledge on the everyday happenings of the South, which, he says, was the reason why he wanted his short film to be more of an “observational account”. Ayush left for Kerala in February earlier this year, hoping to have a fly-on-the-wall experience during the days of the ritual. He did not have a script in place; he did not understand Malayalam and there was no major crew to back his vision. All that he could afford was a camera. “But that’s how my travel films have been, without a script,” says Ayush, “The idea was to shoot my experience there and, in fact, the script took shape only at the editing table.”  Trance and dance For a filmmaker to capture the essence of a culture that he is not quite familiar with, the main drawback was the language. Despite being warm and courteous, the people of Malabar were also equally sceptical because “they were trying to maintain the sanctity and decorum” from outsiders who gathered to witness what is otherwise a normal day in the neighbourhood. In order to overcome the language barrier, Ayush became acquainted with Naveen of Tyndis, a travel company based in Kerala. “I came across hundreds of Theyyam stories within the community. For example, I met a person who was a Theyyam artiste for over 40 years. Different places follow different styles of Theyyam and I could always go back for more stories,” he says. Ayush’s short film throws light on this rather unique transformation of men into gods. The atmosphere, he says, was electric, especially when he was left alone with the Theyyam god. “It was surreal to say the least,” he begins, “For a photographer or filmmaker, nothing gives the satisfaction of getting the perfect shot. It gives this peaceful feeling when you go to bed. That day, I got one.” The Theyyam Ritual of Kerala is available on YouTube   All my travel films have been without a script. The idea was to shoot my experience there and, in fact, the script took shape only at the editing table
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Picasso in your living room||Sixteen-year-old art student, Serena Varshini, always felt a strong connection to Frida Kahlo’s paintings. “Her paintings are a reflection of her life, and I think it’s beautiful to paint one’s reality rather than fantasy,” says Serena. So, when an opportunity to recreate a masterpiece presented itself, she coaxed her cousin to model. She decided to recreate Kahlo’s Self Portrait Dedicated to Dr Eloesser. “I joined her eyebrows to resemble that of Frida’s and put her hair up in a braided bun. I used flowers from my garden for her hair as well. I used a jute rope for the thorn necklace and smeared some red eyeshadow on her neck,” she says. She is one among the many students of visual art and design at Chennai-based MAISHA Studio who have been recreating masterpieces while on lockdown. Last month, a similar challenge by Getty Museum did the rounds, as people across the world sent in recreations, which were later published on the museum’s social media pages. The trend picked up pace following posts by @tussenkunstenquarantine on Instagram that grabbed eyeballs almost instantly. However, this project has been in the works for a long time at MAISHA Studio, says designer and artist Aishwarya Mannivanan. “Students are also going through an emotional rollercoaster at the moment. So, I have also been getting them to vent through art,” says Aishwarya. About 25 students were on board for this project. Apart from regular online courses, MAISHA Studio has also started ‘Co-Create’ Live on Instagram, a series of interactions on design and visual arts by students and experts. For this project, students were asked to pick a masterpiece which they personally connect with — from both Indian and Western repertoire. “Some paintings were chosen by multiple people. But, it was interesting to see how each of them interpreted it,” says Aishwarya. Among the Indian works, SL Haldankar’s Woman with the Lamp and Raja Ravi Varma’s The Maharashtrian Lady were crowd favourites. Many of them got their families involved, adds Aishwarya. “It was also encouraging to see entire families coming together to work on something.” The project was conceptualised to instil the idea of adapting — there is so much that can be created with whatever is available. Such projects can also open the students out to art history, in a fun way. “Each of them, then gets into researching that particular artist, his/her style and background. In that sense, it’s more of a research-oriented project than a craft-based one,” says Aishwarya. These recreations are being posted on MAISHA Studio’s Instagram page, and they are contemplating opening this project out to the public as well.  Send in your recreation of a renowned masterpiece to @maishastudio on Instagram
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The right track||The long wait for your first album to release can be frustrating. That was the case for Kaushik Krish too, but now, the lockdown has become a blessing in disguise. His title track from Odavum Mudiyadhu Oliyavum Mudiyadhu ( OMOM ) , sung by HipHop Tamizha Aadhi and written by Saravedi Saran, released a few days ago and is currently trending on YouTube. Its tagline reads ‘An irrelevant song to an irrelevant situation’, but the 27-year-old composer assures that it has nothing to do with either COVID-19 or the lockdown. “It (this song) was composed and ready more than a year ago,” reveals Kaushik. It was finally scheduled to be released a few weeks ago, but that did not materialise due to the lockdown. “Sometimes, things get delayed for a certain reason.” That has certainly worked to the advantage of the composer, whose association with music started long ago when he was in Class X. “Back in school, I had a Yamaha keyboard and used to play Yuvan and Harris compositions at cultural events. After a point, I started composing on my own,” he states. He says he had no clue about how to process or mix a track in college. This was when he became friends with Jeeva, who would subsequently join ‘HipHop’ Aadhi and compose music for albums and Tamil films. Around that time, Kaushik realised that music was his calling. And now, after a 10-year association with that team as a sound engineer and singer (numbers in Thani Oruvan and Imaikkaa Nodigal , among others), Kaushik has branched out on his own... to team up with Ramesh Venkat of ‘Eruma Saani’ fame for OMOM . Basking in the success of the title track, Kaushik is ready with his next set of tunes. Up next will be an ‘amma sentiment’ song sung by Shakthisree Gopalan. There is another one that introduces the many characters in the film, played by actors like Sathyamurthi, Vijay Kumar, Munishkanth Ramdoss, Yashika Aannand and others. “I’ll decide what to do next depending on the reach of these songs. There are talks with the ‘Eruma Saani’ team for another script currently. It depends on how they materialise,” he says.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Singing away the lockdown blues||UNESCO estimates that 1.5 billion students are affected by the closure of schools and universities around the world due to the current pandemic. To keep them motivated, the agency has collaborated with K-Pop artistes IN2IT, AleXa and Dreamcatcher for a music video titled ‘Be the Future’. The single was released as part of UNESCO’s launch of Global Education Coalition. This is the first time the agency has roped in the South Korean band, which has 400 million fans in 230 countries. The artistes are collectively part of the Millenasia Project, and the peppy number explains the importance of studying from home. The chorus goes, “Wash your hands soapy clean, clean. Put your mask on, simple indeed,” as the artistes enact the basics of physical distancing and self isolation. The lyrics, by IN2IT members, Jeong Yeontae and Yoo Jiahn  in collaboration with the band Love X Stereo, are mostly in English.    ‘Be The Future’ is available on Millenasia’s YouTube channel, Apple Music, Spotify, Melon, Anghami, Boomplay, and 25 music platforms around the world. For details, visit millenasiaproject.com .
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Where are the mangoes?||This summer, mangoes arrived much later than usual; they were available from the second week of March, but usually, start making an appearance towards the end of February. By April and May, markets are flooded with different varieties. “After cyclone Vardah, the flowering of mango trees has been delayed by a month; instead of February-March, it has moved to March-April. But this year, we waited till May for the flowering to happen, but were disappointed,” says Alladi Mahadevan of The Organic Farm, located at Kalpakkam near Chennai. He says that this has resulted in negligible mango yield in the State, and whatever we see in the market is from Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. “In our farm, the unexpected windy weather and rains during the flowering season, have drastically reduced the yield,” says B Shivakumar of MIT Organics, Sathyamangalam. He says that a bumper harvest was expected this year as flowering was in abundance, but rains played havoc, resulting in a much lesser yield than the previous year. Shivakumar adds that it is believed that the years when the tamarind is available in abundance, mango yield goes down. “I do not know how these two are related, but this year there is an excess of tamarind,” he adds.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The pursuit of a wonder drug and other stories||This biography, which won the Pulitzer prize in 2017, traces a son’s journey through Libya in search of his father. The Return is more than just a memoir, it is a book of immense historical value and sketches a stark picture of a country that was first destroyed by colonial rule, then by the Gaddafi regime and time and again by warring factions. The book also rekindled my interest in the movie Omar Mukhtar: The Lion of the Desert .
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The Invention of Wings by Sue Monk Kidd||After reading The Secret Life of Bees by the same author, I would love to read anything by her. Based on real events and set in 19th- Century America, this book tells the story of the friendship between two women — a mistress and her slave.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Chronicle of a Death Foretold by Gabriel Garcia Marquez||The book describes the murder of a young man called Santiago Nasar, and the events leading to this death.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||A House for Mr Biswas by VS Naipaul||I would recommend this and the next for reading during this period. The story of Indo-Trinidadian Mohun Biswas’ efforts in vain to succeed in a colonial scenario. Finally, his goal is only about owning his own house.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||State of Wonder by Ann Patchett||I picked up this book without realising that it is about a group of American scientists and their pursuit of a wonder drug. It is mostly set in the Brazilian Rio Negro and narrates the lives of tribes in the deepest corner of the Amazon. The book is a bit heavy on research details, but the stunning description of the rainforest and its flora kept me engaged.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||One for the road||Nimrat Kaur has just got off a celebratory Zoom call at home in Mumbai to mark the last episode of Homeland , the American spy thriller series, in which she plays Tasneem Qureishi, a member of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence. She says she was stunned by the beauty of Cape Town, South Africa, where Season 4 of the series was shot. “It is a great place for treks,” says Nimrat on telephone, adding, “When the rains hit Maharashtra, I step out of Mumbai to trek in the nearby ranges of the Western Ghats.” However, her most memorable adventure holiday was in 2016 when she did a road trip from Vancouver in Canada’s British Columbia past the US states of Washington and Oregon into Northern California. “It was a seven-day, nearly 3,600-kilometre trip down the coast and back in a loop. I was shooting for Wayward Pines and we had an episode break. My personal assistant and I decided to do a driving holiday. We would drive for half a day, then trek wherever we stopped. We walked through snow-capped mountains, coastal ranges and redwood forests,” she says. The route chosen by Nimrat was wild and lonely with Pacific winds whipping the coast and the likelihood of meeting an elk rather than another car. It involved treks through wildflower-carpeted Dog Mountain on the North side of the Columbia river gorge in Washington and wandering through a cathedral of trees at Fern Canyon in the Prairie Creek Redwoods State Park where Jurassic Park was filmed. “Fern Canyon in California is filled with massive five-fingered ferns, and to the South of it stand the great redwood forests, one of the oldest known forest areas on Earth. It is spectacular to hike through woodland filled with these soaring trees.” Although Nimrat rues that she did not have the nerve to swim in the Pacific — “it was too cold” — she says the uncertainty involved made the trip all the more beautiful. “It wasn’t easy to drive such long distances and get to a place, trek, and then move on to another location to camp for the night. We stayed at a log cabin in the woods, a hotel where Stanley Kubrick’s The Shining was filmed, and an inn on a cliff edging into the Pacific. One morning I woke up to a mother and a baby whale swimming right outside my room.” “I had no idea what was coming every day; the landscape changed, there was communion with Nature, you ate what you found, you were anonymous and lost to the beauty,” says Nimrat. “I would do it again — in a heartbeat.” Deepa Alexander
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Curbs relaxed, but life far from normal||As the Capital slowly makes its way out of the lockdown, the first to restart their profession are the self-employed, for whom working from home was never an option. For them, sitting at home meant frustration and helplessness as there was little money inflow. Even after resuming their livelihood, there life has been difficult and different. For Ram Pal, a cobbler, the hurdles kept mounting as business has failed to take off. Hailing from Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki district, he said: “I returned to my spot near the market a week ago, after people said that rules have been relaxed and people are stepping out. But life has remained the same. I have hardly earned anything in the last one week.” He has a family of six to fend for and has no idea where to get the money from. “The landlord is also putting pressure on us to pay the rent. How do we explain that we do not have money to buy a proper meal? So how can we afford to pay the rent? I will watch for a couple more days and then start walking towards our village. There is no other option,” Pal said. Unending wait Yusuf John, a sketch artist, who had spent 20 years near the India Gate making portraits of people, sits on a footpath near Lady Shri Ram College with his drawing pad and box of pencils hoping that someone would stop by. “I would make at least Rs. 1,000 a day and even more on weekends and winter. Since May 5, I have been sitting here but have made only two portraits. I can’t wait to go back to India Gate once it reopens,” John says. He added that when the lockdown started, he was undergoing treatment at the Safdarjung Hospital but was discharged after the COVID-19 outbreak and has been living on the footpath since. “God has given me only one talent, which has fed me all my life. I am willing to work but getting customers is not easy,” says John. While many sat at home and waited for the lockdown to be lifted, some like Mohammed Kasim, a carpenter, started selling vegetables. “I live in Kotla and with the help of my wife, we used to fill sacks with vegetables and sell them on a street in Lodi Colony. Nobody questioned us because we were selling essentials and the short trip to the main road helped us earn a profit,” said Kasim, who resumed his usual work at a housing project. Biggest hindrance Even with the government allowing certain trades, the lack of public transport has been a hindrance. Nilesh Kumar, a plumber, says he does not have a motorcycle and hence restricted to places he can reach on his cycle. “Since sanitary and hardware stores have opened, I have been standing outside these shops hoping that someone will buy something and will need help installing it. But most customers are plumbers themselves, who have come to buy fittings,” Nilesh says. For several others working in government offices, who have been directed to start working out of their respective offices, the absence of public transport has put them in a spot. A staffer working at the National Green Tribunal said: “We have been reporting for work since the first week of May on the basis of a roster. Usually we need to go every alternate day. But because I do not have a vehicle, my colleague takes a 10-kilometre detour every time, just to pick me up.” The resident of Dwarka added: “We have no other option but to carpool. Fortunately, till now our duties were on the same day. I am not sure how I will reach court if our duties get assigned on separate days.”
14 May 2020||New Delhi,||Two virtual courts launched to settle traffic challans||Supreme Court Judge Justice D.Y. Chandrachud on Wednesday inaugurated two virtual courts here for online settling of challans for traffic violations captured through cameras installed across Delhi. The inauguration was held virtually through videoconferencing in the presence of Justice D.N. Patel, the Chief Justice, High Court of Delhi and other judges of the High Court. The Delhi traffic police has in position 389 cameras across Delhi to digitally capture traffic violations, including overspeeding and red light-jumping. The digital challans captured by the cameras will be sent in a digital form to the virtual courts, which will be manned by the officers of Metropolitan Magistrate-rank. The court, as per Section 208 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, will issue special summons to the violator via her/his mobile phone. Once a violator receives intimation on her/his mobile phone, she/he would have the option to either contest the summons or pay by visiting the web portal,https://vcourts.gov.in. In case the violator decides not to contest and pleads guilty, she/he will pay the requisite minimum fine through online mode on the day and the time of her/his choosing within the stipulated period. The two new virtual courts will be an addition to the first virtual court in the country, which was established in the Capital on July 26 last year. 7,30,789 challans The existing virtual court dealt digitally with “on-spot traffic challans” generated by the Delhi Traffic Police by the E-Challan application developed by the National Informatics Centre. The court has disposed of 7,30,789 challans resulting in the online collection of fine amounting to Rs. 89.41 crore as on May 07.
14 May 2020||New Delhi,||Jamia prepares students for online interviews||Jamia Millia Islamia on Wednesday started sessions to prepare students for an upcoming online recruitment drive. In an interactive session, students were informed about expectations of companies in the present situation with instructors stressing on executing effective communication in online interviews, the university said. While those who participated engaged in an interactive session, only 100 students managed to participate as a consequence of technical issues, it also said.
14 May 2020||New Delhi,||Plea to transfer Tabligh chief case hits hurdle||Delhi Police on Wednesday opposed a plea in the High Court seeking direction to handover the investigation of a case against Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Delhi Police had registered a case against Tablighi chief for holding a congregation in violation of the lockdown orders. A Bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani during the videoconference hearing asked the petitioner, a Mumbai-based lawyer, to place the judgments in support of his plea to transfer the investigation from Delhi Police Crime Branch to NIA. The petition has also sought direction to the NIA to investigate the matter in a time-bound manner and monitor the probe by the High Court. It alleged that Delhi Police has failed to arrest the leader despite the lapse of considerable time. Hearing on May 28 Delhi government opposed the plea saying that Delhi Police was conducting the investigation in a fair manner and argued that the petitioner has no locus standi to file the plea. The High Court has posted the case for further hearing on May 28. The plea claimed that the crime branch of Delhi Police has failed in tracing out or apprehending Mr. Saad despite lapse of considerable time and his photograph being published in electronic media.
14 May 2020||New Delhi,||Ramdev agrees to remove his tweet against Dabur||Baba Ramdev has agreed before the Delhi High Court to remove a tweet he posted last month in which he had hinted at Dabur India Limited of taking advantage of COVID-19 pandemic by charging customers 25% more for its product, ‘chyawanprash’, than those sold by Patanjali. On April 24, Baba Ramdev had tweeted an image comparing the prices that showed Dabur’s product was sold at Rs. 325 per kg, while Patanjali sold it at Rs. 260 per kg.  Allegation Along with the image, Baba Ramdev had tweeted that people all over the country were vigorously using Ayurvedic chyawanprash and honey to increase their immunity against COVID-19, but some are forgetting their responsibility towards their country and profiteering while taking advantage of the situation. After Dabur India approached the High Court against the tweet, both Dabur and Baba Ramdev agreed that the matter can be settled on him removing the tweet from his twitter account. They also agreed that Dabur India will have the right to approach Twitter Inc. for removal of the tweet and “will not claim any damages or any other relief”. Justice Rajiv Shakdher said that Baba Ramdev can tweet the price comparison image of the two products after expunging the portion of the message about others profiteering from the situation.
14 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Maintenance of over 2,200 coaches being done: DMRC||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Wednesday said that maintenance of over 2,200 coaches and 264 stations were being done even as the exact dates for the beginning of operation of the metro network remains uncertain. “The date of opening of the Delhi Metro has still not been finalised and will be notified to the public in due course. All systems of the metro, including the signalling, electrical, rolling stock and tracks will have to be tested in detail before services are started to ensure full safety of our commuters,” said Anuj Dayal, DMRC spokesperson. DMRC officials added that “cleaning and maintenance of 1,100 escalators and 1,000 lifts, apart from the coaches and stations are also being done”. The Delhi Metro has not been operational since the nationwide lockdown was announced.
14 May 2020||May 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Set to work||
14 May 2020||New Delhi,||BJP distributes food items to migrants||A special camp was organised by the BJP on Mathura Road in Badarpur on Wednesday to provide essential food items to migrant workers. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, said migrant workers going home were not only given essential items but also screened by a team of doctors.
14 May 2020||New delhi,||Delhi riots: court grants bail to student||A Delhi court on Wednesday granted bail to Gulfisha Fatima, an MBA student and an anti-CAA activist associated with women’s collective, Pinjra Tod, in a case related to communal violence during the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in north-east Delhi in February.  Ms. Fatima was arrested for allegedly instigating a crowd of protesters that led to riots in the area. According to the FIR, she, along with others, allegedly instigated a crowd to block the road near Jaffrabad metro station on February 22 to protest against the CAA and NRC. The court granted the relief to the woman, arrested on April 9, on the ground of parity as three co-accused in the case have been granted bail.
14 May 2020||Noida,||Woman’s body found inside Greater Noida house||A 32-year-old woman, who hailed from Delhi, was found dead inside her rented accommodation in Greater Noida on Wednesday, the police said. The body was found inside the house in an area under Beta 2 police station, they said. “The body appears to be three-four days old. The cause of death is yet to be ascertained and we are not ruling out murder,” DCP (Greater Noida) Rajesh Singh said.
14 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||Property dealer held in Ghaziabad for hiring contract killer to shoot dead his wife||A day after his wife was shot dead, a property dealer in Loni was arrested for allegedly hiring a contract killer to shoot the woman who he suspected of trying to usurp his land, the police said on Wednesday.
