14 December 2020||REWARI,||Stopped from going to Delhi, farmers block Jaipur highway||Hundreds of farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana, Punjab and several other States, including Maharashtra and Gujarat, staged a sit-in on the the Delhi-Jaipur Highway. They blocked the carriageway towards the national capital after they were stopped by the Haryana police at the border with Rajasthan on Sunday. Led by Narmada Bachao Andolan’s Medha Patkar and Swaraj India national president Yogendra Yadav, among others, the farmers were headed to Delhi under the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a joint front of farmer unions. With the Delhi-Jaipur Highway also now blocked, all highways leading to the national capital from Haryana now have farmers on dharna seeking a repeal of the three recent farm laws. Later, Gurnam Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni), at a press conference at the Singhu border, announced that leaders of all the agitating groups would sit on a day-long hunger strike on Monday wherever they were protesting. Mr. Singh said some farmer groups had announced their support to the new laws, but they were not associated with them. “They are hand-in-glove with the government in an attempt to sabotage our movement. We are against the laws and will continue to protest until these laws are repealed,” he said. Addressing the farmers, Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) said farmers should stay alert and ensure that no unwanted or wrong elements got involved in the agitation. “If the Central government wants to talk and there’s any proposal for talks, we will constitute a committee, which will take a decision on it,” he said. Addressing the demonstrators on the Haryana-Rajasthan border, Ms. Patkar asked the government why minimum support price could not be guaranteed under the law.
14 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Yellow-breasted Bunting sighted on city outskirts||In a rare sighting in the State that has been recorded through photography, birder K. Vivek Nayak has spotted the Yellow-breasted Bunting ( Emberiza aureola ) listed as “critically endangered” species by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), in Mangaluru. Mr. Nayak, a member of the Coastal Karnataka Birdwatchers Network, told The Hindu that he spotted the bird at Jokatte, on the outskirts of the city, between 7.30 a.m. and 8 a.m. on Sunday. Its spotting has been recorded for the first time in the State. Earlier, it has been spotted in Kerala and Goa, he said. The male bird spotted at Jokatte was single, he said and added that initially, it looked similar to a sparrow. A research paper earlier published in the journal, Conservation Biology, suggested that unsustainable rates of hunting, principally in China, have contributed to the catastrophic loss of its numbers. Yellow-breasted Bunting was once distributed over vast areas of Europe and Asia. In India, it is reported as a winter visitor. Earlier studies by the U.K.’s BirdLife International and its partner, Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) India had shown that the numbers of one of Eurasia’s most abundant bird species, the Yellow-breasted Bunting, had declined by 90 %.
14 December 2020||New Delhi,||U.S. court rejects bail plea filed by Tahawwur Rana||A U.S. court has rejected the bail plea of Tahawwur Rana, key accused in the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack lodged in a Los Angeles prison, who awaits extradition to India. Rana had sought release from prison till the extradition hearing is finalised, citing COVID-19 reinfection. The next extradition hearing is in February 2021. He offered that his location could be monitored through ankle bracelet with GPS and his daughter, who is pursuing online education, or his mother-in-law could be made custodians to monitor his movement at home. Rana is wanted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the 2008 terror attack case that claimed the lives of 166 people. He was released from prison in June after an Illinois court commuted his jail sentence (scheduled to get over in September 2021) as he tested positive for COVID-19. He was provisionally arrested by the federal police following the extradition request from India. In his second bail plea, Rana invoked the fourth amendment of the U.S. Constitution that prohibits unreasonable searches and seizures of individuals and property. Dismissing his plea, U.S. magistrate Judge Jacqueline Chooljian said in an order dated December 10 that Rana continued to pose a “significant risk of flight”. “Notwithstanding its consideration of such information, the court ultimately concluded that even a location monitoring condition combined with the proposed bond/other conditions would not negate the significant risk of flight. The court’s view has not changed,” the order, accessed by The Hindu, said.
14 December 2020||Pune,||Fresh infections outweigh recoveries in Maharashtra||Maharashtra’s case surge once again outpaced its recoveries, with 3,717 new COVID-19 cases being reported on Sunday, while just 3,083 patients were discharged. The State’s active infections have increased to 74,104, while the total case tally stands at 18,80,416. While the cumulative recoveries stand at 17,57,005, the State’s recovery rate declined marginally to 93.44%. As many as 70 deaths were reported, pushing the fatality count to 48,209. “Of a total of 1,17,02,457 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,80,416 (case positivity rate of 16.07%) have returned positive with nearly 64,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate was 2.56%. However, despite a spike in cases across the State for three consecutive days, Pune, the worst-hit district in the country until two months ago, has been witnessing a steady decline in cases over the last three weeks, district administration authorities said. The district reported nearly more than 600 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,62,312 while seven deaths saw its toll reach 7,626. However, as per the district administration figures, the number of active cases has come down to 9,305 while its recovery rate has risen to 94.93%. According to the Pune Municipal Corporation, the district’s overall positivity rate has declined to 20.30% (from more than 25% a couple of months ago) and is likely to dip further in the coming days. 606 cases in Mumbai Mumbai city reported 606 new cases as its total case tally touched 2,90,636, of which 13,112 are active. As many as 12 fatalities saw the city’s death toll climb to 10,977. Nagpur district in Vidarbha recorded nearly 350 new cases, taking the district’s total count of infections to 1,19,310 of which 5,279 are active. Three deaths pushed the toll to 3,095. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported 12 deaths as its toll rose to 1,725 while 84 fresh cases saw the total case tally go up to 54,033 of which 2,130 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported 44 cases and two deaths as the district’s reported cases reached 49,200 of which just 454 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,741. Kolhapur reported a mere 21 cases and no deaths as its total case tally touched 49,163 of which 504 are active. The fatality toll remains at 1,656. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district added more than 200 cases and five deaths as its total tally climbed to 1,10,214 of which 2,917 are active. Its death toll rose to 1,781. Neighbouring Jalgaon registered 33 new cases and three deaths as its total cases reached 55,566 of which 902 are active, while its death toll stood at 1,417.
14 December 2020||Belagavi/HUBBALLI,||Two more taken into custody in Goudar murder case||CBI sleuths took into custody Chandrashekhar Indi alias Chandu Mama and Nagappa in Vijayapura on Saturday in connection with the murder of the former zilla Panchayat member Yogeshgouda Goudar. Chandrasekhar Indi is said to be an associate and uncle of Vinay Kulkarni, former Minister who is now lodged in Hindalga Jail on the charge of murder. Nagappa is said to be an associate of Dharmaraj Chadachan, a repeat offender from Vijayapura. A team of investigators that was camping in Vijayapura for two days took them into custody. First, the team members picked up Chandrashekhar Indi from the premises of a private hospital where he had gone to see his ailing father. They also took into custody Nagappa, another accused in the case. Both were brought to Dharwad. The CBI had summoned Chandrashekhar Indi several times for questioning earlier. He is facing the charge of procuring country-made pistols from Dharmaraj Chadachan of Vijayapura district and handing them over to the assailants of Yogeeshgouda Goudar. Nagappa is facing the charge of handing over the pistols to Chandrasekhar Indi. Both the accused are likely to be produced before the Special CBI Court on Sunday. Sources said that the Central Bureau of Investigation is probing into the possible involvement of Dharmaraj Chadachan in the murder conspiracy.
14 December 2020||Bengaluru,||State government estimates flood losses at Rs. 15,410 crore||Estimating the losses due to rain and floods in September and October to be about Rs. 15,410 crore, the State government on Sunday urged the Centre to provide assistance so that relief could be taken up in the affected regions of the State. During his interaction with the inter-ministerial Central team, led by Ramesh Kumar Ganta, here on Sunday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa pointed out that probably for the first time the State faced floods in both Krishna and Bhima basins in a single year. “After the August floods, the State experienced two more spells of very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall during the second fortnight of September and second and third week of October,” he told the delegation. Reporting the damage, the Chief Minister said that floods and landslides damaged crops on more than 16 lakh hectares. Also, around 34,794 houses had been damaged. “The estimated loss is about Rs. 15,410 crore,” he said. Further, Mr. Yediyurappa said that the State government had committed Rs. 1,320.48 crore towards flood relief, repair and reconstruction. He said the government had already disbursed Rs. 551.14 crore to 7.12 lakh farmers as input subsidy and estimated that the State would be incurring Rs. 465 crore towards housing assistance, and urged the team to recommend release of Central assistance at the earliest. It may be noted that Revenue Minister R. Ashok told the Legislative Assembly recently that 4,084 bridges, 7,606 government buildings and 650 tanks too had suffered damage. As many as 52,240 affected people had been put in relief centres, he had stated. The floods had ravaged the State in three different phases this year. While the first phase was from August 1 to September 15, the second and third phases ranged from September 15 to 30 and October second week to third week. The Central team is looking at the compensation for the second and third phase of floods.
14 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,||All set for last phase of local body polls||Elaborate arrangements have been made for the final phase of the local body elections to be held in the four northern districts of Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode and Malappuram on Monday. Going by the high voter turnout in the first and second phase of polling, a higher poll percentage is expected in the four districts which include areas that are politically sensitive. Nearly 90 lakh voters are in the electoral roll to elect their representative in 6,867 wards/divisions in 354 local bodies, including two Corporations and 31 municipalities. There are 10,842 polling booths across the four districts. The electorate include 1,747 NRI voters and 71,906 new voters. The State Election Commission (SEC) informed that 52,285 officials are on poll duty. Webcasting will be done in 1,105 polling booths. Election in Thillankery division in Kannur district panchayat and Thathoor ward in Mavoor panchayat in Kozhikode were postponed following the death of candidates. The SEC informed that voters testing positive for COVID-19 and those being quarantined between 3 p.m. on December 13 and till the time the polling ends would be allowed to cast their votes with a certificate from the designated health officer. Considering the political sensitivity of the region, large contingents of police personnel have been deployed to ensure peaceful election. State Police Chief Loknath Behera said that steps were taken to make adequate security arrangements for the last phase of elections. As many as 20,603 police personnel were deployed in the four districts. Police deployment The police deployment included 56 Deputy Superintendents of Police, 232 inspectors, 1,172 sub-inspectors/assistant sub-inspectors and 19,143 civil police officers. In addition, 616 home guards and 4,325 special police officers were also posted for duty. The police preparations also included 590 group patrol teams and 250 law and order patrolling teams to meet any emergency situation on the polling day. The SPC informed that 498 picket posts were set up in hyper sensitive areas in the region. Thirty platoons of police personnel under the Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) and the Inspector General (North Zone) were in place. In addition, four companies of striking force teams were ready under the Deputy Inspector General (Kannur Range) and one team each under the District Police Chiefs in the four districts.
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,||IIT turns COVID-19 cluster, 71 test positive since December 1||The Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) has shut down all departments after the campus turned into a COVID-19 cluster with 71 persons, including 66 students, testing positive since December 1. In a circular on Sunday, the institute said it decided to close all departments, centres and the library immediately until further notice. All faculty members, project staff members and research scholars would work from home, while students, scholars and project staff members staying on the campus were advised to confine themselves to their hostel rooms. Following the development, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan wrote to all Collectors and the Chennai Corporation Commissioner to keep a watch on educational institutions and hostels and encourage takeaway food. “Anyone with remote symptoms or those who return from other States should be strictly monitored, tested and isolated if positive for COVID-19. Sporadic cases were reported from the institute since December 1. However, there was a spike in the last three to four days. As of now, 66 students, four mess workers and one other person in the resident quarters have tested positive...out of 277 samples lifted,” he said. All those who tested positive are stable and being treated at the Government Corona Hospital, Guindy. From December 1 to 10, 16 persons tested positive. This was followed by 11 cases on Friday last, 12 on Saturday and 32 on Sunday. Mr. Radhakrishnan said the reason for more cases in the last one day was due to contact-tracing — testing of primary and secondary contacts and persons with symptoms. “As per public health protocols, we have advised the institute to put in place effective smart containment measures and avoid unnecessary movement. Out of the nine hostels and one guesthouse, there are more cases in two hostels. The Health Department, Greater Chennai Corporation, in coordination with IIT-M, has put in place SOPs. We will be testing 774 students; samples of 408 students have already been lifted,” he said. IIT-M has asked the students to stay at the hostels, providing them with single-room accommodation and packed food. Apart from essential laboratory activities, they have been asked not to operate, he said. Officials said the mess was closed on December 9, and a new catering service was arranged by the management. As more students tested positive, the dining hall was closed on December 10 and distribution of packed food to the rooms was started. “The cause of the spurt — whether it was due to the mess or imported cases — is being separately analysed. Meanwhile, we have asked all Collectors to keep a watch on colleges and hostels following the reopening. They have been told to have active fever surveillance measures,” he said. In a statement, IIT-M authorities said they had been functioning with only 10% students in the hostels, and as soon as a spurt in symptomatic cases was reported, they had arranged for all students in the hostels to be tested. The institute was permitting research scholars to return to the campus after a 14-day quarantine and testing.  Anyone with remote symptoms or those who return from other States should be strictly monitored... J. Radhakrishnan, Health Secretary
14 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||5 hostel mates from A.P. killed in accident||Five youngsters, all hailing from Andhra Pradesh and residing in a hostel at Madhapur here, died in an accident at Wipro junction in Gachibowli in the early hours of Sunday. K. Santosh (25), who was driving the car, jumped red signal and took a right turn towards Gopanapally, and came in the way of a tipper truck around 3 a.m.. The truck hit the car and dragged it for a distance, leaving it badly mangled. While Santosh, K. Pavan Kumar (24), C. Manohar (23) and N. Roshan (23) died on the spot, the fifth occupant of the car, P. Bharadwaj (20), succumbed to injuries a little later. The driver of the truck, Deepender Singh, suffered minor injuries. Gachibowli police inspector R. Srinivas said the truck driver was not inebriated. Police have collected viscera samples of the five youngsters and sent them for tests. The police who checked the video footage of the accident site from at least two angles, said the youngster driving the car jumped red signal. Barring Bharadwaj, the remaining four were working as software or animation professionals. All of them resided at Maruthi Men’s Hostel in Ayyappa Society, Madhapur. They had informed their hostel mates that they were going out but did not specify a location. Police are going through their call records to ascertain where they were headed at midnight. The bodies were sent to the Osmania General Hospital for post-mortem. Bharadwaj, a native of Vijayawada, was working in an animation firm while Pavan Kumar, a B.Tech graduate, hailed from Nellore. It was only a week ago that Pavan Kumar visited Hyderabad for the first time, and joined the hostel. He came to the city to prepare for IELTS examination and go abroad. Meanwhile, the OGH mortuary on Sunday morning teemed with a group of crestfallen youngsters, the friends of the deceased Since the five were from different districts in Andhra Pradesh, their parents reached the mortuary quite late.
14 December 2020||Kolkata,||Institutional deliveries up in West Bengal; anaemia remains a threat||The fifth edition of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) released by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday has recorded a significant improvement in maternal and child health in West Bengal. Institutional deliveries have increased from 75.2% as per the NFHS-4 conducted in 2015-16 to 91.7% in the NFHS-5 held in 2019-20. The infant mortality rate (IMR) has also improved to 22 (per 1,000 live births) from 27.5 in NHFS-4. The IMR for urban areas in the State in NFHS-5 is 21 and for rural areas, it is 22.4. The neonatal mortality rate and the under-five mortality have also showed a positive trend in NFHS-5. The sex ratio at birth for children born in the last five years (females per 1,000 males) has jumped to 973 from 960 recorded in NFHS-4. For urban areas, the sex ratio is 921 and for rural areas, it is 993. Marriage before 18 The percentage of women in the age group 20-24 married before 18 is 41.6% — same as in the last NFHS report. The percentage of women in the age group 20-24 married before 18 is 26.2% in urban areas and 48.1% in rural areas. Anaemia among children and women remains a matter of concern. The percentage of anaemic children (aged between six and 59 months) has increased from 54.2 in NFHS-4 to 69 in NFHS-5. The percentage of pregnant women with anaemia has gone up from 53.6 in NFHS-4 to 62.3 in NFHS-5. Women aged between 15 and 49 with anaemia has risen from 62.5 in NFHS-4 to 71.4 in NFHS-5.
14 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||AAP claims BJP leaders damaged CCTVs near Delhi CM’s residence||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has alleged that BJP leaders holding a demonstration outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on Sunday evening damaged CCTV cameras at the spot. Refuting the allegation, the BJP said its women members had protested against the installation of the cameras to protect their privacy, and added that the CCTVs were newly installed.  AAP tweeted a video of the alleged incident that led to a spat between the two parties on social media. Delhi BJP leaders along with councillors from the three municipalities have been sitting outside the CM’s residence at Flagstaff Road in Civil Lines for the past one week demanding payment of Rs. 13,000 crore in “dues” to the municipal corporations.   Delhi BJP media head Naveen Kumar alleged that new CCTVs were installed to invade the privacy of the women councillors who were sleeping outside the Chief Minister’s residence. He said there were already a large number of CCTVs installed but more were being put up to focus on the areas where the women councillors were sleeping.  Mr. Kumar said that when the women councillors raised questions about their privacy and requested that the cameras not be installed on their side, their objections were not heeded. “We are complaining against the party to the police and also to the Women’s Commission,” said the BJP.  DCP (North) Anto Alphonse said, “Some new CCTVs were being installed outside the wall of the CM’s residence to cover Flagstaff Road. Some of the BJP councillors objected to it. There were some arguments. Now, both sides have agreed and CCTVs are being installed.”
14 December 2020||Mumbai,||Is there a ‘declared emergency’: Uddhav||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday asked whether the country is facing a ‘declared emergency’ as farmers protesting the new farm laws are being labelled anti-national. “Democracy allows every section of society to protest and voice their grievances. The farmers are protesting the Central government but they are being stopped by the police, water cannons are being used to disperse them, and now they are being termed as terrorists, anti-nationals, Pakistanis or Chinese. Is this a declared emergency in the country?” he said at a press conference on the eve of two-day winter session of the State legislature. “The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government brought sugar and onions from Pakistan. And now they are calling our farmers Pakistanis. This is not our culture,” Mr. Thackeray said. He was responding to the Leader of Opposition and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis’s allegation that Maharashtra is facing a ‘undeclared emergency.’ On Mr. Fadnavis’s criticism that the State government has failed to address the issue of Maratha reservation leading to a stay from the Supreme Court, Mr. Thackeray said that the government placed its stance in the apex court after consultation with community organisations, lawyers, and leaders. “We want to reiterate that OBC reservation will not be harmed at all. Not only OBC but no other quota will be reduced,” he said. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who was present at the press meet, said that the recent MLC polls where the Maha Vikas Aghadi won five seats out of the six is a manifestation of people’s trust in the government. Coming down on Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari who is yet to give his assent to the 12 names approved by the State Cabinet to be nominated to the Council, Mr. Thackeray said that the legislature is accountable to people. “We agree that it is the Governor’s right but there needs to be a debate on how long he can keep the seats vacant,” he said.
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Probe into TV actor’s death under way’||City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Sunday said a thorough investigation was on into the circumstances which led to the death of TV actor Chitra. Talking to reporters, he said, “The investigation is on. We are collecting evidence and other details. Action will be taken based on evidence.” The 28-year-old TV actor ended her life at a hotel room on the outskirts of the city on Wednesday. Her parents and friends alleged foul play and demanded a thorough probe into her death. The police had been interrogating Hemanth, her husband, who accompanied her to a shooting spot and the hotel on the day of occurrence. As on Sunday, Hemanth and the victim’s co-actors have been interrogated by the police for five days.  (Those in need of counselling may contact State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 for counselling.)
14 December 2020||KURNOOL,||Rs. 1.9 cr. confiscated from bus passenger||The Kurnool police late on Saturday night confiscated Rs. 1.9 crore currency notes from a passenger travelling from Hyderabad to Kurnool by an RTC bus. ‘No supporting documents’ During a routine checking of the bus at Panchalingala Toll Plaza on the Telangana border, the police found two large bags with a 52-year-old passenger identified as Koneri Ram Chowdhary. On inspecting the bags, they found the cash stashed in them without any supporting documents, said Kurnool DSP K.V. Mahesh at a press conference here on Sunday. When questioned, Ram Chowdhary said that the cash belonged to a real estate agent of Guntakal, B. Ranganayakulu Naidu, the DSP said. According to Ram Chowdhary, the money was taken to Hyderabad to purchase agriculture land but since the deal did not materialise, he was bringing the money back, said circle inspector G. Obulesu.
14 December 2020||RUJANKHEDI (SEHORE),||Pandemic spurs child marriages||The COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent financial hardships due to the lockdown have proved to be new drivers of child marriages in rural Madhya Pradesh. The State recorded 46 child marriages between November 2019 and March 2020, a figure that jumped to 117 in just three months of the lockdown, from April to June 2020, said NGO ChildLine India. The NGO said 5,214 child marriages were reported in the first four months of the lockdown, between March and June, across India.
14 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||Now, explore Kaziranga on boats and bicycles||Elephants and jeeps are no longer the only modes of regulated transport to call on the rhino in the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve, billed as the best-conserved home of the one-horned animal. The park can now be explored by boats while bicycle tracks are also being finalised. One can go trekking too. But the new activities are beyond the 1,302 sq km Kaziranga’s core area of 482 sq km. “Our priority is conservation with some amount of commercialisation. At the same time, we want domination of the areas added to the tiger reserve and better monitoring by way of utilising the fringe areas for tourists,” Kaziranga Field Director P. Sivakumar said. In November, the park authorities launched a boat safari at Bhomoraguri after the addition of 3,053 hectares to the park. The opening of the Bhomoraguri Wildlife Beat Office under the Nagaon Wildlife Division made this possible. Bhomoraguri is about 30 km from Kaziranga’s westernmost range Burapahar. A couple of unused buildings constructed in the 1980s for work on the Kalia Bhomora bridge across river Brahmaputra to the west of the boating point were converted to the beat office. Selfie point The park authorities also renovated an abandoned ferry for use as a selfie point. “We are using speedboats and country boats to involve locals. There are three boating routes covering 5-12 km, the longest being the 44.06-sq km Burachapori Wildlife Sanctuary to the west of Kaziranga. But most tourists prefer the areas near the bridge, where river dolphins can be sighted,” Mr. Sivakumar told The Hindu .
14 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Centre sticks to its stand on river waters||Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has said the Centre would consider referring the matter for re-allocation of Krishna waters between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh either to a new tribunal or the existing Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal-II after withdrawal of the petition in the Supreme Court by Telangana.
14 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Rash driving kills five youth||Five youth, all from different parts of neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and staying at a hostel here in Madhapur, died when one of the youngsters driving the car jumped a red signal only to be moved down by an oncoming tipper truck in the wee hours of Sunday. K. Santosh (25), who was driving the car, jumped the red signal, took a right turn towards Gopanapally at Wipro Circle, and came in way of the truck at around 3 a.m. on Sunday. While Santosh, K. Pavan Kumar (24), C. Manohar (23) and N. Roshan (23) died on the spot, the fifth occupant of the car, P. Bharadwaj (20), succumbed a little later.
14 December 2020||Bengaluru,||After talks fail, RTC staff say strike will continue||High drama prevailed on Sunday evening as the protesting leaders and employees of road transport corporations (RTCs) after claiming that they had received a “positive response” from the government made a U-turn when they arrived at Freedom Park where protesters were holding a hunger strike. The leaders then announced that the indefinite strike will continue till the State considered them as government employees. Chandrashekar R., president of Sarige Noukararu Sarakari Noukararaguva Horatada Okkoota, who described the meeting as positive, said that their primary demand remained unfulfilled and hence the talks failed. Farmers leader Kodihalli Chandrashekar, who is leading the protest, also announced that the strike will continue on Monday. As the situation deteriorated, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai lambasted Mr. Kodihalli Chandrashekar, accusing him of adopting “blackmail tactics” and misleading the employees. “Representatives of the protesters left the Vikasa Soudha, saying that they received a positive response from the government. The State government agreed to most of their demands. But after reaching Freedom Park they changed their minds. They are doing this at the behest of an egoistic person. He is going against the interest of the general public and employees,” he said. The Minister maintained the State government would provide security for employees who would report duty and warned of taking a tough stand against the protesters. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, in a release, also criticised Mr. Kodihalli Chandrashekar, saying his “ mala fide ” intentions were condemnable. He appealed to employees to call off strike. Some come out in support A section of private bus operators on Sunday announced their support, saying they would not operate buses in Bengaluru. Nataraj Sharma, chairman of the Karnataka State Tourist Operators’ Association, addressing the employees at Freedom Park said: “The Transport Minister is solely responsible for the entire problem. He did not entertain any of our requisitions when we suffered owing to the pandemic. We are going to support your cause and will not operate or ply private buses in Bengaluru on Monday.” However, other operators said they will run regular services. On Saturday, Transport Minister Laxman Savadi had announced that the government would allow private operators to run buses as an alternative measure. On Sunday, he conducted a series of meetings with various union leaders, and in the evening a final round of meetings was conducted with representatives of the protesting employees. Mr. Savadi said that there were 10 to 12 demands from employees, the more feasible of which had been accepted considering the government’s financial limits. After the meeting, the Minister said: “Treating them as government employees is impossible. Like road transport corporations, there are 30 to 40 corporations in the State,” he said. Demands Employees have demanded that salaries of the staff be revised as per the sixth pay commission with effect from January, 2020, for which the Minister said that a decision would be taken by considering the financial limitations of the government. Other major demands approved by the government were providing compensation of Rs. 30 lakh to an employee who dies after contracting COVID-19, providing Arogya Sanjeevini health insurance, forming an appeal committee to look into complaints of harassment made by employees, providing allowances to bus drivers and conductors which was stopped owing to pandemic. The Minister said the allowances would be given from January. The government had also agreed to bring down the probationary period of trainee employees from two years to one year. Mr. Kodihalli Chandrashekar was not part of the meeting held at the Vikasa Soudha.
14 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab DIG resigns, backs farmers’ stir||Punjab Deputy Inspector General (Prisons) Lakhminder Singh Jakhar has tendered his resignation in solidarity with the farmers protesting against the new farm laws. Mr. Jakhar, 56, tendered his resignation on Saturday. In May, the senior officer was put under suspension over corruption charges. He was reinstated about two months ago. Mr. Jakhar, who comes from a farmer family, told reporters on Sunday that he owes everything to the farmers and needs to stand behind them in their hour of need.
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Tomar meets Home Minister||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar met Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday amid the farmers’ protests against the agriculture laws, officials said. Mr. Tomar was accompanied by Som Parkash.Page 11
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||SJM points to a ‘nexus’ in retail||The Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM) on Sunday demanded that the government not allow a “nexus” of large multinational and Indian business houses to domin-ate the retail sector as it would lead to the exploita-tion of farmers.Page 11
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Fruits of labour||
14 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Bannanje Govindacharya passes away||Well-known Sanskrit scholar and eminent discourser Bannanje Govindacharya passed away at his residence at Ambalpady in Udupi on Sunday. He was 84, and is survived by four daughters and a son. Mr. Govindacharya had lost his other son 12 days ago. A Padma Shri awardee, he edited the weekly magazine of Kannada daily Udayavani for nearly three decades from the 1970s. He presented a number of discourses on varied topics in different parts of the country and abroad.
14 December 2020||KALABURAGI,||Farmer dies after being bitten by snake||A 19-year-old farmer died on Sunday after being bitten by a snake on Friday in his agriculture field in Tajlapur village of Chincholi taluk of Kalaburagi district. The deceased was identified as Akshay Kumar Narasappa. The incident took place when he was spraying pesticides on the crop in his village. He was immediately rushed to the Chincholi Taluk Hospital. On Saturday, he was brought to the Kalaburagi District Hospital where he failed to respond to treatment and breathed his last on Sunday. Chincholi Police have registered a case.
14 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi CM to observe day-long fast||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said he will fast on Monday in solidarity with the protesting farmers across the country. He also hit out at BJP leaders for defaming the farmers by calling them anti-national. He also appealed to all supporters who cannot be at the borders with the farmers to observe a day of fast.
14 December 2020||Mumbai/Nagpur/Nashik,||First Mumbai nearby||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should clarify the claims of some Union ministers that the farmers’ protest against the new agriculture laws has the backing of Pakistan, China, and Maoists. NCP spokesperson Mahesh Tapase said instead of sympathetically considering the farmers’ demands, Union ministers Raosaheb Danve and Piyush Goyal made “controversial remarks to discredit the agitation”. The Sharad Pawar-led party, along with the Congress, is a constituent in the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government.
14 December 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Second Mumbai nearby||The Uran police have arrested two men in connection with the murder of a 52-year-old Vashi-based financier. Suresh Bhoir, a resident of Vashi gaon, went missing from his residence around 2 p.m. on December 6. He was found dead on December 11 at an isolated area in Uran. The accused have been identified as Anirudh alias Kuldeep Bhoir (29), a cousin of the deceased, and his friend Anil Raipure (19). “Suresh was last seen with these two accused. Since they were relatives, no one suspected them. They kept telling the family that Suresh had gone to attend a finance-related meeting and for arranging funds to repay loans,” senior police inspector Jagdish Kulkarni, Uran police station, said.
14 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Scholar Bannanje Govindacharya dead||Well-known Sanskrit scholar and eminent discourser Bannanje Govindacharya passed away at his residence at Ambalpady in Udupi on Sunday. He was 84, and is survived by four daughters and a son.
14 December 2020||Hassan,||Poll boycott in many villages around W. Ghats||Residents of many villages that fall in the ecologically sensitive area, as identified by the K. Kasturirangan report on the Western Ghats, have decided to boycott the gram panchayat elections this month.
14 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi CM to observe day-long fast today||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said he will fast on Monday in solidarity with the protesting farmers across the country. He hit out at BJP leaders for defaming the farmers by calling them anti-national. The CM also appealed to all supporters who cannot be at the borders with the farmers to observe a day of fast.
14 December 2020||Bengaluru,||State sees a rise in obesity levels||While the rise in the number of people with nutritional deficiencies and anaemia in the State is a cause for concern, there is another worrying trend: the sharp rise in obesity and overweight levels in the last four years.
14 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||First Kolkata nearby||The BJP will be part of a three-party alliance that will rule the autonomous Bodoland Territorial Council. The alliance will be led by the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL), whose president Pramod Boro has been named the next chief executive member of the council. The third entity is the Gana Suraksha Party (GSP), headed by Independent Lok Sabha member Naba Kumar Sarnia, a former leader of the extremist United Liberation Front of Asom. The UPPL won 12 seats, the BJP nine and the GSP one. Together, they have 22 members, one more than the majority mark in the 40-member council.
14 December 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal registers 2,580 new COVID-19 cases, 47 more deaths||The COVID-19 toll in West Bengal rose to 9,057 on Sunday with 47 more people succumbing to the viral disease, a bulletin released by the State Health Department said. At least 2,580 fresh cases of infection were reported, taking the tally to 5,21,795. The discharge rate in the State went up to 93.94% with 2,994 more people recovering from the disease, the bulletin said. The positivity rate stands at 8.12%. Bengal currently has 22,573 active cases. North 24 Parganas accounted for the maximum number of fresh fatalities at 12, followed by Kolkata at 11, the bulletin said. Kolkata recorded the highest number of new cases in the State on Sunday at 668, while North 24 Parganas registered 652 cases.PTI
14 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Cong., BJP demand action against Kerala CM||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have demanded action against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for breaching the model code of conduct (MCC) with his ‘announcement’ on Saturday that COVID-19 vaccination will be made available to everyone in the State free of cost. Multiple complaints were filed before the State Election Commission (SEC) on Sunday asserting that the announcement was made with the sole intention of influencing voters in the local body elections. Demanding action against the Chief Minister, UDF convener M.M. Hassan noted in his complaint that the State government had not received any concrete information from the Centre regarding COVID-19 vaccination. Neither had the State Health Department formulated a plan for its administration as and when it became available, Mr. Hassan pointed out. Emphasising that announcement ahead of the third phase of the local body polls amounted to a blatant violation of the MCC, he urged the SEC to initiate action against Mr. Vijayan. K.C. Joseph, MLA, in a complaint to the SEC, alleged that Mr. Vijayan’s announcement, telecast by the media, was designed to influence voters in Kannur, Kasaragod, Kozhikode and Malappuram districts which go to the polls on Monday. ‘Deliberate’ Mr. Vijayan should have waited until after the polling on December 14 to make his announcement. The announcement was deliberate and amounted to violation of the MCC, Mr. Joseph said. KPCC general secretary K.P. Anil Kumar lodged a complaint with the SEC seeking action against the Chief Minister. Even if there were no complaint in this regard, the SEC could suo motu register a case, Mr. Anil Kumar said. BJP State unit president K. Surendran sought ‘appropriate action’ against the Chief Minister for violating the MCC. “The Chief Minister announced in his press conference that COVID-19 vaccine would be free of cost for everyone in the State. As you are well aware, this amounts to violation of the MCC as the local body elections are still in progress,” Mr. Surendran said in his complaint to the SEC. Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan said the Chief Minister made his announcement even before the Centre had finalised a decision regarding its distribution. He should clarify whether the SEC had permitted it, Mr. Muraleedharan said. The Chief Minister was attempting to hoodwink the public with promises when it had become clear that the LDF would face a major setback in the elections, he said. Will look into issue: SEC Meanwhile, SEC V. Bhaskaran confirmed on Sunday that the commission had received multiple complaints accusing the Chief Minister of breaching the MCC. The commission would take a final decision on the matter after examining the details, Mr. Bhaskaran said.
14 December 2020||New Delhi,||Tomar meets Shah as farmers’ stir continues||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar met Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday amid the farmers’ protests against the Centre’s three agriculture laws, officials said. Mr. Tomar was accompanied by Som Parkash. BJP leaders from Punjab were present at the meeting. It was not immediately known what transpired during the discussions. Mr. Tomar and Mr. Parkash, along with their ministerial colleague Piyush Goyal, had led the government’s negotiations with the protesting farmers. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at the borders of Delhi demanding the repeal of the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates
14 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Invest in vaccine literacy, say experts||With a COVID-19 vaccine seemingly just round the corner in India, vaccine literacy, and not publicity blitz about the emergence of one or more vaccines, is essential to building public trust, say health experts. This should be supplemented with aggressive testing and tracing strategies to keep a check on the infection numbers and test the efficacy of vaccines. “Vaccine literacy is an important aspect in vaccine roll-out which often does not get the attention it deserves. Before a new vaccine is introduced it is absolutely essential to build the confidence of people which is only possible by openness and transparency in sharing critical data,” J.V.R. Prasada Rao, former Health Secretary, told The Hindu . He added that it is essential to engage civil society organisations in a dialogue, sharing the data with them and asking them to disseminate information to the people at large. More sustainable Explaining that this could be a slower process, Mr. Rao said: “But this will be more sustainable than a publicity blitz about emergence of one or more vaccines.” Seconding this, N.K. Ganguly, former Director-General, Indian Council of Medical Research, said this could be done in three ways — by maintaining absolute transparency in trial data results and adverse events, rigorous surveillance through smart testing and tracing strategies as they form the bedrock for a vaccination campaign and finally by ensuring that the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) and the regulator should be composed of independent persons with significant technical experience and they should have no relation with the vaccine company or anyone who can influence.
14 December 2020||New Delhi,||Thousands continue to flow to Singhu||Amid strict foot patrols and discussions on parallels between their current agitation and the struggle of Sikh Gurus and those of revolutionaries from the erstwhile undivided Punjab, the farmers’ protests at the Singhu border gathered more steam on a cold December night over the weekend. Thousands, predominantly from Punjab, were understood to have joined overnight — police estimates put the gathering at around 25,000 on Sunday morning, up from around 20,000 to 21,000 on Saturday — with farmers aboard tractor trolleys lining up behind one another along a road connecting Narela to National Highway 1, proudly asserting they drove for days through fields, dirt tracks and untarred roads to reach the site. As both fog and the temperature cut a difficult path for them, the bustle of sloganeering protesters and the din of rousing speeches blaring from loudspeakers placed along the highway subsided for the day, some rearranged the warmth-inducing stubble stuffed below mattresses in trolleys and others adjusted their turbans before settling down on quilts. Peaceful gathering “We have groups of young men patrolling the perimeter of the site from late evening till dawn; we don’t want any undesirable element to enter the area — whether it is criminals or a ploy by the government or intelligence agencies to provoke or try to bring any kind of shame to the protest,” said Zorawar Pal Singh from Amritsar. As the area got increasingly out of bounds for “outsiders”, including journalists, Jaswant Singh, a farmer from Gurdaspur, was chatting with companions preparing to turn in for the night. “My explanation about what is happening is simple: imagine something as essential as water,” he said. “What if I forced you to drink water when you are not thirsty? Either you will get wet or I, or both of us, if I force something I think is essential for you on you without your consent. It’s the same with these laws. We don’t need them no matter how much the government thinks we do,” he said. A few metres from police barricades near the toll plaza, Baljinder Singh, a retired commerce professor from Amritsar’s Khalsa College, was sitting on a carpet marking a makeshift common bed over a single layer of cloth on the road. From a farming background himself and among the several speakers who had addressed the substantial gathering earlier during the day, Mr. Singh underlined what he said had emerged as the biggest strength of the protest: discipline. “We have so far been successful in being perhaps the most successful protest gathering of this size in the country but that in itself presents a challenge. On the other hand, what this protest has also succeeded in achieving so far is conveying the message of brotherhood. After decades, the people of Haryana and Punjab have come together and how,” he said. “The people here, no matter what the odds, find motivation in the message and lives of the Sikh Gurus and the revolutionaries of Punjab and Haryana. In many ways, the month of December is especially dreary for us; it is during this time that Guru Gobind Singh ji’s family was separated with tragic consequences. In the same way as the Gurus and our warriors left their families for battle, those here have left their families in the countryside for this, so far, peaceful battle,” he said. ‘Thousands more’ “There are thousands more tractor trolleys with thousands more protesters moving to Delhi from several sides. If you go to any access point leading to the city, you will see lines upon lines of people like me who are willing to undergo any weather and any consequence to get these black laws repealed,” said Balwinder Sharma from Bhatinda. By 6 a.m., with no sight of the sun on an icy Sunday morning yet, the border is abuzz with activity.Announcements begin from the stage to increase the size of the pandal to accommodate those who have joined overnight. Multiple langars (free kitchens) begin operations amid the melodious kirtans (hymns) that fill the air, ahead of the fiery speeches. “We are here for the long haul and know that the government can do anything to make that as short as possible,” said Sukwinder Jaswal from Doda as he helped install banners asking those at the protest to ensure that the gathering remained peaceful. “At this point, it has become a game of who blinks first and achieving what we want is as important to us as how we do it,” he added.
14 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Slowdown in loans sanctioned to struggling firms||There has been some slowdown in loans sanctioned to struggling businesses and micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) over the months of October and November under the Rs. 3 lakh crore emergency credit guarantee scheme announced by the government in May this year. In its first three months, the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) Fund had led to sanction of soft term loans of Rs. 1.86 lakh crore, of which Rs. 1.32 lakh crore had been disbursed to Rs. 27.09 lakh borrowers by September 29. Between September 29 and December 4, loans sanctioned under the scheme rose by just Rs. 19,094 crore to a little over Rs. 2.05 lakh crore. These sanctions pertain to 80.93 lakh accounts. Disbursals during this period increased by Rs. 26,380 crore, with over 13.4 lakh more borrowers benefiting, taking the total amount paid out under the scheme to nearly Rs. 1.59 lakh crore. The total borrowers receiving funds under the scheme now stand at 40.49 lakh. The ECLGS scheme is a key element of the government’s stimulus and support measures for firms battered by the lockdown restrictions put in place in March to curb the COVID-19 pandemic. It provides additional working capital finance for 20% of a borrower’s outstanding credit as on February 29, 2020. The financing is in the form of a term loan at a concessional rate of interest. In November, the government had announced the expansion of the scheme to cover even larger firms operating in healthcare and the 26 most-stressed sectors identified by the K.V. Kamath Committee appointed by the central bank. Firms with outstanding loans of Rs. 50 crore to Rs. 500 crore from sectors such as construction, real estate, textiles, power, cement, hotels and tourism, are eligible for support. Aid to NBFCs Similarly, the Rs. 45,000-crore Partial Credit Guarantee Scheme 2.0 to enable non-banking finance companies (NBFCs), housing finance companies and micro-finance institutions to undertake fresh lending to MSMEs and individuals recorded a tepid offtake between September 25 and December 4. Banks had approved purchase of loan portfolios of such entities worth Rs. 25,505 crore and purchased portfolios worth Rs. 16,401 crore by September 25. Transactions being negotiated or awaiting approval at the time were around Rs. 3,171 crore at the time. As on December 4, the portfolios approved for purchase stood at Rs. 27,794 crore, rising by just Rs. 2,289 crore. The portfolios at the negotiation/approval stage had also declined to Rs. 1,400 crore. The latest numbers, shared with Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman at a review meeting on the progress of the various elements of the Atma Nirbhar Bharat package on December 11, did not include the extent of approved portfolios purchased since the Minister’s last review meeting on the issue held on October 1. The government has now extended the time line for banks to purchase bonds or commercial papers under the scheme till December 31.
14 December 2020||Srinagar,||Amid snowfall, 51% voters turn up for polling in J&K||Though fresh snowfall worsened the cold in the Valley, 51.51% of the electorate voted in the sixth phase of the District Development Council polls in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday. “People have once again reaffirmed their faith in the democratic system by actively participating in the process under way to strengthen the same. At least 51.51% turnout was recorded in J&K, which included 68.56% turnout in the Jammu division and 31.55% turnout in the Kashmir division,” State Election Commissioner (SEC) K.K. Sharma said. Scores of booths were under snow in the upper reaches of Bandipora and Kulgam districts, which recorded 47.66% and 37.74% polling, respectively. Ganderbal recorded the highest polling at 58.45% followed by Kupwara at 51.08%, Baramulla 34.56%, Budgam 30.99% and Anantnag 24.06%. The volatile Pulwama and Shopian in south Kashmir saw lower turnout at 8.16% and 4.6%, respectively. Voters in the Jammu division were seen swarming the booths as early as 7.30 a.m. Mr. Sharma said Poonch district, which witnessed heavy shelling from Pakistan on Saturday, recorded the highest turnout of 76.78%. Rajouri followed with 74.03%, Reasi 74.02%, Udhampur 72.04%, Ramban 71.34%, Jammu 66.32% and Doda 62.93%. “The lowest turnout in Jammu division was in Kathua district which recorded 60.95%,” Mr. Sharma said.
14 December 2020||RUJANKHEDI,||Pandemic, poverty spur child marriages in Madhya Pradesh||The COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown have proved to be new drivers of child marriages in rural Madhya Pradesh, with several reports of such ceremonies from different parts of the State during the ongoing marriage season. “I am a widow and I don’t have any kind of social security. Marriage is the only safe option for my daughters,” said Bijja Bai Jatav [name changed], sitting beside a heap of mattresses and quilts piled up on a wooden bed, in front of her house in Rujankhedi village in Nasrullaganj teshsil of Sehore district. Madhya Pradesh recorded 46 child marriages between November 2019 and March 2020, a figure that jumped to 117 in just three months of the lockdown from April to June, data provided by ChildLine India, an NGO, said. According to ChildLine India, across India, 5,214 child marriages were reported in the first four months of the lockdown between March and June. ‘Worried about safety’ Back in Rujankhedi, Ms. Jatav, who was left without sources of livelihood during the prolonged lockdown, is worried about the safety of her daughters and is convinced that marrying her minor daughter would ensure the child’s well-being. The agricultural fields are not safe for teenage girls and women, Ms. Jatav said. “They [her daughters] cannot come with me to the fields where I work. We are poor and belong to a lower caste. Tell me what other option I have to protect my daughters,” asked a despairing Ms. Jatav. After finding a groom for her eldest daughter, she began the search for a suitable groom for her youngest daughter. On finding a suitable match, she hurriedly decided to marry both daughters off at the same ceremony. The economics of a joint wedding made sense. However, the district administration stepped in and stopped the December 9 ceremony. The marriage of the Jatav girls was not the only child marriage stopped in the Budhni Assembly constituency, represented by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. On December 8, the local administration stopped the marriage of a minor boy in Dabri village of the same constituency. “Due to our timely intervention, the marriage of a minor girl and boy was stopped,” Girish Chouhan, project officer, Integrated Child Development Project, Nasrullaganj, Sehore district, told The Hindu . Despite the official vigilance, child marriages remain a challenge in Madhya Pradesh. In the past few days, the local administration managed to stop the marriage of two minor girls in Morena and Ujjain and of a boy in Raisen district. “ Child marriage is still a challenge in the State. Increased economic pressures due to the pandemic has pushed parents to marry off girls early,” Lolichen P.J., Child Protection Specialist, UNICEF, Madhya Pradesh, said.
14 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||JJP should cut ties with BJP, Dushyant should resign: Cong||A day after the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) chief and Haryana Deputy Chief Minister, Dushyant Chautala, met Union Ministers over the farmers’ protest, the Congress on Sunday accused him of indulging in political “photo opportunism”. Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala, in a statement, said, “Dushyant Chautala should not hide behind the drama of holding talks with BJP leaders and Union Ministers and instead should come forward to withdraw support from the Haryana government and resign from the post of Deputy Chief Minister.” “The BJP-JJP government in Haryana adopted shameful tactics like branding the agitation being sponsored by Khalistanis-China-Pakistan to defame this agitation. Despite all those things, JJP and Dushyant Chautala are shamefully clinging to power,” Mr. Surjewala said. He said for the success of the farmers’ agitation, JJP legislators should part ways with the government. “I call upon JJP and its MLAs to immediately withdraw their support to the BJP led government leaving behind the greed for power.”
14 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Rare Myristica swamp treefrog found in Thrissur||Myristica swamp treefrog, a rare arboreal species endemic to the Western Ghats that bears the scientific name Mercurana myristicapalustris , has been recorded for the first time north of the Shencottah gap in the Vazhachal Reserve Forest in Kerala’s Thrissur district. The call of these frogs was identified during an exploration study by Sujith V. Gopalan, research scholar, University College, Thiruvananthapuram, near the road at Sukthae pocket swamp in the Vazhachal forest division in 2018. The exploration study lasted two years and the recording has been published in the December issue of Reptiles & Amphibians , an international journal dedicated to the studies of amphibians and reptiles. “It was interesting to discover a group of adult male mercurana myristicapalustris frogs calling from low perches in a swamp. Unlike the Myristica swamp treefrog found in the foothills of the Agasthyamalai, these frogs were found to be active throughout June and early July and has adapted to a non-Myristica swamp predominant with the plant polyalthia fragrans ,” says Mr. Gopalan. The frog was first spotted in 2013 in the Myristica swamps of Arippa, near the Kulathupuzha Reserve Forest, in the western foothills of Agasthyamalai, in Kollam district. The current species was spotted by Mr. Mr. Gopalan 170 km north of Arippa. Unique trait These frogs are rare and elusive for the reason that they are arboreal and active only for a few weeks during their breeding season. During this season, there is a large aggregation of males that descend from the high canopy of the trees. The males vocalise in groups from the low perches in the swamps. They exhibit unique breeding behaviour, says Mr. Gopalan. The breeding season, unlike for other frogs, starts in the pre-monsoon season (May) and ends before the monsoon becomes fully active in June. Before the end of the breeding season, the female frogs along with their male counterparts descend on the forest floor. The female digs the mud and lays eggs in shallow burrows in mud. After breeding and egg-laying, they retreat back to the high canopies of the tree and remain elusive till next breeding season. Extended distribution of such rare frogs in the Western Ghats have conservation implications and provide a suitable niche for further studies on the diverse amphibian fauna of the Ghats, says Sanil George, scientist E-II, Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology, Thiruvananthapuram, and D.A. Evans, former associate professor, University College, Thiruvananthapuram, who have co-authored the article along with Mr. Gopalan.
14 December 2020||Bengaluru,||iPhone maker assesses damage at Rs. 437 cr.||The total loss incurred by Wistron Infocomm Manufacturing (India) after thousands of workers ransacked its iPhone manufacturing factory at Narasapura industrial area, near here, on Saturday is estimated at Rs. 437.70 crore. In his complaint to the police, Prashanth T.D., administrative officer at the plant, claimed that a group of outsiders armed with iron rods and clubs forced its way into the premises around 6 a.m. and targeted the HR block first. “They breached the four main entrance gates, ransacked offices, smashed lockers and desks, and destroyed documents containing details of employees,” said a senior police officer. Once inside, they were joined by contract workers who had been demanding their wages -- overdue by three to four months, and overtime pay. “We have intensified our probe to identify the ring leaders of the armed mob, based on the complaint filed by Wistron,” the police officer added. Security guards tried to stop them, but were allegedly overpowered and beaten. By then a contingent of police arrived on the scene, but were overwhelmed by thousands of other workers. Four cars and two golf carts, valued at around Rs. 60 lakh, parked on the premises were set on fire before an additional police contingent reached the spot. According to the police FIR, after ransacking the offices the workers moved to the production unit where phones belonging to the employees and kept in lockers, along with other valuables, were looted. They allegedly smashed the computers, printers and CCTVs as well as thousands of smartphones that were getting ready for production. Equipment, including production machinery, phones, laptops, etc. worth Rs. 412 crore were lost as the protesters went on a rampage. The damage to factory premises itself, including floors, ceilings, and AC power units, was estimated around Rs. 10 crore.  128 people arrested As of Sunday, the police had arrested around 128 people who participated in the violent protest. “We have had information on the people who instigated the attack . They are on the run and efforts are on to track them down,” the senior police officer added. Another 300 people have been detained for questioning.
14 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Will observe fast in solidarity with farmers, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said he would observe a day-long fast in solidarity with the demands being made by farmers across the country. Mr. Kejriwal also hit out at BJP leaders for defaming the protesting farmers by calling them anti-national. In a press statement, Mr. Kejriwal said, “The farmers have appealed to the people to fast for a day in their support, I will also fast tomorrow in support of our farmers. I want to appeal to the supporters and volunteers of AAP to also fast in support of the farmers.” He added that lakhs of people who were with the farmers and could not reach the borders because of their day-to-day schedule but were supporting the farmers should also observe a fast for a day to support the demands of the farmers. The Chief Minister said the attacks by BJP leaders against the farmers by calling them anti-national was similar to the way the Congress attacked the India Against Corruption Movement. “I could not help but reminisce the days of Anna Hazare Ji’s movement...” he said.
14 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Connectivity, infrastructure key points in Modi-Hasina summit||Connectivity projects, including the resurrection of the 12-km Chilahati-Haldibari rail link after 55 years, will be highlighted when Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina hold a virtual bilateral summit on December 17, officials in Dhaka and Delhi said. The meeting will also seek to restore the ‘momentum’ in ties, an official said, at the end of a year in which the pandemic and political differences over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) meant that several high-level visits, including Mr. Modi’s proposed visit to Dhaka in March, were put off. Bangladesh’s Foreign Minister A.K. Abdul Memon said the “major issues”, including the water sharing agreement for the Teesta and at least six other rivers, as well as continued reports of killings of its nationals at the border, would also be raised by Ms. Hasina. “Discussion regarding Teesta water sharing had ended long ago. Only the signing is remaining. We will urge India to sign the Teesta agreement fast,” Mr. Memon said, referring to the negotiations completed in 2011. However, the deal was opposed by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and could never be concluded. The two countries have also had talks on water sharing for other peninsular rivers, including the Monu, Muhuri, Khowai, Gomti, Dharla and Dudhkumar. The Chilahati-Haldibari rail link, a British-era line, was abandoned after the India-Pakistan war in 1965 (when Bangladesh was East Pakistan), and will be the fifth rail route connecting Bangladesh with Bengal. A sixth line, from Dhaka to Siliguri, is expected to be flagged off on Bangladesh’s 50th Independence Day on March 26, when Mr. Modi is expected to travel to Dhaka. In the run-up to the meet, India’s High Commissioner to Dhaka, Vikram Doraiswami, met PM Hasina for high-level consultations over the weekend. Officials said the list of agreements and discussions at the Thursday meeting will include more connectivity and “high-impact” infrastructure projects and a possible mechanism to oversee projects under concessional Lines of Credit of nearly $10 billion from India in 2017. Progress on a petroleum ‘friendship’ pipeline from Siliguri to Bangladesh’s Dinajpur that was agreed upon in 2018 and began construction last week, will also be discussed. An official said the meeting would also seek to set aside concerns in Bangladesh over the Modi government’s plans for a National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the CAA, which led to massive protests in Dhaka last year ahead of PM Modi’s visit there, which was subsequently cancelled.
14 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Virus RNA found in sewage samples, says ICMR study||The detection of the presence of SARS-CoV-2 RNA in sewage samples has raised the possibility of using environmental water surveillance to monitor virus activity in infected areas, researchers have said. Similar environmental surveillance for the polio virus had played a critical role in the eradication of wild polio virus globally. In their paper, titled “SARS-CoV-2 detection in sewage samples: standardisation of method and preliminary observations”, published recently in the Indian Journal of Medical Research , researchers claimed to have undertaken the study to standardise the methodology for detection of SARS-CoV-2 from sewage and explore the feasibility of establishing supplementary surveillance for COVID-19. They suggested that SARS-CoV-2 detection in waste water could be used to understand the epidemiology of COVID-19. “Decreasing concentration or absence of virus at previously SARS-CoV-2-positive sewage sampling sites may indicate successful implementation of COVID-19 control strategies and it may provide evidence of the presence or absence of SARS-CoV-2-infected populations and confirmation of COVID-19-free zones,” the study noted. The study, conducted by ICMR-National Institute of Virology, (Mumbai unit) and Division of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases, ICMR, Delhi, said the virus was also detected in stool samples of patients, indicating active infection of the gastrointestinal tract. For the study, sewage samples were collected from six sites in Mumbai.
14 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Panel to coordinate vaccine introduction||Now that the roll out of the COVID-19 vaccine is expected to happen soon, the Kerala government has issued orders setting up a State steering committee and a three-tier task force, extending up to block-level, to coordinate the vaccine introduction and guide the strategies for the implementation of a vaccination programme. The government expects that in all likelihood, the COVID-19 vaccine introduction will happen over a period of one year and that as the supplies will be limited initially, socio-demographic groups would have to be prioritised. The State steering committee and the task force have been set up to ensure a smooth introduction of the COVID-19 vaccine while ensuring minimal disruption to other routine health-care initiatives of the State. The State steering committee, chaired by the Chief Secretary, with the Principal Secretary (Health) as the convener and the Principal Secretaries of allied departments — LSGD, Urban, Revenue, National Health Mission, Social Justice, Women and Child Development, Information and Public Relations — as members, will meet once in a month. The task force will monitor the progress of the creation of the database of vaccine beneficiaries, provide guidance and fix time line for the introduction of the vaccine.
14 December 2020||KOCHI,||Jacobites try to enter churches, offer prayers||Hundreds of members of the Jacobite faction of the Malankara Syrian Church gathered in front of many churches across Kerala that had been handed over to the Orthodox faction following a Supreme Court verdict in July 2017. The Jacobite group members were attempting to enter the churches and offer Sunday prayers. Peter K. Elias, prominent lay leader of the Jacobite Church, said members of the group entered the 1,500-year-old St. John’s Church at Vadakara, near Piravom, and offered prayers despite the presence of a large number of police personnel in the church compound. He said the entry was peaceful and there were no untoward incidents. A spokesman for the Jacobite Church, who was among those who assembled in front of the St. Mary’s Church, Vadavukode, about 22 km from Kochi, said the group members had gathered outside the gates of the church even as a large posse of police personnel kept vigil. The Orthodox group held prayers and the Sunday Mass despite the threat from the Jacobite group. At St. Peter’s and St. Paul’s Church, Kolencherry, the popular pilgrim centre, there was a large gathering of Jacobite members. The members were not allowed to enter the church premises even as the Orthodox group celebrated Sunday Mass inside the church. 47 churches targeted Jacobite group members gathered in front of churches in Varikkoli, Putenkurisu, Kolencherry, Piravom and Kadamattom, among others, from about 7.30 a.m. in a bid to forcefully enter these churches. The group had targeted 47 churches, recently taken away from them by the Kerala government following the Supreme Court verdict that all the churches should be handed over to the Orthodox group.
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Agitating farmers block Jaipur highway||Addressing the farmers, Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) said farmers should stay alert and ensure that no unwanted or wrong elements got involved in the agitation. “If the Central government wants to talk and there’s any proposal for talks, we will constitute a committee, which will take a decision on it,” he said. Addressing the demonstrators on the Haryana-Rajasthan border, Ms. Patkar asked the government why minimum support price could not be guaranteed under the law. She said after the rise in prices for fertilizers and seeds, the farmers would now be burdened by increase in power tariff under the proposed law on electricity and completely ruined. “These three laws will also jeopardise food security of the common man,” said Ms. Patkar. All-India Kisan Sabha general-secretary Hannan Mollah said the farmer unions were not left with any choice but to intensify the stir after the government refused to repeal the laws. “The three black laws are anti-farmer and mere amendments won’t make them pro-farmer,” said Mr. Mollah. Around 600 police personnel, including a company of Rapid Action Force, were deployed by the Rewari Police to stop the farmers from marching towards Delhi. The police put multiple layers of barricades and boulders to block both carriageways of the highway when the farmers reached the border in the afternoon leading to long traffic snarls.  (With inputs from Vikas Vasudeva in Chandigarh)
14 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Rising COVID-19 cases at Sabarimala a concern||Notwithstanding the unprecedented measures implemented to ensure a safe visit to Sabarimala, concerns are growing that the annual Mandalam-Makaravilakku season could fuel a wider outbreak of COVID-19 in and around the hill shrine. Adding to the fears that the pilgrimage zone may witness a wider spread was the abrupt diagnosis of COVID-19 in 36 persons, including 18 policemen, among 239 persons on duty at the Sannidhanam. They tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 during an antigen testing drive held at Pampa the other day. 245 so far Of the 18,691 tests conducted in Sabarimala till December 12, a total of 245, including 79 pilgrims and 169 others tested positive. A majority of these ‘others’ were those on duty at Sannidhanam. These 169 cases were detected when only 3,353 samples were tested. According to health officials, all the persons who tested positive were immediately brought down to Nilackal and shifted to treatment centres. But at the same time, most of their primary contacts, who are asymptomatic, have been allowed to stay back for want of sufficient replacements. “Even if an employee joins the duty with a certificate testing negative for COVID-19 and is provided all precautionary gadgets, including face mask and PPE kit while on duty, the norms of physical distancing often go for a toss while off the duty. Ideally, all primary contacts of a patient should be send back irrespective of whether they are symptomatic and asymptomatic and subject them to antigen testing,” pointed out a senior official with the State Health Department. Taking a serious note of the situation, the Health Department is also considering the options of suspending the pilgrimage after the first 41 days and reopening the temple only on the Makaravilakku day. Like in Guruvayur “If viewed purely on the aspect of public health, closing down the temple as in the case of the Guruvayur temple is the only effective option for containment. But the 41-day Mandala season still has a couple of weeks to complete and it is during this period that some key rituals, including the procession of Thanka Anki, take place,” the official added. Under control: TDB The Travancore Devaswom Board, however, said the situation was well under control though a close watch was being done on the developments in the pilgrimage zone. “Despite the mobility factor, the spread among the pilgrims has been far lesser than expected though it has been a bit different for the employees, who share common amenities at Sannidhanam. Almost all who are staying in and around the temple have been subjected to testing by now and barring a few isolated cases, no serious risks are in sight,” said N. Vasu, president, TDB.  The pilgrimage zone may witness a wider spread was the abrupt diagnosis of COVID-19 in 36 persons, including 18 policemen on duty at the Sannidhanam
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. court rejects bail plea of Tahawwur Rana||His first bail plea was rejected in July. He then moved a motion for his release on August 11, offering to the court six pieces of real property owned by family and friends, having in excess of $1.5 million in equity, $18,000 from family members and unjustified affidavits of surety totalling $140,000 from multiple family members as a condition to grant him bail. The court also rejected that Rana’s mother-in-law Mushraf Jahan could be appointed a co-custodian. “Second, the Extraditee proposes a new third party custodian — his mother-in-law, Mushraf Jahan — who is willing to serve as a co-third party custodian along with the Extraditee’s daughter…..While the Court appreciates the sacrifice that Ms. Jahan has expressed a willingness to make, the Court is not persuaded that she — individually or in combination with her granddaughter — could ensure the Extraditee’s compliance with conditions of release/otherwise adequately fulfil the responsibilities of a third party custodian,” the court said. The court was informed that Jahan, 79, was currently in Pakistan as she was unable to return due to the pandemic. The Pakistani-Canadian citizen who was arrested in 2009 has challenged the extradition and filed a plea against it in the U.S court on November 25. He was convicted for providing material support to the LeT in 2013. Unlike another prime accused David Coleman Headley, Rana did not enter into a plea bargain with the U.S. and he was placed under “provisional arrest” after he walked out of prison in June as the jail term that was to end in September 2021 was commuted.
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Now, explore Kaziranga on boats and bicycles||Burachapori and the adjoining Laokhowa Wildlife Sanctuary are part of the Kaziranga landscape. The Laokhowa-Burachapori activities, including camping, have attracted more than 3,000 visitors in a month compared to a solitary tourist during 2009-10. If boating is the buzzword for the northern fringe of Kaziranga, the focus of eco-tourism promotion in the southern additions is on trekking and cycling. Two trekking trails — the 5-km Natundanga-Baneshwar and the 3-km Chirang, both under Burapahar range — are being managed by development societies of the villages concerned. They run home-stays and ethnic food centres too. A third trail at Silimkhowa bordering Karbi Anglong district is also in the offing, park officials said. “We have also identified a couple of cycling tracks. One that can be extended to 10 km has a natural rock garden spread over 2 hectares,” Mr. Sivakumar said. The objective of the new activities was to generate as much revenue to take care of the rhino habitat and the communities dependent on the health of the park, he said.
14 December 2020||Srinagar,||Campaign boat capsizes||One of the boats hired for a poll rally of the BJP, carrying the party’s supporters and some mediapersons, capsized in the Dal lake in Srinagar on Sunday. All on board were rescued in the nick of time. The rally was being led by Union Minister Anurag Thakur, the party in-charge for the District Development Council polls. A BJP leader said one of the shikaras hired for a poll rally sank near Ghat No. 17 near an island destination of Chaar Chinari. Due to the icy waters, those rescued were taken for a check-up.
14 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||India’s cases per million among lowest in world||India reported one of the lowest COVID-19 cases per million population in the world (158) in the past seven days, as per the data released by the Health Ministry on Sunday. This was much lower than many countries in the Western Hemisphere, it noted. While 30,254 persons tested positive in the past 24 hours, 33,136 new recoveries were registered during the same period. This has led to a net decline of 3,273 cases from the active caseload in a day. “The recovered cases stand at 93,57,464 currently and the gap between recovered cases and active cases is steadily increasing and it has crossed 90 lakh (90,00,918). The recovery rate has improved to touch 95% (94.93%).’’ Kerala leads with 5,268 persons recovering from COVID-19, while Maharashtra recorded 3,949 recoveries and Delhi 3,191. Also 76% of the new cases were reported from 10 States/UTs, with Kerala reporting 5,949 cases in the past 24 hours. Maharashtra registered 4,259 while West Bengal recorded 1,935. The Ministry said 391 fatalities were reported in the past 24 hours, with 79.28% of them being from Maharashtra (80). Delhi saw 47 deaths, followed by West Bengal (44).
14 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. officials deny woman suffered miscarriage||A 22-year-old Hindu woman whose husband, a Muslim man, was arrested by the Moradabad police last week under the new unlawful conversion ordinance, was admitted to a hospital for a second time after complaining of abdomen pain on Sunday afternoon, an official said. The woman, identified as Pinki, who was lodged at the Nari Niketan centre, a government women’s shelter home, is three months pregnant. Earlier in the day, Moradabad district probation officer Rajesh Chandra Gupta denied reports in British newspaper The Telegraph quoting Ms. Pinki’s in-laws as saying that she was forced into a miscarriage. Mr. Gupta told The Hindu that the woman had complained of abdominal pain two days ago and was admitted to the District Women’s Hospital. “On December 13 at 11:05 a.m., she was discharged from hospital. [She is] in full normal health. Her pregnancy is intact,” Mr. Gupta said. All reports of the woman having a miscarriage “are fake”. Confirming that Ms. Pinki had been readmitted to hospital, Mr. Gupta, however, claimed that she had received treatment and was “normal”. Her husband, identified as Rashid, and his brother were arrested under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 on December 5.
14 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. not tracking virus cases properly, says HC||Expressing dissatisfaction over the Uttar Pradesh government’s efforts in tracking COVID-19 cases, the Allahabad High Court has asked the police administration in four major cities to submit the names of the police personnel they claim to have deployed every 2 km. “We find that tracking is not being done properly,” the court said. In Lucknow, Gautambudh Nagar, Ghaziabad and Meerut, the number of infected persons should be coming down but this could happen only if proper tracking took place, the court said. In an order dated December 10, a Division Bench of Justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar asked the police administration in these cities to name the police personnel deployed. The administration submitted that two police personnel were deployed every 2 km of all roads. But the court noted that no names of the police personnel had been provided. The court said as per the affidavits submitted by the District Magistrate, Lucknow, it appeared that almost 300 odd people were getting infected every day in Lucknow.“Though we appreciate the sincere efforts of the police administration, we find a lot more is needed to be done and it cannot be said things are under control.” Efforts should be made for restricting the infection, the judges said, adding that proper policing is required for 100% mask use.
14 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||BJP ties up with UPPL to form Bodoland council||The BJP will be part of a three-party alliance that will rule the autonomous Bodoland Territorial Council. The alliance will be led by the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL), whose president Pramod Boro has been named the next chief executive member of the council. The third entity is the Gana Suraksha Party (GSP), headed by Independent Lok Sabha member Naba Kumar Sarnia, a former leader of the extremist United Liberation Front of Asom. The UPPL won 12 seats, the BJP nine and the GSP one. Together, they have 22 members, one more than the majority mark in the 40-member council. The Bodoland People’s Front (BPF), a long-time rival of the UPPL, ruled the BTC for 17 years until it was dissolved this year. Led by Hagrama Mohilary, the BPF managed 17 seats this time. BJP president J.P. Nadda and Union Minister Prakash Javadekar congratulated the new alliance. Mr. Nadda said the results showed that people had faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership. Mr. Javadekar said it showed that the Congress had become “irrelevant”.
14 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘No compromise on trials’||Clinical scientist Gagandeep Kang said though COVID-19 vaccines were being developed in a short period of time, there had been absolutely no compromise in their clinical testing. “I think it is very important to understand that there has been absolutely no compromise. The only thing that we do not have from these trials, that we might have had otherwise, is the duration of safety follow-up. Generally, we follow up on trials for six months or one year, and generally, we do not find anything extra in the six months or one year.”
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Every bit is valuable||The paths of karma, jnana and bhakti explained in detail by Krishna as the principal means to attain oneness with God, are also shown to be not mutually exclusive. In fact they blend with one another in a harmonious manner to make each one’s spiritual sadana efficacious in its own way, pointed out Swami Omkarananda in a discourse. While speaking of dhyana yoga, for instance, Krishna says that it is through karma yoga that one can enter it. Karma yoga has its own benefits. In it is built the necessary quality for renunciation. It demands that one gets involved in karma or the performance of one’s ordained duties and actions in a selfless manner. This means that one gives up any desire for the fruits of all acts one does. By gaining perfection in karma yoga, by ‘abhyasa,’ practice, one becomes eligible for dhyana yoga. How is one to know that he has perfected karma yoga? When one’s mind is freed of all impurities, is the Lord’s answer. The touchstone for success and efficacy of the practice is ‘vairagya,’ renunciation of one’s desires for worldly objects and sense objects. All sadana is thus centred in the mind. Self confidence and self effort are the watchwords to guide the aspirant and gradually to free the mind of all impurities. Once desires are absent, karma becomes dormant. For the aspirant who becomes adept at dhyana yoga, automatically the hold on karma falls away. Then one’s focus becomes the single minded quest for the realisation of the self and God. One more invaluable message given in the Gita is the truth that though the path to salvation is arduous and attained through many births, there is no break in individual spiritual effort. Nor can it go waste at any point of time. Every bit of spiritual sadana by each one gets credited to one’s account as a matter of routine.
14 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Withdraw plea on water use, Centre tells Telangana||Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has stated that the Centre would consider referring the matter for re-allocation of Krishna waters between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh either to a new tribunal or to the existing Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal-II headed by Justice Brijesh Kumar after withdrawal of the petition in the Supreme Court by Telangana. In a detailed letter written to Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on December 12, Mr. Shekhawat said the MoJS would consider the matter of referring the issue under Section 3 of the Inter State River Waters Disputes Act only after withdrawal of petition by Telangana and after obtaining legal opinion. Written to AP He mentioned that he had already written to AP asking it not to go ahead with Pothireddypadu Head Regulator expansion and Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme until their detailed project reports are appraised by the Krishna River Management Board and Central Water Commission. Mr. Shekhawat has also drawn the attention of Mr. Rao to the decision taken at the second meeting of the Apex Council on October 6 that DPRs of all new projects including Pothireddypadu expansion and Rayalaseema LIS be submitted by the two States to the KRMB. Legitimate rights He reiterated the Centre’s cooperation in resolving the water sharing and utilisation issues between AP and Telangana, suggesting the two move forward on all the decisions taken at the second meeting of Apex Council so as to ensure that the legitimate water rights of both the States are realised at the earliest. In case of Godavari water, he made it clear that the Centre would take a positive decision on the allocation of water shares by referring the matter to a new tribunal under Section 3 of the ISRWD Act after receiving requests from the two States since they have agreed at the second meeting of the Apex Council to send requests.  Godavari waters On the objections raised by AP about the ongoing projects on Godavari in Telangana, the Union Minister reiterated the Ministry’s stand, also mentioned in the August 7 letter to Mr. Rao, asking Telangana not to proceed with third TMC ft component works of Kaleshwaram lift project, Sitarama lift, Godavari lift (Devadula) Phase-3, Tupakulagudem lift, Telangana Drinking Water Supply Project, Barrages on Lower Penganga and diversion of water from Ramappa Lake to Pakhal Lake until the mandatory appraisal is done by GRMB.
14 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Registration in TS from today||Registration of non-agricultural properties, suspended since September 7, is all set to start from Monday. The State government introduced slot booking mechanism for registration of non-agricultural lands from Friday following the directions of the High Court that registration process could be taken up using the old procedure. The slot booking process received enthusiastic response with 48 clots booked on the first day and Rs. 1 crore remitted towards applicable fee and duties. According to officials, 10,509 persons registered on the system till Saturday evening and more than 620 slots were under booking, fetching the ex-chequer a little over Rs. 32 crore. Slot booking services are made available for seven major transactions and services in respect of 16 other transactions are likely to be launched within two days.
14 December 2020||Srinagar,||2 militants killed, one held in Poonch||Two non-local militants who had recently infiltrated into the country were killed and a local militant was arrested on Sunday during an encounter at a village on Mughal Road, a highway connecting Poonch in the Pir Panjal valley with Shopian in south Kashmir. “Two unidentified non-local terrorists were killed and one local militant from Shopian was arrested, who is being questioned. They were offered the option to surrender, which they refused. In the operation, the duo was neutralised,” Director-General of Police Dilbag Singh said. The encounter was triggered after the vehicle the militants were travelling in headed towards the Poshana area of Poonch, on the Poonch-Shopian highway, due to fresh snowfall in the past 24 hours. “The infiltrators were received by the local militant and were heading towards Shopian. Due to the snowfall, they got stranded and were trapped in a village,” the DGP said, adding that the two militants were in touch with their handlers in Pakistan.
14 December 2020||New Delhi,||Isolate those who prop up terrorism: V-P||State and non-State actors who prop up terrorism as an instrument of State policy should be isolated by the global community, Vice-President (V-P) Venkaiah Naidu said on the anniversary of the attack on Parliament. India has been piloting the proposal for adoption of a UN Convention against Terrorism. Without naming any country, Mr. Naidu said, “....There are some who are oblivious to the larger threats of #terrorism out of narrow geo-political and economic considerations. They should realise that in the end, everybody will end up a loser if the menace of terror is not rolled back through a united effort.”
14 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SJM alleges ‘nexus’ in retail trade||The Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM) on Sunday demanded that the government not allow a “nexus” of multinational companies and large Indian business houses such as Reliance Industries to dominate the retail industry in the country as it would lead to the exploitation of farmers, kirana store owners, wholesalers and even consumers. Calling for amendments to the Foreign Direct Investment norms in multi-brand retail to block what it termed as “cunning deals” to circumvent extant restrictions in the policy, the Manch, an affiliate of the RSS, said the government’s response to its repeated complaints about foreign firms violating norms “is not at desirable level”. In a resolution passed on Sunday, the SJM also expressed concerns about the amendments to the Essential Commodities Act to lift storage quantity restrictions on all farm products for exporters, super markets and large wholesalers. Stressing that retail is one of the largest employment generating sectors in the country, the resolution said that the “nexus of MNCs and Indian business should not be allowed to operate in India”. The resolution repeatedly referred to the Reliance Industries’ foray into the retail sector and warned that local kirana stores would be transformed into fulfilment centres for Jio Mart and wholesalers converted to warehousing lots for JioMart and Reliance Retail. ‘Monopolistic situation’ Referring to Reliance Retail’s acquisition of Future Group’s retail business and e-pharmacy NetMeds, the resolution stated that chemists will also need to compete with online vendors. “It is suspected that more than 38% of retail market shall be with Reliance Industries Ltd. alone. These developments would result in monopolistic situation where a single party shall not only be able to exploit suppliers and farmers by making purchases at cheaper rates but would also be able to exploit the consumers by offering goods at higher prices in the absence of competition in the market,” the SJM noted.
14 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Orthodox Church flays bid to ‘trigger violence’||The Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church (MOSC) on Sunday flayed the alleged attempts by the Jacobite faction to trigger violence in the Orthodox churches. In a statement, MOSC Association secretary Biju Oommen said the Orthodox Church would welcome all devotees coming for worship. However, converting the right to worship into a mode of protest stood in contravention to the Christian testimony. “The public has recognised the double standards involved in demanding for peace talks and resorting to violence at the same time. Peace will come only if we are willing to obey the law,” he said. According to him, the Jacobite faction was attempting to seize the churches and close the shrines through the creation of law-and-order situations. “The attempt to sabotage the order issued by the country’s apex court amounts to violation of democracy,” he added.
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Many villages in Karnataka to boycott polls||Residents of many villages that fall in the ecologically sensitive area, as identified by the K. Kasturirangan report on the Western Ghats, have decided to boycott the gram panchayat elections this month opposing the implementation of the report’s recommendations. As the filing of nomination papers ended on Friday, nobody filed papers for 26 seats of Hettur, Hongadahalla, and Heggadde panchayats in Sakleshpur taluk. Karnataka Growers’ Federation (KGF), an umbrella organisation for growers in Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, and Kodagu districts, has given a call to the people to boycott the elections. So far, people in 14 gram panchayats have responded to the call in Hassan and Chikkamagaluru, according to KGF. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Ministry of Environment and Forests to notify the eco-sensitive area identified by the Kasturirangan report by the end of this month. The report has identified 20,668 sq.km, spread over 1,576 villages of 10 districts in Karnataka, as eco-sensitive. The residents of the villages are worried that if the final notification is issued, they will face many restrictions on farming and infrastructural development. Representatives of KGF have held meetings with villagers and political party workers to ensure more panchayats boycott the elections. H.T. Mohan Kumar, president of KGF, told The Hindu, “We have given a call to the people to boycott the elections to exert pressure on the State and Union governments. Many have responded positively. Meanwhile, we have also met the Chief Minister, the Speaker, and senior officers of the State government, requesting them to file an affidavit before the NGT seeking more time to respond.” Agitation planned A committee to oppose the implementation of the report has been created in Chikkamagaluru district. It plans to hold an agitation in Chikkamagaluru town on Tuesday. In Khandya hobli of Chikkamagaluru taluk, no one has filed nomination papers for the GP elections. A team of people, committed to the boycott decision, have been camping throughout the day in front of the panchayat offices to ensure no one violates the boycott. In Sakleshpur taluk of Hassan, the people of Hettur, Hebbasale, Heggadde have announced boycott of the election. “The people in the eco-sensitive area and those close to it will suffer if the report is implemented as it is. The farmers will not be allowed to use chemicals in farming and cement in constructions. Such restrictions will force people to move out of the area in the long run, though the report does not talk of evicting people,” said Prasad Rakshidi, a resident of Rakshidi in Sakleshpur taluk. The issue came up for discussion at the recently concluded Legislative Assembly session as well. Legislators Sunil Kumar, Araga Jnanendra, M.P. Kumaraswamy and others urged the State government to follow the Kerala model to handle the issue. The Kasturirangan committee identified the sensitive area based on an aerial survey. The Kerala government did a ground survey and submitted an affidavit before the NGT, thereby reducing the extent of sensitive area. A similar exercise should be taken up in Karnataka, they said.
14 December 2020||Bengaluru,||DKS meets Ibrahim to keep in him Congress||In the midst of attempts by the Janata Dal (S) to poach disgruntled MLC and Congress leader C.M. Ibrahim, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar met Mr. Ibrahim on Saturday night to convince him to stay with the party. The meeting, which lasted nearly two hours, followed a meeting of the Congress legislator with former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy nearly a week ago. The KPCC chief is learnt to have requested the legislator not to leave the party in haste and also promised to resolve his issues. “We know that Mr. Kumaraswamy, while inviting Mr. Ibrahim to rejoin the JD(S), promised to provide a respectable post, which could be even that of JD(S) State unit president,” a senior Congress leader told The Hindu . The leader, however, was not sure if Mr. Ibrahim would go back to the JD(S) after resigning as MLC. Mr. Ibrahim, elected to the Council from the Legislative Assembly in 2018, has a term running till June 2024. A former Union Civil Aviation Minister in H.D. Deve Gowda’s Cabinet in 1996, Mr. Ibrahim joined the Congress after falling out with Mr. Gowda. Though he remained less active politically since 2004, he formally joined the Congress in 2008 after former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah also joined the party in 2006. While he was seen in the inner circle of Mr. Siddaramaiah for long, he has been sulking in recent times. Mr. Ibrahim was keen to be appointed as Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council, but the party considered S.R. Patil for the post in December 2018, sources said. He has been inactive in party activities of late. “An orator, who could make a serious situation lively with his banter, has been missing from poll campaigns also. Mr. Ibrahim does not have a good equation with Mr. Siddaramaiah now,” a source pointed out. The JD(S), meanwhile, is keen to have a Muslim face since the top leaders believe that Muslim voters across the State have deserted them. The JD(S) believes that it lost out on Muslim votes in 2018 after Mr. Siddaramaiah called the regional party the BJP’s “B-team”. There have been attempts to woo Muslim leaders to the party fold since.
14 December 2020||Guwahati,||Assam cabinet approves proposal to close down govt-run||The Assam Cabinet on Sunday approved a proposal to close down all government-run madrasas and Sanskrit tols (schools). A Bill in this regard will be tabled during the upcoming winter session of the Assembly, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Chandra Mohan Patowary said. “Existing laws related to madrasas and Sanskrit tols will be repealed. A Bill will be introduced in the next session of the Assembly,” Mr. Patowary, who is also the spokesperson of the Assam government, said. The winter session of the Assembly will begin from December 28.PTI
14 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||RRB set to hold CBTs||Railway Recruitment Board (RRB)-Secunderabad has made all arrangements to conduct computer-based tests (CBTs) for 6,138 candidates who have applied for various posts notified. In the first phase of schedule from December 15-18, exams will be held for 95 posts of ministerial and isolated categories in 18 centres spread over Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Candidates can download their call letter from the official website of RRB. In second phase, the CBT for Non-Technical Popular Categories (NTPC), 11,38,619 applications have been received by RRB, against 3,234 vacancies notified. CBT exams for these NTPC categories are scheduled from December 28 onwards and may extend up to March-end planned in 133 centres located in the Telugu States. Relevant protocols and guidelines will be strictly complied with for the safety of candidates and other personnel involved in the conduct of CBT during COVID-19 scenario. The third phase of CBT for Level-1 posts will be held tentatively April onwards till June-end, 2021, informed an official spokesperson on Saturday. Indian Railways, through its 21 RRBs, is organising the mega recruitment drive for filling up about 1.4 lakh vacancies in which more than 2.44 crore candidates will be appearing in different cities across the country. Social distancing, compulsory use of masks, sanitisers and curtailing shifts for conducting exams to only two shifts per day are being taken up. Efforts are being made to ensure that as far as possible the candidates are accommodated in their own State so that they can reach their exam centres by undertaking overnight journeys. Same goes for female and PWD candidates. Special exam trains will be run to cater to travel requirements of the candidates, wherever required and feasible.
14 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab’s DIG (prisons) backs farmers, quits service||A senior Punjab Police officer has tendered his resignation to support the agitating farmers who are demanding a rollback of the three recent farm sector laws. Punjab Deputy Inspector-General (Prisons) Lakhminder Singh Jakhar on Sunday told presspersons that he had resigned in support of farmers. The government is yet to accept the resignation. Mr. Jakhar, 56, said he could not support a protest while on duty and therefore, had decided to quit. Mr. Jakhar was suspended in May on corruption charges. He was reinstated two months ago.
14 December 2020||Kolkata,||Deploy Central forces in West Bengal, says BJP||Citing violence and death of political activists in West Bengal, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday demanded immediate deployment of Central forces in the poll-bound State. Meanwhile, three people were arrested in connection with the murder of a BJP functionary at Halisahar. “Mamata ji is losing ground in the State but she wants to hold on to power by resorting to violence. We will appeal to the Election Commission for immediate deployment of Central forces in the State,” BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said. The remarks by the BJP leader come a day after the murder of the party worker, Saikat Bhawal, at Halisahar in North 24 Parganas district. He was killed allegedly by Trinamool Congress (TMC) supporters on Saturday evening while participating in a Griha Sampark Abhiyaan (door-to-door campaign) of the party. Tension at Halisahar During the day, tension gripped Halisahar when the body of Bhawal was taken to his residence. BJP supporters got into a scuffle with the police at the local station. A number of BJP leaders, including Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh, were present at the slain party worker’s residence when the body was brought from the hospital. West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said Bhawal was beaten to death on the streets for participating in a political activity. Later in the evening, the State BJP leadership claimed that another party worker, Sukdeb Pramanik, from Katwa was “brutally murdered by TMC goons”. “Two BJP workers murdered in less than 24 hours! Clearly indicates Pishi’s desperation to retain power but she is bound to fail! People have decided to restore the peace in Bengal and uproot TMC in 2021,” the State unit of the BJP tweeted. ‘Violence imported’ The Trinamool Congress leadership on the other hand claimed that the violence was something that had been imported to the State. “We are not doing any violence. Ours is a party based on Gandhian values. Violence is prevalent in the State from where Mr. Vijayvargiya hails from. Violence is something which is prevalent in Gujarat,” State minister and senior Trinamool leader Firhad Hakim said. In another development, Trinamool secretary general Partha Chatterjee held a meeting with State Forest Minister Rajib Banerjee, who has been publicly raising issues such as favouritism within the party. After the meeting, Mr. Banerjee said that he spoke to Mr. Chatterjee about his differences with the party leadership and added that he would meet him again if invited. Leader expelled The Trinamool Congress on Sunday also expelled Kanishka Panda, a leader from Purba Medinipur district, who is considered close to dissident Trinamool leader Suvendu Adhikari. Mr. Panda had been targeting the party leadership, particularly Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, over the past few days. Mr. Panda said that he felt relieved after his expulsion. “Now the people will realise who the bigger leader is: Mr. Adhikari or Ms. Banerjee,” he added.
14 December 2020||New Delhi,||If agitators are Khalistanis why is govt. talking to them, asks Chidambaram||Taking a dig at the Modi government, senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram said that if those agitating at the Singhu border are either Khalistani or Maoist, as per the labels distributed by the government, then why is it negotiating with them. “Ministers have described the protesters against the Farm Laws as Khalistanis; agents of Pakistan and China; Maoists; and, the latest, tukde tukde gang,” Mr. Chidambaram tweeted.
14 December 2020||Washington,||Khalistan supporters vandalise Mahatma’s statue in U.S.||A violent group of Khalistani separatists desecrated Mahatma Gandhi’s statue outside the Indian embassy here during a demonstration by Sikh-American youth in support of farmers protesting against the recently enacted agriculture laws. Hundreds of Sikhs from in and around Greater Washington DC area, Maryland and Virginia, along with many from other States on Saturday took out a car rally to the embassy in downtown Washington DC, where they gathered to express solidarity with the farmers.PTI
14 December 2020||New Delhi,||BJP chief tests positive for COVID-19||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Sunday tweeted he had tested positive for COVID-19 and was under home isolation on the advice of doctors. He asked those who had been in contact with him in the past few days to get checked.
14 December 2020||Mumbai,||RTGS service to be available 24x7 from today||The Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) facility for high-value transactions will become available round-the-clock from 12.30 a.m. on Monday. “RTGS facility becomes operational 24x7 from 12.30 a.m. tonight. Congratulations to the teams of RBI & IFTAS and service partners who made this possible,” RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das tweeted. It is part of the RBI’s plans to push digital payments.
14 December 2020||Mumbai,||Republic Media Network’s CEO arrested||The Mumbai police arrested Republic Media Network’s chief executive officer Vikas Khanchandani on Sunday in connection with the alleged TRP (Television Rating Points) rigging scam. He was arrested from his residence here by the Crime Intelligence Unit, an official said. The police have arrested a total of 13 persons in the case so far.
14 December 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||2 Maoists killed in Odisha||BHUBANESWAR Two cadre of the outlawed CPI (Maoist) were killed in an exchange of fire with security forces in Swabhiman Anchal in Odisha’s Malkangiri district early on Sunday. The exchange of fire took place near Singharam village, close to Alampakka, where 39 security personnel were killed in an ambush in 2008.
14 December 2020||Thane,||2 dead as BJP MLA’s car hits two-wheeler in Thane||Two people were killed at Kalyan in Maharashtra’s Thane district on Sunday after their two-wheeler was hit by a car in which Murbad BJP MLA Kisan Kathore was travelling, police said. The accident occurred near Vahuli village on Rayate-Ambernath Road around 8 p.m., in which the MLA and his bodyguard received injuries, a Kalyan taluka police official said. A man and a woman were killed in the accident. Officials have rushed to the spot.PTI
14 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||JJP should cut ties with BJP, says Congress||A day after the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) chief and Haryana Deputy Chief Minister, Dushyant Chautala, met Union Ministers over the farmers’ protest, the Congress on Sunday accused him of indulging in political “photo opportunism”. Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said, “Dushyant Chautala should not hide behind the drama of holding talks with BJP leaders and Union Ministers and instead should come forward to withdraw support from the Haryana government and resign from the post of Deputy Chief Minister.”
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After being closed since March, beaches to be reopened today||The city’s iconic Marina Beach and other beaches dotting the East Coast are set to reopen on Monday, having been closed since the last week of March when the COVID-19 lockdown was announced. The police and the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) have put in place measures to ensure the COVID-19 safety protocol is followed. At 3 p.m. on March 21, all beaches in the city, including the Marina, Thiruvanmiyur, Palavakkam and Elliot’s Beach, were shut by the GCC, which said entry would be stopped until further orders. This decision was taken for public safety, as many people used to visit these beaches every day for fitness and leisure. While all other restrictions were relaxed gradually, the bar on the entry to beaches was not lifted. Fitness enthusiasts often breached the restriction. On public demand, the government decided to reopen the beaches. The GCC will resume the initiatives for maintenance of the Marina and other beaches on Monday. Civic officials said they would increase the number of workers and machines for improving garbage clearance. The civic body is planning to take steps to reduce the number of vendors on Marina beach to 900, based on a court order, said an official. Before the lockdown was announced, the civic body had identified 1,700 hawkers on the beach. The number is expected to come down because many hawkers had migrated during the pandemic, officials said. During the lockdown, just one machine was used to clean the sands of the Marina. The number is expected to increase to six. The civic body had announced the procurement of six machines before the pandemic. The number of visitors to beaches in Chennai is estimated at one lakh a day. Fewer visitors are expected on Monday owing to the pandemic, officials said. During the festival season, garbage collection was more than 25 tonnes on Chennai’s beaches. The work on the development of a parking management system will resume along the Marina. A senior police officer said, “We are bringing the beach back to normal. In the morning and evening hours, mounted police will patrol the Marina. Gypsy patrol vehicles will be stationed at important junctions — Vivekananda House, Kannagi Statue, the Lighthouse and Labour Statue. Personnel on beach buggies will be deployed on the sands.” The police are planning to conduct awareness campaigns using the public address system and other modes.
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. continues to see dip in cases||Fresh infections dropped under 1,200 on Sunday, as 1,195 more persons tested positive for COVID-19, taking the State’s tally closer to the eight lakh-mark. Chennai continued to top the table with 340 new cases, followed by Coimbatore with 115. Tiruvallur reported 70 cases, while there were 66 each in Chengalpattu and Salem and 62 in Tiruppur. Except Perambalur that recorded no new cases, the remaining districts recorded under 50 cases each. Four returnees from Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Karnataka tested positive for the infection in the State. With this, the State’s tally touched 7,98,888. The number of persons under treatment stood at 10,115. Of these, 3,188 are in Chennai, 1,007 in Coimbatore, 533 in Salem and 521 in Tiruppur. While 1,276 persons were discharged after treatment, 12 more persons succumbed to the infection, taking the total number of discharged persons to 7,76,878 and the State’s toll to 11,895. Chennai reported eight deaths, while Chengalpattu, Tenkasi, Theni and Tiruppur saw one each. Ten of the deceased had co-morbidities. Among them was a 45-year-old man from Chennai who had systemic hypertension and chronic kidney disease. He was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of fever and loss of appetite for seven days, cough for 14 days and difficulty in breathing for two days. He died on December 12 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome, multiple organ dysfunction syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. A total of 69,568 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Till date, 1,29,56,605 samples have been tested. Three more private laboratories — Deepaa Micro Lab, in Erode; Krishna College of Paramedical and Allied Health Science in Tiruchi, and Nanolab Diagnostic and Biomedical Research Centre in Karur — were approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, there are now a total of 67 laboratories in the government sector and 164 in the private sector.  The number of persons under treatment stood at 10,115. Of these, 3,188 are in Chennai, 1,007 in Coimbatore, 533 in Salem and 521 in Tiruppur
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Administrative reasons’ can’t justify transfer: HC||Higher government officials can no longer take shelter under the expression ‘administrative reasons’ for transferring subordinates from one district to another. They have to prove the administrative exigency through sufficient material when transfer orders are attacked on the ground of malice, the Madras High Court has held. Justice V. Parthiban said the term ‘administrative reasons’ could not be taken at face value to deny relief to litigants. The verdict was passed while quashing the recent transfer order of a single mother, A. Jayachitra, from Chennai to Tiruvannamalai within one year of her transfer at request from Tirunelveli to Chennai to facilitate her daughters’ studies. In her affidavit, the petitioner claimed to be the first woman fencing coach in the State. She was appointed as a fencing coach in the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDAT) in May 2012 and was promoted as the District Sports and Youth Welfare Officer in Tirunelveli in February 2019. She was transferred to Chennai as Manager-IV, SDAT, in September 2019.  Complaint lodged In Chennai, she assisted one of her woman colleagues in lodging a sexual harassment complaint against their male colleague with the Internal Complaints Committee. This turned out to be the reason for transferring her to Tiruvannamalai in August as a manager of a women sports hostel that remained shut due to COVID-19, she said. The SDAT member secretary denied the allegation and said the transfer was necessitated to get the hostel ready before inmates start occupying it. After hearing both sides, the judge said there was something amiss with the transfer order. It raises more questions than answers and it did not appear to be in the true interest of advancement of sports administration, he added. “What goes on in the cerebral decision-making process of the authority is beyond the comprehension and discernment of any judicial mind to conclusively hold that the authority has based and founded his decision in the alleged context as asserted by the petitioner in the affidavit... Malice in fact may not have been conclusively established in this case, but malice in law appears to have actuated the present order of transfer. It is well within the power of the court to pierce the veil of the fig leaf behind the transfer order and to hold that the impugned action of the respondent authority stemmed from a colourful exercise of power,” Justice Parthiban observed.
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tension in Uthiramerur as residents refuse to hand over gold to officials||Tension prevailed in Uthiramerur town in Kancheepuram district on Sunday as residents refused to hand over to government authorities, pieces of jewellery found while digging up the Kuzhambeswarar Temple. Around 70 articles, including 23 nethi chutti , one oddiyanam , five harams and one billai, were said to have been found when an earthmover dug up the earth for laying the foundation for the temple on Saturday morning, said official sources in the Kancheepuram district administration. Work to renovate the temple with a Balalayam, where the idols are moved to another location, began on December 10. BJP Uthiramerur town president C. Premkumar said that it was a temple that had been constructed by Kulothunga Cholan II and was at least 1,300-years-old. After talks “The people are saying that since gold was dug up from the temple premises, it should belong to the temple and that the government should not take it. The temple is not under the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department,” he pointed out. It took several rounds of talks to convince the residents, including temple renovation committee members, to handover the items to a committee of officials from the Archaeology, Revenue and Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Departments. Police action They were also warned that police action would be initiated if the jewellery was not handed over to the Revenue Department. By evening, the public relented and the jewellery was moved to a sub treasury. Minister for Tamil Development K. Pandiarajan said that it was an old Pallava temple and had now been pulled down by residents to rebuild it. “I don’t think they have taken any permission from the authorities concerned. Tomorrow, a team from the State Archaeology Department will visit the town and appraise the jewellery. If they are of historical value, they would be handed over to the museum,” the Minister said.
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New system of vending on the Marina to start soon||The Greater Chennai Corporation has started receiving applications for hawking on Marina beach. Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance) Meghanatha Reddy said the last date for submissions would be December 26. Hawkers who are not residents of Chennai will not be eligible for shop allocation on Marina beach. ID proof The applications will be accepted with Aadhaar, ration card and EPIC card. Some of the existing hawkers will get space on the beach. At least 1,700 hawkers did business on the Marina beach before the lockdown. New hawkers will also be permitted to do business in the beach after the new system is put in place. The total number of hawkers has been restricted to 900, and the entire exercise will be monitored by the High Court. Hawkers will be selected by draw of lots after December 26. Applications have to be submitted to the Office of the Revenue Officer, Ripon Buildings, Greater Chennai Corporation. Hawkers will not be permitted to sell clothes, books, footwear, electrical items, electronics and other items which are not related to beaches. Fancy items, cool drinks and food business operations will be permitted on the beach after the new system is adopted. The hawkers will not be permitted to use a gas stove, generators, chairs and benches for customers. Strict guidelines Two members from the same family will not be permitted to set up shop on the beach. The certificate of vending will be cancelled in the event of violations by the vendors. The vendors will pay a rent of Rs. 1,000 to the Corporation every month and other charges determined by the Court. The Corporation may suspend vending activity during Kaanum Pongal, Republic Day and Vinayaka Chathurthi.
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Private conservancy operations to begin in Perungudi zone on December 21||The Greater Chennai Corporation will launch private conservancy operations in the Perungudi zone on December 21. At least 170 tonnes of solid waste will be collected from the zone and taken directly to the dumpyard every day. Private conservancy operator Urbaser Sumeet has completed work on hiring staff for garbage clearance in the zone. Teams led by women will be deployed in such areas. Officials said over 8,000 workers had been hired for various zones. The required number of conservancy workers was estimated at 11,000 for Teynampet, Kodambakkam, Adyar, Sholinganallur, Perungudi, Alandur and Valasaravakkam zones. The private conservancy operator is expected to deploy 500 sweepers in Perungudi. The Corporation is planning to increase the number of bins and improve mechanisation of garbage clearance in the zone. Corporation Chief Engineer N. Mahesan said ward 199 in Sholinganallur zone had been cleaned by a team of women. “Seven drivers of battery operated vehicles are women. They are dedicated. They work very hard. There are 42 sweepers in the ward. Similar teams will be formed in other zones,” he said.
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s market borrowings set to touch Rs. 60,000 crore||The Tamil Nadu government’s market borrowings are set to hit Rs. 60,000 crore so far this fiscal, with the State planning to raise Rs. 1,000 crore more this week. The State has so far borrowed Rs. 59,000 crore through the issue of bonds, known as State Development Loans (SDLs), up 43% from Rs. 41,390 crore in the comparable period last year. On December 8, it raised Rs. 2,000 crore. Tamil Nadu plans to reissue a bond with a tenure of 10 years and raise Rs. 1,000 crore on December 15 through an e-auction to be conducted by the Reserve Bank of India. Tamil Nadu has been resorting to higher market borrowings to meet the revenue shortfall due to the economic disruption caused by the lockdown imposed to curb COVID-19 and the increased expenditure on controlling the spread of the pandemic. Tamil Nadu has the second highest borrowings among the States so far this year, after Maharashtra, which has borrowed Rs. 65,000 crore. According to the provisional figures from the Comptroller and Auditor-General (CAG), the State’s fiscal deficit (the difference between the total revenue and the expenditure, excluding borrowings) stood at Rs. 34,635.78 crore as of October. The revenue deficit (the difference between the revenue receipts and the revenue expenditure) stood at Rs. 23,812.45 crore till October. A revenue deficit shows the government’s earnings are not adequate to meet its day-to-day operational expenses. With more relaxations in the lockdown, the situation may ease a little. The State’s revenue receipts stood at Rs. 83,795.57 crore as of October, while the total expenditure stood at Rs. 11,8431.35 crore, according to CAG. The CAG said some of the components like the expenditure on subsidies, salaries and wages for October were still being compiled. The weighted average cost of borrowings for Tamil Nadu increased to 6.69% in December from 5.89% in November, according to CARE Ratings. However, the borrowing cost has come down from 7% in April.
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Son seeks details of doctors, other staff after father’s death||The Tamil Nadu Information Commission has directed the State health authorities to share the expertise and other qualifications of four senior doctors and other medical staff members who treated a patient till his death at a private hospital here in 2018. Thatavarthi Venkateswaralu, of Nawabpet in Nellore district, Andhra Pradesh, wrote to the Public Information Officer, Directorate of Medical & Rural Health Services, Tamil Nadu, stating that his father Thatavarthi Srinivasalu was treated at Vijaya Health Centre from April 19 to 22, 2018. No reply received He wanted to know the registration numbers, expertise and qualifications of the doctors and nurses who treated his father, besides the attested copy of the attendance register. As no reply was received from the authorities, including the First Appellate Authority, he lodged a complaint with the Commission in November 2018. At a recent hearing held over the phone in compliance with the COVID-19 safety protocols, the Public Information Officer assured the Commission that the details would be given to the petitioner. After hearing both sides, State Information Commissioner S. Selvaraj directed the Public Information Officer to provide the information, free of cost, under Section 7(6) of the Right to Information Act, 2005. The Public Information Officer was also told to videograph the petitioner inspecting the records and documents, pertaining to his queries, and send a compliance report to the Commission. Two surgeries In a separate case, the Commission directed the Public Information Officer of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) in Chennai to disclose the details of doctors who treated K. Murugan, of Madurantakam in Kancheepuram district, who was first admitted to the Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital before being shifted to the RGGGH. In her petition, M. Janaki wanted to know why the doctors had performed surgery on her husband at the Kilpauk hospital and shifted him to the RGGGH, where another surgery was done. Calling for copies of the discharge summary, she also sought to know whether the police made inquiries with Mr. Murugan before his discharge from the hospital.
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kambarmedu, believed to be the birth place of Kambar, in neglect||Kambarmedu in Terazhunthur, near Kumbakonam, believed to be the birth place of Tamil poet Kambar, is in a state of neglect. Earlier, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) had decided to pay attention to it after photographs of the site were shared widely on social media. Though it was declared a protected site after the ASI excavated the area, there has been no further follow up. “Since we have created a separate circle in Tiruchi, we will turn our attention to the site,” said T. Arun Raj, superintending archaeologist of the Tiruchi circle. But he said there was no evidence to prove that Kambar lived there, though Therazhunthur is his birthplace. His view is also supported by noted historian Kudavasal Balasubramanian. “There is no historical or literary evidence to suggest that Kambar lived there. Traditionally, of course, it is believed that the house of Kambar stood on the site,” Mr. Balasubrmanian said. Mr. Raj said the ASI excavated the ancient mound, popularly known as Kambarmedu, in 1984, and the findings revealed that it was occupied by early Megalithic people with late Neolithic remnants, followed by the Medieval period. According to a report prepared by C.L. Suri, P.N. Babu and P.R.K. Prasad of the southern circle of the ASI, the lowest period at the site was Megalithic. “The early levels yielded black and red ware pottery and the associated red ware. Both handmade and wheel-made pottery too was encountered, along with a fragment of a Neolithic axe. A rolled handaxe was also found in the early levels,” the report said. The other notable antiquities recovered were terracotta objects, beads of semi-precious stones in large quantities, shell bangles, an iron sickle and nails. The report said the site was reoccupied after a gap. “Vestiges of the medieval period were represented by floor levels, brick walls, burnt pits and dull red ware pottery, in abundance,” it said. Other antiquities recovered from the site were terracotta objects, plumb-bob, ear ornaments, beads, pendants, hopscotches, glass and shell bangle pieces, iron objects and copper rings. The discovery of coins from the Chola period, along with semi-precious stones like coral, carnelian, agate and steate, make people believe that Kambar lived on the site. Asked about the belief that Kambar used newly-made clay pots, every day, and discarded them after cooking, resulting in the creation of a mound, Mr. Balasubramanian said it was an apocryphal story. There is already a manimandapam for Kambar, in Therazhunthur, in Mayiladuthurai district.  There is no historical or literary evidence to suggest that Kambar lived there. Traditionally, of course, it is believed that the house of Kambar stood on the site Kudavasal Balasubramanian Historian
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||420-year-old granary gets a facelift||The Department of Archaeology recently renovated a granary of the Nayak period and erected a fence around it. It stands as the Nayak kings’ contribution to the Chola-era Palaivananathar temple at Thirupalaithurai on the Kumbakonam-Thanjavur road. The circular granary was constructed by Govinda Dikshitar, who was the teacher and chief minister of Ragunatha Naik and his father Achuthappa Naik. Ragunatha Naik ruled Thanjavur between 1600 and 1634. The granary near the entrance of the temple was used to store paddy harvested from the fields. “We plastered and removed broken bricks and replaced them with new bricks,” said K. Olimalik, Assistant Executive Engineer of the Archaeology Department. The circular brick structure is 36 feet tall and 80 feet wide. It is conical at the top and has three openings — one at the lower end, another at the centre and yet another one at the top. Approximately 3,000 ‘kalams’ can be stored in the granary. One ‘kalam’ is equal to 96 ‘padi’. Mr. Olimalik said there was a staircase leading to the granary. “It is made of metal and we have decided to convert it into a wooden staircase,” he said.
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||VCK to protest against Adani, Ambani groups||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder Thol. Thirumavalavan has announced protests on December 14 against Adani and Ambani groups of companies, calling for boycott of their products. Alleging that the Centre’s three farm legislations favoured the capitalists, Mr. Thirumavalavan said, “We will urge people to boycott products and organisations of Adani and Ambani groups as called for by the farmers’ organisations protesting in Delhi.” The VCK would stage protests in front of Reliance supermarkets, petrol bunks and shops selling Jio products and call for boycott of its products, he said. The party also passed six resolutions calling for appropriate strategies to counter “religious and sectarian” forces in Tamil Nadu and opposing corporates that would benefit from farm laws. The party criticised the Tamil Nadu government “for not taking enough steps” to prevent crimes against Dalits. It opposed the Central Vista project citing the economic difficulties facing the country.
14 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Former bank manager held in car loan racket case||The Anti-Bank Fraud Wing of the Central Crime Branch has arrested a former manager of a nationalised bank for sanctioning loans for high-end cars based on forged documents. In pursuance of their investigation, the police arrested K. Venkataramanan, 58, of Amma Mandapam, Srirangam. The charge against him is that while he was the manager of the Union Bank of India branch in Teynampet, then known as Corporation Bank, he sanctioned car loans to the tune of Rs. 1.44 crore to Mohammed Musamil (one of the accused in the case) and his mother, Nasima Banu, based on forged documents. They received monetary gains by wilfully failing to pledge car documents to the bank and instead, sold off the vehicles to others. The manager, without verifying the documents, sanctioned the loans for monetary gains and caused a loss to the bank, the police said. Last month, the police arrested Mohammed Musamil 34, a businessman from Tirunelveli, and his associates — T. Ayyathurai, 32, and B. Balvijay, 35, who were on the run after defrauding nationalised banks by obtaining car loans based on forged documents and wilfully defaulting on payments. They were nabbed by the police after a two-year search, following a complaint from Thillai Govindan, manager of the Punjab National Bank, Velachery. On Friday, the police also arrested two more accused for their alleged involvement in facilitating the sanction of car loans from nationalised banks in the city. The suspects have been identified as S. Ravi, 50, and M. Sakkaraipandian, 37, of Kodungaiyur.
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Probe corruption in T.N. Transport Department’||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K.S. Alagiri on Sunday urged the State government to recommend a CBI probe into alleged corrupt practices in the Transport Department. The Congress leader was reacting to raids conducted at 16 Regional Transport Office (RTO) checkposts and one police checkpost by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) in the border districts of Tamil Nadu on Saturday, where unaccounted for money was seized. In a statement, Mr. Alagiri contended that similar corrupt practices would have taken place in other RTOs as well. He also alleged that such corruption would not have taken place without the backing of the State Transport Minister, and said that he was responsible. This should not stop only with a DVAC probe but a CBI probe is needed to bring out the role of the Transport Minister and other officials in the corruption, Mr. Alagiri said. He warned that if the State government did not recommend an investigation, his party would seek a CBI probe through the legal route.  Corruption would not have taken place without the backing of State Transport Minister
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu may see rain again from December 16||Dry weather is set to continue in most parts of Tamil Nadu till December 15. However, the Meteorological Department has said that the State may receive rain from Wednesday. A few places across the State may begin to experience light to moderate rain from Wednesday. There is a chance of heavy rain in one or two places over Tamil Nadu, officials said. In Chennai, the minimum temperature in Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam dropped slightly below normal on Sunday. While Nungambakkam recorded temperature of 22 degree Celsius, the temperature recorded at Meenambakkam was 21.2 degree Celsius. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said such long and dry spells were normal during the northeast monsoon, especially in December. Dry weather prevailed due to still winds. “Such long, dry spells occur as we are moving towards winter. But it is not the end of the northeast monsoon as the season is on till December 31,” he said. Rainfall is expected to resume over the State from Wednesday as an easterly trough is expected to influence the region. This would initially cover the coastal areas and would gradually move towards the interior areas. “We are monitoring the weather. There will be more clarity on the weather system and rainfall intensity on Monday,” he added. Excess rainfall This season, the State has recorded 43.1 cm of rainfall so far, which is 6% excess of its average of 40.7 cm since October 1. A few districts like Kanniyakumari, Tiruchi and Namakkal still have a rain deficit of close to 30%. Chennai district is among the top districts with 43% excess rainfall this season. The city has received nearly 103 cm of rainfall this season, according to the Meteorological Department.  Rainfall is expected to resume over the State from Wednesday as an easterly trough is expected to influence the region S. Balachandran Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Beaches to welcome visitors from today||Chennai’s iconic Marina beach and others dotting its east coast are set to reopen on Monday for the people, after staying shut since the last week of March due to COVID-19. The police and Corporation officials have put in place measures to ensure adherence to COVID-19 safety protocols. The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), shut all beaches in the city, including the Marina, Thiruvanmiyur, Palavakkam and Elliot’s beach, From 3 p.m. on March 21. The GCC had announced that entry into beaches would not be allowed until further orders. The decision was taken, keeping in mind the safety of the people. While all other restrictions were relaxed, the bar on entry into beaches was not lifted until now. Following the government’s decision to open beaches, the GCC will resume initiatives for the maintenance of Marina and other beaches on Monday. Civic officials said they would increase the number of workers and machines for improving garbage clearance. The civic body is also planning to take initiatives to reduce the number of street vendors on the Marina, to 900, based on a court order, said an official.
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMDK alliance decision in Jan., says Premalatha||The DMDK, an ally of the ruling AIADMK in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, will take a decision on electoral alliance for the Assembly election in Tamil Nadu, in January, its treasurer Premalatha Vijayakant said on Sunday. A decision about electoral alliances will be announced after the party’s general body and executive council meetings, to be held in January, she said. According to her, party founder Vijayakant would definitely participate in the campaign. On Sunday, Mr. Vijayakant, along with Ms. Premalatha and party deputy general secretary L.K. Sudheesh, held a meeting with DMDK district secretaries in Chennai. “The consultative meeting, before the State Assembly election next year, is just a start. In all 234 constituencies, the respective office-bearers should form booth committees. Ten committees will be formed to look into activities in every booth,” she said.
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Girl, father booked for submitting fake scorecard||A girl from Paramakudi in Ramanathapuram district and her father were booked on Saturday for allegedly producing a fake NEET scorecard for securing admission to MBBS. The Selection Committee, Directorate of Medical Education, is conducting the counselling for admission to the MBBS and BDS courses in Tamil Nadu at the Jawaharlal Nehru Indoor Stadium in Periyamet, Chennai. On December 7, N.B. Deeksha came to the counselling session, accompanied by her father Balachandran, the police said. While verifying her certificates, the staff found that the call letter and the NEET marksheet were fake. Selection Committee officials said the girl’s name was not on the rank list, and she was not called for counselling either. She claimed that she was eligible by producing these documents. “In the NEET scorecard submitted by the girl, the score was mentioned as 610. When we cross-checked with the score list from the National Testing Agency, we found that she had scored 27 marks, which means she had failed. We checked the documents on suspicion and then lodged a complaint with the police,” said G. Selvarajan, Secretary, Selection Committee.
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Flower market reopening to be delayed||Reopening of the flower market in Koyambedu may be delayed by a few days. In the meantime, it will continue functioning from the temporary premises in Vanagaram. Traders had earlier said they were preparing to shift to the Koyambedu market on December 14. However, the reopening of the market may be delayed; the State government was likely to announce a fresh date soon, traders said. The flower market was the first section to be shifted out at the end of April when the market became a COVID-19 hotspot. Phased return There are about 600 flower shops in the market. Other markets, including foodgrains and vegetables, have been allowed to function in a phased manner since September. S. Mookiah, president, Koyambedu Wholesale Flower Merchants’ Association, said about 300 merchants were functioning out of the temporary market in Vanagaram. Several flower traders were from various other places, including Virugambakkam, Madhavaram, Vadapalani, Kolathur and Retteri. “Many traders are functioning from the Vanagaram market without basic facilities. We are waiting for the government to allow us to move back to the market like others,” Mr. Mookiah added. Traders wanted the Koyambedu market space to be maintained better.
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested||The New Washermenpet police arrested a man for allegedly setting fire to his son’s bike. The police said on October 13, eight bikes parked on the street were torched in Ammaniamman Thottam, Washermenpet. Since there was no CCTV device nearby, the police could not find any leads. Under such circumstances, the wife of one Arun recently complained to the police that her father-in-law was threatening her. On scrutinising call records, the police learnt that the suspect Karnan did not accept her as his daughter-in-law. He threatened to set fire to his son’s bike if she rode on it. Karnan was arrested in Cuddalore. On interrogation, he admitted that he set fire to his son’s bike since he did not approve of his son’s marriage.
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized at airport||About 463 g of gold worth Rs. 23.6 lakh was seized by the Chennai Air Customs at Chennai airport on Saturday. Based on a tip-off, officials found 309 g of gold concealed in one of the seats of a flight from Dubai. Another 154 g of gold was seized from one Kalil Rahman.
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||I won’t be cowed down by case: Raja||DMK deputy general secretary A. Raja on Sunday welcomed the case filed against him by the State government, saying it had given him an opportunity to prove the remarks made by the Supreme Court against former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa in the disproportionate wealth case. “It [filing of the case] is a cowardly act,” he said, adding that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was not able to either prove or disprove “what I have said in the open letter against Jayalalithaa”. He said if a chargesheet was filed against him, he would be able to prove the remarks made against Jayalalithaa by the Supreme Court. “If the Chief Minister feels that I will be cowed down by these cases, he must be ignorant.”
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Exam for recruitment of police constables, warders, firemen held||The Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board (TNUSRB) on Sunday conducted a written examination for the recruitment of police constables, jail warders and firemen. The TNUSRB published a notification last September for conducting common recruitment for filling 11,741 posts in the rank of grade II police constables (Armed Reserve and Tamil Nadu Special Police), grade II jail warders and firemen in the Police, Prison and Fire and Rescue Services Departments. Over a lakh aspirants applied and attended the exam at 499 centres across the State. On Sunday, the officials of Chennai City Police made elaborate arrangements in 35 centres. The candidates were allowed to enter exam centres after following standard protocols. Chennai Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal visited these centres and gave advice to officials on the arrangements.
14 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man, son killed in wild elephant attack in the Nilgiris||A 49-year-old man and his 29-year-old son were trampled to death by a wild elephant near Gudalur in the Nilgiris on Sunday. The Forest Department identified the deceased as Anandaraj and his son Prasath from Kolapalli at Cherambadi near Gudalur. The incident took place around 7.45 p.m. on Sunday when Anandaraj, Kolapalli union councillor of DMK, and his son Prasath were going to their house on a two-wheeler. The two had an encounter with a wild elephant that trampled them to death. Forest Department officials suspect that the wild elephant that killed a 60-year-old man named Nagamuthu at Cherangode near Gudalur on Friday night could have attacked the father-son duo. On December 8, another person was trampled to death by a wild elephant at Manvayal near Gudalur. Meanwhile, two persons were injured in the attacks of a wild elephant and a sloth bear in Coimbatore district on Saturday night and Sunday morning. According to the Forest Department, P. Nagaiyan (35) from Mokkamedu near Sirumugai was attacked by a tusker late on Saturday. The incident took place around 11.30 p.m. when Mr. Nagaiyan was guarding a plantation at Mokkamedu, which falls under Uliyoor beat of Pethikuttai section of Sirumugai forest range. Neighbours admitted him to a private hospital where he was diagnosed with fractures in jaw and right elbow. A Forest Department official said that a surgery was required to treat the jaw fracture. The frontline staff of the Department drove the tusker back to the nearest forest area. In a separate incident, M. Rasu (75), a resident of Saddle Dam area of Upper Sholayar Dam near Valparai, was attacked by a sloth bear on Sunday morning. The Forest Department said that Mr. Rasu had an encounter with a sloth bear when he was walking towards the Sholayar Dam around 6 a.m. The bear mauled the man’s head and left him injured. Mr. Rasu was taken to the Government Hospital at Valparai from where he was referred to the Government Hospital, Pollachi.  Compensation The Department said that it would provide compensation to the injured. It has also planned to fix a camera trap in the area to monitor movement of wild animals.
14 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Road caves in after UGD line bursts||A stretch on the north western corner of Good Shed Road leading to the subway beneath the Uppilipalayam flyover caved in on Sunday afternoon following a burst in the underground sewer line. The road caving in had caused a crater-like opening, which the Coimbatore Corporation was trying to fix, said a release. Following instructions from Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian, a team of officials led by Assistant Commissioner, Central Zone, Mahesh Kanagaraj inspected spot. They then barricaded the area and deployed two earthmovers to replace the damaged pipeline and restore the damaged stretch of the road. Sources said the Corporation planned to replace the sewer line for 40m. Traffic movement was not affected because of the damage, the release added.
14 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Minister meets farmers on Noyyal rejuvenation scheme||Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani on Sunday met farmers as a part of the River Noyyal rejuvenation scheme that the State government is implementing at Rs. 230 crore. A release from the district administration said Mr. Velumani, who met the farmers in the presence of Collector K. Rajamani, District Revenue Officer D. Ramaduraimurugan, PWD Executive Engineer Damodaran and others, said the government would spend Rs. 174 crore of the Rs. 230 crore to rejuvenate that part of the River that flows through the district. The project would benefit farmers who cultivated around one lakh acre in Thondamuthur, Kinathukadavu, Singanallur, Sulur and a few other areas as the government had proposed construction of check dam across the Iruttupallam, Uripallam, Kallipallam, Thennamanallur and Thenkaraipallam channels that fed water to the River. The government would also repair and construct surplus weir across the Neeli anaicut, Chithirai Chavadi anaicut, Coimbatore anaicut and Kurichi anaicut. Also as a part of the work, the Minister said the government would dredge and concrete line channels, strengthen bund, repair shutters and construct approach roads. This way, the government would repair 18 of the 23 surplus weirs under the project and take up the rest under kudimaramthu or NABARD or other schemes. He said the efforts to rejuvenate River Noyyal was in keeping with the government’s vision to empower farmers by investing in agriculture infrastructure and added that Tamil Nadu was one of the states that made high budgetary allocation for agriculture.
14 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Valuers Bill expected to be passed soon, says IOV chief||The draft Valuers Bill 2020 is expected to be passed soon, P.K. Thiagarajan, president of the Institution of Valuers (IOV), said here on Friday. Mr. Thiagarajan told presspersons that a Committee of Experts formed by the Central Government had taken inputs from all the stakeholders and drafted the bill. There was a delay in the bill getting the nod because of the pandemic and it was expected to be passed soon, even in the next session of Parliament. When passed, the valuation profession would get regularised. There would be continuous education programmes for the professionals and standards would come into place for valuation. Other countries had their own standards for valuation of various assets. “It [standard] will come with the Valuers Bill. It is part of the bill,” Mr. Thiagarajan said. Institute to be started A National Institute of Valuers would be formed to offer courses in valuation. This year, the Institute (IOV) had started entering into memorandum of understanding with educational institutions to give an insight to students into the opportunities available in the valuation profession. It had entered into an agreement with Kumaraguru College of Technology here. The number of approved valuers in the country was about 30,000 and registered valuers were nearly 4,000. The number was high in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Earlier, speaking at the inaugural of a two-day national-level conference of the Institute here, Mr. Thiagarajan said that when the Bill was enacted, the valuers would understand the value of the profession. Industrialist Kothai Dinakaran inaugurated the conference.
14 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure there is no leak in pipelines before restoring road’||Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian, who inspected the 24x7 drinking water supply project that is in progress in R.S. Puram, told the contractor that it should ensure that there is no leak in the new pipelines laid before restoring the dug roads. A release from the civic body said the Commissioner after visiting the works in T.V. Samy Road, Sir C.V. Raman Road, West Sambandam Road, Guru Gobind Singh Road and a few other areas, also told the contractor that it should immediately restore road after completion of work so as to cause minimum inconvenience to the public. Earlier, he went to Ward 22 to check the progress made in cleaning drains. While interacting with the residents he asked them to ensure that no waste was dumped in the drains and hand over waste in segregated manner to conservancy workers, the release added.
14 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Examination for police recruitment held in Coimbatore, Tiruppur||The Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board's (TNUSRB) common recruitment examination for the posts of grade-II police constable, grade-II jail warder and fireman was held on Sunday. In Coimbatore district, 8,663 candidates -- 7,458 men and 1,205 women -- wrote the examination at six centres. TNUSRB had allotted the six centres for 10,207 applicants. Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan and District (Rural) Superintendent of Police (SP) Ara. Arularasu reviewed the conduct of the examination. As many as 6,833 candidates attended the examination at five centres in Tiruppur district. Of these 5,770 were men and 1,063 were women. Tiruppur City Police Commissioner G. Karthikeyan and Tiruppur Rural SP Disha Mittal inspected examination centres. Of the total of 2,532 applicants who were allotted the four centres in Udhagamandalam, 2,065 candidates consisting 1,847 men and 218 women wrote the examination. Deputy Inspector General of Police (Coimbatore range) K. S. Narenthiran Nayar and the Nilgiris SP V. Sasi Mohan visited the examination centres. Candidates were allowed to enter at the examination centres after checking their temperature and adherence to wearing mask. Various control measures in place at the centres in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.
14 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man tries to end life on police station premises||A 32-year-old man attempted to immolate self on the premises of Podanur police station on Sunday. According to the police, they picked up Sowkath Ali (32), a resident of Vellalore and an autorickshaw driver by profession, after he created nuisance reportedly under the influence of alcohol on Sunday evening. He was brought to the Podanur police station and let off around 6 p.m. The police had asked him to pay the fine for the offence and take back the vehicle on Monday. However, he returned to the station around 8.30 p.m. and set him ablaze after wetting himself with a fuel, said the police. He suffered nearly 60% of burns and the police admitted him to a private hospital.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 .
14 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for sexual assault||The All Women Police, Coimbatore east, booked a 22-year-old youth for alleged sexual assault on a 17-year-old girl after marrying her. While the youth absconded, the police arrested his parents on Saturday for arranging the marriage. According to the police, the man Peelamedupudur worked as a lathe operator at Palladam in Tiruppur district. He befriended a 17-year-old girl from Coimbatore district who was studying at a private college at Sulur. On October 9, the man allegedly took her to Tiruppur and married her with the knowledge of his parents. Based on a complaint lodged by the girl's parents, the police rescued her on Saturday. The police registered a case against the man under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and his parents under provisions of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. The parents were arrested and remanded in judicial custody on Saturday. A special team was on the lookout for the youth.
14 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Silver Beach to be open from today||The Silver Beach in Cuddalore will be thrown open to visitors from Monday in line with the COVID-19 protocol. An official said that the district administration permitted reopening of the beach after nearly eight months on the condition that all necessary precautions would be taken by the authorities concerned. Visitors would be allowed only after checking their body temperature and hand sanitisation. The Cuddalore municipality has planned a mass clean-up drive on the beach on Monday. The restrooms would also be cleaned. The children’s park in the beach would be reopened and visitors would have to wear masks, follow physical distancing and use hand sanitisers at regular intervals, the official added. However, traders said that Cyclone Nivar and incessant rains during the north-east monsoon had damaged the makeshift shops on the beach. Assistance to traders “Most of the traders will be unable to reopen the shops. A number of shops have been inundated and heavily damaged. The COVID-19 necessitated lockdown has already affected our business and the government should extend financial assistance to traders to enable us reopen the shops and carry out repairs”, a trader said. The Pichavaram mangroves in Killai near Chidambaram, a popular hangout among tourists and said to be the second largest in the world, reopened for tourists last week.
14 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cab driver in Cuddalore held for car lease fraud||The District Crime Branch (DCB) police on Saturday arrested a 54-year-old cab driver on charges of cheating several travel agents into handing over their cars to him, by pretending to take them on lease. The lid was blown off the racket when Palanivel, 49, a travel agent of Vanniyarpalayam in Cuddalore lodged a complaint with the Cuddalore Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav, alleging that an individual, Selvam alias Krishnaselvam, a cab driver of Commandanmedu, had taken his goods-carrier in August, promising to take it on lease for six months. DCB police said Palanivel leased his vehicle and also took a rent of Rs. 23,000 for the first month. But when there was no further word from Krishnaselvam, Palanivel lodged a complaint with the police. Preliminary investigations by the DCB revealed that the accused had taken cars of six other travel agents on lease and cheated them. The DCB police arrested Krishnaselvam and recovered five vehicles from him at Kammiyanpettai.
14 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||25,876 appear for exam conducted by Uniformed Services Recruitment Board||As many as 25,876 candidates in Cuddalore district on Sunday appeared for the written examination conducted by the Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board (TNUSRB) for recruitment of Grade - II Police constables, Grade II Jail Warders and Firemen. Out of the 28,624 applicants, 2,748 did not turn up for the exam. The exam was held under the supervision of Inspector General of Police (North Zone) P. Nagarajan and Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav. The candidates had to undergo thermal screening before entering the examination hall. The exam was conducted in 18 centres in Cuddalore district. In Villupuram district, as many as 21,600 candidates appeared for the exam. Deputy Inspector of Police (Villupuram Range) K. Ejilearassane and Superintendent of Police S. Radhakrishnan inspected the arrangements at the examination centres.
14 December 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Accident: truck driver arrested||The truck driver involved in the Saturday’s accident that led to the death of four persons near Thoppur in Dharmapuri was arrested by the police on Sunday. He was later remanded in judicial custody.  According to police, the driver Kudbudeen hails from Jharkhand. He had escaped from the spot following the accident on Saturday.  Multi-vehicle collision  Police sources said that in the accident that occurred near Thoppur on Salem-Bengaluru National Highway about 15 cars piled up and four persons succumbed to injuries. A cement-laden truck that was moving towards Coimbatore from Andhra Pradesh rammed the cars on the highway. As many as 10 persons who suffered injuries in the accident are under treatment at various hospitals here. Redesign Thoppur road: PMK PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss said the Thoppur road should be redesigned. “More than human errors, the main reason why accidents take place in the area is the absurd design of the road. The PMK has filed a case in Madras High Court but the NHAI is refusing to do it. This is the reason for the accidents,” he said. “During 2017-18, NHAI officials, the traffic police, along with L&T engineers, looked into the road and presented a plan to redesign it at a cost of Rs. 140 crore. While the Centre initially accepted it, the plan was put on hold on the basis that it can be corrected when the Salem-Bengaluru Highway is converted into a six-lane road. These types of accidents could be averted,” he said.
14 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Exam for recruitment in uniformed services held||A total of 34,140 men and women took up the written examination conducted by Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board to recruit candidates for the post of Grade II constables, firemen and jail warders, in the district on Sunday. The board had issued hall tickets to 37,405 candidates, the highest number of candidates in any district in the State. However, 3,265 of them failed to turn up at the 42 examination centres located in the city and rural areas. Among them six centres were exclusively for the women candidates. The examination that started at 11 a.m. went up till 12.20 p.m. The candidates had to answer 80 questions with multiple choices on general knowledge and psychology. Superintendent of Police, N. Sujit Kumar, who is the Chairperson for the sub-committee of the board, inspected the arrangements at various examination centres. Commissioner of Police, Prem Anand Sinha, was the super-check officer. Those who clear the written examination would be called for a physical test to be held later.
14 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan hints at political re-alignment||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) president Kamal Haasan on Sunday kicked off his party’s campaign for the 2021 Assembly election in Madurai, with the promise of providing a people-centric and honest government.  “Not just our governance, our election strategy too will be honesty,” he said. Mr. Haasan, who arrived to a rousing reception by fans and party cadre, said if politicians’ black money is pumped back into the economy, it could make Tamil Nadu a better place. Hinting at parties bribing voters, he said party cadre should make door-to-door visits to “wake people up to new political changes”. He said: “Tell them that they deserve not just the Rs. 5,000 [per vote], but also welfare benefits worth Rs. 5 lakh [from the government],” he said.  Complaining that Madurai was filled with potholes, garbage and sewage, he said the city, with its proud history and culture, looked rotten these days. “Madurai should be changed,” he said. It has witnessed revolutions, and now it must get ready for another one, he said. Claiming that former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran had planned to make Madurai the second capital of Tamil Nadu, Mr. Haasan said his party would turn that dream into reality. Stating that he hailed from south Tamil Nadu, Mr. Haasan said he too wanted to live an ordinary life, helping others. “But did they leave us to do it? That is why I had to take a political plunge,” he said. Over the years, politicians had made it seem like politics is meant for “rowdies”, but now educated people and professionals were showing interest in politics, entering the party, he said. In an interaction with youngsters, he said the government should not be into the liquor business, but concentrate on essential services like education, water supply and health. However, IMFL business, through private entities, should continue, he said.  Third front Earlier, interacting with journalists, he hinted at the possibility of political re-alignment, saying there could be splits and re-alignments in alliances. When asked whether his party would form a third front, he said this was very much possible. He complained that permissions for certain programmes in the city were being rejected, last minute. Stating that such hurdles would not stop him, he said his party had seen such impediments in the past, and it had the experience to overcome them. He is scheduled to tour the southern districts in the next few days.
14 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court seeks details of courses in archaeology in universities||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has sought to know the status of courses in archaeology in universities and if they are being conducted properly. To ascertain the same, the court has suo motu impleaded the Registrars of Tamil University, Thanjavur, and University of Madras, Chennai. Hearing a batch of public interest litigation petitions pertaining to archaeological excavations in the State, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi sought to know whether there were vacancies in the teaching staff for the archaeological courses and if so how many such posts were vacant. The Deputy Director of the Tamil Nadu Archaeological Department R. Sivanandam said that courses in archaeology were available in the two universities and students were interested in Archaeology and Epigraphy. There is scope for them in the Tamil Nadu Archaeological Department and the Archaeological Survey of India, he submitted. The court also wanted the State to take a decision on the proposal sent by the State Archaeological Department with regard to the appointment of 50 caretakers at various monuments in the State. Already 50 such caretakers have been appointed to safeguard the monuments, the court was informed. The judges observed that with regard to the emoluments to the caretakers, the government has prescribed Rs. 5,000 as consolidated pay. These caretakers are required to stay at the monuments for about 12 hours a day. The emoluments should be fixed appropriately to fix a certain accountability and responsibility on the caretakers. Further, the court took cognisance of the fact that the erection of name boards about the archaeological sites in important junctions like bus stands, railway stations and airports was yet to be carried out. Therefore steps must be taken to carry out the same, the judges said. The case was adjourned till December 18.
14 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown tomorrow||As TANGEDCO has planned to carry out monthly maintenance on December 15, there will be no electricity supply from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the following areas: Rajakkalpatti, Maravarpatti, Chathiravellapatti, Valayapatti, Errampatti, Konapatti, Palamedu, Chinnapalamedu, Manickampatti, Senthamangalam, Pondhugampatti, 66 Mettupatti, 66 Usilampatti, Alanganallur, Kottaimedu, NSM Sugar Mill Road, 15B Mettupatti, Kuravankulam, Siruvalai, Ambalathadi, Alagapuri, A.Puthupatti, A.Kovilpatti, Vaikasipatti, Ayyur, Muduvarpatti, Aathanur, Achampatti and other areas supply fed from Manickampatti & Alanganallur Sub Station, said Executive Engineer (Samayanallur) S. Arumugaraj here on Sunday.
14 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MP’s appeal to Centre||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has appealed to the Centre to instruct the State Bank of India (SBI) not to proceed with its recruitment process for clerical cadre till suspicions about its adherence to the system of reservation are cleared. In a letter to the Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment, Thaawar Chand Gehlot, and Minister of State for Finance, Anurag Singh Thakur, Mr. Venkatesan complained that the public sector bank had given an inadequate reply to him with regard to the implementation of reservation. Based on his earlier letters written to the two Ministries, the SBI had given a clarification on the reservation policy it had adopted for the recruitment process. Mr. Venkatesan said the reply given by SBI is “inadequate” and “silent” on a pertinent question. He had asked about how many other backward classes (OBC), Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (SC/ST) and economically weaker section (EWS) candidates were in the general list of candidates published as per the results of preliminary examination. “The reply of SBI gives an impression that principles of reservation are not adhered to in drawing the list of candidates,” Mr. Venkatesan said. All those who secured higher marks irrespective of categories are to be listed under general category according to the merit list. Thereafter, the list of reserved categories has to be prepared. “This is the basic principle of system of reservation and the spirit of Constitutional obligations bestowed on public sector units and government departments,” he said. Treating ‘general’ as a category like OBCs, SCs, STs was wrong and it would snatch the right of these reserved categories to compete for general vacancies too. The communication of SBI skipped that important question, he charged. Pointing that the reply mentioned that concession in marks would be given for OBCs, SCs and STs in main examination, he said, it was clear that a relaxation has not been given in marks in the preliminary examination. In that case, the cut-off marks in Tamil Nadu cannot be the same for general, OBC and SC candidates. “It shows that general category is treated as if it is pertaining to candidates of other than reserved categories while drawing the above list. This is a case of clear violation of policy of reservation,” he charged. “The basic principles of reservation will not change and spirit is the same immaterial whether it is preliminary or main examination. Thorough vetting is necessary with regard to results published by SBI and the bank should be instructed not to proceed further on the recruitment till suspicions are cleared on adherence of system of reservation,” he demanded.
14 December 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Himalayan griffon vulture sighted at Pt. Calimere sanctuary||Himalayan griffon vulture, a rare and largest bird native to the Himalayas, has been sighted for the first time at the Point Calimere Wildlife and Bird Sanctuary near Vedaranyam in Nagapattinam district, according to Forest Department officials. Forester Sathish Kumar of the sanctuary, who was on a regular patrol, spotted the bird perching on a “manikara hexandra” tree near the Thambusamy Illam forest rest house on Sunday. Amused by its characters and attitude, he photographed the bird and checked with S. Ramasubramanian, Conservator of Forest, Thanjavur, a regular bird watcher. Mr.Ramasubramanian identified the bird as a Himalayan griffon vulture. The bird is said to an adult and has a ruff that is long and pale brown with white streaks. The ruff feathers are found to be long and spiky. The vulture is listed as “near threatened” by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species. It lives mainly in the higher regions of the Himalayas and the Tibetan Plateau at the elevation of above 1500 metres. “It is wonderful to watch the Himalayan vulture in the dry evergreen forest in Point Calimere. It could have travelled from far away ranges of Himalayas,” Mr. Ramasubramaian told The Hindu . The green forest might have attracted the bird to land at Point Calimere, a home to migratory birds from far away continents. It could be a brief stay for the vulture, Mr. Ramasubramanian said and added that instructions had been given to the forest personnel to ensure trouble free stay for the bird. A team had been formed to prevent disturbances by humans.
14 December 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Health Dept. intensifies dengue prevention measures||The department of Public Health Services has intensified dengue prevention activities in the district and is conducting camps at various places. According to health officials, with the number of COVID-19 positive cases having reduced in the district, officials are monitoring dengue prevention activities along with COVID-19 containment measures to prevent the surge of dengue cases in Namakkal. Over 500 domestic breeding checkers (DBC) and animators had been deployed in rural and municipal areas as part of the disease control measures, the officials said. Symptoms Only a few cases had been reported at the moment and samples were collected from persons who complained of fever or other symptoms of dengue. The officials said about 300 DBC workers had been deployed in 15 blocks and they were monitored by Health Inspectors. About 150 DBC workers had been deployed at the town panchayats. Fogging, water chlorination and water stagnation preventive measures were being carried out, the officials said.
14 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry hosts first live concert after pandemic||The city hosted its first live concert after the coronavirus pandemic struck early this year with musicians from Carnatic and Hindustani streams joining for a jugalbandhi performance at the Tourism Department’s seaside property, the Pondy Marinaa on Friday. The free-entry concert, ‘Jugalbandhi by the Bay’ featured city-based musicians P.V. Bose, carnatic vocalist, Basab Sen on sitar, Manosh Bardhan on the tabla and V. Sivakumar on the mridangam. Basab Sen set the tone for the north-south musical melange with a sitar solo that captured the essence of Raag Bihag . The sounds of the sitar gave way to an exposition of the Mysore Vasudevachar composition Girija Ramana in raga Gambheera Nattai . Then, an invocation of verse from the Kasturi Thilakam set the prelude for Krishna Nee Begane set in Yamuna.  High points A thrilling jugalbandhi by peer ragas Hindolam (Carnatic) and Malkauns (Hindustani) was one of the high points of the performance before a thillana in Misra Shivaranjani served the finale for the concert. “The concert was totally experimental but went off very well,” said Mr. Bose, who is the vocalist-frontman of the experimental band TranSwaras.
14 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Medical aspirant caught in a border row||A first-generation medical aspirant, from a village on the border of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, is in an unusual situation, despite clearing NEET, scoring 500 out of 720. R. Manikandan, 19, is a resident of Puranasingapalayam village, part of which is in Villupuram district in Tamil Nadu, and the rest in the Union Territory of Puducherry. The boy resides in the part of the village located in Kandamangalam block in Villupuram district, in Tamil Nadu. But he did his schooling, till class XII, from the Bharathidasan Government Higher Secondary School, which is a stone’s throw away from his residence, but is within the Puducherry limits of the village. Authorities in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry have both rejected his claim for medical admissions, citing the rule book. Mr. Manikandan, who cleared NEET in the second attempt, applied for admission to MBBS courses in Tamil Nadu, hoping that the 7.5% quota for government school students would help him. “My application was rejected on the ground that I went to a school within Puducherry limits,” he said. Mr. Manikandan’s class teacher, who also taught him physics, S. Sriram, said the boy had inadvertently stated that he belonged to Puducherry (State of eligibility), while applying for NEET from an Internet centre. Though Mr. Manikandan secured the 111th rank, in the list released by the Puducherry government, he did not apply for an MBBS seat under the Centralised Admission Committee (CENTAC) of Puducherry. From the point of the school where he studied, the Tamil Nadu government rejected his application, and from the point of residence, the Puducherry government has said that he is not eligible to apply under CENTAC. “When I contacted the authorities during the second phase of counselling in Chennai, the officials clarified that I am not eligible for a seat under the 7.5% quota, since I had studied in a school in Puducherry. The officials, however, said I was in the waiting list, and that I could apply under the general category, if I produced a no-objection certificate from Puducherry,” he said. Mr. Sriram said the boy’s parents were farm labourers. Mr. Manikandan has also drawn the attention of Puducherry Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi and the Education Department to his predicament.
14 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory adds 49 cases to overall tally||Puducherry added 49 new cases to its overall COVID-19 tally on Sunday while no fatality was recorded in the Union Territory. Puducherry accounted for 25 of the newly-infected cases, followed by Karaikal (12), Mahe (10) and Yanam (two). In all, 57 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours. After one case was transferred to Tamil Nadu, there were 337 active cases in the Union Territory. Of these, 201 were in hospitals and 136 in home isolation, according to a bulletin from the Health Department. The test positivity rate was 2.75%, case fatality rate 1.65% and recovery rate 97.45%. The overall tally was 619 deaths, a cumulative caseload of 37,492 cases and 36,536 recoveries. The Health Department has to date tested an estimated 4.33 lakh samples of which 3.92 lakh returned negative.  Cuddalore district Cuddalore district reported 12 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 24,432. While 24,075 patients have been discharged, the active cases stands at 41. In Villupuram district, 15 persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 14,787. Kallakurichi district reported five positive cases, taking the overall tally to 10,731.
14 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Government failed to obtain seats from private medical colleges’||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam on Sunday criticised the government on its failure to obtain medical seats from private medical colleges under government quota. Addressing a press conference here, AIADMK secretary (East) and party leader in Assembly A. Anbalagan said as per the direction of National Medical Commission, the government should have got 625 seats from private medical colleges for admission under the Centralised Admission Committee quota. But in reality the government failed to get any seats so far from the private medical colleges for admission, he said. He said the turf war between Lt. Governor and Chief Minister would deprive the Union Territory of getting adequate relief from Centre as rain relief. While the Chief Minister had put the loss at around Rs. 400 crore, the Lt. Governor has submitted a report putting the loss at Rs. 13 crore. Such inconsistency would deprive the territory of getting due financial assistance from the Centre, he also added.
14 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Over 3,800 students appear for NTSE||Over 3,800 Class X students across the Union Territory took the stage-I National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) on Sunday. A press note from the Directorate of School Education said the examination was conducted under the guidelines of the Ministry of Education at 20 centres in the Union Territory. Of the 4,439 candidates who applied, 3,863 students (87.02 per cent) appeared for the NTSE examination in the Union Territory. The break-up of students by region stood at Puducherry 2,694 (86.62%), Karaikal 789 (85.67%), Mahe 143 (90%) and Yanam 237 (94%). Answer keys The question booklets along with the answer keys will be available onwww.nmmsntspdy.comfrom December 16. Any query/objection related to answer keys has to be registered by mail tonmmsnts@gmail.comon or before December 18, the Directorate said.
14 December 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Missing Pudukottai man traced to Nagaland, reunited with family||Eight years after he went missing from his residence at Vamban Colony in Alangudi taluk in the district, the man now, aged 50 years, was traced to the North-eastern state of Nagaland and reunited with his family members here on Saturday. A special police team brought the rescued man D. Kumaravel from the Chennai airport where he reached by flight from Kolkata accompanied by a Tamil Sangam member from Dimapur in Nagaland. Kumaravel, unmarried, used to leave home often and return after some days. Police sources said Kumaravel left his house eight years ago and did not return thereafter. Efforts by his family members to trace him proved futile all these years. A fortnight ago Pudukottai Superintendent of Police L. Balaji Saravanan received information about the presence of Kumaravel in Nagaland. He was found roaming in Peren district. The photograph of the missing man and other information was sent to the Pudukottai police for verification. Mr. Balaji Saravanan said he instructed a team to verify the information and it came to light that the missing man was from Vamban Colony. The team during inquiries established that Kumaravel’s brother and family resided there. The team met Kumaravel’s family member who identified the missing man from the photograph shown by the police and appealed for his rescue. Mr. Balaji Saravanan said once it was established that the missing man was Kumaravel the next task was to bring him back from Nagaland during the COVID-19 pandemic period. The Pudukottai Police got in touch with Dimapur Tamil Sangam which volunteered to help them in all possible ways to reunite Kumaravel with his family. The SP said he got in touch with his counterparts in Peren district. Dimapur Tamil Sangam provided assistance to bring Kumaravel from Nagaland to Chennai via Kolkata by flight. One of the Sangam members, Kannan, accompanied Kumaravel, said Mr. Balaji Saravanan, adding that a police team was sent to the Chennai airport to receive Kumaravel and bring him back to Pudukottai by road. “The family members of Kumaravel were very happy when he was reunited with them after a gap of eight years”, said Mr. Balaji Saravanan while thanking Nagaland Police and Dimapur Tamil Sangam for their assistance.
14 December 2020||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||From Chennai on a bicycle||Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu, accompanied by a group of youngsters, reached Pamban on a bicycle expedition from Chennai on Sunday on the way to Dhanushkodi via Rameswaram. Speaking to reporters at Pamban, Mr. Babu, a 1987 batch IPS officer, said the objective of cycling with youngsters from the State capital was to create awareness of the need to protect the environment. “Cycling is an interesting sport, just like badminton and swimming,” he said. “Cycling is one of the oldest modes of transport. Before motorcycles and cars came on the scene, bicycles were the only form of personal transport. Of late, having understood the merits of cycling, many people in the developed and western countries have started using bicycles. If we could pedal about 600 km in about 36 hours, youngsters should be able to cover 15 to 30 km on cycles every day,” Mr. Babu said. Known for his encouraging talks on health and fitness among students and police personnel, the 58-year-old officer had recently performed a marathon swimming with 10 other policemen from Talaimannar in Sri Lanka to Rameswaram, covering 18 nautical miles in about 12 hours.
14 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Police recruitment examinations held||The Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board examinations for the post of Grade-II constable, jail warden, and firemen were held at various centres here on Sunday. The examinations were held to fill 11,800 vacancies in the State. Salem According to the police, in Salem, the examinations were held at 17 centres with adherence to COVID-19 safety norms. The temperature of candidates were checked and masks were given to candidates. Seating arrangement was made in accordance with physical distancing norms. Arrangements were made for 24,278 candidates including 3,179 women candidates. As many as 2,568 candidates were absent. Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger and City Police Commissioner T. Senthil Kumar reviewed the arrangements at an examination centre near Ponamapet here. Dr. Ganiger said 1,800 police personnel were deployed for security. Namakkal In Namakkal, arrangements were made for 8,538 candidates - 7,419 men, 1,118 women and one transperson. As many as 923 persons did not attend the examinations. Special buses were operated to examination halls. Dharmapuri In Dharmapuri, the examinations were held at 28 centres and arrangements were made for 25,863 candidates - 21,853 men and 4,010 women candidates. As many as 3,711 candidates were absent. Pradip Kumar, DIG, Salem Range, visited an examination centre.
14 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Measures begin to treat spread of algae near surplus gates at Mettur dam||The Public Works Department and civic body authorities here have begun measures to treat the spread of algae in the water spread area of Mettur dam near the surplus gates. The PWD in coordination with Revenue and Fisheries departments and Mettur Municipality has been conducting algae treatment exercise at various places of water spread area of the Mettur dam for the past few months. Villagers in the contour area of the dam had been complaining of foul smell emanating from the water spread area and demanding authorities to take measures. According to officials, the foul smell emanated due to the spread of algae over stagnant water at the dam. On Sunday, the water level at the dam was 105.46 ft against the full reservoir level of 120ft. The storage was 72,099 tmcft and the dam received an inflow of 6,072 cusecs. The discharge from the dam to Cauvery river was maintained at 500 cusecs and 800 cusecs was released through the East-West canal. Officials said the algae formation could have occurred due to the use of insecticides or fertilizers during cultivation along the contour area. Effective micro-organisms (EM) were being sprayed at the algae spread areas twice a day. The exercise would continue till the algae spread was cleared, they said. EM would not affect the quality of water or contaminate it , the officials added. Park reopening Dam authorities said the Mettur dam park would be reopened on Monday and all COVID-19 safety protocols would be followed.
14 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corpn. to conduct tax collection camps from Dec. 15||The Salem Corporation will conduct intensive tax collection camps between December 15 and December 31. According to a release, the civic body has appealed to the residents and businesses operating within the Corporation limits to pay their taxes and other charges for the period till March 31 through these camps. The Salem Corporation is facing tax and other dues of Rs. 171 crore and several teams have been formed to collect the dues. The public can pay their taxes through the Corporation’s 13 tax collection centres or through websitehttps://tnurbanepay.tn.gov.inThe centres will function on all days till December 31. The Corporation has warned that water supply of defaulters will be cut if the charges are not paid within stipulated time, the release adds.
14 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||AIMTC extends support to truckers’ strike||The All India Motor Transport Congress has extended support to the indefinite strike call given by the State Lorry Owners Federation from December 27. In a release, the AIMTC has extended support to the indefinite suspension of transport services from 6 a.m. on December 27 to press the legitimate issues raised by the State Lorry Owners Federation here to the State government. The Motor Transport Congress requested truckers and transporters to support the cause and not to send or operate vehicles to Tamil Nadu. The organisation also advised the transport operators to issue necessary advice to drivers. The organisation requested the State government to resolve the grievances of the State lorry owners.
14 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Road show conducted||The Agriculture Department organised a road show at Nadupatti village near Kadayampatti on Saturday to create awareness on nutri-cereals. The road show was organised as a programme under the National Food Security Mission to create awareness among the public about the importance of nutri-cereal crops like maize and minor millets. Street plays, cultural programmes and publicity vehicles were used to create awareness on various agriculture schemes like ATMA, micro irrigation, revamped Prime Minister crop insurance scheme and Mission on Sustainable Agriculture, a release said.
14 December 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Special camp conducted for name inclusion in voter list||Conducting random checks in Thiruvallur panchayat in Ilayankudi block in Sivaganga district, Poll Observer and Social Welfare Department Commissioner D. Abraham appealed to the eligible voters to ensure that their names figured in the voter list. Accompanied by Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy and other election officials, Mr. Abraham visited some of the houses and enquired them whether they had applied for inclusion of names in the voter list. He urged them to check with their neighbours if they had registered their names for inclusion. The district administration conducted special camps on December 12 and 13. In November also, two days were exclusively earmarked for campaigning among the public to include their names in the voter list. Later, he visited Keelayur panchayat and interacted with the residents. According to the officials, 9,759 applications were received in the district in which 6,560 were for inclusion of names, 1,687 for deletion, 947 seeking amends such as change in the name and 565 applications sought address change. Theni In Theni district, Poll Observer Sigi Thomas Vaidyan and Collector M. Pallavi Baldev visited Palanichettipatti where people were submitting applications in the Form 6 for inclusion of names in the voter list. According to the election cell, 1,6458 applications were received from Andipatti, Periyakulam, Bodinaickanur and Cumbum Assembly segments till date. After scrutiny, the names would be added, deleted or amended in the voter list suitably. Ms. Sigi Thomas said that the Election Commission had given broad guidelines on the need for inclusion of all eligible public for inclusion with a qualifying date as 1.1.2021 when a person turned 18 years of age. She appealed to the political party representatives to join the campaign and ensure that the district had 100 % voter inclusion. Dindigul Collector M Vijayalakshmi inspected a few centres where public submitted applications for name inclusion in the voter list. At a centre in MSPM Higher Secondary School, she checked with the applicants about the identity cards they possessed to mention in the application. The Collector instructed the officials to carry out door-to-door check and ensure that there was no duplication in applications which sought change of address within and outside the constituency.
14 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Poll observer warns against bulk applications for inclusion of names||Bulk applications for inclusion of names in the voter list will not be accepted, and officials entrusted with the task are aware of the Election Commission of India’s guidelines, according to Monitoring Officer (Poll observer) Jothi Nirmalasami. Speaking at the Collectorate here on Sunday, she said the objective of conducting two-day special camps across the State was to include the names of eligible persons who had attained 18 years of age. The ECI had announced January 1, 2021 as the qualifying date for those turning 18. MLAs Shanmuganathan and Geetha Jeevan, Collector K. Senthil Raj and other officers were present. At the special camps, officials received a total of 57,272 applications out of which 40,415 sought inclusion of names in the voter list. After due enumeration, the names would be included. The ECI had urged the need for 100% inclusion of eligible names. Everyone, including political representatives, had responsibility to achieve the goal, Ms. Jothi Nirmalasami said. Earlier, she visited some of the polling stations where people had lined up to submit their applications for inclusion, addition and alteration of names and/or addresses in the voter list. During interaction, she said people should keep a tab on the voter list and ensure that their names appeared on the list properly. The Collector said there was brisk submission of applications during the camp in most of the polling stations. There were 1,603 polling stations in the district, officials added.
14 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Coast Guard seizes three tonnes of turmeric, arrests five||An Indian Coast Guard ship intercepted a fishing boat and seized about three tonnes of turmeric on Saturday. Five persons were detained. Preliminary inquiry revealed that the five men ventured into the sea at night to smuggle the turmeric to their counterparts in Sri Lanka. The Indian Coast Guard ship, Vaibhav, spotted their fishing boat 51 nautical miles southeast of Thoothukudi. A search on the boat led to seizure of 88 bags of turmeric, which the smugglers planned to exchange mid-sea near the International Maritime Boundary Line. The ICG personnel handed the men to the Customs Department at Thoothukudi for further interrogation. On October 10, an ICG surveillance team seized 510 kg of turmeric close to Rameswaram.
14 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Hospitality industry still sees no sign of recovery||Hospitality industry has been hit hard due to lockdown restrictions with regard to operations of trains and domestic and international flights. The industry, comprising hotels, lodges, restaurants, tours and cab operators, guides, online and offline travel agents, caterers and others, is struggling to recover from the impact of the pandemic. It was after vociferous demands from various stakeholders, that the State government extended its nod for reopening hotels from September with COVID-19 safety restrictions. It was then widely expected that the industry would regain the lost ground at least to a certain extent within one or two months. More than three months have passed since most hotels reopened for customers. But, stakeholders say there are no signs of recovery. October to January is considered a peak season for tourism industry. It is during this period, foreign tourists mainly from Singapore, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, and Europe and domestic tourists from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Kerala tour extensively the region including Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Palani, Karaikudi and Puducherry. Cabs, hotels and lodges would overflow with tourists. According to a rough estimate, there are about 130 hotels of various categories and over 2,000 tourists cars and vans in Tiruchi. There are hardly any takers for cars and vans. More than 70% of rooms are vacant in spite of many hotels offering huge discounts and slashing rates from 50% to 70%. “We face unprecedented crisis and untold sufferings. The damage is irreparable. We did not foresee the scale of crisis that we experience when lockdown was announced in March. There is hardly any takers for cabs. All of my tour vehicles are parked since the last week of March. We are clueless,” says R. Ramkumar, a tour operator in Srirangam. “Room rent would go up at least by 30% to 50% during the current peak season. Many hotels have slashed the rates to a great extent. But, there is no use. With poor patronage, hoteliers are struggling hard to pay loan dues, salary, electricity charges and other overheads,” says a manager of a popular hotel in Chathiram Bus Stand. Tour operators and hoteliers cite severe travel restrictions, frozen flight services from foreign countries, limited operation of inter-State trains, bus and flight services are among the main reasons for the current fiasco. They said that it was high time the Centre and State governments free up travel restrictions and resume national and international flights. Further delay would lead to an irreparable loss to them as well as to the overall economy.
14 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Positive cases show a steady decline||The central districts on Sunday recorded 82 new cases for COVID-19, marking a decline in the daily count over the last few days. No death was reported in the region according to the bulletin released by the Health Department. All districts except Thanjavur reported below 15 new cases. Meanwhile, in Thanjavur, 17 patients tested positive, many of whom were asymptomatic and detected through various fever camps held in the district. In Tiruvarur, 15 patients tested positive while in Tiruchi, 14 patients tested positive for the infection. Patients in Tiruchi were primary contacts, inter-district travellers and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. Meanwhile, four patients were discharged from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital after recovering from the viral infection. In Karur, 13 patients, including residents of Kulithalai, Vengamedu, Pugalur tested positive on Sunday. Meanwhile, inter-district travellers from Dindigul and Namakkal also reported positive. In Nagapattinam, 12 cases were reported while in Pudukottai nine cases were reported, a sharp drop over the last few days. Among them were local index cases and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. In Ariyalur, two patients tested positive while in Perambalur, no fresh cases were reported. Meanwhile, 180 throat swabs were lifted from people with symptoms of the viral infection and primary contacts in Perambalur and sent for testing.
14 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Written exam for constables, jail warders and firemen held||The written examination for recruitment of Grade -II Police Constables, Grade-II Jail Warders and Firemen in the central zone was held on Sunday amid tight police security and strict adherence to the standard operating procedure in the wake of the pandemic. The Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board examination, lasting one hour and 20 minutes, was conducted in 81 centres in the central zone, including 37 in Tiruchi distric,t with over 70,000 men and women candidates besides a few transgenders taking the test in all the eight districts falling under the zone. Police sources said the number of absentees in the central zone was over 7,400. Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, H. M. Jayaram and Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan were the super check officers for Perambalur and Tiruchi districts, respectively. Adequate police strength were deployed in every examination venue for invigilation and to guard the outer and inner peripheries. Every candidate entering the examination venue was subjected to thermal scanning and asked to wear a mask in case they didn't. Seating arrangements were done to ensure that there was sufficient distance between each candidate in the wake of the pandemic, said senior police officers. Tiruchi district had the highest number of examination centres with 37 followed by nine centres in Ariyalur district. The number of centres in Pudukottai district was eight; seven in Perambalur district; six each in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam district; five in Thanjavur district and three in Karur district. The examination was videographed in every centre and duly monitored by senior officers assigned for each district.
14 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Revival package sought for MSME units||The Tamil Nadu Boilers Association (TNBA) has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come up with a special package for revival of micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the country, especially struggling engineering fabrication units in Tiruchi, at the earliest. It has also sought the creation of a Rehabilitation Cell to deal with non-performing assets. Underlining the need for safeguarding the interest of MSME sector, Rajappa Rajkumar, Treasurer, TNBA, in a representation to the Prime Minister, pointed out that the MSME engineering units have been in deep trouble since 2012. The Tiruchi MSME engineering cluster, all ancillary units of BHE, have been in trouble since 2014 due to the coal contract cancellation by the Supreme Court. Mr. Rajkumar said that the situation was turning worse for the 52 promoters and around 10,000 employees. The livelihood of these families are at stake. Implementation of a special viable package without any further delay was imperative for saving the units. Since the MSME units have not received payments from their customers on time, they should be allowed to pay GST, Provident Fund and ESI dues in instalments without interest and penalty. Mr. Rajkumar suggested the formation of a high level committee to arrive at viable solutions for the revival and growth of the MSME sector. Special attention should be paid towards placing orders on MSME units / clusters in Defence, Railways, nuclear and aerospace sectors.
14 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Many unaware of Centre’s schemes’||Several families in the country were unaware of the development works being carried out by the BJP-led Central government, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s brother Prahlad Damodardas Modi said in Tiruchi on Sunday. Mr Prahalad, who heads the Pradhan Mantri Jan Kalyankari Yojana Prachar Prasar Abhiyan, said the voluntary organisation was striving to raise awareness among the people on the Central schemes and projects. About 20 to 25 lakh field-level ‘karyakars’ (workers) were associated with the organisation, he claimed adding the intent was to increase it to 25 crore. The workers were being trained through camps on meeting people at their doorsteps. The idea was to work for the people first before any poll campaign, said Mr Prahalad who visited the Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple. He desired to see Mr Modi retaining power in 2024 with the BJP winning in over 400 Lok Sabha seats.
14 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Awareness camp||The Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Institute (EDII), Chennai, and the Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association ( TIDITSSIA) will jointly host an entrepreneurship awareness camp at the TIDITISSIA office at Ariyamangalam in the city on December 16. Individuals above the age of 18 who wish to start their own ventures can attend the free day-long camp. Prior registration is a must. The camp will focus on business opportunities, government schemes available and funding. Participants will also be oriented to business models and drawing up business plans. The District Industries Centre would also work in tandem with the EDII and TIDITSSIA to offer support to participants, S. Gopalakrishnan, Secretary, TIDITSSIA, said in a press release. Those interested can register their names with TIDITSSIA by dialling 0431-2440119 / 2440114.
14 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Woman suffers bullet injury||A 35-year-old woman sustained bullet injury in her right leg when she went in search of her missing cow at Veeramalai firing range where firing practice was being conducted by a team of Army personnel on Saturday. The injured woman S. Nallammal of V. Poosaripatti is undergoing treatment at a private hospital here. Police said permission from the Collector had been obtained for using the place for firing practice from Dec. 4 to 20. The place used for the firing practice belongs to the Forest Department. The woman who had been grazing cows went in search of a missing animal that had allegedly strayed into the area where the firing practice was being conducted. A bullet hit the woman's right leg causing injuries. It is suspected that the bullet could have rebounded after hitting a stone. Investigation by the Vaiyampatti Police was on in connection with the incident.
14 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||TNUSRB examination held in southern districts||The Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board (TNUSRB) conducted written examinations for the post of Grade II personnel in police, fire and rescue services and prison departments on Sunday. In Tirunelveli district, Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan inspected an examination centre in Palayamkottai and told reporters that adequate security was provided at all centres. According to officials, 20,680 candidates had applied, and 18,512, including 15,015 men and 3,497 women, appeared for the exams. A total of 2,168 students were absent. In Tenkasi district, 13,831 men and 1,716 women totalling 15,547 had applied. On Sunday, 14,242 appeared (995 men and 310 women were absent). Superintendent of Police Suguna Singh said 1,000 policemen, including nine DSPs, 16 Inspectors and Home Guards, AR and Special Police, were deployed for bandobust. Cameras were installed at all centres. The Indian Red Cross Society tested the candidates. Ambulance vans were stationed at Tenkasi, Alangulam, Puliangudi, Sankarankoil. A total of 14,465 candidates, including 11,816 men and 2,649 women, appeared for the examination in Thoothukudi. DIG of Police (Railways) M.V. Jeya Gowri, Superintendent of Police Jayakumar supervised the examination centres. Elaborate security arrangements were in place at all centres in the district. The TNSTC had arranged special service buses on some stretches. Thermal scanners and sanitisers were used at the centres.Candidates were subjected to temperature checks before entering the halls. In some centres, policemen provided face masks to candidates. In Kanniyakumari district, out of 17,937 candidates, including 15,800 men and 2,137 women, a total of 1,980 did not turn up. Officials said the exams were held at 11 locations and 15,957 candidates appeared.
14 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Anti-dengue camps held at nine wards in Tirunelveli||Tirunelveli Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan on Sunday said 1.5 tonnes of waste materials were removed from houses in nine wards during a dengue fever prevention drive in the city. Every Saturday from December 12, Corporation authorities conduct dengue prevention camps and staff of the public health department would screen residents for cold and cough and take samples, if necessary, for further tests. The Commissioner said officials conducted door-to-door drive in 20,020 dwellings in nine wards and found occupants in 130 houses negligent. Fines were imposed on them. The need for support and cooperation from the public was highlighted by officials during the camp. Voluntary tests would help in eliminating the disease and prevention would be effective. During the day-long operation, officials lifted close to 1.5 tonnes of unwanted waste lying in houses and buildings. Objects such as unused tyres and coconut shells that could hold rainwater were the perfect breeding grounds for mosquitoes, he said. He appealed to residents to throw away such objects and keep their surroundings clean and free of waste materials. Similarly, he also urged them to ensure that there was no water stagnation behind refrigerators and in split AC units. A city health officer said 199 samples were taken after residents showed symptoms of cold and cough. As many as 6,037 people were given kabasura kudineer . Anti-dengue fever camps would be held every Saturday in the city covering all wards and fogging would be carried out twice in nine wards.
14 December 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Students will vote for AIADMK after 7.5% quota’||Students voting for the first time in the upcoming Assembly elections will choose AIADMK for introducing the 7.5% horizontal reservation for admission to medical and dental courses, said Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan on Sunday. After visiting the special camps for electoral roll revision within the limits of Palladam Assembly constituency, the Minister told the mediapersons that the schemes introduced by the State government, such as the 7.5% quota, have benefited the students in the State.
14 December 2020||Tiruvannamalai,TAMIL NADU||A palace in Tiruvannamalai district is crying for attention||A winding lane from Arni Road through a forest leads to Poosimalai Kuppam, a village in Arni which houses a dilapidated British-style building — the Poosi Forest Palace. Located close to 35 km from Vellore, this structure, which is over 170 years old, is an attraction for many architects and heritage enthusiasts. However, the building is crying for attention and has now become a haven for anti-social elements. With a structure about to crumble, villagers and heritage enthusiasts want the government to maintain it. Mohan Hariharan, an architect and a native of Arni, has started a ‘Save Arni Palace’ campaign. “This palace was built after 1850 by the 10th Arni Jagir Srinivasa Rao Sahib. The architect was William Pogson, a Britisher who has constructed many famous buildings in the Madras Presidency including the Spencer’s showroom,” explained Mr. Hariharan. He said Pogson had termed this palace the shooting box as it is believed British friends of the Jagir used to stay here and hunt foxes and hogs. “There is a rumour that it is a French Castle that the then Jagir built for his French mistress. This is wrong,” he added. The palace has two bedrooms on the ground floor and two on the first floor with attached bathrooms. “This is probably one of the few palaces in the region with chimneys for a fireplace. Though it was not required in a place with a hot and humid climate, the Jagir was adamant about having British-style construction,” he says. Unique feature Mr. Hariharan said another unique feature of the palace is that the ceiling is a form of Madras Terrace, but made with steel joists and brick jelly — lime concrete. “It also has a structural steel pillar brought from Britain, which is also used for rain water disposal. Pogson seems to have incorporated South Indian style construction too, in the building as seen in certain parts of the palace.” To save the palace from complete ruin, Mr. Hariharan started the campaign a few years ago. “I grew up in this place and have come for excursions to the palace during my school days. There used to be stained glass windows, which earned the palace the name of ‘Kannadi Maligai’,” he explained. Mr. Hariharan has been bringing many heritage enthusiasts to this palace over the past many years. “There are two other buildings near the palace. One seems to be the kitchen and servant quarters and another circular structure, with many pots, seems to be for pigeons. They could have been used for hunting or for sending messages,” he said. Residents’ demand “The palace has become a hangout for anti-social elements. People drink here and create a ruckus. When we question them, they verbally abuse us,” said a resident of Poomalai Kuppam village. Krishnaveni Thangaraj, panchayat president, Poosimalaikuppam village, said that it would be helpful if the government restores it and converts it into a tourist attraction. “A lot of people come here. It is an ideal tourist spot as the palace is surrounded by a forest,” she said.
14 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Over 10,300 seek inclusion of name in voters’ list in the Nilgiris district||As many as 10,396 persons submitted forms to enrol their names in the voters’ list in special camps for electoral roll held in the Nilgiris district till December 12, said District Collector J. Innocent Divya on Sunday. Ms. Divya told reporters that a total of 14,142 persons submitted the requisite forms at the special camps held so far in the district to add new voters' name, to remove names of the deceased, to make changes in address and for other actions. She urged persons who have attained the age of 18 to voluntarily come forward and submit forms to enrol their names in the voters list. The last of the two special camps for electoral revision in the district were held on Saturday and Sunday. However, people can submit forms at the taluk offices and revenue divisional offices on Monday and Tuesday.
14 December 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||33 new COVID-19 cases reported in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 19,805 with 33 new cases reported on December 13. While a total of 19,131 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 336. The district's death toll is 338. In Ranipet district, 11 cases were reported positive taking the total tally of the district to 15,759. In Tirupathur district, the total number of COVID-19 positive cases stood at 7,345 with three new cases that were reported on Sunday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 21 new cases were reported, taking the tally of total number of cases to 18,903. Out of this, 18,506 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 121 .
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Thousands of aspirants write TNUSRB exam||Out of 23,009 registered candidates, 20,816 men and women took the written examination conducted by Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board (TNUSRB) to recruit candidates for the post of Grade II constables, firemen and jail warders, held at 14 centres on Sunday. A total of 2,193 candidates absented themselves from the exam.  Theni In Theni district, 14,013 candidates - 12,576 men and 1,437 women - took the examination. As many as 1,269 registered candidates - 1,096 men and 173 women - were absent. Superintendent of Police Sai Charan Tejaswi visited a few centres. Dindigul In Dindigul district, 90.4 % of the registered candidates - 12,621 men and 2,304 women - appeared for the examination. DIG of Police M.S. Muthusamy and Supereintendent of Police Ravali Priya inspected a few of the centres. Physical distancing norm was followed at all the centres. The exam was held from 10 a.m. to 11.20 a.m. In some of the centres in Dindigul, the candidates had turned up as early as 7 a.m. Sivaganga Out of 12,306 registered candidates, 11,021 - 9,529 men and 1,492 women - took the examination held in 16 centres in Karaikudi in Sivaganga district, said Superintendent of Police Rohithnathan Rajagopal. As many as 1,285 candidates - 1,071 men and 214 women - were absent. Ramanathapuram A total of 13,938 candidates - 11,884 men and 2,054 women - appeared for the examination in Ramanathapuram district. Superintendent of Police E. Karthik inspected a few examination centres. The exam was held in 13 centres in Ramanathapuram, Paramakudi and Keelakarai. Hall tickets were sent to 15,509 candidates and 139,38 took the exxam and 317 men and 254 women were absent. Thermal scanners were used to test the temperature of the candidates as a part of the Standard Operating Procedure.
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem reports 66 new cases||The daily caseload of COVID-19 in Coimbatore district stood at 115 on Sunday. Health Department officials said that they were hopeful of seeing the daily caseload fall below the 100 mark soon. Meanwhile, the number of active cases of the disease in the district saw a slight increase and crossed the 1,000 mark on Sunday. This was due to the delay in the recovery of some earlier cases of COVID-19, officials said. The Health Department said that 102 persons from Coimbatore district recovered from the disease and got discharged from hospitals on Sunday. The district did not report any death due to COVID-19 on Sunday. In Tiruppur, 62 persons tested positive on Sunday while 71 persons left treatment centres after recovering from the disease. A 63-year-old patient from Tiruppur district died at a private hospital in Erode on Saturday. The district had 521 patients under institutional care. The Nilgiris reported nine new cases. While 26 persons from the district got discharged from hospitals on Sunday, 163 patients were undergoing treatment. In Salem, as many as 66 cases were reported. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous, including 22 in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 32 cases were reported. Two patients have returned from Karnataka and Coimbatore. Erode district reported 43 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 13,049. While 46 persons were discharged, 352 persons continue to be under treatment. In Krishnagiri, 15 indigenous cases were reported and 10 indigenous cases were reported in Dharmapuri.
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||BJP Tamil nadu chief L Murugan: ‘Rajinikanth’s entry will not split BJP’s votes’||A week after concluding the month-long ‘Vetrivel Yatra’, State BJP president L. Murugan insists that the religious-political roadshow was a success. In an interview, he disagrees that actor Rajinikanth’s proposed political entry will affect the national party. Excerpts:  Is the AIADMK-BJP front intact? DMDK treasurer Premalatha Vijayakant has said that a decision on alliance would be taken in January, and there is speculation about the PMK’s moves… When Amit Shah ji visited Chennai, representatives of all alliance parties, including the PMK and the DMDK, attended. The AIADMK leadership made it clear that the alliance would continue. I made it clear that the BJP’s national leadership would decide on the alliance. Shah ji also came in his capacity as Home Minister. So he could not make any announcements. The alliance continues as of now. Will Rajinikanth’s proposed political entry impact the BJP negatively? BJP is not based on individuals. Anyone can go on to become a top leader in our party. It is a party built on sacrifices and is cadre-based. There will be no loss for us no matter who starts a party. Our votes too will not be split. What is your response to the charge that Rajinikanth is the BJP’s proxy? I do not see it that way. He has not yet launched a party. He then has to fight elections. Let him start, then I will share my views. But the BJP’s Ra. Arjunamurthy has joined Rajinikanth… He is not our party leader. He joined us six months back, saying he is joining with a DMK background. We don’t know why he joined us and why he has left now. Will your claim of the BJP being capable of winning 60 Assembly seats hold good if Rajinikanth fights the election? I have said that there is a possibility of victory in 60-plus seats. That does not mean that we will win in only 60. In 2016, when we fought alone, we came second and third in 35 seats. Our votes made a difference to the results in 90 seats. The number of seats we will fight will be decided by our Central leadership. What has the impact of your ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ been? And there is a perception that the BJP is bringing the politics of religion into Tamil Nadu... ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ was a tremendous success, on a scale that we did not expect. All sections welcomed it, including Lord Murugan’s devotees, spiritual leaders and common citizens. Our party drawing huge crowds in Coimbatore is normal, but even in Tiruvannamalai, Kallakurichi, Cuddalore and Ranipet, we had stupendous acceptance from the people. When someone insults a particular God, there might be one section that says, “So what?” But you cannot force that view upon someone who has a belief in that God, and then ask: “Why are you protesting?” On the Kanda Sashti Kavasam issue, people were waiting to see if someone will condemn it. When the BJP took it up, people welcomed us. If the criticism is that we are politicising the issue, how would we have got such support? Will this be your sole election issue? The ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ was also meant to honour COVID-19 warriors, thank my field-level brothers who helped the people, and to propagate the Central schemes implemented in Tamil Nadu. For instance, 41 lakh farmers have received assisstance of Rs. 6,000 and 65 lakh have got LPG cylinders. Development issues are on our agenda.  For full interview, visit: https://bit.ly/LMurugan
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK-led alliance will continue, says Jayakumar||Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar on Sunday said the AIADMK-led alliance, formed during the Lok Sabha polls in Tamil Nadu, would continue, and that there was no confusion about the same. “Premalatha Vijayakant, who is the treasurer of DMDK, has made it clear that the alliance [with the AIADMK] will continue. PMK has also not said anything to the contrary,” Mr. Jayakumar told reporters. Mr. Jayakumar said the alliance would be led by the AIADMK. “It will be a mega coalition led by the AIADMK. You will soon see people from the DMK coming and joining us. No one will leave us and go join them. That is for sure,” he said. His statements come in the backdrop of DMDK leader L.K. Sudhish saying that the party would decide on its alliance in January. Rumours are also surfacing that the PMK might quit the alliance. On actor Rajinikanth, he said, “Let him first start a party. Then we will see”.  Premalatha Vijayakant, who is the treasurer of DMDK, has made it clear that the alliance will continue D. Jayakumar Fisheries Minister
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||71 test positive at IIT-M since Dec. 1||All those who tested positive are stable and being treated at the Government Corona Hospital, Guindy. From December 1 to 10, 16 persons tested positive. This was followed by 11 cases on Friday last, 12 on Saturday and 32 on Sunday. Mr. Radhakrishnan said the reason for more cases in the last one day was due to contact-tracing — testing of primary and secondary contacts and persons with symptoms. “As per public health protocols, we have advised the institute to put in place effective smart containment measures and avoid unnecessary movement. Out of the nine hostels and one guesthouse, there are more cases in two hostels. The Health Department, Greater Chennai Corporation, in coordination with IIT-M, has put in place SOPs. We will be testing 774 students; samples of 408 students have already been lifted,” he said. IIT-M has asked the students to stay in the hostels, providing them with single-room accommodation and packed food. Apart from essential laboratory activities, they have been asked not to operate, he said. Officials said the mess was closed on December 9, and a new catering service was arranged by the management. As more students tested positive, the dining hall was closed on December 10 and distribution of packed food to the rooms was started. “The cause of the spurt — whether it was due to the mess or imported cases — is being separately analysed. Meanwhile, we have asked all Collectors to keep a watch on colleges and hostels following the reopening. They have been told to have active fever surveillance measures,” the Health Secretary said. In a statement, authorities of IIT-M said they had been functioning with only 10% students in the hostels, and as soon as a spurt in symptomatic cases was reported, they had arranged for all students in the hostels to be tested. The institute was permitting research scholars, who need to do experimental work, to return to the campus after a 14-day quarantine and testing.
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two injured in attacks by wild elephant, sloth bear||Two persons were injured in the attacks of a wild elephant and a sloth bear in Coimbatore district on Saturday night and Sunday morning. According to the Forest Department, P. Nagaiyan (35) from Mokkamedu near Sirumugai was attacked by a tusker late on Saturday. The incident took place around 11.30 p.m. when Mr. Nagaiyan was guarding a plantation at Mokkamedu, which falls under Uliyoor beat of Pethikuttai section of Sirumugai forest range. Neighbours admitted him to a private hospital where he was diagnosed with fractures in jaw and right elbow. A Forest Department official said that a surgery was required to treat the jaw fracture. The frontline staff of the Department drove the tusker back to the nearest forest area. In a separate incident, M. Rasu (75), a resident of Saddle Dam area of Upper Sholayar Dam near Valparai, was attacked by a sloth bear on Sunday morning. The Forest Department said that Mr. Rasu had an encounter with a sloth bear when he was walking towards the Sholayar Dam around 6 a.m. The bear mauled the man’s head and left him injured. Mr. Rasu was taken to the Government Hospital at Valparai from where he was referred to the Government Hospital, Pollachi. The Forest Department said that it would provide compensation to the injured person. The Department has planned to fix a camera trap in the area to monitor movement of wild animals.
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||The Highways Department removes encroachments on the roadside. But municipalities and panchayats do not make such efforts to remove encroachments on streets, lanes and bylanes. For instance, in Ramanathapuram town and Bharathi Nagar area, there are many such encroachments. The civic body must take immediate action to remove them.  Asmabagh Anvardeen,      To avoid noise pollution associated with fireworks, the government should ban manufacturing and sale of crackers that make loud noise. Only fireworks such as sparklers should be permitted. Sale of fireworks should be allowed for only a couple of days before Deepavali and the use of sparklers should be allowed only on Deepavali and on the eve of Christmas and New Year.  P. Raja, Madurai
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||The Institute of Company Secretaries of India and Bharathiar University: Signing of MoU for academic collaboration, 3 pm
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||14-12-20-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA  Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan's Cultural Festival 2020, Chennai Open-Air Live Programme up to 19.12.2020 in association with South Zone Cultural Centre ( Ministry of Culture, Government of India ) at Bhavan's Rajaji Vidyashram Campus, No.6, Kilpauk Garden Road, Kilpauk, Chennai-600 001. Today at 6.00 pm Dr. U Ve. M.V. Ananthapadmanabhachariar ( Discourse ). Tomorrow at 6.00 pm : Sri Prince Rama Varma ( vocal ). Programme supported by : Sriram Group, Ramco Cements & Ramco Industries, AVA Cholayil Health Care ( Medimix ), Larsen & Toubro, Seshasayee Paper & Boards, MGM Health Care, SMK Fomra Institute of Technology, Kauvery Hospitals., Nalli Silks, Sri Krishna Sweets, Sri K.V. Rangaswamy ( L & T ), Dhanvantari Nano Ayushadi, Newry Properties & Indian Oil Corporation. Admission subject to following. S.O.P Temperature check, Hand Sanitizing, Wearing Mask and Distance Seating).NO TICKETS Also Watch Live:http://krishnansons.com/bhavans -art-festival-2020  RASIKA RANJANI SABHA (Regd.) Mylapore, Chennai-600 004 Today Music concert-at 4.00 P.M Parur M.S.Ananthashree, Madurai T.Kishore, Nagai S.Narayanan. 5.30 P.M. Sikkil C.Gurucharan, L.Ramakrishnan, Akshay Anandhapadmanabhan, Sunil Kumar. Website: rasikaranjanisabha.orgE.Mail:-rasikaranjanisabha1929@gmail.comPHONE: 044-24641767
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem||Sona College of Technology: AICTE-sponsored two-week faculty development programme on Future of fashion: AI,IOT,AR,VR, robotics, sensors and big data analytics, 9.30 a.m.
14 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Rescue vehicles flagged off under One Nation One Helpline Scheme||Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan launched police rescue vehicles under the One Nation One Helpline Scheme in Belagavi on Sunday. He said that the government had clubbed health care, policing and Fire and Emergency Services under the Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) or One Nation One Helpline scheme. Those in need could avail themselves of these essential government services by dialling 112 from a fixed line or mobile telephone. Earlier, there were different helplines, including 100 and 101, for various services. From now on, they would be integrated, Dr. Thiyagarajan said. They could also seek help by sending SMS or email to the 112 portal or the panic mobile application. The synchronisation of the services had been done using the latest technology. This ensured that the nearest police Hoysala vehicle would rush to the person in distress. Use of hi-tech tools had reduced the average response time to 15 seconds.  Central control room The central control room for the ERSS was set up at the Police Commissioner’s office in Belagavi. Staff would operate the control room round the clock. They would speak to the caller and find out what kind of help he needs. As many as 15 ERSS Hoysala vehicles will be on the roads in Belagavi. They have been fitted with global positioning system (GPS) and mobile data terminal (MDT) and other equipment. Earlier, Dr. Thiyagarajan flagged off vehicles that would be manned by officers who would respond to distress calls, at the Police Commissioner’s office.
14 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Family members of NWKRTC staff join strike in Belagavi||NWKRTC employees continued their strike for the third day in Belagavi on Sunday. Wives, husbands and children of workers joined the protesters in the Central Bus Stand. They sat for hours holding placards, walked on their knees and staged a half-naked protest by removing their shirts. They also raised slogans against Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi. The strike continued in Vijayapura, Bagalkot and Hubballi-Dharwad too. In Vijayapura, NEKRTC buses remained mostly off the road for the third day on Sunday. Drivers and conductors of NEKRTC boycotted work and staged a protest against the State government, with demands like regularisation of services as transport department employees. A driver said that it was a long-pending demand but successive governments had failed to fulfil it. NEKRTC officers said that the division had suffered a loss of Rs. 18 lakh per day.
14 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||SDMCET to start online short-term training programme today||Sri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara College of Engineering and Technology (SDMCET) Dharwad will organise an online short- term training programme (STTP) on “Research Trends in Computer Science and Engineering” from December 14-19 and December 21-26. All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) is sponsoring the event, SDMCET principal K. Gopinath said on Saturday. The Department of Computer Science and Engineering will conduct the first phase of STTP, while the second phase will be conducted by the Department of Information Science and Engineering. Mr. Gopinath said that this training is to share the research trends in computer science and engineering-related domains such as Artificial Intelligence, Big Data, Data Analytics, Image Processing, Cloud Computing, Deep Learning, Machine Learning, Blockchain, Networks Security, Internet of Things, Free and Open Source Software. The training is free and available online for faculty and research scholars from different engineering colleges, polytechnic institutes and universities. Dean and former Professor, IISc, D.K. Subramanian, and Head, Centre for Educational Technology, IIT Kharagpur, Rajib Mall, will deliver the keynote address. Speakers T.V. Ramachandra from IISc, Kavi Mahesh, Director IIIT Dharwad, Gurumurty Hegde CNR Rao Chair Professor, Mahadeva Prasanna, IIT Dharwad, Vishwas T. Patil, IIT Bombay, B. Krishna Mohan, IIT Bombay, K.K. Biswas, Professor (retd), IIT Delhi, and Devika P. Madalli, ISI Bengaluru, will deliver talks. Industry leaders Krupasheela Rajendran, Associate Vice-President, HCL, Amitesh Anand, Co-Founder @366Pi and Accuvate, Ranchi, and Amol Bokil, Solutions Architect Manager, Texas Instruments, United States, will participate. Mr. Gopinath said that the college will conduct the induction programme for first year engineering students from December 14 to 19 online. The programme will begin with a message from president of SDME Society D. Veerendra Heggade, secretary Jeevandhar Kumar, and deans and himself.
14 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Govt. urged to re-start compensation scheme||Chairman of Karnataka Sheep and Goat Farmers Federation Panditrao Chidri has urged the State government to restart the compensation scheme for farmers who lost their sheep or goats. He told journalists in Belagavi on Sunday that the B.S. Yediyurappa- led BJP government had to restart the scheme that was started by the Siddaramaiah government. T he scheme envisaged payment of Rs. 5,000 per sheep or goat that small animal farmers lost due to disease or calamity. Unfortunately, this scheme was stopped by the later governments. “We urge the Chief Minister to restart the compensation scheme,” Mr. Chidri said.
14 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State sees a rise in obesity and overweight levels in last 4 years||While the rise in the number of people with nutritional deficiencies and anaemia in the State is a cause for concern, there is another worrying trend: the sharp rise in obesity and overweight levels in the last four years, according to data provided by the National Family Health Survey 5 (NFHS). This is applicable to women, men, and children as well. The survey showed that 30.1% of women were categorised as either overweight or obese. In NFHS 4 (2015-2016), 23.3% of women fell under the same categories. The percentage of men who are overweight or obese stands at 30.9% in NFHS 5. Data from NFHS 4 showed that 22.1% of men were classified as obese or overweight. Manjari Chandra, a functional nutritionist who is also a member of the Indian Dietetic Association (IDA), said that the rise in obesity levels is a health concern as it can be predisposition to several cardio-metabolic diseases such as hypertension and heart diseases. “Many people in States like Karnataka have moved to a sedentary lifestyle, but still have a diet that is carbohydrate rich. There is a mismatch between the work they do and the nutrition that they consume,” she said. The children under the age group of five years who are overweight according to NFHS 5 stands at 3.2 %, an increase compared to NFHS 4 (2.6%). On a positive note, the percentage of women and men whose body mass index is below normal has declined compared to the previous survey. According to the existing data, women whose body mass index is below normal stands at 17.2%, while men whose body mass index stands at 14.3%.
14 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Arbitrarily deploying employees on 12-hour shifts is a violation’||The violent protest at the Wistron Infocomm Manufacturing (India) plant, which manufactures iPhones, at Narasapura near Kolar, has raised questions on labour issues, especially in the backdrop of the recent unrest at the Toyota Kirloskar Motor plants at Bidadi. Contract workers at Wistron who ransacked the premises claimed that they had not been paid for three to four months and had shifts that were 12 hours long. They said they had yet to get paid for working overtime. Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar said no labour amendment in Karnataka allows employers to deploy their employees on a 12-hour shift at a stretch. “Working overtime is a personal decision. If an employee wants to work overtime and if he or she is paid extra for those hours, it is a choice the worker makes and certainly not the employer. Arbitrarily deploying employees in a 12-hour shift is a violation of the labour law,” he said. He said if there was a violation from the employers’ side, the employees have all the right to reach out to the Labour Department. “We have not received any complaint as yet,” he said. If workers haven’t received their wages and overtime allowances, it was a matter of concern for the government and his department would look into the matter on priority, he added. Violence condemned He, however, condemned the violence. “I understand employee sentiments, especially when not paid for months. But that does not give anyone the right to take the law into their own hands, resort to violence, and destroy properties. My government will not support such a destructive spirit.” The department is currently in the process of understanding what went wrong at Wistron. Over 10,000 people, through six staffing companies, are employed at Wistron on contact. “We are an industrially forward State and we need more industries to come in to create more jobs for our people,” the Minister added. The Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce (BCIC) via a press release said that the series of recent labour issues in Karnataka were ‘unfortunate’ especially at a time when the economy was rapidly reviving after the huge downfall owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. Commenting on the incidents, R. Parasuraman, president, BCIC, said: “It’s disheartening to note that people are taking the law into their own hands. While the investment climate in Karnataka has been improving... these kinds of issues will dent the investor confidence and affect the employment opportunities. It is very important for all the stakeholders to seriously introspect from these incidents and take quick and appropriate countermeasures”
14 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Male sterilisation has fallen to 0% in Karnataka, reveals NFHS-5 data||Male sterilisation, which has always been abysmal in Karnataka, has further dipped from 0.1% in 2015-2016 to 0% in 2019-2020, according to the latest National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) data for Karnataka. This is not only in keeping with the national trend, but it has been prevailing over the years. Male participation in family planning (permanent method or no-scalpel vasectomy-NSV) has never gone beyond 0.1% in Karnataka. Double income The fact that men get nearly double the incentive for undergoing the surgery has never encouraged them. Women get Rs. 600 (BPL category) and Rs. 250 (for APL category) for sterilisation, while men get Rs. 1,100 in any category. Crying foul over this, health activists alleged that the system has stopped making attempts to encourage men to undergo NSV. “It shows the intrinsic gender prejudice within the health system and also the society in general. NSV being less complicated and safer than female sterilisation, all efforts should be made to increase this,” said Sylvia Karpagam, a public health doctor and researcher. In contrast, female sterilisation has gone up from 48.6% in 2015-2016 to 57.4% in 2019-2020. Female sterilisation in rural areas is as high as 58.9%, according to the data. The data shows that intrauterine device (IUD) use is still very low even though it has gone up from 0.8% to 2.9%. “This means that more women are opting for permanent than temporary methods. It would be important to understand how this affects spacing between pregnancies,” Dr Karpagam pointed out. Safe and no side-effects Prakash Reddy, Karnataka’s former NSV trainer, said the procedure is safe and has practically no side-effects or complications. “There is a misconception that NSV can lead to impotency and loss of strength. NSV was mooted by the Union government to ensure men also share the responsibility of population control,” he said. “It is a nearly painless procedure for men, who can just walk in and walk out. Their reluctance is not understandable. On the contrary, women have to undergo the procedure under anaesthesia,” he said. Stating that more information, communication and education (IEC) activities should be taken up to motivate men, he said as the State health system is busy tackling one disease after another hardly any efforts are being made to promote male sterilisation.  NSV being less complicated and safer than female sterilisation, all efforts should be made to increase this Sylvia Karpagam, public health doctor and researcher.
14 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Uncertainty over admission process for next academic year||If it weren’t for the pandemic, private school managements would have completed admissions for the 2021–22 academic year by this month. However, with the academic calendar thrown into disarray, schools are still uncertain over when and how the current academic year will end. While some top schools in the city have started conducting virtual tours of their campuses and hosting online workshops for prospective parents, most budget schools have not even started the admission process. No clarity Lokesh Talikatte, State unit president of the Recognised Unaided Private Schools’ Association, Karnataka, said they were still unsure of how this academic year would pan out and did not want to begin the next year’s admission process. “We will first have to conduct admissions for kindergarten and class one, but these are the classes that will not begin anytime soon. We need clarity on when the vaccine will roll out before making these decisions, which is why we haven’t started the admission formalities,” he said. Gayatri Devi, principal of Little Flower Public School, said they also had not started admissions for the 2021–22 academic year. “But we are conducting registrations so that we can inform parents about the admission process once the school management decides to begin it,” she said. Parents, too, for the most part, are adopting a wait-and-watch approach. Schools, which are usually inundated with enquiries from prospective parents, said it was not the case this year. According to Mansoor Ali Khan, member of the board of management of DPS Group of Schools, even the number of enquiries is low. “We have seen a 25-30% dip even in admission requests this year. But we have begun virtual tours of the campus. Parents of nursery, LKG, and UKG students are closely monitoring the COVID-19 situation and admissions are not on their mind at the moment. Many parents who are working from home at present feel that they are better off homeschooling their children who are in the lower grades,” he said.
14 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Jeffrey Archer engages audience in his inimitable style at BLF||The second day of the Bangalore Literature Festival (BLF) saw sessions with speakers such as Joshua Matthew, Lieutenant General Asad Durrani and A.S. Dulat, Hamid Ansari and Geeta Mohan, Milind Soman and Roopa Pai, and Jeffrey Archer. Mr. Archer engaged the audience in his inimitable style, holding forth on a range of topics. To a question by author Nirmala Govindrajan, who was moderating the session, on why he wouldn’t write more children’s books — he has written four — he replied, “I am 80! I’ve now got to write eight books on [detective] William Warwick before I die. If I had time I would, but I don’t.” Locked down He also spoke about his situation during the pandemic stating that he has been privileged (“I was locked down for 144 days during which I wrote the third William Warwick book”); the difference between writers and storytellers; his admiration for R.K. Narayan and women’s rights (“If I dare say, your country is way behind on that particular subject”). While last year’s edition saw a crowd of 25,000 people, this year’s festival, muted owing to the pandemic, saw an in-person attendance of about 550 people at the Bangalore International Centre over the two days. The number of live attendees online was about 5,000 over the two days, according to V. Ravichandar, honorary director, BIC, who is also part of the core team of the BLF Earlier, Chetan Bhagat spoke about his latest book, One Arranged Murder ,  in a session moderated by journalist Shrabonti Bagchi. Stating that he read a lot of crime books in preparation, Mr. Bhagat added, “It’s a very different ball game to write a murder mystery.” He also spoke about the obsession with the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, the media’s coverage, and the dangers of it.
14 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||609 receive degrees at NMKRV convocation||As many as 548 undergraduate and 61 postgraduate students on Saturday received their degrees, and rankholders received medals at the 12th convocation of NMKRV College for Women. According to a NMKRV College release, Vice-Chancellor of R.V. University Y.S.R. Murthy, in his convocation address, stressed the need for skilling, re-skilling, and upskilling in order to be ready for the demands of the future workplace in the 21st century. Referring to the World Economic Forum 2022 Skills Outlook report, Dr. Murthy highlighted the importance of, among other things, analytical thinking and innovation, creativity, active learning, critical thinking and analysis, emotional intelligence, technology design, and programming. Pointing out Artificial Intelligence and many other disruptive technological innovations, Dr. Murthy stressed the need for students to anticipate, be flexible and quickly adapt to the changes.
14 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,196 new COVID-19 cases reported||As many as 1,196 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Karnataka on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 9.01 lakh. Discharged Meanwhile, the total number of pesons discharged on the day stood at 2,036, taking the total number of persons discharged to 8.72 lakh. Meanwhile, five new COVID-19 deaths were reported in the State, taking the total number of deaths owing to the virus to 11,944. This is besides the 19 deaths of patients who had tested positive but had died owing to non-COVID-19 causes. The media bulletin thta was issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare on Sunday stated that there were 17,409 active cases. Out of these, 260 patients have also been admitted in intensive care units across different designated hospitals. As many as 88,542 tests were conducted in the State on Saturday. The positivity rate for the day stood at 1.35% and the case fatality rate for the day stood at 0.41%.
14 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Wealthier nations worst hit during pandemic’||COVID-19 has affected populations around the world and in many instances the wealthier nations and more privileged communities have been the worst affected during the pandemic, said Professor Norman Sartorius, former president of the World Psychiatric Association and former Chief, Mental Health Division, WHO. Speaking on ‘Pandemics and the Mind: the view from 2020’ at the Medico Pastoral Association’s (MPA) first Dr. Joyce Siromoni Memorial Oration, he said the illness will cause most damage in the most developed and richest parts of the world because in them the numbers of people surviving while having chronic illnesses is high. Along with the physical toll and mortality, this pandemic has many psychological morbidities, especially anxiety, depression and intrafamilial violence, he said. Emphasising that the current COVID-19 pandemic was not the first, nor would it be the last, he pointed out that there were some unique features with the present scourge. Prof. Sartorius also said that the mortality was higher not only among those with pre-existing physical illnesses but also among those who are already mentally ill. Silver lining However, he mentioned that there is a silver lining: the frantic search for a vaccine is likely to enrich scientific knowledge, especially regarding viruses and viral diseases. “The decision to give priority in the programs of vaccination to the elderly might be an indication of the re-awakening of the sense of need to consider ethical principles in the provision of health care. The COVID-19 syndemic will claim more victims and misery in the time to come. When it finally abates humanity should remember every part of it and use memories of success and of failures to create strategies which it will use to fight future pandemics,” he said. Earlier senior members of the association gave an account of the history and progress of the MPA and presented a profile of the founder secretary, the late Dr. Joyce Siromoni.
14 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM raises eyebrows by supporting HDK||Over the past year and a half, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, despite losing power to the BJP, has been seen as being “soft” towards the B.S. Yediyurappa government. In a gesture that is seen as returning the favour, the Chief Minister has come to Mr. Kumaraswamy’s support after farmers’ leader hurled criticism at him. While Mr. Kumaraswamy has refused to attack the government on issues such as floods and the handling of COVID-19, even as the Congress has raised claims of mismanagement, eyebrows were raised after Mr. Yediyurappa publicly came to Mr. Kumaraswamy’s support on Saturday. “It is condemnable that [KRRS leader] Kodihalli Chandrashekar has used inappropriate language about former Chief Minister Kumaraswamy,” Mr. Yediyurappa said in a statement. Though Mr. Yediyurappa is seen as being considerate towards the Assembly constituencies represented by Janata Dal (S) legislators in respect to release of grants, political circles are agog with the increasing bonhomie between the two leaders. Over the past few months, a couple of meetings between the two leaders had sparked off speculation about a possible alignment between the two parties, an idea dismissed by Mr. Kumaraswamy. The JD(S) lending support to the Land Reforms (Second) Amendment Bill in the Legislative Council recently, where the BJP lacked numbers, triggered more speculation. Politically, the JD(S) is now seeing the Congress as its main rival over the BJP as it fights the Congress in its traditional voter base of Old Mysore. It is afraid of an erosion of its voter base because of its alignment with the Congress to form the coalition government. Sources in the Chief Minister’s Office said that nothing much should be read intothe CM’s note and that it was only a general statement. “The Chief Minister has a good rapport with people across the political spectrum. Politics is different. He felt decency had to be maintained and Mr. Chandrashekar’s statements against Mr. Kumaraswamy lacked that,” a source said.
14 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Home delivery of prasadam||The Department of Posts has launched a scheme for home delivery of Sabarimala prasadam. Packets containing aravana, ghee, sandalwood paste, vibhooti, kumkumam, and turmeric will be delivered through Speed Post. Devotees can remit Rs. 450 per packet at any post office, the Office of the Chief Postmaster General, Karnataka Circle, said in a note. Owing to the pandemic, only a limited number of people can visit the shrine.
14 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Wonderla visitors protest after being denied entry||Hundreds of people who had booked tickets to visit the amusement park Wonderla in Bidadi started venting their ire after they arrived at the gates only to be denied entry. “The district administration had instructed the management of the park to shut down operations as the licence had expired, but did not inform visitors about this,” said a senior police officer. The management had taken the bookings from customers. The situation got increasingly tense as hundreds of people gathered outside the park demanding their money back and compensation for the trip made. “We have travelled four hours and paid money to visit Wonderla,” said one protester, demanding that he be refunded immediately. The management tried to reason with them and asked for seven days to refund the amount, but people were in no mood to listen. “I have come all the way from Madikeri with my family after booking the tickets. The staff of the amusement park did not tell me anything but are now saying that they cannot operate,” said an angry businessman. The police were deployed to maintain law and order and bring the situation under control, S. Girish, Superintendent of Police, Ramnagar said. “Until the amusement park renews its licence, it will not be allowed to open its doors to the public,” he added.
14 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Toyota lockout will be lifted soon: Minister||Toyota Kirloskar Motors (TKM) will lift the lockout, introduced on November 10, in the next three or four days, said Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar. The Labour Department had five sessions of talks with Toyota and TKM Employee Union to pursue them to end the deadlock. In addition, Toyota management also met the CM recently, said the Minister.
14 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Suspected mastermind behind kidnap of ex-MLA held||The Kolar police are close to solving the case involving the kidnapping of former Kolar MLA Varthur Prakash and his driver. “We have arrested one of the prime accused and have reason to believe that he masterminded the incident. He happens to be an associate of underworld don Ravi Pujari,” said a senior police officer. The former MLA and his driver were kidnapped and tortured for three days by an armed gang of eight men while they were returning from a farmhouse on November 25. After analysing hundreds of clips from CCTV cameras and thousands of call record details, the police zeroed in on four people who were part of the gang. They were allegedly following the instructions of the prime accused, identified as Kaviraj. According to the police, Kaviraj is believed to be an associate of Ravi Pujari, who was extradited from Senegal and arrested earlier this year. When the police learned of his involvement, they set up a trap using another suspect in the case, Rohith. “We got Rohith to set up a meeting at Hosur on Saturday. Kaviraj arrived at the spot, but sensing danger he tried to escape in his car,” said a police officer. The police chased and caught him after his car got stuck in silt on an unmade road. Seemanth Kumar Singh, IGP, Central range, said, “We suspect it is a bigger racket with many more people involved.”
14 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Disruption in power supply||There will be disruption in power supply from December 15 to 19 between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. inareas serviced from 220/66/11- kV HSR MUSS, for taking up conversion and cable works. According to a Bescom release, the areas to be affected are: HSR Layout 5th Sector and surrounding areas on December 15, Jakkasandra and surrounding areas on December 16, Teachers Colony and surrounding areas on December 17, Venkatapura main road and surrounding areas on December 18, and KSRP police quarters and surrounding areas on December 19.
14 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Toyota lockout will be lifted soon: Minister||Toyota Kirloskar Motors (TKM) will lift the lockout, introduced on November 10, in the next three or four days, said Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar. The Labour Department had five sessions of talks with Toyota and TKM Employee Union to pursue them to end the deadlock. In addition to this, Toyota management also met the Chief Minister recently, said the Minister.
14 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Woman, son caught; gold, cash recovered||A tip-off from an informant to a police officer doing his rounds helped the police solve a Rs. 1.31-crore theft that had taken place in a house belonging to a relative of Bollywood actor Boman Irani. “The owner of the house was not aware that the items had been stolen until we inquired with the family,” said a senior police officer. On December 2, when D. Kumar, Assistant Commissioner Of Police was on patrol duty, he received a tip-off that a youth was trying to sell gold biscuits at a jewellery store on Nagavarapalya main road. Mr. Kumar, who was in the vicinity, rushed to the storeand caught Michael Vincent, 20, of K.G. Halli. He recovered two gold biscuits worth Rs. 10 lakh from him. He told the police that he had got the gold from his mother who asked him to pawn it. A team detained the mother, Mary Alice, at her house. She allegedly confessed that she had stolen the items from an apartment in Embassy Crown on Aga Ali Abbas Road where she was working as a domestic help. “We took her to the house of Khursheed Irani where he found that seven gold biscuits, in all weighing 700 gm, Rs. 85 lakh in cash, and $15,000 had been stolen,” said a police officer. He added that Michael is a PU drop-out working in an animation firm as a graphic designer. “He was heavily in debt because of his drinking and gambling problem and forcedhis mother to steal from her employer,” said the police officer. She started stealing valuables from April to November and allegedly gave it to Michael who would pawn them to pay off his loans.
14 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Buses remain off the road for the third day in Kalaburagi||As part of the indefinite strike by the employees working in the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), North West Karnataka Transport Corporation (NWKRTC), North East Karnataka Transport Corporation (NEKRTC) and Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), the employees of NEKRTC intensified their agitation across cities and towns in Kalyana Karnataka and Vijayapura district on Sunday. Since more employees joined the agitation on the third day parking their buses either at bus stands or depots, the public transport system was completely thrown off gear. Bus stands across the region wore a deserted look with empty buses as people were already aware of the ongoing agitation. The employees began a hunger strike to mount pressure on the government. “Our agitation will continue till our main demands are fulfilled. There is no question of going back now,” an agitating employee said. NEKRTC is expected to be incurring Rs. 2 crore loss of revenue every day. It has around 19,000 employees and 4,000 buses. All the services, except for emergency services, had to be suspended as most of the employees participated in the strike. The strike received external support from a few organisations and individuals. Congress leader and Humnabad MLA Rajashekhar Patil met the agitating employees in Humnabad and extended his support to the strike. “The government should understand the problems of transport employees and positively respond to their grievances. It should consider the employees as public servants and extend all entitlements that come with that,” he said and appealed to the employees to maintain peace during the strike. In Kalaburagi, Shramajeevigala Vedike extended its support to the strike. Members associated with the organisation staged a demonstration in support of the strike in the Kalaburagi Central Bus Stand. “The demands of the transport employees are genuine and the government should consider them. The transport employees are working hard to ensure the safe journey of people but they themselves are deprived of their rights,” Chandrashekhar Hiremath, president of the vedike, said, during the demonstration. Meanwhile, incidents of private transport operators exploiting helpless people by overcharging were reported from certain places. Koppal Police were found checking private vehicles at Alavandi, Kukanur and other places and imposing fine on their drivers for overloading passengers. Railway stations in the region saw relatively more crowds as people turned to train services in the absence of bus services.
14 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Sharnbasva University gets included in NISP||The Innovation Cell of the Union Ministry of Education has included Sharnbasva University in the high-level National Innovation and Startup Policy (NISP) opening new vistas for students and faculty to actively engage themselves in innovation and entrepreneurship-related activities. Sharnbasva University is the only university in the region to have been included in the NISP in the second phase of the programme during 2020-21. In a communication from the Minister to the university, Shivakumar Rachoti and Pankaj Jadhav, faculty of the Mechanical Department in the university, have been nominated as the Chairman and Coordinator under NISP for the university, respectively.
14 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Homoeopathy hospital inaugurated||Dr. A.B. Malakareddy Homoeopathy Hospital established by Hyderabad Karnataka Education Society in Kalaburagi was inaugurated by Gangadhar Swami of Abbe Tumukuru Math. The hospital was named after the former Minister and the former president of HKE Society A.B. Malakareddy on his 85th birth anniversary here on Sunday. Society president Bheemashankar Bilgundi said that the hospital building was completed in just 19 months at an estimated cost of Rs. 10 crore. Kalaburagi MP Umesh Jadhav and Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board chairman and MLA Dattatreya Patil Revoor were present.
14 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||31 jackfruit varieties conserved at Pilikula Nisargadhama||To conserve the vanishing varieties of jackfruit, Dr. Shivaram Karanth Pilikula Nisargadhama has planted 31 cultivars (varieties) in its Botanical Garden here. All of them are elite grafted cultivars procured from well-known grafter Gururaja Balthillaya of Perdoor in Udupi district. They are high yielding in nature, differ in colour and have good sweet taste, Principal Scientist at the nisargadhama H. Soorya Prakash Shenoy told The Hindu . Showing a variety planted near the Guttu Mane which has started yielding now, medicinal plant supervisor at the nisargadhama Udaya Kumar Shetty said that the bulbs of the particular variety have dark yellow colour and are very sweet. Mr. Shetty said that of 155 saplings of the 31 varieties planted in the garden, 40 saplings did not survive. Mr. Balthillaya said that the varieties given to Pilikula comprised those grown in high rainfall areas of Malnad and coastal belt and some grown in the dry belt or Bayaluseeme. Of late, it has been realised that the varieties from the dry belt do not grow in the coastal belt. Even if some trees from the dry belt variety survive, they did not give fruits. Hence, some saplings from the dry belt planted at Pilikula have died. Some of the varieties planted included All Season Mangaluru, Prashanti, Ananya, Mankale Red, Chandra Bakke, Talvani, Ramachandra and Toobgere. The grafter said that among the varieties planted at Pilikula some are early yielding which bear fruit after three years of planting and a few are late yielding ones that take time, up to 10 years, to give yields after planting. The All Season Mangaluru began yielding in three years after planting. The grafter said that Mankale Red variety is from Sagar in Shivamooga and Talvani is from the high rainfall belt of Sringeri. The dry belt varieties Shankara and Siddu are not suitable for cultivation in the high rain fall areas. Mr. Balthillaya said that jackfruit orchards are spreading in the dry belts of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu now. There is demand for the grafted saplings from those belts. Mr. Shenoy said that there is a need to have a directory of jackfruit growers, with the area and varieties listed. The directory should also specify which variety is suitable for making different value added products. There is no data base now, he added.
14 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kishore Kumar Kodgi is new CAMPCO president||Kishore Kumar Kodgi was elected president of Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Cooperative Ltd. (CAMPCO) here on Sunday. He is from Amavasyebail in Kundapur of Udupi district. Shankaranarayana Bhat Khandige was re-elected as vice-president of the cooperative. Mr. Kodgi and Mr. Khandige will be in office till 2025. The newly elected 16 directors of the board of the cooperative met in the head office of the cooperative here in the afternoon and selected the cooperative president and vice-president, a release said. Earlier, all the 16 new directors of the board had been elected unopposed. The cooperative conducted its annual general body meeting in the city in the forenoon. The other directors of the cooperative from Karnataka are Raghavendra H.M. from Shivamooga, Shambhulinga Ganapathi Hegde from Sirsi, S.R. Satishchandra, outgoing president, from Vitla, Krishna Prasad Madthila from Sullia, Mahesh Chowta and Raghavendra Bhat, both from Bantwal, and Dayananda Hegde from Karkala. The other directors from Kerala are Padmaraja Pattaje from Badiyadkka, Jayaprakash Narayana T.K. from Meeyapadavu, Jayarama Saralaya from Panattadi, Balakrishna Rai from Paivalike, Radhakrishnan K. from Hosadurga, Sathyanarayana Prasad from Mulleriya and Suresh Kumar Shetty from Kidor, the release added.  Mr. Kodgi and Mr. Khandige will be in office till 2025
14 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Boat carrying urea, vegetables set to sail out for Maldives from Old Port soon||A consignment of urea and vegetables is set to sail out for Maldives from the Mangaluru Old Port for the first time. Charandas V. Karkera, who runs Cruise and Dine at the Old Port, has bagged the contract for the supply of vegetables, cow dung and cocopit to Maldives. The material is being loaded onto MSV Noor e Al Khadri, which is set to sail out in a couple of days following clearance from Customs, New Mangalore Port and Old Port authorities. Mr. Karkera said that for a long time, construction and other material were being taken in boats from the Old Port to Lakshadweep. “For the first time, we are exploring the Maldives market, which is catered to from Thootukudi port (in Tamil Nadu),” he said. About 100 tonnes of cow dung and cocopit and about 60 tonnes of cucumber and other vegetables are being taken in the vessel. “I hope to see more boats on this route,” he said. A team of six sailors led by captain Kannan will be taking the material in the vessel that has a capacity to carry 400 tonnes. Following clearance from officials, the material is being loaded onto the vessel. “It will take about two days to reach Maldives,” Mr. Karkera added. It was in May that Mr. Karkera first attempted to send a consignment to Maldives from the Old Port. Due to engine problem, the vessel capsized. This is the second time a consignment is being sent. An official from the Old Port said that the vessel will sail out only after getting clearances from all agencies. NMPT’s food testing unit has to give clearance for the food articles, while Customs have to clear the other commodities. The Old Port will look at the safety and communication equipment in the vessel. The Old Port authorities and the Indian Coast Guard will continuously keep track of the movement of the vessel, he said.
14 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Scholar, discourser Bannanje Govindacharya passes away||Well-known Sanskrit scholar and eminent discourser Bannanje Govindacharya passed away at his residence at Ambalpady in Udupi on Sunday. He was 84, and is survived by four daughters and a son. Mr. Govindacharya had lost his other son 12 days ago. A Padma Shri awardee, he edited the weekly magazine of Kannada daily Udayavani for nearly three decades from the 1970s. He presented a number of discourses on varied topics in different parts of the country and abroad. His commentaries on Vishnu Sahasranama are well known. With his strong command over English, he was able to reach out to people abroad and make them understand the essence of the Bhagavad Gita and other great Sanskrit works through a series of lectures. He wrote several books on the Sanskrit language, literature, culture and philosophy which have a wide subject base and design. The scholar also wrote Sanskrit commentary to several works of Madhwacharya, propounder of the Dwaita philosophy, and Anandamala, Vayustuti and Vishnustuti. He translated works such as Madhwaramayana and Mangalashtaka into Kannada. Also, beginning from Purushasukta and Srisukta, he published several writings on the Upanishads and Bhagavad Gita, as well as essays on various philosophical texts. Mr. Govindacharya was writing interpretative essays on each sloka in the 18 chapters of the Bhagavad Gita in Kannada invoking the doctrines promulgated by Sankaracharya, Ramanujacharya and Madhwacharya. He had completed eight of the chapters, but with his demise the work has come to a standstill. With his in-depth knowledge of ancient literature, he was able to speak authoritatively on Dwaita, Advaita, Vishishtadvaita, Jainism, Buddhism, Sikhism, Christianity and Islam. The late seer of Udupi Pejawar Mutt Vishwesha Tirtha taught Mr. Govindacharya the Vedic scriptures in the initial stage. Mr. Govindacharya had the capacity to solve the doubts of intriguing minds in traditional knowledge branches such as Veda, Upanishads, Brahmasutra, the Ramayana, the Mahabharata, Puranas and Kavya. Modi condoles death Condoling Mr. Govindacharya’s death, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted that the scholar would be remembered for his great contributions to literature. “His passion towards Sanskrit and Kannada were admirable. His works will continue influencing future generations. Pained by his demise. Condolences to his family,” Mr. Modi said. The seer of Udupi Paryaya Adamar Mutt, Eeshapriya Tirtha, said Mr. Govindacharya’s death had created a void. The seer’s guru Vibhudesha Tirtha and Mr. Govindacharya used to discuss many scholarly matters. The late Vibhudesha Tirtha had conferred on Mr. Govindacharya the title of Vidya Vachaspati. BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel said that the country had lost a great scholar whose contributions to creating awareness among the youth about Indian culture were worth remembering.  Incomplete project The scholar was writing interpretative essays on each sloka in the 18 chapters of the Bhagavad Gita in Kannada. He had completed eight of the chapters, but with his demise the work has come to a standstill.
14 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Run Yeshwantpur train from Mangaluru Central’||While seeking the operation of Train No 16575/16585 Yeshwantpur-Mangaluru Junction-Yeshwantpur from Mangaluru Central Railway Station, the Pashchima Karavali Railway Yatri Abhivrudhi Samiti has demanded re-introduction of the special train between Vijayapura and Mangaluru Junction. In a memorandum submitted to the Divisional Railway Manager, Palakkad Division, Southern Railway, Trilok Kothari, here on Sunday, the samiti said that the Train No 16575/16585 Yeshwantpura train was operating from Mangaluru Junction Railway Station, which is very inconvenient to people. The train should operate from Mangaluru Central Railway Station, where the railways can make use of the bay-line platform for this purpose. Seeking the reintroduction of the Vijayapura-Mangaluru Junction special train, which was operating before the lockdown, the samiti said that this train too should operate from Mangaluru Central Railway Station. This too can be operated from the bay-line platform for which coach composition can be suitably modified. The samiti sought the extension of Train No. 12133/12134 Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus Mumbai-Mangaluru Junction to Mangaluru Central Railway Station. It also sought trains from Mangaluru to Tirupati and Rameswaram. The samiti urged the Southern Railway to expedite the work on the second entrance to Mangaluru Central Railway Station from Attavar side. The entrance to the railway station was old and the area gets inundated when it rains.
14 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Those who do not understand the essence of religions create unrest’||Housing Minister V. Somanna said on Sunday that those who fail to understand the essence of religions create unrest in society. Speaking after inaugurating the 88th Sarvadharma Sammelan on the occasion of Lakshadeepotsava at Dharmasthala, he said that religions per se are not responsible for untoward incidents in society. It is those people who do not know the essence of all religions [who create unrest in the name of religions]. Hence, people should lead life by studying and understanding the essence of all religions, he advised. Pattadhikari of Dharmasthala Veerandra Hegade said that humanity is the utmost dharma of all people. All religions preach welfare of mankind and cordial living. He said that Shree Kshetra Dharmasthala Rural Development Project (SKDRDP), a non-governmental organisation, has created five lakh self-help groups with 43 lakh members. They have arranged Rs. 13,000 crore through banks for various activities. Seer of Kanakagiri Jain Mutt Bhuvanakeerthi Bhattaraka presided over the event. Writer Keshava Malagi from Bengaluru and Father Chethan Lobo from Udupi spoke. Later, the Kanchimarukatte Utsava was held.
14 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Tenders invited for Hale Unduwadi project||Tenders have finally been invited for the much-awaited Hale Unduwadi drinking water project, which is expected to meet the fast growing drinking water requirements of a rapidly expanding Mysuru city and its surrounding areas. The first phase of the project, which is estimated to cost Rs. 210.5 crore, will draw 150 million litres per day (MLD) from the Cauvery at Hale Unduwadi near KRS reservoir to supply piped water to the burgeoning western parts of the city and 92 villages. The 150 MLD from the Hale Unduwadi project will be in addition to the 260-265 MLD Mysuru city was already receiving from Belagola, Hongalli, Kabini and Melapura. Under the proposed project, raw water will be drawn from the KRS backwaters at Hale Unduwadi through a jackwell. The place identified for the project allows water to be drawn even when the reservoir level dips below 70 feet and reaches dead storage. The water thus drawn is pumped to a treatment plant at Beechanakuppe situated at a distance of 4 km south of the jackwell. The treated water will first be pumped to the Master Balancing Reservoir (MBR) at Vijayanagar in the city and the High Level Reservoir (HLR) at Yadavgiri before it is supplied to different parts of the city. The call for tender by Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board (KUWSDB) for the project marks a milestone as it comes about seven long years after it was conceived and after revision of the Detailed Project Report (DPR). One of the main reasons for the delay was the acquisition of about 100 acres of land identified for the water treatment plant at Beechanakuppe by the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) for an industrial project. However, the land was subsequently de-reserved and entrusted to the KUWSDB after Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) and Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) raised a stink over it. Pre-qualified contractors were invited for the bid, which opened earlier this month. The tender, which is scheduled to end on December 16, is expected to be opened on December 19. KUWSDB officials said the project is likely to kick off early in 2021. The successful bidder will have to complete the project in 30 months, the officials added. Once implemented, the water from the project will be supplied to the western parts of the city including Vijaynagar, many areas coming under MUDA and 92 villages on the outskirts of Mysuru, most of which fall under Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency, under the Rural Water Scheme. Phase 2 of the Hale Unduwadi project, which envisages another 150 MLD, is expected to be taken up later.
14 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Bus passengers at receiving end as KSRTC employees continue strike||Passengers continued to bear the brunt as the KSRTC staff strike entered third day on Sunday. None of the buses from rural and urban division depots hit the road on Sunday with the striking staff sticking to their demands and continuing the agitation giving no heed to the appeals from the government for calling off the strike for the sake of passengers. Both the mofussil bus stand and the city bus stand wore a deserted look with the bus services coming to a grinding halt from the indefinite strike even as some passengers were seen waiting for buses of other States which are plying normally. The number of passengers visiting the bus stand has decreased substantially compared to the last two days with no sign of the strike being called off. More private buses have hit the road in view of the strike. But majority of passengers complained that they were charging more than the usual fare taking advantage of the strike. The private buses were seeing a lot of rush and ferrying passengers to Bengaluru, Mandya, Nanjangud, T. Narsipur and other places. Taxis and autorickshaws were also charging inordinately as the people dependent on the public transport have no option but to accept their terms and pay as they demanded to reach their destinations. With a lot of weddings and other functions lined up, the strike has put the public to serious inconvenience. Some autorickshaws, which were plying within the city, were ferrying passengers to nearby villages and towns. Some striking staff staged a dharna in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office on Sunday and stated they won’t be calling off the strike unless their demands, mainly that they be considered as government employees, are met. Meanwhile, the KSRTC which was planning to resume Volvo bus services between the city bus stand (CBS) and Mysore airport has to put off the re-launch in view of the strike. The service which was launched before COVID-19, was discontinued after the pandemic. There was a demand for launching the AC bus services after more number of flights operated from Mysuru under UDAN. The KSRTC had planned to operate the buses as per the arrival and departure of the flights and scheduled the trips availing the time table from the airport authorities. “Once the normal bus services are resumed, the services to the airport will be restarted with the same number of stops and the fare when it was launched early this year,” a KSRTC official said. The bus starts from CBS, will pass through mofussil bus stand, JP Palace Hotel, Ginger Hotel, Radisson Blue Hotel, and Sri Ganapathy Sachchidananda Ashram and reach the airport on Mysuru-Ooty Highway. The fare from the airport to the CBS is Rs. 100.
14 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Availability of drinking water to go up by 30-40 MLD||The availability of drinking water in Mysuru city is expected to go up by 30-40 million litres per day (MLD) in the coming weeks. Officials in the Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board (KUWSDB) said the city was receiving only around 260-265 MLD of water though the installed capacity was about 300 MLD. “This is on account of worn-out pumps and pipes. We have installed new pumps at 19 locations under the Centrally-funded Amruth scheme for drinking water supply in Mysuru city. We will start seeing the results in about a fortnight,” said an official of KUWSDB. “We will start with receiving an additional 20 MLD in about a fortnight. Progressively, the quantum will go up to 30 to 40 MLD in a few weeks,” the official added. New pumps had been installed at Melapura, Ramanahalli, Hongalli, Kabini etc. The addition of 19 new pumps will boost the availability in the existing water schemes. Challenges involved Unlike new projects, the Amruth scheme deals with upgrading the existing infrastructure of a live water supply scheme. “It is not like taking up a new scheme. We have to take up the works only by shutting down the existing water supply that leads to inconvenience to the citizens,” the official said, explaining the challenges they faced while installing new pumps under the scheme.
14 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Passenger occupancy in trains on the rise||The originating rail passenger traffic from Mysuru is beginning to see a surge ever since additional trains were introduced to various destinations as part of the graded unlocking. This was also partly due to the strike by the employees of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC). Though the numbers are nowhere near the pre-pandemic levels, there is a significant surge in the passengers travelling by trains, especially on the long-distance trains entailing overnight journey. Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Manjunath said that people have started travelling though there was hesitancy in the initial stages after the train services were resumed after the lockdown was announced in the third week of March. He said the increase is across all trains but there was a perceptible rise in the number of passengers going towards Bengaluru. This is because the bus services were withdrawn owing to the strike, he added. But Mr. Manjunath said by and large people have started resuming their travel and this is reflected in the steady increase in the bookings across most trains. As against 50 pairs of trains that used to operate from Mysuru railway station, the authorities have resumed the services of 20 pairs, including the weekly and the bi-weekly services.  Occupancy The occupancy in the Chamundi Express which departs from Mysuru has remained high ever since its services were resumed a few months ago. As against the passenger carrying capacity of 1,938, 1,168 passengers travelled on Friday and 1,265 passengers on Saturday. When the MEMU services were resumed last Monday, 53 passengers had boarded the train while 92 passengers had travelled by Tipu Express. But since then the patronage has increased, said the officials. The passenger occupancy in the Yeshwanthpur Shivamogga Town special was cent percent as all the 972 seats and berths were booked. The Mysuru-Talaguppa Special saw 1,342 passengers booking their berths/seats against the available quota of 1,904. Among the local services, the Mysuru-Chamarajanagar special train carried 1,103 passengers from the city on Saturday against the capacity of 1,739.  By and large people have started resuming their travel and this is reflected in the steady increase in the bookings across most trains. As against 50 pairs of trains that used to operate from Mysuru railway station, the authorities have resumed the services of 20 pairs. Manjunath Senior Divisional Commercial Manager
14 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||GP elections: S.R. Mahesh meets GTD||Former Minister S.R. Mahesh met party colleague G.T. Deve Gowda ahead of the party’s preparations for the ensuing elections to the gram panchayats. Mr. Gowda, also a former Minister representing Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency as JD(S) MLA, had distanced himself from the party leadership ever since the collapse of the Congress-JD(S) coalition government. Mr. Mahesh met Mr. Gowda at the Jaladarshini Guest House after the latter skipped a meeting convened by the party to discuss the strategies for the coming gram panchayat elections. Speaking to reporters after meeting Mr. Gowda, Mr. Mahesh expressed confidence that the former will actively take part in the party activities in the coming days. “He is our leader. There is nothing special about meeting him. He is in our party. He was not active for the last few days. He will actively participate in the party activities in the coming days,” Mr. Mahesh said. The meeting between the two senior JD(S) leaders of Mysuru came after Mr. Gowda refused to take up the responsibility of the party’s campaign for the gram panchayat elections in any Assembly constituency in Mysuru. Mr. Gowda, who had been entrusted with the responsibility of the party’s campaign in Hunsur, had said there was no need for him to participate in the campaign as the gram panchayat elections were not fought on party symbols.
14 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Love jihad’: Swaraj India calls for NHRC intervention||Expressing concern over the State government’s plans to introduce a law against ‘love jihad’ in Karnataka, Swaraj India’s national executive committee member Shabbir Mustafa has urged the National Human Rights Commission to take suo motu cognizance of the alleged misuse of law by the Uttar Pradesh government. In a statement here, Mr. Mustafa said the incidents taking place in Uttar Pradesh after the enactment of the law leaves nobody in doubt that the love jihad law is “pernicious” in its intent and implementation. “What is happening in Uttar Pradesh should set the alarm bells ringing. In Bareily, a complaint was lodged with the police that a young Muslim woman was forcibly converted and then married to a young Hindu man. On the basis of the woman’s statement that they got married in September much before the enactment of the law in November, the police readily came forward to provide protection to the couple. But, in the case of a couple in Moradabad in which the girl was a Hindu, the police sent the newly married young man and his brother to jail though the girl herself asserted and showed documents proving that they had got married in July,” he said in a statement. “The communal bias of the UP police in which a Muslim man is sent to jail and the Hindu man is provided protection is condemnable. This is outright misuse of the law to target a particular community,” he said urging the National Human Rights Commission to take suo motu cognisance of the matter, conduct and inquiry and punish the guilty. In democracy, the enactment of any law is meant to establish a society based on human values, maintain peace and protect liberties, he said.
14 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Public transportation hit in Yadgir, Raichur districts||Public transport services were hit across Yadgir and Raichur districts on the third day on Sunday as employees of NEKRTC continued their protest in support of several demands, particularly that their services be considered as government services. According to official sources, buses remained in the bus stands and depots after drivers and conductors did not come to work. The general public that depended on public transport faced hardship. Utilising this opportunity, private vehicles demanded higher fare to ferry passengers to their destinations. Yadgir district, which has five depots, one each in Gurmitkal, Yadgir, Shahapur, Surpur and Hunsagi, has a total of 350 buses and these depots operate 300 routes every day. Due to the ongoing protest across the district, the total loss for these three days has been put at Rs. 1 crore, according to Ramesh Patil, DTO of Yadgir district. Legal consequences “We are convincing the drivers, conductors and other employees on strike of the need to come to duty but the response from their side is very poor as some of them are saying that they will come only after the results of the talks being held between the government and the workers organisations,” Mr. Patil said and added that they may face legal consequences if they do not turn up for duty. In Raichur The situation is very similar in Raichur as there too no buses operated. “As many as 645 buses are operated by seven depots, including Raichur, Manvi, Sindhanur, Deodurg and Maski, in the district. Of the 501 routes, no buses operated on any route. But, more than 30 night service buses will operate on Sunday night as some drivers and conductors had agreed to join duty,” Ishwar Doddamani, DTO of Raichur said. There is no report on damage to any buses in the two districts.
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Getting ready||
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||A total 220 Hoysala patrol vehicles (in picture) were launched four years ago to get to people in distress during golden hour in an emergency. But the very idea of a quick response seems to be anathema to most of the departments, with the police being no exception. Often, the Hoysala staff, when alerted from the control room, cite jurisdictional issues to evade work. They either say they are too far to reach within the stipulated time or that the area lies outside their jurisdiction. Some say they are at the station to register their attendance. Taking strong exception to this, City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant has now directed the officers in charge to ensure that such excuses are not entertained. The Hoysala patrol vehicles, launched in July 2016, are meant to act as mobile stations and first responders. They are monitored by staff at the control room through the GPS system. However, the mobile vehicles are turning into stationary ones and the staff hardly move around, a senior officer admitted.   Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah (in picture) has been on a letter-writing spree for the past few months. He has written several letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, and Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on issues related to the State’s economy, farmers’ distress, GST, MSP for farm commodities and so on. But he has not received replies. Forget Mr. Modi, even Mr. Yediyurappa has not replied to a single letter, the former Chief Minister said. During a debate on agricultural issues in the Legislative Assembly last week, the irked Congress leader said, “You [Mr. Yediyurappa] did not reply, the Prime Minister did not reply. Is this a democracy?” Surprisingly, Mr. Tomar had replied. “At least he replied to me,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said, before urging the State to give an additional price above MSP to farmers during paddy procurement. It goes without saying that the suggestion was not entertained.   Consensus eluded the ruling BJP legislators on the newly framed Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike law, which envisages an increase in wards and a 30-month mayoral term, among other issues. Arvind Limbavali, a member of the select committee formed to draft the Bill, instead of giving suggestions at the stage of drafting the Bill, spoke on several issues after the Bill was introduced in the Assembly. Mr. Limbavali opposed membership in the BBMP Council for nominated members of the Legislative Council and Rajya Sabha members elected from the House. This irked Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy, who rushed to Mr. Limbavali and asked him to refrain from making comments on the Bill as he was a committee member. BJP leader Munirathna, who is not a member of the panel, suggested that the State government should ensure an equal proportion of population in each BBMP ward. While Congress MLAs, whoboycotted the session whenthe Bill was passed, naturally had reservations, this avalanche coming from the treasury benches was a surprise.  Imran Gowhar   Nagesh Prabhu
14 December 2020||Kannur,KERALA||LDF nominees cast bogus votes, says MP||Congress leader K. Sudhakaran, MP, has alleged that three Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidates had cast bogus votes in the last local body elections. Addressing the media here on Sunday, he said he would release footage on the matter and move the court. Mr. Sudhakaran said the LDF would not be able to win in Kannur without fraudulent votes and violence. LDF denies charge He warned of constituting a People’s Action Force, if the Chief Minister failed to take steps to put an end to bogus voting. Meanwhile, the LDF denied the charges, terming them a gimmick before the polls.
14 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Thripunithura Bypass included in Centre’s Bharatmala project||The long overdue Thripunithura Bypass on NH 85, which was treated as fait accompli after it hit a dead end due to uncertainty over land acquisition, has got a fresh lease of life, as it has been included in the Centre’s Bharatmala Pariyojana project. The 8-km-long stretch has thus been included in the Kochi-Theni-Munnar Economic Corridor, the preparation of whose detailed project report (DPR) is in progress thanks to concerted efforts by MPs, MLAs, and the action council constituted to realise the project. Recently, the Kochi office of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had sent a letter to council president Alias A.V., saying that the Thripunithura Bypass was the proposal of the NH Division of the State PWD. Land acquisition that began in 1989 was not completed, and the notification got lapsed. It goes on to say, “Now, the portion of this bypass is coming under the project of Kochi-Theni-Munnar Economic Corridor under the Bharatmala Pariyojana Project. Its DPR is now in progress.” This was after Mr. Alias sent a letter addressed as a public grievance to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). In it, he explained how there was little progress, although survey stones were laid on the Mattakuzhi-Thiruvankulam stretch. “Few people surrendered land, since the compensation was meagre. Furthermore, nothing happened, although an inspecting officer submitted a report on an alignment on the Thiruvankulam-Kundannoor stretch. The NH 85 is also strategically important due to the presence of the Southern Naval Command, Naval Armament Depot, NPOL, Kochi Refinery, Cochin Port, Vallarpadam Container Transshipment Terminal, Cochin Shipyard, and the LNG Terminal in the vicinity. Land measuring 12 hectares is yet to be acquired from 140 owners, with the result that they are not able to repair, sell, or mortgage their properties in the alignment which passes through three parliamentary and five Assembly constituencies,” the letter citing the 30-year grievance of the people read. “Now that the NHAI has informed us of including the bypass in the Bharatmala project, people are hopeful that it will be realised in the near future,” Mr. Alias said. Meanwhile, Benny Behanan, MP, who recently met the NHAI Director who oversees the agency’s Kerala projects and apprised him of the worsening traffic snarls in the eastern parts of Kochi owing to the delay in readying the Thripunithura Bypass, said the official had entrusted a regional official with the task of speeding up land acquisition . Three MPs, including Mr. Behanan had earlier apprised Nithin Gadkari, Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways, of the urgency of readying the bypass. Anoop Jacob, MLA, who too was in the forefront of the movement demanding the bypass, said the 30-year stalemate must end. Hundreds of families who are willing to surrender their land are in distress, even as traffic hold-ups have been worsening, he added.  Now that the NHAI has informed us of including the bypass in the Bharatmala project, people are hopeful that it will be realised in the near future Alias A.V. Action council president
14 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Steps to prevent accidents on anvil at Elamkulam||The spree of fatal accidents at a dangerous curve at Elamkulam on S.A. Road, the latest being the death of two motorists during the past fortnight, has necessitated a joint inspection of the site by officials of the traffic police, Motor Vehicles Department (MVD), civic agencies, and Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL), in order to introduce accident-prevention measures. Around a dozen fatalities were reported at the site during the past two years, mainly involving two-wheeler riders, pedestrians, and an autorickshaw driver. Motorists from Kadavanthra, proceeding towards Vyttila, who are not familiar with the recently resurfaced four-lane road are caught unawares by the steep curve here. Most of the accidents occurred after drivers of fast-moving vehicles swerved left at the last moment, since they were unaware of the steep curve. Subsequently, the vehicles rammed the median, said T.B. Vijayan, Assistant Commissioner of Police, City Traffic Police (West). “Following the joint inspection, it was decided that KMRL [which resurfaced the road that is owned by the Kochi Corporation] would install reflective lights on the median and also signboards to warn of the curve. It was also decided to frequently clean cats-eye reflectors installed on the kerb of the road, since accumulation of mud over them made them invisible to motorists. This was because most of the fatal accidents occurred after 11 p.m., when visibility lessened. “Rumble strips too have been planned, to forewarn drivers of the impending curve. The driver of an autorickshaw, proceeding from Vyttila to Kadavanthra, lost his life after he lost control of the vehicle at the curve on the other side of the road, and his head hit the road,” he added. Similar curves abound even on the PWD-owned M.G. Road, while the corporation-owned Subhash Bose Road-Jawahar Nagar stretch has 90-degree turnings at three places. “Inadequate no-parking boards and reflectors is a bane even on accident-prone Container Road that NHAI [National Highways Authority of India] owns. The agency turned a blind eye to letters that we sent seeking their installation. Subsequently, the police pooled in funds and installed them at a few accident-prone locations, since illegal parking by container lorries is a major issue on the stretch,” said Mr. Vijayan. The officer expressed dismay at the PWD and the KSEB not taking steps to clear obstacles, including transformers and posts that hampered free-left turn at junctions, mainly on M.G. Road, despite the police shooting off letters to them. “We even did a joint inspection with PWD on the Madhava Pharmacy Junction-Ernakulam North Bridge stretch, to map obstacles that prompted pedestrians to venture on to the tarred road and walk. The PWD failed to take follow-up measures,” he added. Ponting to the shoddy condition of the weed-infested footpath of the Elamkulam bridge, Francis Shelby, Assistant Commissioner of Police, City Traffic Police (East), spoke of how the corporation had been neglecting the upkeep of footpaths, most of which were unusable owing to overgrowth of weeds and broken slabs. A similar problem is there on the Edappally-Palarivattom Road. Apart from accidents, pedestrians faced the risk of being bitten by snakes that hid beneath the shrubs, he said.
14 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Counting to start at 8 a.m on Dec. 16||Counting of votes in the civic body polls in Ernakulam will begin at 8 a.m. on December 16. The district has 28 counting centres. The progress of counting will be uploaded live on ‘Trend’ software of the State Election Commission. Counting of votes for the three-tier panchayats will be held at block-level distribution and receiving centres of electronic voting machines (EVMs). There will be separate counting halls for grama panchayats coming under the block panchayat. Each Returning Officer in municipalities and the corporation will have a separate counting hall. Counting tables will be arranged by allocating one table for eight polling stations. Counting of votes in all the booths of a ward will be set up on one table, according to an official release. Postal votes will be counted initially. Counting will begin from the first ward and proceed further in that order. For three-tier panchayats, each table will have one counting supervisor and two counting assistants, while there will be one counting supervisor and a counting assistant for the Kochi Corporation. EVMs have been kept in strong rooms under strong police security. The memory module in the control unit of EVMs and other documents will be stored at the treasury. EVMs used in municipalities have also been kept in the treasury along with documents related to special postal ballot.
14 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Rebuild Fort Kochi’s heritage structures, KMRL urged||Even as Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) says that the Water Metro terminal proposed in Fort Kochi will not spoil the aesthetics of the area and will be in sync with the surroundings, conservation architects and others assert that damage control must be done, including by at least partly rebuilding the three heritage buildings on the beachfront that were demolished. “Tearing them down was a criminal act and nothing but a disaster, since lakhs of people visit Fort Kochi and Mattancherry every year to see heritage buildings that abound. They must be rebuilt under the supervision of agencies like INTACH, which know the value of heritage,” said Christopher Edward Benninger, a US-born architect who is settled in Pune and designed, among others, the Bhutan Parliament and the former corporate office of Kochi Refineries Limited (KRL) at Kundannoor. ‘Less space needed’ The Water Metro terminal will need only a little space if it is constructed on a pier that protrudes into the water. Such structures are common the world over. It will thus also become a walkway. The metro agency must consult archaeologists and others while rebuilding the demolished structures. Heritage must be given its due, and for that, an urban design contest could be held to explore alternative solutions, Mr. Benninger said. A court order must be obtained to leave the rubble on site, for being rebuilt, he added. Heritage enthusiast and former Mayor K.J. Sohan said that the space where the demolished buildings stood was marked as one meant for recreation purpose, in the heritage master plan. “The metro agency has failed to adhere to the master plan. It speaks of lack of imagination. “Each locale has its own unique characteristics that have to be respected,” he observed. Conservation architect Benny Kuriakose, who was associated with the restoration of historic structures as part of the Muziris heritage conservation project said that care ought to have been given to retain heritage buildings. “No new structure can compensate the value of heritage structures,” he said and added that he was willing to guide KMRL, if needed. Travel guide-turned-heritage enthusiast Thaha Ibrahim showed images of a three-storey historic structure that once faced the beachfront, whose remnants lay beneath the ground where the Water Metro terminal is envisaged. KMRL sources said that the revised design of the terminal had taken care not to disrupt the aesthetics of the beachfront in any way. It will be published in a few days, they added.
14 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi port registers major decline in cargo movement||The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on global shipping business has been reflected across major ports in the country, with the Kochi Port, among others, registering a substantial fall in cargo throughput between April and November this year when compared to the same period last year. According to figures from Indian Ports Association, cargo throughput at Kochi fell more than 17% as against the national average for major ports of nearly 11%. The Kochi Port handled 1,81,95,000 tonnes of cargo between April and November this year as against 2,21,12,000 tonnes during the April-November period in 2019. The other major ports in the country too experienced fall in business during the period, showed the IPA figures, though Mormugao recorded nearly 18% increase in cargo throughput. The Mumbai port suffered a fall in throughput of 18%, while the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) suffered a 14% fall in cargo throughput. The Chennai port suffered a fall of nearly 20%. The steepest fall has been noticed in the movement of petroleum products across the ports. However, container movement through the Cochin international transshipment terminal registered a marginal increase during the period under review. According to IPA figures, containerised cargo movement went up from 4,10,000 TEUs to 4,12,000 TEUs during the April-November period this year.
14 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Money could be proceeds from crime: ED||The foreign remittance received in the account of K.A. Rauf Sherif, national general secretary of the Campus Front of India (CFI), during the COVID-19 lockdown period, could be proceeds of crime committed by him, according to the Enforcement Directorate (ED). He was arrested from Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday. In its remand report, the agency said the nature and purpose of the transactions were suspicious. During the lockdown period, Sherif “was not working at his place of work in Oman but was in India.” He transferred funds to the account of Ateequr Rehman, national treasurer of the CFI. This was for Rehman and other activists of the CFI and the Popular Front of India, including journalist Siddique Kappan, to visit Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, where one minor girl was allegedly raped and murdered, “with an attempt to disturb social harmony and incite communal riots,” it said. Siddique Kappan, Rehman, Masood Ahamad and Alam were arrested by the the UP Police on their way to Hathras. It its FIR, the UP Police said it seized and recovered “mobile phones, laptops and suspicious literature having potential to disturb social harmony and to incite communal riots” from them. Received Rs. 2,500 An investigation into the Prevention of Money Laundering Act against the PFI revealed that Ahamad had received Rs. 2,500 from one of the bank accounts of the organisation in 2018 and he had been in regular touch with Md. Ilyas, general secretary of PFI, and “both of them were suspected to have played roles in the northeast Delhi riots in February 2020,” the ED submitted. Rehman received money from Sherif to go to Harthras and he called Ahamad, who later called Kappan. It was revealed that there was no bank account for the CFI and all the transactions were done from the account of Sherif. Though he was issued summons to appear before the agency, according to the ED, he deliberately avoided appearance “with an attempt to thwart investigations, which would unravel his role in the offence of money laundering.” 14 days’ custody The agency sought his custody since he was not “forthcoming in revealing the facts and his role in the case.
14 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Aim to canvass votes, says Chennithala||The State Election Commission should proceed against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for his statement that COVID-19 vaccines will be distributed for free in Kerala as it amounted to violation of the model code of conduct, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has said. Speaking to mediapersons here on Sunday, Mr. Chennithala said the statement, which came on the eve of the next stage of the local body polls, was aimed at influencing voters. The Opposition parties were not opposed to the free supply of vaccines. However, making the vaccine distribution a shortcut for canvassing votes would be opposed, he said. BJP’s comment in Bihar Mr. Chennithala said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) too had announced before the Bihar elections that it would distribute vaccines for free. Both the BJP and the Chief Minister used the vaccine issue for canvassing votes, which amounted to violation of the code, he said. He said the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government stood as an accused before the people of the State. The people had voted overwhelmingly against the government during the first two phases of the polls. It would be repeated in the third phase too, he said. Even while criticising the Central investigation agencies probing various cases in the State, the Chief Minister had not uttered a word against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. The Chief Minister was all set to plead with the Prime Minister not to harass the government, Mr. Chennithala said.
14 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Six arrested on charge of attack on voter||The Kunnathunad police have arrested six more persons on the charge of brutally assaulting a youth who arrived with his wife to vote at a polling booth at Kummanodu, Kizhakkambalam, on December 10. The arrested are Aboobaker, Mahin Aboobaker, Manaf, Hyderali, Siraj, and Shamsudeen. The police had arrested nine others who allegedly assaulted the youth, on Saturday. One of the gang members is absconding. The gang reportedly objected to many people who resided in the area and whose names were in the voters’ list voting at the booth, claiming that only those who hailed from the area could vote. A video the couple being threatened and the young voter being assaulted had gone viral.
14 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Woman who fell from apartment building dies||A domestic help who suffered grievous injuries while apparently trying to climb down from the sixth floor of an apartment complex at Marine Drive here over a week ago by tying together a pair of sarees attached to the handrails of the balcony, died at a private hospital on Saturday night. Kumari, a native of Salem in Tamil Nadu, reportedly lost grip and fell on the open ground. Residents noticed her lying in a pool of blood a few hours later. Case registered The Ernakulam Central Police had registered a case against a resident of the apartment, a lawyer, following a complaint by the woman’s husband. Police laxity All possibilities that led to the incident are being probed, police sources said. The case had turned curious since the police did not register a case initially. Assistant Commissioner of Police (Ernakulam) K. Laljy said that an inquest was done on Sunday, and a post-mortem would be conducted on Monday. The case will be relooked at under the new circumstances. Tests revealed that she was COVID-19 positive, he added. Worrying: KWC The incident indicates that the situation of domestic workers in the State is worrying, Kerala Women’s Commission (KWC) chairperson M.C. Josephine has said. In a statement here on Sunday, Ms. Josephine said that majority of domestic workers were women. It was the duty of those who appointed them to ensure their health and livelihood security, Ms.Josephine said. Ms. Josephine said the commission had intervened in the Kochi incident last week itself when the incident occurred. It had suo motu taken a case against the flat owner and asked the Kochi City Police Commissioner to submit a report.
14 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||FACT takes over schools||The management of Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore (FACT) has taken over the FACT Udyogamandal School and the FACT-Eastern UP School from the Muslim Education Society in view of the expiry of licence period for the schools, said a communication from the public sector company here on Sunday. The licence agreement period for the schools had expired in April 2019, said the communication.
14 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam registers 509 positive cases||A total of 509 more COVID-19 cases were confirmed in Ernakulam district on Sunday. Of them, 360 were cases of local spread, while the source of infection in 138 cases could not be identified. Four persons arrived either from other States or abroad, said a communication from the district administration. Among the newly infected are seven health workers. The communication said that 804 people were cured of the infection as on Sunday. As many as 1,987 people were brought under observation at home on Sunday, while 533 completed their observation period. There are now 30,307 people under observation. Of them, 29,529 are at their homes, while 20 are in COVID-19 care centres. There are 758 people who are at centres for which they are making their own arrangements. A total of 174 people were admitted to hospitals or First-Line Treatment Centres (FLTCs) on Sunday, while 108 people were discharged. The number of confirmed cases stands at 7,316, excluding cases reported on Sunday. There are 94 patients at Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, 17 at the Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital, 11 at General Hospital, Muvattupuzha, four at Government Hospital, Aluva, 49 at the PVS COVID-19 care centre, and 40 at Sanjeevini Hospital. As many as 5,392 samples collected at private and government facilities were sent for testing on Sunday. The COVID-19 control room received 255 calls on Sunday.
14 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Call to reopen second entry to railway stations||Railway passenger associations have demanded the reopening of alternative / second entry to the Ernakulam North and South railway stations and other prominent stations, since more trains have resumed operations. Most passengers are reserving seats online and travelling, in order to prevent waiting at ticket counters. Permission for entry through only one gate has resulted in passengers, mostly women who regularly depend on trains for their commute to work, facing difficulties, said Thrissur Railway Passengers’ Association. Citing the case of the Ernakulam North station, the association said passengers who alighted on the second platform that overlooks the eastern entry had to climb the foot overbridge and exit the station through the main entry that abuts platform No. 1. They thus lose a lot of time. They have to then walk all through the North overbridge to reach the nearest Kochi metro station that is located on the eastern side of the station. A similar problem persists during their return trip as well, and this forces many commuters to leave their work place earlier than the scheduled time. The situation is worse at the Ernakulam South station. Under such circumstances, the Railways must reopen the second entry to the two stations, Thiruvananthapuram Central, Kollam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kozhikode, Kannur, and other major stations, the association said.
14 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Work on Water Metro progressing||Kochi Metro Rail Limited has completed 50 per cent of the piling for Water Metro’s High Court boat jetty. Around 18 piles have been constructed so far. The contractor has engaged 40 labourers at the site and the work is on full swing. Other than piling, civil construction activities are also being undertaken. Construction of a floating pontoon is also progressing fast here, the metro agency said, in the wake of media reports that little work had been done here during the past year, although a row of three heritage buildings were demolished in Fort Kochi to build a jetty there. Altogether, nine boat jetties of the Water Metro are under construction now. Jetties at Vyttila and Kakkanad are in the final stage. The first ferry is set to operate on this route. Construction is fast progressing at Eloor, Cheranelloor, South Chittur, Bolgatty, High Court, Vypeen, Mulavukad North, Paliyamthuruth and Kadamakkudy. Cochin Shipyard was expected to deliver the first of the 23 100-seater ferries shortly, a KMRL release said.
14 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||ABC programme resumes in Kollam||Amidst raising concerns about stray dog menace, the authorities have resumed Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme in Kollam city after an extended break. Though the District Panchayat and Animal Husbandry Department had jointly launched a Rs. 50 lakh project to control the number of strays, it was lying dormant for several months. The project was revived in November, but it wasn't implemented in the Corporation area. Emergency measure “But after receiving a large number of complaints about strays attacking joggers and children, we started capturing aggressive dogs as an emergency measure from Sunday. The dogs have been creating panic among morning walkers and even pedestrians are afraid to walk freely in some areas. On the first day we captured 22 highly aggressive dogs,” said said Dr.D.Shine Kumar, ABC Coordinator, Kollam. While the project announced by Kollam Corporation is yet to take off, the Department will be conducting the programme in Kollam city for one week. “There has been a surge in dog bite cases and we decided to divert a team to the city after getting the complaint of a person who was hospitalised,” he said Asramam maidan, the largest open space in the city and the most-preferred destination of morning and evening walkers, has seen an increase in the number of strays of late. “It also includes abandoned pets and strict action will be taken against owners who dump their pets in public spaces and roads.” Animal Husbandry Department has set up temporary operation theatres for sterilising the dogs as part of the programme and dogs picked up from an area will be released there after they are sterilised and vaccinated against rabies. After reviving the programme in November, the Department has already covered 24 panchayats, conducting around 3,000 surgeries. Eight teams The District panchayat had deployed eight teams that includes veterinary surgeons and dog handlers for the project and the authorities plan to implement the programme in 50 panchayats. The Department had recently launched another project providing reflective collars for the strays in a bid to control accidents.Several incidents of aggressive stray dogs attacking cyclists and two-wheeler riders had been reported from the district and the green reflective collars are expected to stop that.
14 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Fake bills: action initiated against PWD officials||Public Works Minister G.Sudhakaran has initiated procedures to take prompt action after receiving a report of the Finance Inspection Wing on the financial irregularities related to the construction of two roads in the district, said a note issued by the office of the Minister. As per the report, the contract documents were tampered and though the bill was cleared the construction of Anchalumoodu-Kureepuzha stretch was not carried out. It says that documents were fabricated causing loss to the State exchequer and recommends action against five officials. Rubbishing reports that no action was taken against the officials and the Department had buried the report, the note says, “The report was addressed to special private secretary V.S.Harindranath who was on leave after testing positive for COVID-19. He rejoined only three day back and since elections are going on, the permission of the Election Commission is required for taking action. After elections the government can go ahead with disciplinary action and the Minister has asked to submit a foolproof report.” It also points out that PWD has so far taken action against 540 engineers and other officials including two chief engineers and one superintending engineer.  Irregularities related to construction of two roads in Kollam
14 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||269 new cases in Kollam||The district reported 269 new COVID-19 cases and 347 recoveries on Sunday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 262 contact cases, two NRIs, one person from another State, two health workers and two persons without any known source. Patients with no known source include a 43-year-old Sooranadu resident and another 33-year-old person from Pattazhy. The health workers who contacted the infection are from Neduvathur and Kottarakara. The district currently has 13,684 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 5,10,544. While 1,898 people completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 1,26,346 primary and 11,393 secondary contacts of the positive cases.
14 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Cases continue to spike in Kottayam||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Kottayam continued to rise at a rapid pace with 416 more people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, all but two contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 43 children and 79 people aged above 60. Changanassery municipality, which reported 62 cases, led the tally, followed by Kottayam with 55 cases. With 455 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,273 active cases.
14 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Heavy police deployment in sensitive areas of Kozhikode||To ensure a trouble-free election, around 5,000 policemen will be deployed on duty in Kozhikode district on Monday. Apart from the striking forces, there will be special squads to monitor the shortlisted sensitive and hyper-sensitive booths within the city and rural limits. As many as 46 group patrol squads will be on duty within the Kozhikode city limits alone. They will be responsible for covering the assigned booths within 16 city police station limits. There are seven police sub-divisions, including the existing two under the control of seven separate Assistant Commissioners, to manage law and order issues in the city. The support of 1,269 policemen will be garnered to ensure proper protection of polling stations. According to District Police Chief (Kozhikode City) A.V. George, 16 picket posts have been readied to keep tabs on sensitive areas. A 20-member striking squad has been deployed for each of the 16 city police stations to manage emergency situations. Two patrol vehicles each have been ensured for all city stations to meet local surveillance requirements. 7 critical booths The Election Commission has identified as many as 78 sensitive booths in Kozhikode city. Of them, seven come under the category of critical booths, where additional security arrangements will be made. Chevayur and Nallalam police stations will monitoring critical booths. In Kozhikode rural, the assistance of 3,252 police personnel, including senior police officers, will be used to manage law and order. District Police Chief (Kozhikode Rural) A. Sreenivas said 1,210 police officers would be deployed exclusively for monitoring booths. There will be separate squads to oversee sensitive and critical booths, he added. Separate deployment will be made to keep an eye on areas where the police suspect pro-Maoist activities. Arrangements are in place for live webcasting and video surveillance covering such locations. In the Kozhikode rural area, there will be 70 picket posts. The striking force will have a strength of 206 policemen.
14 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Call to follow COVID protocol during elections||With experts predicting a spurt in COVID-19 cases after the local body elections, the Health Department has called for strict compliance with the protocol to ward off any threat when Kozhikode district goes to the polls on Monday. As many as 612 people tested positive for the virus in the district on Sunday and the test positivity rate reached 14.32%. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said in a release that voters, polling agents, and officials should wear their face masks properly. Hands should be sanitised regularly and physical distancing should be observed. Face masks should not be lowered until the voters reach home after exercising their franchise. It would be better to keep their own pen to sign the voting register. Children should not be brought near the polling booths. Those who return home after voting should change their clothes and take a bath. The guidelines were issued against the backdrop of the general sense of easiness prevalent among the people. Physical distancing norms and COVID-19 protocol were found to have been violated at many places in the last phase of campaign for the local body polls. In Kozhikode Corporation limits, there was an instance of political activists almost coming to blows. Health experts foresee a spike in the infections a couple of weeks from now. Those testing positive for the virus between 3 p.m. on December 13 and 6 p.m. on the voting day can directly reach the polling booth to cast their votes. They should reach there before 6 p.m. and produce a certificate from a designated health officer. Wearing of personal protection equipment (PPE) is a must for these special voters, polling agents, and officials at the time of voting. Local transmission Meanwhile, 598 of the total number of cases reported on Sunday were locally acquired infections. The source of infection of seven others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation had 165 cases of local transmission. As many as 4,273 samples were tested in labs. There were 686 recoveries and the active caseload from the district stands at 6,584.
14 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Planetarium gets ready to view the Great Conjunction||The scientific community across the globe is excited about the Great Conjunction that is to take place on December 21. Amid the furore of local body elections, Kozhikode too is gearing up for the rare astronomical phenomenon. The Regional Science Centre and Planetarium (RSCP) here will organise an observation session from 6.30 p.m. onwards for the event that takes place around 11.30 p.m. It is at this time that the giant planets — Jupiter and Saturn — will be almost in the same line of sight, appearing very close to each other. Astronomically speaking, they will have an angular separation of 0.1 degree or six minutes and six seconds in angular measure. The phenomena involving two solar system objects like Sun, Moon, and planets appearing close to the ‘ecliptic’ or ‘the apparent path of Sun in the sky’, while from Earth they appear to have a very small angular separation, is termed as a ‘conjugation’. From this year, it will involve two giant planets brightly visible in the night sky, and it is termed as a the Great Conjunction. Though the phenomenon takes place every 19 years, the separation between the two planets varies from one conjunction to the other, depending on the orbital positions. It was almost 400 years ago that a conjugation of this magnitude took place last. Jupiter and Saturn had an angular separation of around five minutes 10 seconds on July 16, 1623. Crosstaff is a method used by astronomy enthusiasts to measure the angular separation between the objects involved in conjugation. A contest supported by the Astronomical Society of India involving many like-minded institutions and planetariums titled ‘Samanta Chandrasekhar Challenge’ involves recording and reporting the angular separation values on a daily basis. Hence, the RSCP is also organising a workshop on ‘Development of Crosstaff and using related measurement techniques’ on December 15 at 10:30 a.m. Those interested shall register using the link:shorturl.at/sEGR8.  Sky show Jupiter and Saturn will be almost in the same line of sight, appearing very close to each other RSCP will organise observation session from 6.30 p.m. onwards for event that takes place around 11.30 p.m.
14 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Highest number of voters in Kozhikode Corporation||As the district is all set for the local body elections on Monday, the Vadakara municipality has the distinction of having the highest number of voters and candidates among the seven municipalities in Kozhikode rural area. Vadakara has 60,209 voters and 146 candidates, while Ramanattukara municipality has the lowest number of voters (28,806) and candidates (99). Among the 70 grama panchayats, Olavanna tops the list with 52,323 voters. The lowest number of voters is in Kayanna panchayat, where 11,442 persons are expected to cast their votes. In total, there are 4,094 candidates contesting the elections from the grama panchayats. Kozhikode Corporation has the highest number of voters (4,62,000) and candidates (350) in the district. The total number of voters in Kozhikode district is 25,33,024 and there are 5,985 candidates in the fray. The number of women voters is 13,24,449, while there are 12,08,545 men. The number of transgender voters has registered an increase and there are 30 voters from the district this time. In the reserved seats, there are 284 candidates representing the Scheduled Caste community. In the category of Scheduled Tribes women, 162 persons will contest the elections. Three Scheduled Tribe candidates are also in the fray.  Numbers game Vadakara has highest number of voters (60,209) among municipalities, while Ramanattukara municipality has lowest number (28,806) Olavanna tops the list of 70 grama panchayats with 52,323 voters, while Kayanna has lowest number of voters at 11,442 Total number of voters in Kozhikode district is 25,33,024
14 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Pattala Palli hosts funeral prayers of U.A. Khader||Pattala Palli, a historic landmark in Kozhikode city, witnessed the funeral prayers (janaza namaz) of one of its frequent visitors on Sunday morning. Before he succumbed to lung cancer on Saturday, well-known writer U.A. Khader had expressed the wish that the prayers before his final journey be held at this mosque overlooking the Muthalakkulam ground. Normally, such prayers are held in local mosques. But when Khader’s relatives informed the mosque committee functionaries about his wish, they obliged. According to sources, the late writer was a regular at Pattala Palli whenever he came to the city for events and he never missed the Friday prayers there. He used to come there around noon and sit in the last row. Of late, his son used to accompany him, sources said. Homage paid After the prayers, the writer’s body was taken to the Town Hall for people to pay homage. Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran, Minister for Labour and Excise T.P. Ramakrishnan, BJP State president K. Surendran, CPI(M) Kozhikode district secretary P. Mohanan, KPCC vice president T. Siddique, film-maker Ranjith, among others, paid their last respects to the writer.
14 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Green booths sprout across Kozhikode||Green polling and distribution booths set up across the district following the green protocol are expected to grab eyeballs on election day. The green booths have been set up in 12 blocks, municipalities and the Corporation under the aegis of the respective local bodies and the district administration based on the guidelines issued by the Suchitwa Mission. All booths in Koyilandy and Vadakara municipalities had been set up following the green protocol, said Suchitwa Mission District Coordinator P.M. Surya. St. Joseph’s Boys’ Higher Secondary School, Silk Street, and Government Ganapath Girls Higher Secondary School, Chalappuram, are the green polling booths within the corporation limits while Government Vocational Higher Secondary School for Girls at Nadakkavu, a distribution centre of polling materials, is also a green booth. Signboards, decorations and even waste bins in these booths have been made using eco-friendly materials, mainly coconut leaves. Disposable articles such as plastic bottles, and paper cups and plates have been strictly banned. The waste collected will be segregated on the spot and handed over to Haritha Karma Senas. Earlier, the Haritha Keralam Mission, the Suchitwa Mission and the State Election Commission had come up with a pamphlet on the green protocol and the COVID protocol to be followed during the election process. The polling officers were trained and awareness programmes were held for candidates, political party representatives and election agents.
14 December 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||26 lakh to cast vote in Malappuram||Around 26 lakh voters are expected to reach polling booths in Malappuram district on Monday to elect representatives to the three-tier civic bodies. The district has the largest electorate in the State (33.54 lakh). It had registered 78.5% polling in 2015. Polling equipment was distributed at 3,975 booths in the district on Sunday. As many as 3,459 booths are in panchayats and 516 in municipalities. One hundred of them have been declared sensitive. As many as 19,875 officials reached polling stations by Sunday evening. Apart from them, 4,154 officials have been kept in reserve. A total of 6,190 police officers have also been appointed for security in Malappuram. While there are 145 candidates for the district panchayat, 839 candidates are contesting in 15 block panchayats, 5,879 in 94 grama panchayats, and 1,524 candidates in 12 municipalities. The outgoing district panchayat council had 27 UDF members and five LDF members. While the UDF held 12 block panchayats, the LDF had three. The UDF ruled nine municipalities, and the LDF was in power in three. Of the 94 panchayats, the UDF was in power in 51 and the LDF in 35. The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) ruled six panchayats without Congress support. The Janakeeya Munnani formed by the LDF was in power in two panchayats.
14 December 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||IUML alleges SDPI-CPI(M) tie-up||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has accused the CPI(M) of tying up with the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) in 62 local bodies in the State. IUML State general secretary K.P.A. Majeed said here on Sunday that the CPI(M) had chosen to seek the help of the SDPI because it feared a UDF victory in Kerala. “It is ridiculous double-standards of the CPI(M) to go for an alliance with the SDPI,” Mr. Majeed said. SDPI State president Abdul Majeed Faizy said the IUML had raised the allegation with a clear objective.  “Their aim of the IUML is to reduce the sheen of the SDPI performance in the local body election,” said Mr. Faizy.
14 December 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||649 cases in Malappuram||Malappuram district recorded 649 new COVID-19 cases and 886 recoveries on Sunday. While 608 people contracted the virus through local transmission, there were 24 cases without an identifiable source of infection. District officials said 6,899 persons were currently under treatment and nearly 87,000 quarantined.
14 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||‘Oruma’ sets aside gloom, celebrates||A Kudumbashree canteen managed by a group of transgender persons here celebrated its first anniversary on Sunday, overcoming the harrowing time of COVID-19 lockdown and people’s frowns. The Oruma Kudumbashree Canteen, run by six trans-persons inside the civil station here, continues to be the only one of its kind in the State. The uniqueness prompted the group celebrate the anniversary in spite of being in loss. “We started this canteen on December 13 last year. Our business was picking up when lockdown was imposed after the COVID-19 spread. Like many other businesses, ours too was crushed. Post-lockdown, we are slowly recovering, though we are still in debt,” said Manju Raju. Those who reached the Collectorate here on Sunday noticed the celebrations, with the group, wearing blue saris, lighting the lamp. “We reduced our celebrations to the lamp-lighting ceremony as we are all going through a bad time,” said Manju. Aid from panchayat Manju had joined hands with Varsha Nandini, Ramya, Radha Mani, Suchi Vasu and Krishna last year to launch the Oruma canteen under the Kudumbashree banner with an aid of Rs. 5 lakh from the district panchayat. The Public Works Department (PWD) allotted the land required for the restaurant in the civil station. Government employees and those coming to the civil station and the courts are the prime customers at the restaurant. They used to sell over 100 meals a day before the lockdown, but the COVID-19 scare has brought down the sale to 20-30 meals a day. According to Manju, there are people who still shun them. “We are running this restaurant for a living. We have no alternatives. It hurts when people eye us suspiciously,” Manju said.  Before lockdown, over 100 meals were sold a day. Now the figure has come down to 20 or 30
14 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Farmers form a wall to save their land||Nearly 60,000 farmers formed a human wall along the hilly roads of Attappady in the district on Sunday afternoon, protesting against the Central government notifications of Ecologically Sensitive Area (ESA) and Eco-Sensitive Zone (ESZ). The protesters aired their concern against bringing almost the entire Attappady under the ESZ rules. Tribespeople from 192 hamlets in Attappady joined the human wall that covered 37 kilometres from Mukkali to Anakkatti on the State border. V.K. Sreekandan, MP; N. Shamsuddin, MLA; and the bishop of Palakkad diocese joined the protest organised by the Attappady Zone Farmer Protection Council. Several political parties and community organisations offered their support to the ‘human wall for survival.’ The protest was staged in the wake of growing concerns among farmers and people living on the fringes of forests across the State about the effect the final ESA and ESZ rules will have on them. It is widely feared here that the new regulations will deprive thousands of farmers of their cultivable lands. Dec. 31 deadline Farmers in Palakkad recently united under the Palakkad diocese to press the government on the ESA-ESZ rules, especially as the time given by the Supreme Court to the Central government to bring out the final notification on the ESA and ESZ around forests and wildlife sanctuaries would end on December 31. Farmers’ plight According to Bishop Mar Jacob Manathodath, most farmers are not aware of the dangers of the ESA and ESZ rules. “The Forest Department says no farmer will be evicted from their land. But the new regulations will force the farmers to abandon their lands,” he said. Farmer leaders said that they would fight against declaring forest laws on the Attappady. District Farmer Protection Council president Tomy Kizhakkekara led the protest. Zonal president Sreelakshmi Sreekumar administered an oath to fight for their rights.
14 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||229 in Pathanamthitta||As many as 229 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 204 people contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 58 cases were yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Pallickal and Vechoochire reported 14 cases each, followed by Adoor with 11 cases. With 212 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 2,694 active cases.
14 December 2020||S. Anil Radhakrishnan,KERALA||Rejuvenated waterway till Kollam by mid-Jan.||The rejuvenated 60.5-km Akkulam-Kollam stretch of the State Waterway is to be thrown open for navigation and inland water transport by mid-January 2021 by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. After the commissioning being planned in two phases, Mr. Vijayan is scheduled to cruise through the historic waterway from Akkulam end in the 24-seater indigenously manufactured solar boat procured by the Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) and currently undergoing trial runs in Kochi. The solar boat is to be brought soon to the KTDC’s boat jetty in Veli tourist village for trial runs proposed on the Chakka-Kadinamkulam stretch of the waterway. Official sources said the solar boat could cruise with ease in a depth of one metre but the canal was being deepened for 1.5 metre to be on the safer side. Trials by speed boat and finishing works are on by the Kerala Waterways and Infrastructure Ltd (KWIL), the special purpose vehicle created by the government for the rejuvenation of the inland waterways, and the Inland Navigation Department. On Sunday, pontoon-mounted excavators worked behind the World Market on the Akkulam-Venpalavattom stretch for the bank-clearing work. Silt pusher and Berky have been deployed near Karali bridge to remove the water weeds again. Already, the 722-metre Sivagiri tunnel and the 350-metre Chilakoor tunnel, the major challenges in the Akkulam-Kollam stretch, had been made navigable by the Inland Navigation Department. The Sivagiri tunnel, completed in 1880, is the only one of its kind in Asia. Boats will be able to move along the Sivagiri and Chilakoor tunnels, as they have a diameter of 4.7 metres. Rehabilitation of 16 families between Varkala bridge and Chilakoor tunnel and clearance of the waterway near the Sivagiri tunnel was expedited. After the local body election process is completed this week, steps for rehabilitation of the 16 families expected to cost Rs. 1.5 crore will be taken up, sources said. The government has already given the approval for the rehabilitation of the 60 families residing in the fringes of T.S. Canal at Varkala through Punargeham project of the Fisheries Department. Fuel-efficient Once the stretch is commissioned, inland water transport as fuel-efficient and eco-friendly mode of transportation is possible from Akkulam to Kottapuram stretch of the 633-km West Coast Canal (WCC)—the main arterial waterway traversing through 11 districts.  The Chief Minister is scheduled to cruise through the waterway in a indigenously manufactured solar boat
14 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Security stepped up for counting||The police are gearing up to tighten security across the capital district in the run-up to the counting of votes polled in the local body elections on December 16. Police deployment will be beefed up in sensitive locations some of which had witnessed sporadic incidents of violence on the election day. Vote counting will be conducted across 16 centres where the electronic voting machines (EVMs) are stored in tightly guarded strongrooms. As many as 14 counting centres will come under the purview of the Thiruvananthapuram Rural police. These include Government HSS Parassala, Government HSS Marayamuttam, New HSS Nellimood, DVMNNM HSS Maranalloor, G. Karthikeyan Smaraka Government Vocational HSS Vellanad, Government Girls HSS Nedumangad, Government HSS Venjaramoodu, Government HSS Kilimanoor, Government Model Boys HSS Attingal, S.N. College Varkala, Government Boys HSS Neyyattinkara, Government Boys HSS Manja, Nedumangad, Attingal Municipal and Varkala Municipal offices. The security arrangements in two others—Sarvodaya ICSE School, Nalanchira, and Government HSS Kazhakuttom—will be overseen by the Thiruvananthapuram City police. The City police has planned a three-tier security arrangement that will focus on the counting centres, its perimeters, and surveillance within jurisdictions of individual police stations. A rigid access control will remain in effect at the counting centres where only polling officers, candidates, and counting agents who possess entry passes will be permitted.  Curbs to be imposed Restrictions will also be imposed for celebratory rallies with the administration mulling over fixing a permissible number for activists in accordance with COVID-19 norms. A police contingent will also be stationed outside counting centres. Police pickets will be stationed in politically sensitive areas including Nemom and Vattiyurkavu as well as coastal areas. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police is set to deploy around 3,000 personnel, including nearly 300 dispatched from the Special Armed Police (SAP) camp. Besides the three police subdivisions in Attingal, Neyyattinkara and Nedumangad, security arrangements will also be overseen by Deputy Superintendents of Police (DySPs) in Venjaramoodu and Kattakada. Officials said stringent legal provisions including the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020 would be invoked on political activists who engaged in activities that contravened the COVID-19 protocol.
14 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State staring at the chance of a surge in new cases||Kerala could be witnessing a surge in COVID-19 soon, going by the previous weeks’ (December first week) trend when new cases, which had shown a negative growth all through November, suddenly showed an increase by 5.6%. Case doubling time trends and test positivity rates, two key indicators of the rate of infection or the spread of the virus, have gone up in many districts like Pathanamthitta, Thrissur, Wayanad, Malappuram and Kottayam. 4,698 new cases On Sunday, the State reported 4,698 new cases of COVID-19, when 46,375 samples were tested in 24 hours, taking the State’s cumulative caseload to 6,69,330 cases. Test positivity rate has shown a rising trend for the past three days and touched 10.13% on Sunday, indicating steady rate of disease transmission, which could be set to climb. 5,258 recoveries The State reported 5,258 recoveries on the day. The active case pool of the State now stands at 59,438 cases, with cumulative recoveries numbering 6,07,119. The addition of 29 new deaths to the official COVID death list on Sunday puts the State’s cumulative COVID toll at 2,623. Malappuram reported five of these deaths, Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur four each, three each in Thrissur and Kozhikode, two each in Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Ernakulam and one death each was reported from Palakkad, Idukki, Wayanad and Kasaragod. Of the new cases reported on Sunday, 4,605 are locally acquired infections while in 93 cases, a travel history outside the State was reported. In 528 cases, no epidemiological link to infection could be established. The number of health-care workers who got infected is 43. District-wise Among districts, Malappuram continues to report the highest number of cases with 649 cases, Kozhikode 612, Ernakulam 509, Thrissur 438, Kottayam 416, Palakkad 307, Kollam 269, Kannur 267, Thiruvananthapuram 254, Wayanad 234, Pathanamthitta 229, Idukki 222, Aalapuzha 218 and Kasaragod 74 cases.  Case doubling time, positivity rates go up in many districts State’s test positivity rises to 10.13% on Sunday 29 more deaths take State’s cumulative toll to 2,623
14 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Agriculture expert Heli passes away in Alappuzha||R. Heli, agriculture expert and former Director of Agriculture, who, for over five decades, was an authoritative presence in the farm sector of Kerala, passed away in Alappuzha on Sunday. He was 86. A pioneer of farm journalism in the State, Mr. Heli played an important role in bringing the public closer to the Agriculture Department and agriculture-related topics. Born to P.M. Raman and A. Bharathi in Attingal in 1934, Mr. Heli began his career as an agriculture officer with the Rubber Board in 1955. He moved to the Agriculture Department of Thiru-Kochi in 1956 and, in 1957, the State Agriculture Department. In dailies, radio When the Farm Information Bureau (FIB) was formed in 1969 when M.N. Govindan Nair was Agriculture Minister, Mr. Heli assumed charge as its first Principal Information Officer. He held the post till January 20, 1983. He was instrumental in starting agriculture-related articles in Malayalam dailies and a farm news programme on Akashvani. He also played a role in opening Krishi Bhavans and popularising group farming in Kerala. Mr. Heli retired as Director of Agriculture in 1989, but remained closely associated with the sector. He wrote about it extensively, constantly communicated with the farming community and played the role of an advisor to State governments. On television, he was a familiar face to viewers of agriculture-related programmes. He was a recipient of the first Karshaka Bharathi Award for farm journalism and the Kerala Press Academy Award. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan said Mr. Heli’s ‘tireless services to promotion of scientific farming practices will be long remembered.’ Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan recalled that Mr. Heli pioneered farm journalism in Malayalam. He was noted for his farm-related writings in journals and dailies, Mr. Vijayan said. ‘Role model for officers’ Agriculture Minister V. S. Sunil Kumar said Mr. Heli played an important role in making the Agriculture Department people-friendly. “He was a role model for agriculture officers. He was closely associated with former Agriculture Minister V.V. Raghavan in opening Krishi Bhavans,” Mr. Sunil Kumarsaid. Mr. Heli leaves behind wife Susheela Heli, daughter Poornima and son Prasanth. The cremation was held at Attingal on Sunday evening.
14 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Arrangements in place for counting||Arrangements have been completed for the counting of votes polled in the local body elections in the State, State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran has said. The counting will begin at 8 a.m. on December 16 in the 244 counting centres across the State. The Commission has directed District Election Officers to ensure that the COVID-19 protocols are strictly followed throughout the process. The postal ballot papers, including those issued to service voters and the special ballots issued to COVID-19 positive and quarantined voters, will be counted first. In the three-tier panchayats, the polled votes will be counted at the distribution and receiving centres at the block level. In the municipalities and Corporation, the venues will be the distribution and receiving centres of the respective local bodies. The district-level break-up of counting centres is as follows: Thiruvananthapuram (16), Kollam (16), Pathanamthitta (12), Alappuzha (18), Kottayam (17), Idukki (10), Ernakulam (28), Thissur (24), Palakkad (20), Malappuram (27), Kozhikode (20), Wayanad (7), Kannur (20) and Kasaragod (9). As part of disease containment measures, the counting centres will be disinfected on Monday, Mr. Bhaskaran said. Counting officers are required to wear gloves, masks and face shields. Candidates and counting agents should use masks and sanitiser.  The updates on the counting of votes will be available on the 'Trend' website, the Commission said. Updates will be available at the polling station level in a given ward.
14 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KWA looking for alternative sites for Neyyar project||With land disputes threatening to derail the 120-mld Neyyar Water Supply project, the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) is on the look-out for suitable sites in the same neighbourhood for establishing the facility. The KWA has pinpointed a parcel of land next to the guest house at Neyyar as a possible alternative to the six acres transferred to it by the department in 2018 that is now mired in a dispute. “This parcel of land, owned by the Irrigation Department, is over five acres in area and is suitable for our purposes,” a KWA official said, adding that the matter had been taken up with the Irrigation Department. Nonetheless, the KWA has not dropped the initial proposal. The government-run water utility is hoping for a speedy resolution to the court cases pertaining to the land dispute so that it can go ahead with the project that is expected to provide a long-term solution to the water woes of the capital city. The KWA had awarded the contract for constructing the water treatment plant at Neyyar to Thiruvananthapuram-based Chicago Constructions International Pvt Ltd in 2019. Transfer of land The State government formally issued orders transferring the six acres held by the Irrigation Department to the KWA in February this year. Delays stalked the project, which promises 100 million litres a day (mld) to Thiruvananthapuram city and 20 mld to four panchayats, after the Sree Rama Dasa Mission, Chenkottukonam, moved the court following a dispute over a temple on the site. Contractor’s rates  Subsequently, the contractor sought a renegotiation of the rates, given the inordinate delay. The KWA is yet to finalise a decision in this regard. Under the agreement, the work was to be completed in 18 months. In fact, the KWA had plans to commission the project in March 2021, but this is not likely to materialise. At the same time, the KWA is in the process of awarding the contract for laying the transmission main for carrying water from Neyyar to the city. This is being undertaken as a separate project.
14 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||254 more added to capital’s caseload||The COVID-19 caseload in Thiruvananthapuram continued its downward trend as 342 people recovered from the illness to touch the total active case count of 3,208. As many as 254 people contracted the infection in the district during the last 24 hours. The death toll rose to 594 as four more recent deaths were attributed to the illness. The deceased include a 63-year-old man who hailed from Vallakadavu, a 75-year-old man who hailed from Kattachalkuzhy, an 82-year-old man who hailed from Nellikkunnu, and a 60-year-old woman who hailed from Thachancode. Under quarantine The district administration has placed 1,671 people under quarantine in the district, taking the total number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 27,377 in houses and 110 in various institutions.
14 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tamil Nadu native nabbed for a two-year-old crime||The City police nabbed a Tamil Nadu native in connection with a theft case two years after the alleged crime had occurred near Peroorkada. The police identified the accused as Sebastian, 37, who hails from Radhapuram in Thirunelveli and used to reside in a rented house at Vilavancode in Kanyakumari. He has accused of stealing a large quantity of jewellery and cash from a bakery owner at Vazhayila before fleeing to his native place. According to the police, Sebastian had been hired by the complainant to work in his outlet at Vazhayila. The accused purportedly stole 47 sovereigns of gold and Rs. 1 lakh before fleeing to his home town. Sebastian allegedly exploited his employer’s trust, as he used to steal their valuables whenever he was entrusted with delivering food from the bakery to the latter’s wife who was indisposed. Sebastian also managed to return to Tamil Nadu before his wrongdoing was noticed by his employer. A team led by Peroorkada station house officer Saijunath found the accused to have been working as a lorry driver in various places including Thirunelveli and Tuticorin. After he was nabbed from a hideout, he purportedly admitted that he had pledged the stolen ornaments at Marthandam and Thirunelveli, the police said.  Sebastian was hired by the complainant to work in his outlet at Vazhayila.
14 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two kg of ganja seized, two people arrested||Excise officials arrested two persons on charge of possessing 2 kg of ganja in Nedumangad on Saturday. A team led by Nedumangad excise circle inspector S. Vinod Kumar arrested Rashid of Panavoor and Shinu of Karipur. The seized packets of ganja were found concealed in Rashid’s motorcycle, Mr. Kumar said. Festive season The Excise Department has intensified surveillance in anticipation of a surge in proliferation of drug and spurious liquor during the Christmas and New Year season.
14 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chennithala mocks CM over bid to play victim||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Sunday said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s attempt to play the victim of a political witch-hunt by Central investigation agencies was an affront to common sense and truth. Mr. Chennithala said Mr. Vijayan had on Saturday erroneously drawn on the life of Mahatma Gandhi and Nelson Mandela to portray the predicament of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government that faced several Central investigations on corruption charges. He said it would do well for Mr. Vijayan to remember that both leaders had borne the brunt of oppressive colonial governments for the cause of freedom and not gold smuggling or money laundering. Mr. Chennithala said it was a shame to invoke the names of such iconic leaders. Mr. Chennithala said Kerala had viewed Mr. Vijayan’s pitiable public plea to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to rescue his government from the jaws of Central law enforcement with derision. Mr. Vijayan had claimed credit for ushering Central agencies to Kerala after the gold smuggling racket surfaced. He had said Mr. Modi had sanctioned his request for a comprehensive investigation. At the time, Mr. Vijayan also said United Democratic Front (UDF) leaders were fearful of the probe. At CM’s doorstep However, the probe ended up at the doorstep of the government. The investigation might reach more Ministers and party leaders, he said. Mr. Vijayan had no compunction in allowing the police to shoot-down Maoists in cold blood, arresting impressionable youth on extremist charges of attempting to breathe life into bogus charges against UDF leaders, he said. The LDF government would get its comeuppance at the hustings, he said.
14 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poll manifesto promises free vaccine, says LDF||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has defended Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's announcement pertaining to free COVID-19 vaccines on the grounds that Mr. Vijayan was merely indicating what was already mentioned in the LDF election manifesto. The leaderships of the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) should clarify as to whether they accepted or rejected the Chief Minister’s promise of free vaccines for combating the pandemic, LDF convener and CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said in a statement here on Sunday. It was laughable that Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and BJP State unit president K. Surendran had, in this matter too, opposed the Chief Minister, Mr. Vijayaraghavan said. He termed the complaints filed before the State Election Commission (SEC) seeking action against Mr. Vijayan for breach of the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) as ‘childish.’ Reply to question The Chief Minister stated that vaccination would be made available free of cost to all while replying to a question during a media briefing, he said. The promise of free treatment for COVID-19 was part of the LDF election manifesto. The manifesto clearly indicated that the LDF would follow the same policy in the matter of COVID-19 vaccines also. It cannot be construed as MCC violation if the Chief Minister, who also leads the front, referred to it, he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had not yet come forward with the promise of free vaccines yet, Mr. Vijayaraghavan said.
14 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Christmas cakes on sale at KTDC hotel||Kerala Tourism Development Corporation’s (KTDC) flagship property, Hotel Mascot. has commenced sale of Christmas cakes. The sale of the cakes will be made through restaurant aggregator and food delivery start-ups Swiggy, Zomato. Over-the-counter sale It could also be purchased over the counter at the takeaway corner in the hotel. Available in two special packs, the plum cakes are priced at Rs. 715 (Full) and Rs. 430 (Half) plus GST. A KTDC release said here on Sunday that the sale of the cakes would contiue till December 31.
14 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Dance fete enters sixth day||The sixth day of the Indian Classical Dance Festival that is being organised in the memory of the late Kapila Vatsyayan saw Manipuri, Kuchipudi, Mohiniyattom, and Bharatanatyam dance demonstrations on Sunday. Manipuri A short biography on Manipuri dance maestro Vipin Singh was a highlight of the day.
14 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Call to speed up postal ballot movement||The district administration has asked the Postal Department to speed up the movement of postal ballots despatched by post to special voters. District Collector Navjot Khosa wrote to the Chief Postmaster General in this regard following several complaints that many special voters were yet to receive them. Before Dec.8 The returning officers concerned have despatched the special postal ballot papers by post to all eligible voters before December 8 when the local body polls were held in the capital district. Only those postal ballots that are received by returning officers till 8 a.m. on December 16, the day of vote counting, will be counted, according to the officials concerned.
14 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Motorbike theft: youth arrested||The Medical College police on Sunday arrested a teenager on charge of stealing a motorbike. The police identified the accused as Jishnu, 19, of Mannanthala in the capital. He was apparently found by a patrol team near the Thekkummoodu bund colony early in the morning under suspicious circumstances. His attempt to flee on the motorcycle failed as he was soon intercepted by a team of police officers. The accused later confessed that the vehicle was stolen from under the Mannanthala police station limits, the police officers said.
14 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Registration on for Thalir scholarship||Registration for the examination for the Thalir scholarship instituted by the State Institute of Children’s Literature is under way. The scholarship is aimed at improving students’ reading habit and love for language and nurturing their interest in literature. The scholarship will be given to 2,500-odd students across junior (classes 5 to 7) and senior categories (classes 8 to 10) this year. Students who get top three ranks in the State will get scholarships of Rs. 10,000, Rs. 5,000, and Rs. 3,000, respectively. District-level winners will get scholarships of Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 500.  Registration fee for the examination is Rs. 200. To register, log on to https://scholarship.ksicl. kerala.gov.in. The last date is December 31. For details, call 85479 71483.
14 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Firm signs up for UN women empowerment initiative||As ‘National Energy Conservation Day’ is being observed on Monday, Vydyuti Energy Services (VES), a mostly women enterprise in the renewable energy sector, is in the limelight after becoming one of the first companies from Kerala signed for the Women Empowerment Principles by the United Nations. Of the 170 companies signed for this initiative from the country, 64 companies are from the private sector. VES is the 65th company. Giant strides Kerala is already making giant strides in the renewable energy sector and has been ranked number one in the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) in India by Niti Aayog. The insightful and in-depth understanding of the sustainable energy sector for 12 years, especially in the Middle East, has helped Anoop Babu to establish his dream venture back home after three years of research along with his mother and co-founder Indira Babu, a philanthropist. A lofty ideal of empowering women inspired Mr. Babu to give key positions to women in the consultancy-cum-project management firm. Apart from mother, the rest of the team at the helm includes Sudha Kumari, a retired engineer who led the Energy Efficiency Department of the Kerala State Electricity Board, as VES’s head of business; Vani Vijay, a research expert, as a working partner; and Kokila Vijayakumar, as head of operations. Firm’s profile The firm specialises in consulting, training, energy audits and project management in the key focus areas like energy efficiency, renewable energy, e-mobility, carbon accounting and climate change, says Mr. Babu, an alumni of Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology, Nalanchira, Thiruvananthapuram,. Authorised body VES is the first authorised body in the State to provide certified technical training in major green energy domains along with the CII-ITC Centre for Excellence for Sustainable Development, Delhi. It can also be a technical and industrial partner of schools and engineering colleges for various green projects.  Kerala has been ranked number one in the UN Sustainable Development Goals in India by Niti Aayog.
14 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New YWCA office-bearers selected||Jaikumari Rajenesh is the new president of the YWCA Thiruvananthapuram, Ms. Mariam Gibu Abraham is the vice-president, Promilla Christopher is the treasurer, and Elizabeth Sabeena George, the recording secretary. The candle-lighting ceremony of the newly elected board of management of the YWCA for 2020-21 was held.
14 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur reports 438 cases, Palakkad 307||Thrissur reported 438 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, while 276 people recovered from the disease. There are 5,941 active cases in the district and 141 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far, 65,625 COVID-19 cases have been reported and 59,204 people have recovered from the disease. According to official figures, 417 people, including six health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Sunday. Of them, 62 patients are above the age of 60 and 17 children are below the age of 10. There are 4,082 patients under home observation. In all 164 people were admitted to hospitals for COVID-19 treatment on Sunday and 4,624 samples were collected. Palakkad recorded 307 new COVID-19 cases and 381 recoveries on Sunday. When 156 of the new cases had contracted the disease through local contact, the source of infection could not be traced in 140 cases. Among the new cases were five health workers and six persons who came from across the borders. Officials said 4,256 active cases were under treatment in Palakkad. Apart from them, 211 persons from Palakkad were being treated in other districts. As many as 101 were in Malappuram, 46 in Ernakulam, 39 in Thrissur, 17 in Kozhikode, two in Kollam and one each in Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kasaragod, Kottayam, and Wayanad.
14 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||BVB holds event to upgrade teachers’ skills||The Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Thrissur, conducted Jagaran 2020, a six-week-long orientation programme for teachers of its two schools. The programme was conceived with the objective of making the schools centres of excellence in education. Eminent resource persons from different fields were involved in the programme. Jagaran 2020 was inaugurated by T. Pattabhiraman, chairman of the Bhavan’s Thrissur Kendra. The entire programme was conducted on virtual platforms. Teachers of Bhavan’s Vidya Mandir, Poochatty, and Kulapati Munshi Bhavan’s Vidya Mandir, Pottore, attended the programme. The topics covered included ‘teaching for academic excellence,’ ‘identifying the right career path for students,’ ‘how to become an effective teacher,’ ‘drug addiction among youth and teachers’ role in preventing it’. Jagaran 2020, which was concluded on Saturday, paved the way for upgrading teachers’ skills in tune with the changing requirements.
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Women power||
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||His creative space||
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Giving two hoots about their plight||
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Shrunken might||
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sowing expectations||
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sasthrapadham to go online||Sasthrapadham, a programme rolled out by the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, last year to kindle Plus One students’ interest in Science (later extended to cover Humanities and Commerce), is going online this year against the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic. The programme will cover the entire higher secondary and high school classes to ensure to ensure maximum student participation. Sasthrapadham got under way in Thiruvananthapuram district last week with the broad objective of fuelling students’ interest in and aptitude for science, maths, arts, and commerce and nurturing their inquisitiveness. Initially, recorded classes are uploaded on school student Telegram groups formed for each subject. To make the process interactive, subject experts at the Samagra Shiksha’s block resource level reply to students’ doubts and queries about the recorded classes on these groups. Seminars are also held. The subject experts also guide the students on the next stage of activity – projects to be prepared by them and discuss what these could be and how to go about them. The students get around two weeks to prepare their projects. Of these, a select few will be handed over to the BRCs. All the projects received by the BRC in each subject from the schools under its jurisdiction will be presented at a programme from December 28 to 30 in the presence of experts. Next, online classes will be held by Samagra experts for students whose projects are short-listed from each BRC – five each in science, commerce, arts, and from high school. These classes will cover the students projects and on the basis of the experts’ suggestions, the projects will be updated. These projects will then be presented at a district-level programme on January 10 and 11. Ten students each will be selected from science, commerce, arts, and high school categories for State-level seminars and classes. Similarly, students from other districts too will participate in the State programme. Samagra officials hope that once the COVID-19 situation improves, they will be able to take these students to the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) here like they did last year to give the students practical experience and benefit from interactions with faculty and other programmes there.  The project was launched last year to kindle Plus One students’ interest in Science.
14 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crop loss: CPI to hold road blockade||The Communist Party of India(CPI) has criticised the State government for not paying the input subsidy amount (Rs. 930 crore) due since 2018 and ignoring the magnitude of damage to groundnut crop in Anantapur district during the current year’s South West Monsoon and later during Nivar cyclone. District secretary D. Jagadeesh said party workers would hold a road blockade led by party State secretary K. Ramakrishna on December 15 at all places in the district, protesting against the improper crop damage details given by the State agriculture department officers during the crop-cutting experiments(CCE). Mr. Jagadeesh alleged that a proper crop cutting experiments were not done in the district and against an estimated loss of Rs. 2,500 crore in groundnut crop and loss due to the drastic fall in yield, the officials had estimated the loss only in 33 of out of 63 mandals and put the figure at a meagre Rs. 390 crore.
14 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Commissioner assures people of quality drinking water supply||The Anantapur Municipal Corporation has taken all precautionary measures to ensure the quality of drinking water being supplied to the citizens, Municipal Commissioner P.V.V.S. Murthy assured people who were apprehensive in view of the mass hospitalisations due to unknown disease in Eluru town. Test results that were received on Saturday showed that water samples taken from the source and at various locations in the supply chain were perfectly potable. The Commissioner said the Corporation had taken up a special drive to clean the filter beds at Muddala Puram and 30 reservoirs all over the city in the supply network. About 41.18 million liters per day was being pumped from Penna Ahobilam Balancing Reservoir (PABR) after purification, he said. The city with a population of 3.45 lakh was having more than 35,000 individual water connections and 368 bulk connections for apartments and commercial establishments. “We are ensuring 120 liters per day per head and there was no cause for concern in view of the Eluru incident,” Mr. Murthy said. No water supply on Tuesday Meanwhile, the Corporation has taken up some repair work at the Muddala Puram filter point, hence there will be no water supply on Tuesday, a release said.
14 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||70-year-old allegedly sexually assaults minor||The police on Sunday launched a search for a 70-year-old man, who was absconding after allegedly committing a sexual assault on a 12-year-old girl at a remote village in Nagalapuram mandal. According to the police, the man, Sivalingam, allegedly lured the minor while she was playing with her friends on the village outskirts, on the pretext of getting her some eatables. Taking the girl to an isolated spot, the elderly man allegedly sexually assaulted her. The girl who fell sick informed her parents about the incident. The parents lodged a complaint with the Nagalapuram police on Saturday night. The police sent the girl to the government hospital at Satyavedu for medical examination. The accused is said to be a distant relative (grandfather) of the victim. A case was registered.
14 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boy injured in wild boar attack near Satyavedu||A 13-year-old boy was mauled by a wild boar at a forest-fringe village, Rajugunta, in Satyavedu mandal on Sunday morning. According to information, Leela Prasad was returning home from a provision store in the village when a sounder of wild boars, being chased by stray dogs, rushed towards him. One of the boars attacked the boy, biting him in the thigh. Hearing his agonized cries, the villagers rushed to the spot and drove away the wild boars. He was taken to the government hospital at Satyavedu. The villagers informed the forest officials that given the proximity of their village to the forest, the wild boars have often raided the area. Forest Range Officer (Satyavedu) Jaya Prasada Rao said the forest staff had contacted the victim’s parents. He said that steps would be taken to provide due compensation to the victim based on the severity of the injury. After giving sutures on the wound and medication at the area hospital, the boy was sent home.
14 December 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister enquires about the health condition of discharged patients||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister of Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas on Sunday visited the houses of persons who were discharged after undergoing treatment for the mysterious disease and enquired about their health condition. Mr. Srinivas was accompanied by Joint Collector Himanshu Shukla, DMHO Sunandha, and Municipal Commissioner Chandrashekar. These persons had earlier been admitted in the Government General Hospital in the town with symptoms of epilepsy, seizures and convulsions. When a few of them said that they were feeling extremely weak, Mr. Srinivas asked the doctors to supply them necessary medicines. The Minister directed the personnel of the health wing, the municipal corporation, and the ward volunteers to visit the patients’ houses every day, collect their health report, extend them necessary medical aid, and alert the officers if there were any fresh cases. “The situation is under control in Eluru and in the neighbouring villages, and there is no need to panic. Please don’t believe rumours,” the Minister said. Later, Mr. Srinivas distributed rice, dal, medicines, masks and vegetables to the recovered persons. When a few residents complained of clogged drainages and overflowing garbage bins, the Minister immediately directed the Municipal Commissioner to address the concerns on a war-footing. Warns of action “Stern action will be taken against the municipal staff if unhygienic conditions continue to prevail in the town,” the Minister warned. Eluru Revenue Divisional Officer Panabaka Rachana and Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) district chairman Mamillapalli Jaya Prakash were present. The Joint Collector later said that 622 people had so far fallen sick with neurotoxicity symptoms. About 35 of them were referred to Vijayawada and Guntur government hospitals, he added. “About six persons have been admitted in Vijayawada GGH and their condition is stable. They are ready for discharge,” Mr. Shukla said.
14 December 2020||KAZA (KRISHNA),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Oppose move to explore oil, gas in Kaza’||The round-table, convened by all political parties on Sunday, appealed to the 35 panchayats in the four mandals -- Movva, Guduru, Kalidindi and Machilipatnam in the Eastern Krishna district -- to pass grama sabha resolution against exploration of oil and natural gas. The Vedanta group has proposed to drill 35 borewells in the Kaza block in the Krishna-Godavari basin, exploring oil and natural gas. The environmental public hearing would be held on the project at Tarakaturu village in Guduru mandal on December 17. The conference was chaired by CPI(M) East Krishna president R. Raghu and CPI district secretary Akkineni Vanaja at Kaza village. District YSR Congress Party member M. Srinivasa Reddy proposed that all the affected panchayats should pass a resolution against oil and natural gas exploration by conducting grama sabhas and submit the resolution to the authorities concerned. ‘Adverse impact’ Mr. Raghu and Ms. Vanaja observed that the proposed oil and natural gas exploration would have an adverse impact on the fertile agriculture zone that is supporting two crops per year in the Krishna district. Pblic hearing The round-table decided to create awareness among the local communities to turn up at the public hearing to register a strong voice against the project, on December 17.
14 December 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Move to allot part of agri research station’s lands to college opposed||The Rayalaseema Saguniti Sadhana Samithi on Sunday resolved to launch a massive agitation to protect the lands belonging to the Regional Agricultural Research Station at Nandyal and demanded that the government immediately withdraw G.O. 341, as per which, 50 out of the research station’s 106 acres would be given away for the construction of a medical college. The institution had got international repute for developing several seed varieties over the years and has been playing a very supportive role for the farmers of the Rayalaseema region. Those opposing the move say that the research, which involves growing of different types of seeds, can be carried out in only areas which have favourable conditions. Allotting a part of its land for a college would limit their research, the samithi members said. Samithi president Bojja Dasaradharami Reddy, along with farmers, met Nandyal MP Pocha Brahmananda Reddy on Sunday evening requesting him to prevail upon the government to protect the Acharya N.G. Ranga Agricultural University’s lands. Its members expressed their desire to meet Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy also to explain the loss the farming community would suffer if the research station lands are alienated. The samithi members are to tour all villages in Nandyal parliamentary constituency and seek alms in a bid to send out a message to the government to acquire or buy alternative site for the proposed medical college. They have also decided to organise a ‘Nandyal blockade’ along with farmers of the Nandyal parliamentary constituency area to highlight the issues underlying the move. Meeting to be held Farmers will meet other officials from the region requesting them to prevail upon the Chief Minister to withdraw the proposal. An all-party meeting will also be organised at Amaravati on the topic, he added.
14 December 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Work apace on Polavaram irrigation project, says SE||Work on construction of the Polavaram project is going on as per schedule and 41% of the works has so far been completed, according to project Superintendent Engineer M. Nagireddy. “Head works, girder lifting, spillway bridge, upper coffer dam, concrete work, twin tunnel, and pumping out water from spill channel are under way at the site,” Mr. Nagireddy said. “About 76% of the head works have been completed,” he said. Stating that Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Limited (MEIL) is executing the project works, Mr. Nagireddy said, “In the spillway, 2,17,443 cubic metres of concrete works have been done so far. Work on 192 girders has been completed and pillars have been constructed up to 52 metres height. About 620 metres of slab works on the pillars have been completed and shuttering works are under progress.” Of the 48 trunion beams, 30 were completed and arrangements were being made to fix gates at the completed beams. During the lockdown period, about 1 lakh cubic metres of concrete works were taken up, he said. Due to heavy floods in the Godavari this year, works were effected to some extent. However, 10,64,417 cubic metres of sand excavation was taken up, Mr. Nagireddy said. “About 4 tmcft water is stagnated in the spillway, of which 2 tmcft is pumped out by arranging 70 motors. The remaining water will be pumped out by this month end,” he said. A 100-foot-high statue of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajashekara Reddy would be installed on the G-Hill, he said. Officials of the Andhra Pradesh Green and Beautification Corporation visited the 12-acre hill. A park and landscape would be developed around the statue, Mr. Nagireddy added. Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik said tight security was in place for Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s visit to Polavaram on Monday.
14 December 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call for united fight against creamy layer among BCs||Backward Classes Welfare Association national president R. Krishnaiah on Sunday appealed to the people belonging to Backward Classes to prepare for a united fight for mounting pressure for abolition of a creamy layer for the BCs and also in support of 50% reservation in the legislature and enactment of a BCs atrocity act. Roundtable Addressing a roundtable held here, Mr. Krishnaiah said: “The Backward Classes comprise 56 % population in the country and deserve 50% reservation in the legislature.” Rajamahendravaram MP M. Bharat opined that all the BCs should come together to fight for abolition of the creamy layer to enjoy the reservation benefits entitled as per the Constitution. “ I am prepared to play an active role to fight for the abolition of creamy layer for the BCs and in support of 50 % reservation in the legislature,” said Mr. Bharat.
14 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Every rupee for schemes rolled out by State coming from Centre: GVL||The BJP has slammed the ruling YSRCP government and the previous TDP regime for trying to claiming credit for development by deliberately brushing the Centre’s support under the carpet. Addressing the media here on Sunday, party Rajya Sabha member G.V.L. Narasimha Rao criticised both the parties for trying to derive political mileage out of the schemes and funds sanctioned by the Centre. While the State was receiving accolades for improving rural school infrastructure, reaching out to farmers with Rythu Bharosa Kendras and social security pensions, Mr. Rao said every rupee for the schemes came from the Centre’s coffers, which the rulers in the State failed to acknowledge. “The TDP government at least tried to affix its stickers on our schemes, but the present rulers are straight away claiming total credit,” he said. On the ensuing byelection to the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat, Mr. Narasimha Rao said the party would take up “visible campaign” by showcasing development to the voters. “We will visit the projects such as Smart City, IIT, IISER, development of model railway stations, ports and highways, and explain the same to the voters,” he said. ‘Appeasement politics’ BJP State general secretary Vishnuvardhan Reddy said the government was resorting to “appeasement politics” by placating Muslims and Christians at the cost of Hindus. Flaying Endowments Minister V. Srinivas for reportedly announcing to strive for protection of Wakf properties, he said, “He is the first Endowments Minister in the history of Andhra Pradesh to go on record with such a statement.” Taking exception to the manner in which the department had “turned a deaf ear” to the fervent pleas to protect the encroached temple lands and, instead, offered to go out of the way to safeguard the Wakf properties, Mr. Reddy demanded the resignation of Mr. Srinivas. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy may induct Mr. Srinivas as Minorities Welfare Minister as he is unfit to head the portfolio that is meant to protect Hindu temples,” he said.
14 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam protests against attack on party workers||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has described the police action against its workers across Chittoor district not only as unwarranted but also ‘partisan in nature’. Following the violent incident in Thamballapalle constituency where YSRCP workers reportedly hurled stones at TDP senior leaders and damaged their vehicles, the TDP members staged a dharna across the district on Sunday, demanding action against the culprits. In Tirupati Rural mandal, represented by government whip Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy, TDP workers staged a half-naked protest on Cherlopalli road. While pointing out that the TDP leaders were proceeding in a peaceful manner near Angallu when they came under attack, the TDP workers announced to go to any extent to counter the ‘rowdy elements’ in the ruling party. P.R. Mohan, former Chairman of Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh, dashed off a letter to the Director-General of Police, wondering if he was aware of the spate of incidents. He sought to know if the house arrest of party leaders would not amount to curbing individual freedom of speech and movement. Mr. Mohan also decried the manner in which the policemen reportedly barged into the TDP office at Srikalahasti and took the party activists into custody.
14 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Gudiko Gomatha’ launched in Bengaluru||After covering the two Telugu States, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) extended its flagship programme ‘Gudiko Gomatha’ to Karnataka by launching the event in Bengaluru on Sunday. TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, who formally launched the event with a puja to cows, said the TTD’s intention behind the noble programme was to safeguard indigenous cow breeds across the country. Appeal for donations “We have already donated a cow and a calf at Vijayawada, Kakinada, Hyderabad and now at Bengaluru. I appeal to all like-minded donors to come forward to donate cows to mutts and temples,” he said. Following his call, philanthropists donated 216 cows. Yatiraja Mutt seer Sri Narayana Yatiraja Ramanuja Swamy, and Local Advisory Committee members were present.
14 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP felicitated on bagging award||Superintendent of Police Avula Ramesh Reddy received honours from his departmental officials for bagging the SKOCH Award and HI 9 Heroes award for the Tirupati Urban police district recently. Police Officers Association president Somasekhar Reddy, secretary K. Chandrasekhar, association vice-president M. Thimmaiah, joint secretary Sankar Reddy, treasurer Kama Raju and other officials felicitated Mr. Ramesh Reddy with a shawl on his achievement.
14 December 2020||VEERAVASARAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||ASI injured in bid to stop fight over farm land||An Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) of Police, P. Parthasaradhi, and another person, Babji, suffered injuries when a land owner attacked them with a sickle at Bobbanapalli village in the district on Sunday. The accused, R. Arun Kumar, sold away his two acres of land to his relative Satyanarayana, who leased the land to a farmer. When the farmer prepared to harvest the crop, Arun prevented the labourers. The farmer called ‘Dial 100’ and alerted the police. Immediately, the ASI along with his staff rushed to the spot. When Mr. Parthasaradhi tried to stop the two parties, Arun Kumar attacked the ASI with a sickle causing head injury to him, said Superintendent of Police (SP) K. Narayan Naik. Locals provide first aid “The locals provided first aid to the ASI. He is being treated in a hospital at Bhimavaram. Stern action will be taken against the accused who attacked the ASI,” Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang said. He directed the SP to call on the ASI at the hospital and see to it that he would get better treatment. Mr. Sawang thanked the villagers who gave first aid to the ASI and alerted the police immediately. Special teams formed Mr. Naik said that doctor recommended surgery to the ASI. A case was registered and special teams have been constituted to nab the accused. The condition of other patient was stable, he said. “We will shift Mr. Parthasaradhi to Eluru for better treatment, if necessary,” the SP said.  He is being treated in a hospital at Bhimavaram.
14 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||At 104, Chittoor reports highest single-day tally||The State has again reported a little over 500 new COVID-19 infections and five deaths in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. Each of the new death was reported in Chittoor, Guntur, Krishna, Vizianagaram and West Godavari districts, following which the toll increased to 7,057. The death rate remained at 0.81%. With 506 new infections, the State’s infection tally increased to 8,75,531. During the period, 613 patients recovered, following which the recovery rate reached 98.63%. The total number of recoveries increased to 8,63,508. The number of active cases for the first time in several months was below 5,000 as it decreased to 4,966. Active cases Of the total active cases, 70%, or 3,463 patients, were present in Krishna, Guntur, East Godavari, Nellore and Chittoor districts, while the remaining were in eight districts. For the fifth consecutive day, more than 60,000 samples were tested. The positivity rate of the 63,873 tests conducted during the past one day was 0.79%, and the overall positivity rate of the 1.08 crore samples tested was 8.08%. Chittoor, one of the few districts witnessing more number of infections daily, had once again reported the highest single-day tally. It was the only district to see more than 100 new infections as 104 cases were detected. It was followed by Guntur (69), West Godavari (66), Krishna (59), East Godavari (41), Nellore (29), Kurnool (28), Srikakulam (25), Visakhapatnam (23), Prakasam (20), Anantapur (17), Vizianagaram (13) and Kadapa (12). The overall tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,22,988), West Godavari (93,352), Chittoor (84,846), Guntur (73,944), Anantapur (67,006), Prakasam (61,783), Nellore (61,782), Kurnool (60,404), Visakhapatnam (58,636), Kadapa (54,641), Krishna (46,684), Srikakulam (45,708) and Vizianagaram (40,862).
14 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Fighting spirit’ of Amaravati ryots lauded||Appreciating the farmers’ year-long agitation against the State government’s plan to shift the capital, senior TDP Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has urged the people to support their cause. In a statement on Sunday, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said that the agitation was not for themselves but for the entire State. “The fighting spirit of Amaravati Joint Action Committee (JAC) is indeed praiseworthy. People from all walks of life need to fight against the government’s decision. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had been against Amaravati since the beginning. He had not attended the foundation stone-laying ceremony. He had not attended the lunch hosted by the farmers. Overcoming the hurdles created by the YSRCP, the TDP government could attract investors. More than 130 organisations / institutions were ready to establish their offices in Amaravati. But the YSRCP, soon after coming to power, put a spoke in the wheel of development. As a result, the investors were shying away from the State, the TDP leader said. “ The YSRCP has set its sights on hundreds of acres of land in Visakhapatnam. The people should understand the wicked plans behind the move to shift the capital,” he said. ‘Make padayatra a success’ Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi JAC convener A. Siva Reddy and co-convener Gadde Tirupati Rao on Sunday urged people to take part in the proposed ‘Amaravati Parirakshana Praja Padayatra’ in Vijayawada on Tuesday (December 15) to mark completion of one year of the agitation.
14 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call to donate stem cell and save lives||Stem cell transplant offers a permanent cure for thalassemia and other blood disorders like leukaemia and aplastic anaemia, according to general physician from ESI hospital Ravuri Naveen. He was speaking at an awareness campaign on blood stem cell donation and a registration drive, organised by Datri Blood Stem Cell Donors Registry, in association with the city-based Support and Awareness for People with Thalassemia (SAPTHA) Foundation. Datri conducts regular awareness programmes on the subject to add blood stem cell donors. Katragadda Prashanti of Saptha Foundation got registered with Datri as a stem cell donor. Datri’s coordinator for Andhra Pradesh Chava Ravi explained about the not-for-profit organisation established in 2009 with a vision to find a willing, HLA (Human Leukocyte Antigen) matching donor for patients of Indian origin suffering from fatal blood disorders. ‘Uphill task’ He said for many people suffering from fatal blood diseases like blood cancer (leukaemia, lymphoma etc.) and thalassemia, a blood stem cell transplant is the last hope of survival. Such patients need a donor with a matching genetic type and the probability of finding a match is only 1 in 10,000 to 1 in over a million. Database of donors With such a low probability, it is necessary to have a large database of blood stem cell donors, he said. Registered donors He said Datri currently had 4,60,920 people registered as potential blood stem cell donors and with their support, it had saved 747 lives. He said from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, 92,896 people had registered as donors. He said a large number of donors needed to come forward and register with Datri as a stem cell donor. Saptha Foundation chairman Voggu Sharath Babu spoke about the regular awareness campaigns conducted by the organisation for last six years. He said 70 donors registered at the camp and most of them were parents of thalassemia patients who were hoping to find match for their children.
14 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stir planned against hike in property tax||Andhra Pradesh Pattana Poura Samakhya convener and CPI(M) leader Ch. Babu Rao on Sunday said that the samakhya would organise Statewide agitations against the steep hike in property tax. Memorandum The samakhya decided to organise agitations in front of village and ward secretariats on December 28 and 29. Later, memoranda would be submitted to the officials concerned. The increase in the tax would not be tolerated at any cost, he said. Mr. Babu Rao said that the samakhya would conduct a public opinion campaign. More than 10 lakh signatures would be collected as part of the campaign which would be conducted in front of all 120 municipal corporations and local bodies on January 6, he said. Taking inspiration from the farmers’ agitation against the agriculture Bills, the agitation against the upward revision of property tax would be intensified, he said.
14 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu did nothing for tribal welfare: Minister||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Tribal Welfare P. Pushpa Sreevani said on Sunday that much of what former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had spoken about the welfare of tribal people over the years was confined to rhetoric as he was known for “showmanship rather than pragmatic action.” The filing of a Special Leave Petition in the Supreme Court against the cancellation of G.O. No. 3, which was meant for providing 100% reservation in teacher posts in the tribal areas to ST candidates, was one of the notable things that the present government did in the interest of those communities, she stated in a press release. The government was establishing a separate commission for the welfare of STs and also an advisory council. A sum of Rs. 1,577 crore had been allocated for the Tribal Sub-Plan and title deeds were being distributed to the tribal people under the Forest Rights Act. Ms. Sreevani said Mr. Naidu was so callous about the empowerment of STs that he did not give a single berth to them in the Cabinet. The government was setting up hospitals in the Agency areas and accorded top priority to education of children from the ST community.
14 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Countdown for downfall of Modi govt. has begun’||The countdown for the downfall of the Central government has begun with the farmers’ agitation against three agriculture Acts, CPI national secretary K. Narayana has said. Addressing the media on Sunday, Dr. Narayana said political parties across the country had expressed their solidarity to the farmers’ agitation and bandh. In fact, the farmers did not seek the support of the political parties. Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had extended his support to the State bandh and the TRS cadres had taken part in it. The YSRCP had supported agriculture and power Bills, which were against the interests of the farming community. But, finally, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy supported the cause. The Modi government at the Centre had created an unrestricted opportunity for the corporates to procure commodities at a throwaway price, hoard them and create an artificial shortage, he said. This would help them sell products at exorbitant prices, Dr. Narayana added. It was unfortunate that the Prime Minister was stooping to blackmailing the farmers. The CPI would extend its total solidarity to the farmers, he said.
14 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Municipal teachers’ protest today||Municipal school teachers are gearing up for a State-wide agitation on Monday in protest against increasing workload on the fraternity. A 57-year-old primary school headmaster, M.S. Subramanyam, in Parigi mandal of Anantapur district committed suicide on Saturday reportedly due to enormous pressure, coupled with health condition. He was reportedly asked to upload the details of the works taken up in his school. He did not have much knowledge about computers, and under the pressure, he had resorted to the extreme step, the local police said. Stating that teachers, especially headmasters, were under constant and enormous pressure as many were unable to adapt to the new technologies and meet deadlines, Municipal Teachers’ Federation State president S. Ramakrishna said there was an urgent need for the government to pay attention to the issue. Calling for the need to remain mentally strong to withstand the winds of change sweeping the education sector, he appealed to the teachers not to lose hope and try and upgrade their skills. Mr. Ramakrishna also urged the Chief Minister to order a probe into the circumstances that drove Subramanyam to end his life.  He said there were several issues needed to be addressed before expecting teachers to do a prompt job.
14 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make energy week beginning today a grand success: CS||Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney has directed the District Collectors to ensure involvement of all stakeholders to make the National Energy Conservation Week 2020 beginning December 14, a grand success. She said in a communication to the Collectors that the State government has, for the first time, announced ‘AP State Energy Conservation Awards’ to recognise excellence in energy conservation and energy efficiency in various sectors. Ms. Sawhney, who is the chairperson of the State Energy Conservation Mission, said the government attached high priority to energy efficiency and took several important decisions to take the energy efficiency movement forward. The government issued G.O Rt No.89 giving directions to all heads of departments (HoDs) and District Collectors to set up energy conservation cells in all government departments and issued another G.O. (No.180) on AP Energy Conservation Building Code to implement energy efficiency in the building sector. Energy efficiency helps in reducing the demand for energy besides saving the expenditure on its consumption benefiting every family and establishment. It is the cheapest and most immediate way to reduce the future energy demand and will help achieve the objective of cost-effective power, she said.
14 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. failed in diagnosing illness: TDP||A three-member TDP committee on Sunday visited the patients undergoing treatment for the mysterious illness at the hospital in Eluru in West Godavari district. TDP leaders N. Chinarajappa, P. Ashok Babu and Rajendra Prasad interacted with the patients at the hospital. “If required, we will extend medical facilities through the NTR Trust,” Mr. Chinarajappa said later. He said the TDP would take steps to supply safe drinking water to the people in Eluru. “Water supply has been stopped abruptly. The government has failed in determining the cause of illness till date. Normalcy should be restored in three days. Else, we will do ‘shrama daanam’ to bring back normalcy in the town,” he said.
14 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HRF decries police attempt to ‘frame’ its member||Leaders of the Human Rights Forum (HRF) from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have taken strong exception to what they alleged as ‘an attempt to implicate’ the organisation’s A.P. unit vice-president K. Jayasree in a criminal case by the police. In a statement on Sunday, V.S. Krishna and S. Jeevan, HRF Coordination Committee members for A.P. and Telangana respectively, alleged that the police were trying to frame cases against Ms. Jayasree by projecting her as a person associated with and working at the behest of the banned Maoist party based on a ‘confession’ statement by an accused in a case registered under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Sedition, at Piduguralla in Guntur district. Calling the ‘confession’ a ‘work of fiction’, they said Ms. Jayasree, a resident of Proddutur in Kadapa district, was a founding member of the HRF and had been consistently highlighting rights violations and had worked relentlessly towards their redressal. Her activism had exposed several failures of the ruling governments, be it the former TDP rule or the current dispensation of the YSR Congress Party. They said Ms. Jayasree had campaigned against mining for uranium by the Uranium Corporation of India Ltd. (UCIL) at Thummalapalle in Vemula mandal of Kadapa district and also the ongoing UCIL plans to expand mining activity. The HRF had always opposed mining as it was poisoning the land and resulting in depletion of groudwater table, they said and asserted that the HRF was not an appendage of either the Maoist or any other political party. It was a rights organisation committed to furthering an independent human rights movement, they said.
14 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drive to promote ‘Streets for People’ challenge||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation conducted ‘S4P Children Centric Campaign’ and competitions for the students of AKTP Municipal School on Sunday to promote the Streets for People Challenge, an initiative of the Smart Cities Mission, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA). Also, competitions in streetscape drawing, rangoli and others were conducted. Additional Commissioner and nodal officer for the initiative U. Sarada Devi said that Shivalayam Street in Satyanarayanapuram and another street in Ajith Singh Nagar were identified for implementation of the project.
14 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No light at the end of tunnel for Vistadome coaches||Tourists planning to go to Araku are sorely missing the Vistadome coach — the glass-panelled compartment that offers unobstructed views of the majestic valley — ever since it was taken out of service owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. The coach, launched in April 2017, saw demand shooting through the roof. The demand was so high that passengers would have to book tickets months in advance. It used to be attached to the 58501/02 Viskahapatnam-Kirandul-Visakhapatnam Passenger, and became so popular that calls grew louder for additional Vistadome coaches to be augmented to the train. The passenger train, along with many other regular trains, has remained cancelled owing to the pandemic, with the Vistadome coach too remaining out of service. However, with rising tourist activity, the absence of even the lone Vistadome coach is being acutely felt. Tourists are of the opinion that the Vistadome coach can be shunted to the newly-revived 08514 Visakhapatnam-Kirandul special express which will ply from December 18. Tourist activity up All hotels and resorts in Araku, either operated by the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) or private, are once again brimming with tourists after several months. Most of the tourists arriving here are disappointed to have missed out on the experience of travelling by train, as it is offers spectacular views of lush green hills and the valley and the tunnels. They said if the Vistadome coach could be shunted to the Visakhapatnam-Kirandul express, the number of footfalls would rise even further. Many are now using their own vehicles to travel to Araku. Minister’s announcement Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi, who flagged off the Visakhapatnam-Vijayawada Double Decker Uday Express in Visakhapatnam on September 26 last year, had announced that five additional Vistadome coaches have been sanctioned for the Araku train and they would be provided soon. However, more than a year after Mr. Angadi’s public announcement, not even one new coach has arrived in Visakhapatnam. “Though the Vistadome enjoys full occupancy from Visakhapatnam to Araku, on the return trip, there are hardly any takers. This, and the pandemic situation, is coming in the way of full utilisation of the Vistadome coach,” said a railway official. “Full occupancy of the coach on the return journey can be ensured if the timings are advanced so that the train crosses the ghat section before dark. There is no point travelling in a glass coach and paying high fare and not be able to see anything at all,” said a traveller.
14 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NSS volunteers’ efforts lauded||Young students who helped create awareness on COVID-19 among thousands of daily wagers and slum-dwellers in the city earned the apprecation of UNICEF-Hyderabad for their efforts. The students demonstrated the proper use of hand sanitizer, use of masks, and the need to observe social distancing as part of the project on ‘Engagement of NSS Volunteers for Risk Communication and Community Engagement (RCCE) in Visakhapatnam’. The NSS Cell of Andhra University entered into an MoU with UNICEF-Hyderabad in July 2020 in this regard. The students were picked from five NSS units of Dr. VS Krishna Government College, GVP College, Samata College, St. Joseph’s College for Women and St. Ann’s Degree College for Women. Twenty-four NSS volunteers from each of the five units were engaged in the project.
14 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Only govt. must carry out vaccination: PAV||There is an urgent need to fully train health workers in vaccination and make them aware of the side effects of the vaccine and on preventive measures, opined participants at a roundtable meeting on the theme ‘Free and safe COVID vaccine for all’, organised at Public Library, here on Sunday. The roundtable, organised jointly by the Praja Arogya Vedika and the Prajarogya Parirakshana Committee, along with with various associations, discussed the issue threadbare and came up with several proposals for the Central and State governments. They include: the vaccine should be made available to the public free of cost; it should not be commercialised; the vaccination programme should be carried out by the government; complete data pertaining to clinical trials on vaccine safety should be kept in the public domain from time to time; and only safe vaccines should be approved. The public sector vaccine companies need to be revitalised with an appropriate budget, keeping future needs in mind, and the government should clarify how the vaccine works on post-COVID patients. Measures should be taken to ensure that physical distancing, wearing a mask, and personal hygiene are continued by the public for at least another two years. The government should release details on vaccine updates so as to create awareness and instill confidence among the people by the time the vaccine arrives, it was deliberated.
14 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||23 new COVID-19 cases reported||The district reported 23 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 59,148, as per the COVID-19 bulletin released on Sunday. As many as 51 persons who were undergoing treatment for the infection made a full recovery. No deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, with the death toll remaining unchanged at 516. Active cases furthered dropped to 233, while recoveries have increased to 58,399.
14 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police counsel rowdy-sheeters||Rowdy-sheeters across various police station limits here in the city were counselled by the Visakhapatnam city police on Sunday. The counselling was organised at all police stations. Police appealed to the rowdy-sheeters not to indulge in anti-social activities and live a peaceful life. Stringent action would be taken against them if they took up crime again, police warned.
14 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No decision yet on location of tribal varsity||Choosing a location for the proposed Central Tribal University is taking longer than expected due to lack of unanimity among the public representatives in the district. The university was sanctioned for Andhra Pradesh almost five years ago, as part of the assurance given by the Centre under the A.P. Reorganisation Act. Initially, the new facility was proposed at Relli village of Kothavalasa in Vizianagaram district. A boundary wall was constructed at the proposed site during the Telugu Desam regime. The Centre also gave its approval since the site was close to the Visakhapatnam airport and the railway station, keeping in view the travel requirements of visiting professors. But a few months ago, the State government tentatively approved a site near Kottakki village of Saluru Assembly constituency (ST Reserved). A Central team has inspected the site and is yet to announce its decision. According to sources, the committee has expressed its doubts due to lack of proper rail and road connectivity. The A.P. government is said to have suggested the location keeping in mind its suitability for the study of issues related to the local tribal community. Differences among leaders of the ruling party allegedly prompted the government to opt for a new place and settle for a site near Mentada village in Gajapathinagaram Assembly constituency. It is nearly 26 km away from Vizinagaram district headquarters. Communist Party of India's Vizianagaram unit assistant secretary Bugata Ashok alleged that leaders of the ruling party were trying to jack up prices of properties near Mentada-Dattirajeru areas.
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Back to their favourite spot||
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Latest attraction||
14 December 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Kreeda Jyothi reaches Perur||The Kreeda Jyothi (torch relay) of the tribal sports tournament being organised by the Mulugu district police reached Perur in Wajedu mandal from Kannaigudem in Eturunagaram mandal in the tribal-dominated district on Sunday. The tournament titled "Mulugu trophy" is being organised by the police department to spot and foster sporting talents among Adivasi youth of the nine mandals in the district. Scores of Adivasi youths took part in the torch relay.
14 December 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Subabul ryots pour out their woes to Minister||A group of aggrieved subabul and eucalyptus farmers from Jogulamba-Gadwal district poured out their woes to Minister for Agriculture Singireddy Niranjan Reddy during the latter’s visit to the Burgampadu mandal in connection with the inauguration of Rythu Vedika on Saturday. The farmers from Gadwal and Aalampur mandals narrated their grievances to the Minister seeking his intervention to ensure assured price to subabul and eucalyptus produce. They said they had raised subabul and eucalyptus plantations, motivated by the social forestry initiatives of the ITC Paperboards & Specialty Papers Division unit at Sarapaka near Bhadrachalam. They alleged they were being deprived of assured price at the paper mill in Sarapaka.
14 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSPSC chairman, 3 members to retire||The announcement by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday about launch of a large-scale recruitment drive by the State government shortly runs parallel to another major development in the Constitutional body that conducts exams for recruitment to State services. The Telangana State Public Service Commission (TSPSC), which took office on December 17, 2014, with a chairman and three members, will lose all of them on the same day this week, owing to retirement on completion of their six-year term. As per Article 316 of the Constitution, the outgoing chairman cannot be reappointed to the post while any member could be elevated as chairman but not retain the post in the same State. In this background, there was hectic lobbying for the post of chairman and members of the commission in the past few months. Mr. KCR, however, has not made up his mind, although sources said he was keen on retired IAS and IPS officers to head the organisation for a year or two. The chairman and members of the commissions retired at the age of 62 years or completion of six years in the post, whichever was earlier. So, Mr. KCR wanted civil servants, who would have retired at the age of 60 years to take over as chairman for one or two years as a stop-gap until a full fledged commission was constituted with new members, sources added. When the incumbent chairman Ghanta Chakrapani and three members C. Vittal, Chandravati and Mateenuddin Quadri demit office on December 17, there will be only two members left in the commission — Krishna Reddy and Prof. Sailu. Mr. Reddy was due for retirement in February while Prof. Sailu will complete term in October. In the eleven-member commission, five members have already retired and the chairman and three other members will follow suit this week. With just two members left, it was imperative that the government filled up the vacancies. Otherwise, it will become unmanageable to issue job notifications or hold interviews with only two members and adherence to quorum norms in commission meetings. Sources added that there was immediate need for appointment of chairman and at least five members for a proper and efficient functioning of the commission. The outgoing panel submitted its annual report to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan last week. It said the panel completed recruitment to 35,724 posts through 115 recruitment exams. It issued 108 recruitment notifications and 41 other departmental notifications.
14 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Prepare guidelines to register non-agri lands: CM||After opening slot booking for registration of non-agricultural properties, the State government has focused its attention on framing guidelines to ensure that the registrations are done in a transparent and hassle-free manner without giving scope for any discretionary powers to officials so that people are not forced to pay bribes. Chief Minister K. Chandraekhar Rao constituted a Cabinet sub-committee headed by Roads and Buildings Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy to hold discussions with all stakeholders for finalizing the guidelines. The five-member Cabinet sub-committee will comprise Ministers K.T. Rama Rao, Errabelli Dayakar Rao, Mohd. Mahmood Ali and T. Srinivas Yadav was its members. The Chief Minister wanted the Cabinet panel to hold talks with builders, real estate businessmen and other sections in the next few days for taking their views into consideration and prepare strategy accordingly. Mr. Rao, who returned from New Delhi after a three-day visit, announced a decision to this effect during a review meeting with Ministers and senior officials at Pragati Bhavan on Sunday.He enquired about the progress of registration of agricultural lands being done through the Dharani portal and expressed satisfaction that farmers were happy to get lands registered through the portal which overcame some initial hiccups. Registration of agricultural properties through Dharani was being done in a smooth and easier way to the satisfaction of the farmers and the Chief Minister wanted a similar process for the registration of non-agricultural properties. Registration of non-agricultural lands had been stopped for about 80 days due to various reasons and this caused some difficulties to people. There was no scope for any further delays, but the process should be simple, easy and comfortable. “Registration of the non-agricultural properties should not create any problems for the real estate sector which was doing well in the State Capital. It should in fact help the reality sector’s growth,” the Chief Minister averred.The guidelines should be transparent and not give scope for bribes. “No officer should have any discretionary rights to take any decision,” the Chief Minister said directing the Cabinet sub-committee members to talk to builders, representatives of the real estate sector and others concerned for finalizing the new guidelines. In the process, the Cabinet panel should also study the problems that were confronted in the cities, towns and work on modalities to redress them. The sub-committee should make an elaborate study on these issues and submit its report. Mr. Rao recalled that poor constructed their houses without any proper documents and were getting electricity, water and property tax bills. “But problems are cropping up when such properties are sold or purchased. There should be a solution to such problems,” he said.
14 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Stunned friends queue up at mortuary||The Osmania General Hospital (OGH) mortuary on Sunday morning teemed with a group of crestfallen youngsters, friends of the five who died in an accident at Wipro junction on Saturday midnight. Since the five were natives of different districts in Andhra Pradesh, their parents reached the mortuary quite late. Restless for details Immediately after parking their bikes at OGH, the youngsters rushed towards familiar faces already present at the mortuary for details about the accident. All of them were trying to piece together the information about where the five were headed, but none had complete details. Restless to know more, they stood beside the police officials seated under a shed on the mortuary premises. Gachibowli police said they are trying to go through call records of the five youth for clues about where they were going. The youngest of the five to die was 20-year-old P. Bharadwaj, a native of Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh, who was working in an animation firm. His former colleagues Ayyappa and Prem said he was jovial and diligent. Another youth who died was K. Pavan Kumar (24), a native of Nellore. It was only a week ago that he visited Hyderabad for the first time, and joined the hostel. A B.Tech graduate, he came to the city to prepare for IELTS examination and go abroad. However, his ambition was nipped in the bud. His parents, who were shattered by the news and were yet to reach Hyderabad until Sunday late afternoon, had sent a relative to confirm whether the news of the accident was indeed true. While trying to coordinate with police and family members, Sriharsha, the cousin of another victim C. Manohar (23), said the latter used to come to their home in Beeramguda on weekends. “I had asked him to come on Saturday too. He was supposed to reach my place,” Mr Sriharsha said.
14 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR joined Modi-front: Jeevan||Congress MLC and former Minister, T. Jeevan Reddy has ridiculed Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao saying the man who boasted of starting an anti-BJP front before the GHMC elections has now joined the Modi-front referring to the Prime Minister. At a press conference here, he said after formation of Telangana KCR had pushed it into a debt-trap of Rs. 3 lakh crore and was afraid of his failures being noticed by people and was trying to move closer to the Central government. He said it was laughable that the CM was asking national status for Kaleshwaram project now after claiming to have completed it. Did he submit the Detailed Project Report (DPR) needed to be submitted before seeking central funding, he asked and said it was nothing but just an attempt to divert the attention of people. Mission Bhageeratha too was taken up for commissions and no one was using that water including TRS activists. Water supply connections already existed and most of the State was already covered with safe drinking water. Ridiculing the assurance of new airports, he said the CM should first concentrate on building roads and stop misleading people on airports, which were just not feasible or practical. Mr. Reddy said Telangana was not formed for the “Gadi” rule which KCR has now converted into. Yougsters and students who fought for Telangana were now cursing the Chief Minister as he failed to deliver the rosy picture he showed to them during the agitation. He wanted to know why the unemployment dole of Rs 3,016 promised during the 2018 elections was not implemented. Not a single school teacher post has been filled and teaching posts in colleges and universities are lying vacant for years. Farmers interests are totally ignored and employees are waiting for the PRC, he said and also criticised the Employee Unions leaders’ silence. No section in the state is willing to believe K. Chandrasekhar Rao and it was quite ironical that only people from Andhra region had voted for him as was evident in the GHMC elections, he claimed. Questioning his party’s alliance with MIM, he said how can he partner with MIM that opposed Telangana till the last minute.
14 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Training in emergency management at airport||A three-day basic training in Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear materials (CBRN) Emergency Management was conducted at GMR Hyderabad International Airport by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) few days ago. The airport hosted the basic training programme to enhance the preparedness of airport emergency handlers to respond to CBRN emergencies, encompassing threats emanating from the use of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear materials at the airports. The programme consisted of lectures as well as field training, including live demonstrations of detection and decontamination, including use of personal protective equipment. Apart from equipping the airport emergency handlers to handle CBRN emergencies, the training programme will also enable them to provide medical first aid and initial psycho-social support. Around 125 personnel were trained in various aspects of CBRN emergencies. The training programme was inaugurated by additional secretary (Mitigation)-NDMA and director general of Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, Sandeep Poundrik. This is the second such training programme that was conducted at the airport, a press release said.
14 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CM mortgaging Telangana’s interests, says Ponnala||Former PCC chief Ponnala Lakshmaiah has demanded that Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao explain whether his New Delhi tour was official or personal and if it was official he should reveal his meeting details to the media. In a statement here, he said the body language and the issues raised by the Chief Minister reflected that he was mortgaging the interests of Telangana to the BJP government leadership rather than demanding fair share to the State that was neglected all these days. “What is the purpose of asking national status for Kaleshwaram after seven years and that too without submitting the DPR details? Why was the CM silent on promises made to Telangana in the AP Reorganisation Act all these days,” he asked. The intention seem to mislead the people that he had asked for assistance from the Central government but did not get any favourable response from it, he said adding the CM should insist and demand if he was not afraid of the Central government for whatever reasons. Mr. Ponnala found it strange that the CM who made serious allegations against the Central government just before the GHMC elections and showed agressive intention to take on the BJP government was totally in a sub-dued mood in the entire Delhi trip. Is he afraid of corruption allegations in Kaleshwaram project and Mission Bhageeratha, he asked claiming that the BJP had been openly saying central government would launch an enquiry soon into the corruption allegations. He argued that intellectuals should closely monitor this sudden change in CM’s behaviour and people should understand that he would try to save himself at the cost of Telangana itself.
14 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress seniors take their ‘dissent’ to New Delhi||Not satisfied with the four-day-long exercise on selection of new PCC chief, Telangana Congress seniors have shot off a letter to AICC president Sonia Gandhi and to former president Rahul Gandhi, saying loyalty and seniority should be the criterion in finalising the new president. The letter, purportedly written to block the chances of A. Revanth Reddy, one of the aspirants, suggested that seniors’ views were of paramount importance or else the party would suffer. Bhongir MP, Komatireddy Venkata Reddy and MLAs T. Jayaprakash Reddy, D. Sreedhar Babu, Podem Veeraiah and some other seniors apparently signed the letter. The letter also found fault with the inclusion of DCC presidents and others when the regular process is to interact with the MPs, MLAs and senior leaders. These leaders had already met the AICC incharge for Telangana Manickam Tagore on Saturday and personally informed him their collective views on the new PCC president selection. If need be they would also travel to New Delhi to make the leadership understand their viewpoint. A senior leader, speaking to The Hindu , said on condition of anonymity that any choice against their views would not be acceptable to them at any cost. If at all the party wanted to give it to a leader from the Reddy community the High Command can choose Mr. Komatireddy Venkata Reddy since he was associated with the party from his NSUI days. Without mentioning any name in the letter the seniors gave enough information leading to the names of Mr. Sreedhar Babu, Bhatti Vikramarka or Madhu Yaskhi as their likely choice apart from Mr. Venkata Reddy. The seniors also indicated that they would prefer to work independently if their choice was not respected. A senior leader also alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would use the emerging situation to its advantage to attract the senior leadership and such a scenario should not be created in Telangana.
14 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Free de-worming of cattle||The entire cattle population in Telangana will be de-wormed in a special drive to be taken up from December 14 to 24. The Animal Husbandry department has decided to cover the 42.12 lakh cows and 42.26 lakh buffaloes in the programme that would be free of cost. Animal Husbandry Minister, T. Srinivas Yadav will launch the programme on Monday. Director of Animal Husbandry V. Lakshma Reddy said the de-worming will make the cattle healthy and increase their productivity thus improving the finances of the farmers. It was the first time that the programme is being taken up on such a massive scale and this will help 25 lakh families in the State that own the cattle and most of these are small and marginal farmers and agricultural labourers. The programme will involve the zonal veterinary officers with the participation of public representatives, including Ministers, MLAs, sarpanches, MPTCs, ZPTCs, of respective districts. He said the farmers will be informed a day in advance about the programme and they are also being sensitised through posters and other sources of information in the villages.
14 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State adds 573 more COVID cases||Telangana recorded 573 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total to 2,77,724. While 47,186 samples were tested, results of 613 were awaited. Four more COVID-19 patients died. The new 573 cases include 127 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 67 from Medchal Malkajgiri, and 58 from Rangareddy. From March 2 to December 12, a total of 61,28,703 samples were tested and 2,77,724 have tested positive for coronavirus. Out of the total cases, 7,630 were active cases, 2,68,601 have recovered, and 1,493 have died.
14 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MoJS reiterates stand on ‘new projects’ in TS, AP||The Ministry of Jal Shakti (MoJS) has reiterated that any irrigation or multi-purpose project, whether mentioned or not in the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal-I report or Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, in the two Telugu States would be considered as new project “unless techno-economically appraised by the Central Water Commission and accepted by Advisory Committee of the Department of Water Resources”. In a four-page reply addressed on December 12 to Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, in response to a letter written to him on October 2, four days before holding the second meeting of Apex Council on October 6, Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhat gave point-wise view of the Ministry to all the six key issues raised by Mr. Rao. “Such projects are considered as new for the purpose of appraisal, irrespective of the fact whether it was conceived before or after bifurcation of erstwhile AP,” he explained. Further, the projects which have been appraised by the CWC and accepted by the Advisory Committee of the DoWR would also be considered as new projects for the purpose of appraisal in case there is change in their scope. Stating that the issue was discussed in the October 6 Apex Council meeting, Mr. Shekhawat mentioned that along with AP Chief Minister Mr. Rao too had agreed to submit the detailed project reports (DPRs) of all new projects in their States to the respective river boards — KRMB and GRMB — immediately for appraisal and subsequent sanction by the Apex Council. On the issue of inaction of KRMB raised by the Telangana Chief Minister, the Union Minister said monitoring of water drawals from Srisailsam reservoir, a joint storage facility for the two States, including power generation by the two States, would be done by the river board as mandated by the AP Reorganisation Act, once the operating manuals and jurisdiction of the two river boards is notified by the MoJS. Faulting the two States for not releasing funds need for the installation of telemetry systems, Mr. Shekhawat said both the State had agreed in the first meeting of the Apex Council held in September 2016 to meet the cost of telemetry installation but had not paid their full share of expenditure. As a result, installation of the telemetry systems was done completely and it would be completed once the two States clear their pending payments. Installation of the telemetry systems would also help the river board, particularly KRMB, monitor the water drawals by the two States to all irrigation and drinking water systems based on the two joint water storage facilities — Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar.
14 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CII organises wellness run||A wellness run was organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Telangana for chief executive officers and professionals at Madhapur on Sunday morning to mark the organisation’s 125-year celebrations and promote a healthy lifestyle. It was held in association with UR Life and supported by Vijaya Diagnostics, Hyderabad Runners and HITEX. The run was limited to 50 participants in view of COVID. It was flagged off by Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud, who launched the T-Fit campaign that appealed to people to take up some form of fitness regime at least for 20 minutes daily.
14 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||VP reaches Hyderabad||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu arrived in the city on Sunday for a 14-day stay. During his stay in Hyderabad, he will participate in several programmes locally. He will leave for New Delhi on December 26. He was received at the airport on Sunday by Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali, Hyderabad Collector Swetha Mohanty and City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar.
14 December 2020||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||Lorry runs over agri student||A 24-year-old student, who was heading to his home in Bidar, Karnataka, died when a lorry rammed his bike near Kukatpally Y junction here on early Sunday morning. Kukatpally police said the lorry ran over the BSc Agriculture student’s head and shoulder and he died on the spot. The student, identified as Mahesh, was not wearing a helmet. Lorry driver Nawaz, who was absconding, was caught after around two hours, said Kukatpally police inspector T Narsing Rao. Nawaz, a native of Maharashtra, was found to be not drunk. Mahesh had come to Hyderabad on Saturday to meet friends.
14 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Protest demanding repeal of farm laws||Members of the Telangana Rythu Sangham and affiliate organisations of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Sunday, burned SIM cards of Reliance Jio and discarded cooking oil of Adani Group in protest of the Centre’s farm legislations. They demanded that the three Acts be repealed and the privatisation of electricity, which would hinder 24-hour free electricity to farmers in Telangana, be stopped. According to district president of Rythu Sangham, K. Nagi Reddy, both Reliance and Adani are corporate investors for the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Union government, hence the demonstration of destroying the SIM cards and discarding ‘Fortune oil’ of Adani Group. District leader of Kula Vivaksha Porata Samithi, another affiliate wing, P. Nagarjuna along with other leaders gave a public call to boycott use of products by the two companies. “This is a conspiracy to end 24-hour electricity to farmers in Telangana. With the corporates into managing farming and the produce, prices of all essentials would rise,” they said, adding their protests would be intensified. Leaders of All India Democratic Women’s Association and Democratic Youth Federation of India, tribal welfare and trade unions, participated in the protest demonstration.
14 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Condolence meeting for Nomula Narsimhaiah||A condolence meeting for late TRS legislator of Nagarajunsagar Nomula Narsimhaiah was held at the MCM degree college grounds at Haliya here on Sunday. The 64-year-old leader died of ill-heath on December 1. Ministers for Health Eatala Rajender, Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy, Minister for Animal Husbandry Talasani Srinivas Yadav, Member of Parliament B. Lingaiah Yadav, among legislators and others, paid floral tributes to Narsimhaiah. State Legislative Council Chairman Gutha Sukender Reddy remembered 1999 as the same year, when both were elected for the first time.
14 December 2020||R. Avadhani,TELANGANA||Starting life afresh in one’s 50s||For Aare Mallesham, the life started anew in his 50s. Everything looked new and he had to live with it. Mr. Malleshmam never expected that such changes would be forced on him. A native of Erravalli in Kondapaka mandal, he was forced to sell his four acres and his house in the village to the government for the Mallannasagar. Along with others, he sold the land and in the last week of November shifted to Sangapur near Gajwel. After selling his four acres, he received a compensation of Rs. 24 lakh from the government and was able to buy an acre of land at Rs. 18 lakh near Cheriyal. Mobilising some funds he constructed a house at Gajwel as well. “So far the land was kept idle as it was 70 km from here ,” Mr. Mallesham told The Hindu . His son is studying in Iintermediate at Cheriyal. Mallesham family migrated to Gajwel long ago. Mannem Mahipal Reddy, also a native of Erravalli, has been working at Hyderabad. He sold about eight acres of land and constructed a house at Alwal in the city. His family staying at Erravalli shifted to Sangapur. “Presently, I am allowed to work from home and I am here with my family at the double bedroom house constructed for locals in G+one mode. We were told that we would be allotted house at Mutrajpally. We have to vacate the village then.”
14 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||For the cause of girl child||It was a proud moment for the mothers of girl children at this village of Haridaspur on a Sunday. They were felicitated with new clothes and their daughters also got two new dresses each. Reason: They gave birth to girls, tomorrow’s mothers, who are capable of continuing generations in future. Haridaspur is in the news for the past two years as it has started honouring the parents of girl children. Sarpanch Md. Shafi and Panchayat secretay Rohit Kulakarni initiated the process of identifying and honouring such women, even as the gender ratio is dwindling fast across the State. They felt that this was the right way to encourage people to honour and nurture their daughters without any comparison with boys. District jail superintendent Nawab Shivakumar Goud, Jogipet Government Hospital superintendent Dr. Shankar Babu, paediatrician Dr. Chakrapani, Mythri Foundation president Ch. Udaya Kumar, Narayanakhed Junior College principal K. Krishna Kumar and Nava Bharat Nirmana Sena president Mettu Sridhar visited the village, and were impressed with the various initiatives being taken in favour of the girl child. “You are doing an excellent service to mankind by honouring the mothers of girl children. This need to be replicated across the State. They need to be encouraged and supported,” said Mr. Shivakumar Goud. Dr. Shankar Babu said that the practice being followed by Haridaspur panchayat was thought-provoking. Stating that there were as many as 45 girl children in the village of less than 10 years age, he said that they were going to open Sukanya Samrudhi Yojana accounts in the name of all these girls by contributing the required amount. Mr. Krishna Kumar promised to pay Rs. 1,000 to each girl child to open these accounts and continue for the next 10 years. On his part, Dr. Chakrapani promised to issue special identity cards for all girl children below 12 years from the village and treat them free of cost at his hospital at Sangareddy. These officials spent about four hours in the village on Sunday and interacted with villagers. They said that the village has acquired a special place in the map of Telangana.
14 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Two killed in accident||Two persons were killed in a road accident that took place at Patancheru late on Saturday night. According to police, a lorry hit a motorcycle resulting in the accident. The deceased were identified as Pallapu Raju (35) and K. Anjaneyulu (50). Patancheru police have registered a case.
14 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Blood donated||Two constables donated blood at Siddipet on Sunday. Police said a person who was scheduled for surgery required B- blood. The requirement was circulated in some groups. Knowing this, constables Venkatesham and Raju rushed to the hospital and donated blood. They were appreciated by Commissioner of Police D. Joyal Davis.
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||An MLA’s way to get a case dropped||It was a protest of sorts by TRS MLA of Jangoan Muthireddy Yadagiri Reddy on Saturday. He was supposed to lay the foundation stone for a development work at Yeshwantapur village near Jangaon but did not perform it for his own reason. Instead, he lay down on the road and refused to complete the formalities until a former sarpanch of the village Susheela offered to withdraw a court case that resulted in the staying of a work related to connecting a drainage line to to a stream that passed through Yeshwantapur. The drainage line was earlier linked to a lake where the MLA was allegedly interested in taking up a real estate venture. Hence, he proposed diversion of the line to the stream which was opposed by villagers in court. He lay on the road in protest and refused to participate in the function until Ms. Susheela promised to withdraw the case. She obliged and the function was gone through.   Residents of Siddpet district will have to wait for some time to get clarity on the airport in their district. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, during his recent visit to the district, hinted at the possibility of opening an airport around Shamirpet “in future”. But, the name of the district did not find a mention in the list of no-frills domestic airports proposed. Basantnagar in Peddapalli district, Adilabad, Mamnoor (Warangal), Jakranpalli (Nizamabad), Devarakadra (Mahabubnagar) and an airport in Bhadradri Kothagudem district were proposed in the list the Chief Minister submitted to the Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri during his just-concluded visit to New Delhi.   The State government has requested the Central government to release pending dues of GST yet again. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who called on the Prime Minister on Saturday, reiterated the request. The Centre has also not released the assistance it promised to the State for accepting Option-1 offered under the Atma Nirbhar Abhiyan amounting to Rs. 2,380 crore. One can only hope that the State’s request will be considered positively this time.  (N. Rahul and M. Rajeev)
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Standing tall||
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Reader’s Mail||After a long time, our colony roads have got a fresh road metal carpet. But, while doing so, they ignored the wall to wall area. This improves the safety of the area and enhances its beauty. Leaving 10% of the road unfilled will spoil the look in no time as the mud keeps entering the road. I request the municipal authorities to assign the staff concerned to fill the wall to wall. G. Murali Mohan Rao New Bowenpally   Many affected by the recent floods in the city, including those in Secunderabad Cantonment area, are yet to apply for relief fund. Restoring the old method of receiving applications through Mee Seva centres up to a fixed period will not pose problems, as field surveys may lead to criticism of the officials by residents. The government is requested to release the relief without restricting it to white card holders as it was allowed in the initial two days. N. Ramalakshmi Doveton (M. Bolarum)   The road from Lothkunta to West Venkatapuram is in a very miserable condition. It is filled with potholes that make it very difficult to walk, leave alone driving, which has become extremely difficult and dangerous. The road was dug up several times for laying water pipelines and for other cable works, after which it was never repaired. I humbly request the authorities concerned to look into the matter at the earliest and offer a solution. P. Balasubramaniam Alwal   After a ‘bitter’ fight among parties and war of words, the GHMC has got a truncated verdict with no one being able to muster enough strength to have a Mayor on their own and left to depend on another party. It is sincerely hoped that the three parties perhaps do some sort of out-of-the-box thinking rather than resorting to the good old machinations of weaning the corporators from one party to another. They can reach a consensus on time-bound mayoral post in tune with the much harped slogan of Mahatma Gandhi in 1922 when he urged the rest of India to emulate the Ganga-Jamuna ‘Tehzeeb’ that Hyderabadis have even today. D. Nagarjuna Kushaiguda  (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu.co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)
14 December 2020||Ahmedabad,||Ex-Gujarat milk marketing federation chief arrested in Rs. 14 cr. embezzlement case||Vipul Chaudhary, ex-chairman of Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF), has been arrested for his alleged role in a Rs. 14.8 crore embezzlement case, police said on Sunday. Mr. Chaudhary was arrested on Saturday from Gandhinagar for allegedly embezzling money earmarked as bonus for the staff of Dudhasagar Dairy cooperative in Mehsana, of which he was an ex-chairman, a CID official said. An FIR was lodged against Mr. Chaudhary and others, including Dudhsagar chairperson Ashaben Thakor, vice-chairman Modhjibhai Patel, and managing director N.J. Bakshi, at CID Crime police station. They were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Corruption Act. Mr. Chaudhary was earlier sacked as chairman of GCMMF and Dudhsagar Dairy over an alleged scam in which cattle feed was provided free of cost to the Maharashtra government, causing a loss of Rs. 22.5 crore. A tribunal court had, in 2018, directed him to deposit 40% of Rs. 22.5 crore (over Rs. 9 crore) with Dudhsagar Dairy by October 2019. To accumulate this amount, the accused allegedly hatched a conspiracy and misused their authority to involve 30 officials to siphon off Rs. 14.8 crore earmarked as bonus for 1,932 staffers of Dudhsagar, the CID said.
14 December 2020||Gandhinagar,||Gujarat gets new online fire safety approval system||A new mechanism for approval and renewal of fire safety certifications for buildings has been put in place in Gujarat by bringing the process online through a portal called Fire Safety COP, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said on Sunday. The system, which will be implemented from January 26, comes after recent incidents of fire in COVID-19 facilities in which several patients died, including in Rajkot on November 27. As part of the new system, the government has approved the process of training and empaneling private ‘fire safety officers (FSOs)’ to carry out periodic inspection, testing and maintenance of fire safety systems in buildings and renewal of certificates, Mr. Rupani told reporters. ‘First of its kind’ “We have approved a system to modernise fire safety certification process, which I believe is the first of its kind in the country. It was approved today and will be implemented from January 26. Gujarat will be the first State to do this,” he said. “For regular inspection of fire safety measures in the buildings, we have decided to provide training to youth with certain minimum qualifications, and certify them. If they are found flouting the rule, penal action will be taken against them. We are providing powers to private qualified persons to carry out fire safety audits of buildings, factories, malls, hospitals, etc.,” he added. A new position of Director of Fire will be created for each of the four zones under the new system, which has been designed by Gujarat Institute of Disaster Management under its director general P.K. Taneja. The approval and renewal of fire safety certification will be done entirely on the portal called Fire Safety COP, or Fire Safety Compliance Portal, and this will provide complete solutions starting from facilitation and empanelment of FSOs to approval and renewal of FSC along with provision of online payment. ‘To monitor compliance’ The portal will help the State government monitor the compliance level of FSC approval and renewal and bring about transparency, an official release said. It said the validity for the Fire Safety Certificate Approval for new buildings will be for three years, while that of regularisation will be for two years. The FSO will be required to check fire safety measures every six months during this period and upload a report on the online system, it said. “Considering the magnitude of the work, fire safety officers will be trained and empaneled, and they will have an important role in periodic inspection, testing and maintenance of fire safety features and systems in buildings, and renewal of FSCs,” it said.  3 types of FSOs The FSOs will be of three categories, namely general, advance, and specialist, and will undergo training at Gujarat State Institute for Fire Safety Training. The new system provides for penal action against FSOs, owners, builders, occupiers, etc. if it is found that work has not been carried out as required, or negligence is detected, the release said.
14 December 2020||Mehsana,||Gujarat folk singer booked for flouting COVID-19 rules||An FIR has been registered against a popular Gujarati folk singer and 13 others for allegedly flouting COVID-19 norms during a live music show at a marriage function in Mehsana district, a police official said on Sunday. Eight of the 14 accused have been arrested following the incident that took place on Friday in Visnagar taluka, where a large number of people turned up at the wedding party, he said. The singer has not yet been taken into custody, the official from Visnagar (taluka) police station said. A video had surfaced on social media platforms in which a large number of people were purportedly seen dancing to songs sung by the artiste and others at the marriage ceremony without following social distancing or face mask rules. “The police conducted a probe into it and people were found flouting the COVID-19 guidelines. The First Information Report was registered on Saturday against 14 people, including the folk singer. Eight people have been arrested. The singer is yet to be arrested,” the official said. The FIR has been registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code, he said. Gujarat recorded 1,175 new cases on Sunday, which increased its tally to 2,27,683, while 11 more deaths took its toll to 4,171. A total of 1,347 patients were discharged during the day, pushing the total number of recoveries to 2,10,214.
14 December 2020||Mumbai,||Cylinder blast in Lalbaug: toll rises to 6||The death toll in the cylinder blast that occurred in Lalbaug area last week rose to six after a man succumbed to his injuries in a hospital here, a fire brigade official said on Sunday. Vinayak Shinde (57), who was injured in the incident on December 6 in Sarabai building in Ganesh Galli locality, died at the civic-run KEM Hospital on Saturday evening, he said. “Seven more people injured in the incident are being treated at KEM and Masina hospitals and their condition is critical. Three others have been discharged,” the official said. “In all, 16 people were injured, of whom six have died so far,” he added.
14 December 2020||Mumbai/Nagpur/Nashik,||Clarify remarks of Goyal, Danve on farmers’ stir, NCP tells PM||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should clarify the claims of some Union ministers that the farmers’ protest against the new agriculture laws has the backing of Pakistan, China, and Maoists. NCP spokesperson Mahesh Tapase said instead of sympathetically considering the farmers’ demands, Union ministers Raosaheb Danve and Piyush Goyal made “controversial remarks to discredit the agitation”. The Sharad Pawar-led party, along with the Congress, is a constituent in the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Mr. Goyal on Saturday said the agitation no longer remains a farmers’ movement as it has been “infiltrated by Leftist and Maoist elements”, demanding the release of those put behind bars for “anti-national activities”. This was clearly to derail agriculture reforms brought by the government, the minister had said. Mr. Danve recently stirred a controversy with his remarks that China and Pakistan were behind the protests being staged by cultivators, inviting sharp reactions from various quarters. “Mr. Danve said the protest has the backing of Pakistan and China, while Mr. Goyal has alleged that Maoists are supporting the stir. Prime Minister Narendra Modi should clarify if these claims are true,” Mr. Tapase said in a statement. He said cultivators are demanding that the new farm laws be withdrawn, but the government is unrelenting.  Taking a dig at the BJP on Mr. Danve’s remarks, Sena MP Sanjay Raut has asked the Centre to conduct a “surgical strike”. Speaking to reporters in Nashik, Mr. Raut said, “The BJP is saying that Pakistan and China are behind the farmers’ agitation in New Delhi. Defence Minister belongs to the BJP. The BJP should conduct a surgical strike in this regard.” The Rajya Sabha MP said the agitating farmers hailing from Punjab and Haryana have stood their ground despite the use of force by the Union government. “If the Union government takes two steps backward for the welfare of farmers, it will not lower its value. The government should retreat and hold discussions on the farm laws in the Lok Sabha again and re-introduce these laws as per the expectations of the farmers,” Mr. Raut said. Alleging that the Central government was using the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to trouble political opponents, Mr. Raut backed Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik, who was recently questioned by the Central agency in connection with an alleged money laundering case in Mumbai. “Central agencies like the ED and the CBI should not act like BJP activists. I have a list of 120 people from the BJP, which I will hand over to the ED soon,” he said. Responding to a query, Mr. Raut said, “Though the Shiv Sena is not part of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA), if a leader from Maharashtra becomes the UPA chairperson, we will welcome it.” In view of the MVA winning four of the six seats in Legislative Council polls for teachers and graduates constituencies, Mr. Raut said the ruling dispensation will contest the upcoming civic polls together. He said the Sena will install its mayors in Mumbai and Nashik, where civic polls are due. ‘Not Centre’s stand’ Meanwhile, seeking to distance the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from Mr. Danve’s remarks, Union minister and RPI (A) leader Ramdas Athawale told reporters in Nagpur that Mr. Danve’s claim of China and Pakistan being behind the farmers’ protest is “not the government’s stand”. “Besides, Pakistan and China’s hands cannot reach till here,” he said. Reacting to Mr. Goyal’s statement, Mr. Athawale said it was important to inquire if such people, who have no relation with the farmers’ protest, have joined the protesters. He said the farmers and government should take two steps back and then try to move ahead on the issue. Farmers have been protesting against the the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.  The BJP is saying that Pakistan and China are behind the farmers’ agitation in New Delhi. The BJP should conduct a surgical strike in this regard Sanjay Raut Shiv Sena MP
14 December 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Uran police arrest cousin, friend for murdering financier from Vashi||The Uran police have arrested two men in connection with the murder of a 52-year-old Vashi-based financier. Suresh Bhoir, a resident of Vashi gaon, went missing from his residence around 2 p.m. on December 6. He was found dead on December 11 at an isolated area in Uran. The accused have been identified as Anirudh alias Kuldeep Bhoir (29), a cousin of the deceased, and his friend Anil Raipure (19). “Suresh was last seen with these two accused. Since they were relatives, no one suspected them. They kept telling the family that Suresh had gone to attend a finance-related meeting and for arranging funds to repay loans. During interrogation, they admitted that they had killed him,” senior police inspector Jagdish Kulkarni, Uran police station, said. The accused told the police that they travelled to Uran in the victim’s Honda Mobilio car and killed him as per his request. “The accused claim that the deceased had taken a loan of Rs. 8 lakh and a life insurance policy of Rs. 25 crore. In order to help the family repay the debt, Suresh asked his cousin to kill him. We have not yet believed this theory and will be verifying it,” Mr. Kulkarni said. The accused said they first strangulated the victim, slit his throat, and then abandoned the body. The duo then returned to Vashi gaon in a taxi. On December 11, villagers in Uran informed the police about an abandoned car being spotted on Dighode-Ransai Road. On reaching the spot, the police found the car at an isolated place and the body dumped around 75 metres away. The accused were produced in court on Saturday and have been remanded in police custody till December 17.  The accused claim that the deceased had taken a loan of Rs. 8 lakh and a life insurance policy of Rs. 25 crore Jagdish Kulkarni Senior police inspector
14 December 2020||New Delhi,||Raghav Chadha, eight others detained in Delhi||The Delhi Police on Sunday detained AAP MLA Raghav Chadha and eight others when they were on the way to stage a protest outside the house of Home Minister Amit Shah, said a senior police officer. AAP MLA Atishi was also detained on her way to meet Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal. Sanjay Bhatia, DCP (Central), said that Mr. Chadha and eight others were detained and taken to Rajender Nagar police station. Later, all of them were released. Addressing a press conference in the evening, Ms. Atishi and Mr. Chadha said that they were raising demand for a CBI probe into an alleged scam by the BJP-ruled civic bodies to the tune of Rs. 2,500 crore and were detained on instructions from the Home Minister and the L-G who did not want the scam to get exposed.“This is the biggest scam in the history of Delhi,” Ms. Atishi said. She also alleged that to divert people’s attention from the scam, Home Minister Amit Shah has deputed civic body Mayors and BJP Councillors outside the Chief Minister’s house. On Saturday, Delhi Police had rejected AAP’s request to hold peaceful protest outside Mr. Shah’s house, citing COVID-19 and Section 144 imposed in New Delhi. In an order copy accessed by this newpaper, DCP New Delhi Eish Singhal has rejected Mr. Chadha’s request. The order reads that in view of guidelines issued by Delhi Disaster Management Authority, Government of NCT of Delhi, all social and political gathering are prohibited upto December 31 throughout NCT of Delhi. Mr. Chadha said that the police illegally detained him and others quoting rule 144 and pandemic act but had allowed BJP Mayors to protest outside the CM’s residence.
14 December 2020||New Delhi,||Bail denied to doctor held guilty of medical negligence||The Delhi High Court has denied bail to a doctor who was held guilty of medical negligence related to the death of a 31-year-old pregnant woman. He had performed a surgery when the woman’s pregnancy was 19-20 weeks old. Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri said it was of the prima facie view that there was a reasonable ground to believe that Suresh Chandra Gupta, the doctor, committed the offence. Dr. Gupta is facing charges under Section 315 (act done with intent to prevent child being born alive or to cause it to die after birth) and Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) under the IPC. In his bail plea, Dr. Gupta had argued that he was 70-year-old and had performed the surgery at the request of R.P Memorial Hospital. Dr. Gupta argued that the FIR dates back to 2015, but he was arrested on November 18, 2020. The public prosecutor opposed the bail application, saying that Dr. Gupta, admittedly, was neither on the hospital panel nor a visiting surgeon. “The petitioner [Dr. Gupta], knowing fully well that he was not a qualified obstetrician and gynaecologist, performed the surgery when there was no urgency, as the pregnancy was only 19-20 weeks old, which led to the patient’s death,” the public prosecutor said. Dr. Gupta made a bald assertion that no doctor should be arrested in a case of medical negligence. However, in the present case, the investigating officer took an independent opinion from Delhi Medical Council, which conducted the disciplinary proceedings. The Disciplinary Committee had observed that Dr. Gupta, who is a postgraduate in surgery, transgressed into field of gynaecology by doing a procedure, for which, he is not trained.
14 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 death toll in Delhi crosses 10,000||With 33 new deaths reported in the Capital due to COVID -19 on Sunday, the cumulative fatalities rose to 10,014 with a case fatality rate of 1.65%, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The total number of cases stands at 6,07,454 with 1,984 new cases recorded in the past 24 hours, the bulletin said. Also, 2,539 new recoveries took the total number of recoveries to 5,80655. There are currently 16,785 actives cases in the city and 6,388 containment zones. On Sunday, 72,335 tests were conducted with a positivity ratio of 2.74%. Of these tests, 35,611 were RT-PCR tests. Data shows that 9,964 patients are under home isolation and there are 14,361 vacant hospital beds for COVID-19 patients.
14 December 2020||New Delhi,||HC tells RML Hospital to re-employ 12 sacked worker||The Delhi High Court has ordered Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital here to re-employ 12 multi-tasking contractual staffers, who were sacked from service in July. It noted that during the pandemic, the hospital should have ensured that old employees with experience are given preference over new contractual employees. The court’s order came after the 12 workmen at RML Hospital, employed through a contractor, challenged the termination order issued by the hospital on July 28.
14 December 2020||Washington,||Violence erupts at pro-Trump rallies in U.S.||Four people were stabbed and one shot as rallies backing President Donald Trump’s baseless claims of election fraud led to clashes in major U.S. cities on Saturday. Scuffles broke out in many places between rally-goers and counter-protesters who turned up to criticise the President, who lost the November 3 election to Democrat Joe Biden but is yet to concede. Washington State Police said in a tweet late on Saturday that a shooting had taken place after clashes near the capitol building in Olympia, and that a suspect had been detained. In the U.S. capital, DC Fire and EMS Department communications chief Doug Buchanan told AFP that four people had been stabbed and were now hospitalised “with serious injuries.” The New York Times reported that 23 had been arrested throughout the day. There was no indication of whether any of the victims had been involved in the protests, on either side of the divide. The day had begun with a festive atmosphere as thousands of red-hatted protesters filled Washington’s streets to support the president, undeterred by the U.S. Supreme Court’s rejection on Friday of what may have been his last chance to overturn the results. Similar events took place in Olympia, Atlanta and St. Paul, Minnesota, as well as in smaller towns in Nebraska, Alabama and elsewhere. Demonstrators at the DC rally — noticeably smaller than a similar protest last month — told AFP they were steadfast in their support for the embattled President. “We’re not gonna give up,” said Luke Wilson, a sixty-something protester who had come all the way from the western state of Idaho. “I believe there is a big injustice being done to the American people,” added Dell Quick, a regular at Mr. Trump’s political rallies, as he brandished a flag defending gun rights. Protesters offered no shortage of explanations for the poll results, even though they have been affirmed by State election officials — several of them Republican — and by judges in key States. Every State has now certified the results, giving Mr. Biden 306 votes in the Electoral College to Mr. Trump’s 232. Electors are to formally cast their votes on Monday. But protesters insisted, as Mr. Trump has repeatedly, that there was widespread fraud in the election. Some pointed to “foreign interference,” others to software that allegedly erased millions of votes for the President — but not those for other Republican candidates on the same ballots. Susan Bowman, a 62-year-old from Virginia, said “this is not a banana republic. We need to fix the election.” Those who addressed the crowd included Michael Flynn, Mr. Trump’s former National Security Adviser, who was recently pardoned by the President after admitting that he lied to the FBI over alleged Russian interference in the 2016 election. ‘Stolen’ election Dozens of court cases alleging fraud or contesting the result have been decided -- virtually all in Biden’s favour, with some judges offering stinging criticism of the lack of evidence. “Wow! Thousands of people forming in Washington (D.C.) for Stop the Steal,” he tweeted early Saturday. “Didn’t know about this, but I’ll be seeing them!” Not long afterward, his helicopter lifted off from the White House grounds and passed over the crowd. Among the protesters, members of the far-right militia group the Proud Boys were clearly visible.
14 December 2020||LAGOS,||400 students missing after attack on Nigerian school||Hundreds of Nigerian students are missing after gunmen attacked a secondary school in the country’s northwestern Katsina State, police have confirmed. The Government Science Secondary School in Kankara was attacked on Friday night by a large group of bandits who shot “with AK-- 47 rifles,” Katsina State police spokesman Gambo Isah said in a statement. Police engaged the attackers “in a gun duel which gave (some of) the students the opportunity to scale the fence of the school and run for safety,” Mr. Isah said. About 400 students are missing, while 200 are accounted for, Mr. Isah said. The school is believed to have more than 600 students. “The police, Nigerian Army, and Nigerian Air Force are working closely with the school authorities to ascertain the actual number of the missing and/or kidnapped students,” said Mr. Isah. “Search parties are working with a view to find or rescue the missing students,” he said. A resident of the town, Mansur Bello, said that the attackers took some of the students away. The military, supported by airpower, has located the bandits’ enclave in Zango/Paula forest in the Kankara area, and there have been exchanges of gunfire in an ongoing operation, said President Muhammadu Buhari, according to a statement issued by presidential spokesman Garba Shehu. Chibok attack “Our prayers are with the families of the students, the school authorities and the injured,” said the president’s statement. The statement did not say if any student has been rescued. This is the latest attack on a school by gunmen in Nigeria. The most serious incident occurred in April 2014, when members of the Jihadist group Boko Haram kidnapped 276 girls from their school dormitory in Chibok, in northeastern Borno State. About 100 of the girls are still missing. The latest attack is believed to have been carried out by one of several groups of bandits active in northwestern Nigeria. The groups are notorious for kidnapping people for ransom.
14 December 2020||Berlin,||Germany orders partial lockdown||Germany will go into a partial lockdown from Wednesday with non-essential shops and schools to close, as Europe’s biggest economy battles to halt an “exponential growth” in coronavirus infections. The new curbs will apply until January 10, with companies also urged to allow employees to work from home or offer extended company holidays, under the new measures agreed by Chancellor Angela Merkel with regional leaders of Germany’s 16 States on Sunday. “That would help to implement the principle ‘we’re staying at home’,” according to the policy paper agreed by Ms. Merkel and State premiers. Germans are urged to limit their social contacts to another household, with a maximum of five people excluding children under 14 meeting at each time. From Christmas Eve to Boxing Day, the contacts would be eased to allow gatherings with another four people excluding children, but who should be limited to close relatives or partners. Germany in November closed leisure and cultural facilities and banned indoor dining in restaurants. The measures had helped to halt growth of infections after the autumn school holidays, but numbers had plateaued at a high rate. Ms. Merkel had repeatedly pushed for tougher curbs to break the chain of contagion, but implementation of the rules is in the hands of individual States and some were reluctant to impose more curbs. The mood, however, has changed in the last week after Germany recorded new daily death tolls reaching close to 600 and as the country’s disease control agency reported that the infections trend had taken a worrying turn.
14 December 2020||Brussels,||U.K. and EU ditch deadline to pursue Brexit negotiations||British and European negotiators were sent back to work on Sunday after Prime Minister Boris Johnson and EU chief Ursula von der Leyen agreed to abandon their supposed make-or-break deadline. The pair had said last week they would decide whether an agreement was possible by the end of Sunday, but after a cross-Channel crisis call they agreed to “go the extra mile”. “We had a useful phone call this morning. We discussed the major unresolved topics,” Ms. von der Leyen said in a video message, reading out a joint statement agreed with Mr. Johnson. “Our negotiating teams have been working day and night over recent days.” The EU’s Michel Barnier and Britain’s David Frost held talks late on Saturday and early on Sunday. They have been alternating between the capitals but a European official said that, for the moment, they would remain in Brussels. In their joint statement, the leaders said: “We have accordingly mandated our negotiators to continue the talks and to see whether an agreement can even at this late stage be reached.” But speaking for himself, Mr. Johnson insisted that agreement was far from sure with less than three weeks to go until Britain leaves the EU single market at the end of the year. “I’m afraid we’re still very far apart on some key things, but where there’s life there’s hope,” he said. “The U.K. certainly won’t be walking away from the talks. I still think there’s a deal to be done if our partners want to do it,” he added, four days after he and Ms. von der Leyen had said they would pull the plug on talks on Sunday if no breakthrough was in sight. Mr. Johnson said Britain “would be as creative as we possibly can”. Without a trade deal, cross-Channel trade will revert to WTO rules, with tariffs driving up prices and generating paperwork for importers, and the failed negotiation could poison relations between London and Brussels for years to come.
14 December 2020||Kandahar,||Taliban fighters killed as fighting rocks Kandahar||Dozens of Taliban fighters were killed in fierce overnight fighting between Afghan forces and militants who attacked multiple checkpoints in the insurgent bastion of Kandahar, officials said on Sunday. Taliban militants attacked checkpoints in five districts surrounding the city of Kandahar, which Afghan forces countered with heavy air and ground assaults, the Ministry of Defence said in a statement. “The security forces repulsed the attack, killing 51 terrorists and wounding nine,” the Ministry said, without offering details of any casualties among government forces. The fighting lasted for several hours through the night, marked with continuous gun battles and heavy bombardments, an AFP correspondent reported from Kandahar. When contacted the Taliban did not offer an immediate comment. The southern province of Kandahar is the birthplace of the hardline Islamist movement, and over the past few days militants have launched attacks in districts on the outskirts of the city of Kandahar, the provincial capital. The Taliban launched a similar offensive in the neighbouring province of Helmand in September that sent tens of thousands of residents fleeing. That attack, which also targeted the provincial capital of Lashkar Gah, prompted the U.S. to call in air strikes to defend Afghan forces. Since a U.S.-Taliban deal in February, the insurgents have not carried out major attacks on key cities but have launched near-daily assaults against Afghan forces in rural areas. Pause in talks The surge in violence in recent months comes as the Taliban and Afghan government engage in peace talks. The negotiations started on September 12 in the Qatari capital of Doha, but on Saturday the two sides announced a pause until January 5. The insurgents and the government side both tweeted they had exchanged “preliminary lists of agenda items for the inter-Afghan talks and held introductory discussions on the topics” to be covered when the meetings restart.
14 December 2020||TEHRAN,||German envoy summoned after EU raps Iran over Zam||Iran’s Foreign Ministry on Sunday summoned Germany and France’s envoys to protest EU condemnation of the execution of an opposition figure, describing it as an “unacceptable interference” in Tehran’s affairs, state media reported. Ruhollah Zam was hanged on Saturday after Iran’s Supreme Court upheld his death sentence passed in June over his role in protests during the winter of 2017-18, among other charges. The EU in a statement on Saturday condemned the execution in the “strongest terms” and emphasised its “irrevocable opposition to the use of capital punishment”. The Iranian Foreign Ministry’s Europe director in turn told Germany’s Ambassador, Hans-Udo Muzel, that Tehran “condemned” the statement, which it deemed “an unacceptable interference in Iran’s domestic affairs,” state news agency IRNA said. Germany currently holds the European Union’s rotating presidency. IRNA reported later on Sunday that the Ministry also summoned France’s Ambassador after France called the execution “an unacceptable and barbaric act” and a “serious attack on freedom of expression and freedom of the press”.
14 December 2020||KALAMAZOO,||Vaccine deliveries begin in U.S.||The first trucks carrying a COVID-19 vaccine for widespread use in the U.S. pulled out of a Michigan manufacturing facility Sunday, with the shots that are critical to stopping the nation’s coronavirus outbreak beginning in earnest a day later. Shipments of the Pfizer vaccine will set in motion the biggest vaccination effort in American history at a critical juncture of the pandemic that has killed 1.6 million and sickened 71 million worldwide. Initially, about 3 million doses were expected to be sent out, and the priority is health care workers and nursing home residents as infections, hospitalisations and deaths soar in the U.S. With numbers likely to get worse over the holidays, the vaccine is offering a bright spot in the fight against the pandemic that’s killed nearly 3,00,000 Americans. Federal officials say the first shipments of Pfizer’s vaccine will be staggered, arriving in 145 distribution centres on Monday, with an additional 425 sites getting shipments on Tuesday, and the remaining 66 on Wednesday.
14 December 2020||Jakarta,||Jakarta, Dec 13, 2020 (AFP) -||A firebrand Indonesian Muslim cleric was arrested on Sunday for allegedly breaching coronavirus restrictions after he held a series of sermons with tens of thousands of followers. Rizieq Shihab's arrest came just days after Jakarta police shot dead six followers of his hardline Islamist group in a highway shootout. Mr. Shihab will be detained for 20 days to prevent him from fleeing and destroying evidence, police said.AFP
14 December 2020||Islamabad,||Afghan Taliban chief Mansour bought life insurance in Pak before US drone strike killed him: Report||Slain Afghan Taliban chief Mullah Akhtar Mansour had purchased a life insurance policy using a fake identity in Pakistan and paid Rs. 3 lakh in premium before being killed in a U.S. drone attack, according to a media report on Sunday. Mansour, who was killed along the Pakistan-Iran border on May 21, 2016, assumed the leadership of the Taliban in July 2015, replacing Mullah Mohammad Omar, who died in 2013.PTI
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Hazardous ideas for the Himalayas||In an article published on the website of the Central Committee of the Communist Youth League, China announced that it is planning to build a major hydropower project as a part of its 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-25), on the Yarlung Zanbo River, in Mêdog County in Tibet. The hydropower generation station is expected to provide 300 billion kWh of electricity annually. The Chinese authorities say the project will help the country realise its goal of reaching a carbon emission peak before 2030 and carbon neutrality before 2060. As speculation about this news began floating around in Mêdog County, not far from Arunachal Pradesh, Indian counterparts were quick to reiterate their plans to dam the Himalayas on this side of the border. India is reportedly considering a 10-GW hydropower project in an eastern State. Misadventures In this mad rush of one-upmanship, both countries ignore how unviable such ‘super’ dams projects are, given that they are being planned in an area that is geologically unstable. It is high time that India and China sat together to deliberate on the consequences of such misadventures in an area where massive earthquakes are bound to take place. Over the past 20 years, both China and India have been competing with each other to build hydroelectric dams in this ecologically fragile and seismically vulnerable area. There are two hydropower projects in the works in Arunachal Pradesh on the tributaries of the Brahmaputra: the 600 MW Kameng project on the Bichom and Tenga Rivers and the 2,000 MW Subansiri Lower Hydroelectricity Project. On the other side of the border, China has already completed 11 out of 55 projects that are planned for the Tibetan region. In executing these hydroelectric projects at a maddening pace, the two countries overestimate their economic potential and grossly underestimate the earthquake vulnerability of the region. Consider this: High seismic zones coincide with areas of high population concentration in the Himalayan region where landslides and glacial lake outburst floods are common. About 15% of the great earthquakes of the 20th century (with a magnitude of more than 8) occurred in the Himalayan region. The northeast Himalayan bend has experienced several large earthquakes of magnitude 7 and above in the last 100 years, more than the share from other parts of the Himalayas. The 1950 earthquake just south of the McMahon Line was of 8.6 magnitude. It was the largest continental event ever recorded, and devastated Tibet and Assam. The earthquake killed thousands, and caused extensive landslides, widespread land level changes and gaping fissures. It resulted in water and mud oozing in the Himalayan ranges and the upper Assam valley. This dammed the rivers. Later the dams were breached generating flash floods in the downstream sides, seriously silting the drainage systems. The earthquake was felt over an extensive area comprising parts of India, Tibet, erstwhile East Pakistan and Myanmar. This event gives us grim pointers of what we can expect in the north-eastern bend of the Himalayas if a similar event was to take place in the background of the fast-developing hydro projects. To take a more recent example, the 2015 Gorkha earthquake of magnitude 7.8 in central Nepal resulted in huge losses in the hydropower sector. Nepal lost about 20% of its hydropower capacity consequent to the earthquake. About 30 projects with a capacity of 270 MW, mostly located along the steep river valleys, were damaged. The cost of physical damage is calculated to be about $200 million. The study published in a 2018 paper in Geophysical Research Letters, by Wolfgang Schwanghart and others, for example, is quite revelatory on the earthquake-borne damage sustained by hydropower projects in Nepal. The main mechanisms that contributed to the vulnerability of hydropower projects were found to be landslides, which depend on the intensity of seismic ground shaking and slope gradients. Heavy siltation from giant landslides expected in the project sites and headwater region from future earthquakes will severely reduce the water-holding capacity and life expectancy of such dams. Even without earthquakes, the steep slopes made of soft rocks are bound to slide due to deforestation and road-building. These activities will get intensified as part of the dam-building initiatives. Desilting of dams is not an economically viable proposition and is technologically challenging. From these perspectives, the northeast Himalayan bend with its deep gorges is the most unsuitable locale within the Himalayas for giant dams. Also, we do not know how reservoirs with their water load would alter the existing stresses and strains on the earth’s crust in the long term, impacting the frequency of earthquakes and their mechanisms. Under threat The Himalayan range is a transnational mountain chain and is the chief driver of the Asian climate. It is a source for numerous Asian river systems and glaciers which are now under the threat of degradation and retreat due to global warming; these river systems provide water for billions of people. This legacy of humanity has now become highly contentious with territorial disputes between two nuclear powers — India and China. The ongoing low-level military confrontations between these two countries have led to demands for further infrastructural development on both sides, including all-weather roads, much to the peril of regional biodiversity and the livelihoods of the indigenous population. In a recent article in Nature , Maharaj K. Pandit, a Himalayan ecologist, says in recent years, the Himalayas have seen the highest rate of deforestation and land use changes. He suggests that the upper Himalayas should be converted into a nature reserve by an international agreement. He also says the possibility of a Himalayan River Commission involving all the headwater and downstream countries needs to be explored. Rather than engaging in unsustainable dam-building activities, India and China, the major players in the region, would be well advised to disengage from military adventurism and seek ways of transforming this ‘roof of the world’ into a natural reserve for the sake of humanity. Carbon neutrality should not be at the expense of the environment. C.P. Rajendran is Adjunct Professor at the National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The roots of the agricultural crisis run deep||The stand-off between farmers and the government continues even after a few rounds of discussion and more than a fortnight of protest at the Delhi border by the farmers. The latest proposal by the government indicates its willingness to amend the three agriculture-related Acts passed in September. On the contentious issues of registration of private traders, levy of taxes on trade outside the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) mandis , the government has proposed amendments which will empower the States to frame rules on these issues. Similar assurances have been given on access to the judiciary for dispute resolution and continuation of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism. However, farmer unions have rejected the proposal and continue to demand complete withdrawal of the three Acts along with making MSP a guarantee. Many protests, one thread It is likely that the issue may ultimately get resolved and an amicable solution is found to resolve the impasse. However, this will only be a temporary reprieve from the vexatious issue of declining farmer income and the nature of state support to agriculture. The last four years have seen a series of large protests in most of the States. While a group of farmers from Tamil Nadu camped in Delhi for over 100 days, Maharashtra was witness to the ‘Kisan Long March’ of farmers on more than one occasion. Similar protests have erupted in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh. At least five farmers were killed in police firing in Mandsaur in Madhya Pradesh three years ago. Clearly, farmers’ unrest is not new and has been building up for quite some time. The latest round of protests may have seen spirited protests from farmers from Punjab and Haryana but has found the support of farmers from the other States as well. While they may appear to be fragmented and localised, the issues concerning these instances of unrest have a common thread — of declining agricultural incomes, stagnant wages and withdrawal of state support to agriculture. The immediate trigger for the current protests is the enactment of the three Acts, on agricultural marketing, contract farming and stocking of agricultural produce, which deregulates the existing Acts on these. The farmers see them as an attempt to dilute the nature of these safeguards provided to them — by providing unfair advantage to the private sector, read corporate sector, vis-à-vis APMC mandis . The current crisis is entirely a creation of the government at a time when the country was struggling with novel coronavirus-caused lockdowns, supply disruptions, job losses and falling incomes in an economy which was already slowing down even before the pandemic. While the reforms embedded in the three Acts are unlikely to help resolve the structural issues facing Indian agriculture, even their withdrawal is unlikely to change the ground reality which has existed even before the Acts were passed. It is precisely because of this that withdrawal of the three Acts by the government will only offer a temporary truce. Such a step is unlikely to contain farmers’ anger and unrest which is likely to increase with a slowing economy and falling demand for agricultural commodities. Changing face of agriculture The real issue is the lack of remunerative prices for a majority of agricultural commodities, a sharp increase in price variability in recent years, and an unpredictable and arbitrary government policy regime, none of which is likely to change in the near future. It is these which have led to a recurrence of distress in the agricultural sector with regular farmers’ protests which have only grown in frequency in recent years. Part of the problem is the changing nature of agriculture which has seen increased dependence on markets, increasing mechanisation along with increasing monetisation of the agrarian economy. The increased dependence on markets has contributed to increasing variability in output prices. With limited intervention by the government in protecting farmers’ income and stabilising prices through MSP-led procurement operations, the variability has increased in frequency as well as the spread of it. Other than rice and wheat — and to some sporadic instances, of pulses — most crops suffer from inadequate intervention from MSP operations. However, even these procurement operations are unable to stabilise prices with falling demand and a slowing economy. A perfect example of this is wheat which has seen a steady decline in year-on-year inflation based on Wholesale Price Index (WPI) since July and is negative for the last three months of August, September and October despite record procurement by the government. Not only has the procurement operation failed to arrest the decline in prices, the uneven nature of procurement has meant that in many States of eastern India, wheat is sold at 20-40% lower prices compared to MSP. It is the same in the case of paddy where most States have seen market prices significantly lower than the MSP. The situation is far more worrying for crops such as maize which sold at 40-60% lower than the MSP in most States. Unfortunately, none of this is new. In the last five years, three years have witnessed negative inflation for cereals. While the withdrawal of the Acts is unlikely to ensure price stability, even the demand of making MSP a guarantee for private trade is meaningless if the government is unable to ensure procurement for a majority of the 23 crops for which it announces MSP. Even for crops such as wheat and paddy for which there is procurement, the regional concentration makes it irrelevant for most of the eastern and southern States. Factors behind vulnerability While output prices continue to show high variation with frequent spells of low prices, increasing mechanisation and monetisation have led to an increase in cash requirement. Most of these are met by non-institutional sources including middlemen which has contributed to the rising cost of cultivation and increase in loan defaults. The demand for loan waivers is unlikely to subside with rising cost of inputs. Some of these trends have accentuated after 2010-11 when the Nutrient Based Subsidy (NBS) for fertilizers regime led to an increase in fertilizer prices. But the withdrawal of diesel subsidy and rise in electricity prices also contributed to making agriculture unviable. With agricultural investment declining in the first four years of this government, the result was rising input costs and falling output prices. Not to mention, the shocks such as demonetisation and the lockdown imposed after the pandemic broke out which only increased the uncertainty and vulnerability in the agricultural sector both on input and output prices. Policy overhaul needed Even if the current impasse due to the farmers’ agitation gets resolved, there is no certainty that the structural factors which have contributed to the farmers’ unrest will get resolved. The existing policy framework with excessive focus on inflation management and obsession with fiscal deficit will likely lead to lower support from the government either in price stabilisation or reduction in cost of cultivation through fiscal spending. The agricultural sector needs comprehensive policy overhaul to recognise the new challenges of agriculture which is diversifying and getting integrated with the non-agricultural sector. This not only entails a better understanding of the structural issues but also innovative thinking to protect farmers’ livelihood from the uncertainty of these changes. Above all, it requires fiscal support and institutional structures to support the agricultural sector and protect it. In the absence of these, any rhetoric of doubling farmers’ income is only wishful thinking. Himanshu is Associate Professor, Centre for Economic Studies and Planning, School of Social Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||A sector that needs to be nursed back to health||The year 2020 has been designated as “International Year of the Nurse and the Midwife” (https://bit.ly/37Yowuj). Nurses and midwives will be central to achieving universal health coverage in India. India’s nursing workforce is about two-thirds of its health workforce. Its ratio of 1.7 nurses per 1,000 population is 43% less than the World Health Organisation norm; it needs 2.4 million nurses to meet the norm. In addition to the low number of nurses, the sector is dogged by structural challenges that lead to poor quality of training, inequitable distribution, and non-standardised practices. Here are the challenges and the potential solutions to them. Uneven regulation Nursing education in India has a wide array of certificate, diploma, and degree programmes for clinical and non-clinical nursing roles. The Indian Nursing Council regulates nursing education through prescription, inspection, examination, and certification. However, the induction requirements vary widely and so does the functioning of regulatory bodies in the States. In addition, 91% of the nursing education institutions are private and weakly regulated. The quality of training of nurses is diminished by the uneven and weak regulation.  The current nursing education is outdated and fails to cater to the practice needs. The education, including re-training, is not linked to the roles and their career progression in the nursing practice. There are insufficient postgraduate courses to develop skills in specialties, and address critical faculty shortages both in terms of quality and quantity. These factors have led to gaps in skills and competencies, with no clear career trajectory for nurses. Multiple entry points to the nursing courses and lack of integration of the diploma and degree courses diminish the quality of training. A common entrance exam, a national licence exit exam for entry into practice, and periodic renewal of licence linked with continuing nursing education would significantly streamline and strengthen nursing education. Transparent accreditation, benchmarking, and ranking of nursing institutions too would improve the quality. Though the number of nursing education institutions has been increasing steadily, there are vast inequities in their distribution. Around 62% of them are situated in southern India. Further, despite the growth, there is little demand for postgraduate courses. Recognising the need for specialty courses in clinical nursing 12 post graduate diploma courses were rolled out. These courses never did well due to lack of admissions, because the higher education qualification is not recognised by the recruiters. Further, the faculty positions vacant in nursing college and schools are around 86% and 80%, respectively. Gaps in education, services Most nurses working in the public and private health sector are diploma holders. There is a lack of job differentiation between diploma, graduate, and postgraduate nurses regarding their pay, parity, and promotion. Consequently, higher qualifications of postgraduate nurses are underutilised, leading to low demand for postgraduate courses. Further, those with advanced degrees seek employment in education institutions or migrate abroad where their qualifications are recognised. This has led to an acute dearth of qualified nurses in the country. Compounding the problem, small private institutions with less than 50 beds recruit candidates without formal nursing education. They are offered courses of three to six months for non-clinical ancillary nursing roles and are paid very little. The nursing practice remains largely unregulated in the country. The Indian Nursing Act primarily revolves around nursing education and does not provide any policy guidance about the roles and responsibilities of nurses in various cadres. Nurses in India have no guidelines on the scope of their practice and have no prescribed standards of care. This may endanger patient safety. It is a major reason for the low legitimacy of the nursing practice and the profession. Additionally, the mismatch of the role description and remuneration that befits the role sets the stage for the exploitation of nurses. The Consumer Protection Act which protects the rights and safety of patients as consumers, holds only the doctor and the hospital liable for medico-legal issues; nurses are out of the purview of the Act. This is contrary to the practices in developed countries where nurses are legally liable for errors in their work. Basic institutional reforms will be required to address the three issues. First, the governance of nursing education and practice must be clarified and made current. The Indian Nursing Council Act of 1947 must be amended to explicitly state clear norms for service and patient care, fix the nurse to patient ratio, staffing norms and salaries. The jurisdictions of the Indian Nursing Council and the State nursing councils must be explained and coordinated so that they are synergistic. The exodus of qualified nurses must be contained. Incentives to pursue advanced degrees to match their qualification, clear career paths, opportunity for leadership roles, and improvements in the status of nursing as a profession will be key steps to do so. A live registry of nurses, positions, and opportunities should be a top priority to tackle the demand-supply gap in this sector. Public-private partnership between private nursing schools/colleges and public health facilities is another strategy to enhance nursing education. The National Institution for Transforming India (NITI) Aayog has recently formulated a framework for public-private partnership in medical education that could be referred to develop a model agreement for nursing education (https://bit.ly/3oHR2XO). The Government has also announced supporting such projects through a Viability Gap Funding mechanism. A Bill that could spell hope The disabling environment prevalent in the system has led to the low status of nurses in the hierarchy of health-care professionals. In fact, nursing has lost the appeal as a career option. The National Nursing and Midwifery Commission Bill currently under consideration (https://bit.ly/2W7ZFP9) should hopefully address some of the issues highlighted. These disruptions are more relevant than ever in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic. Dr. Vijayashree Yellappa is Senior Specialist, Health Systems Transformation Platform (HSTP), New Delhi and Fellow, National Institution for Transforming India (NITI) Aayog. The views expressed are personal
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Can headlines miss the wood for the trees?||Last week, the Supreme Court of India gave its ruling in two cases: one concerning the inauguration for the Central Vista in New Delhi and the second concerning land acquisition for the Chennai-Salem Expressway in Tamil Nadu. Some readers were uncomfortable with the headlines given by this newspaper in reporting the court’s judgments. The first headline was: “SC nod for Central Vista inauguration” (December 8). The second headline was: “SC clears land acquisition for Chennai-Salem NH” (December 9). In both the cases, the Supreme Court gave conditional clearance. It attached caveats to the rulings. Some readers felt that the headlines failed to capture the court’s reservations. They felt that the headlines were pro-government and read as if the court has fully endorsed the decision taken by the executive regarding the two contentious projects. What to emphasise in a headline Referring to the headline on the Centra Vista project, Kabeer Shrivastava, a Delhi-based advocate and a contributor to The Hindu , felt that the newspaper had not spoken truth to power. He said: “The main thrust of the court’s ruling was its ire with the government, the rush and finally the stay order on any construction or demolition of existing structures. The Hindu ’s headline instead portrayed a picture that the court granted an imprimatur to the project, which is incorrect. Even the descriptive line below spoke of the PM’s stone laying. Does this not amount to editorialising news?” If the highest court permits the government to go ahead with the inauguration and if the Prime Minister leads that function, what should the headline of the report be? Should it focus on the Bench’s reservations or on its permission to the government to go ahead with the foundation stone-laying ceremony based on the government’s assurance that it would keep in abeyance the construction or demolition of buildings and the shifting of trees in the Central Vista area for now? The headline had to reflect the leeway provided to the executive by the court. The fact that Prime Minister went ahead with the ceremony on December 10 vindicated the strapline, which Mr. Shrivastava thought emphasised the wrong part of the report. The newspaper did report the reservations expressed by the Bench. The report read: “A Bench, led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, expressed displeasure with the government for ‘aggressively’ continuing with the construction, demolition and shifting of trees even as questions concerning the legality of the Central Vista project were in court.” A newspaper’s headline should reflect the binding part of a court’s order and not open court observations, however progressive and provocative they may be. The executive goes only by the binding part of the ruling. The advice given by the court, and open court observations, however profound, have little bearing on the decisions of the government. I agree with Mr. Shrivastava that the newspaper should not become another spokesperson for those in power. In this context, it is important to point out that other arms of Constitution have a checks-and-balances role and they cannot abdicate it in favour of the wishes of the executive. The headlines for news reports must reflect how the die is cast, rather than how the die ought to be cast. The desire for a better outcome can be reflected in the op-ed page headlines. A significant decision In the case of the report on the Chennai-Salem Expressway judgment, many environmentalists felt that the headline should have focussed on the court agreeing with the High Court that neither the government nor the National Highways Authority of India had any business altering the mutation entries of specified lands in their favour — that too, even before they had come into possession of these properties. They felt that the apex court’s order upholding the High Court’s decision to restore the earlier entries in the revenue records is a significant one. In the case of the Central Vista, the newspaper’s opinion in its editorial “Fresh vista” (December 9) spoke of the weakest link in our democracy, healthcare, and how the proposed project may appear to be “grandiose to stricken citizens”. The editorial “The road taken” (December 10) on the Chennai-Salem Expressway explained how the court’s ruling “may have rendered the project a fait accompli .” readerseditor@thehindu.co.in
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Innovations for cleaner air||Over the past decade, India has made significant progress in monitoring air pollution. There are more than 250 continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations and more than 800 ambient air quality monitoring stations operating across the country. It is owing to these that we are able to understand the magnitude of the challenge of air pollution. There has been a tremendous effort in improving awareness of citizens through campaigns around air pollution and its adverse impact on health and environment. However, while these efforts need to amplify, it is equally important to have systemic changes at the policy and strategy levels. Welcoming policy interventions Public policy is already responding positively. The budget allocation for air pollution increased substantially in 2020-21 from what it was in 2018-19 to ensure cleaner air in cities having populations above one million. The establishment of the Commission for Air Quality Management with penal provisions against polluters in the NCR and adjoining areas is a welcome move. India has jumped from BSIV to BSVI vehicles. There is an increased focus on e-mobility. Through the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana, there has been an effort to reduce indoor air pollution in rural areas by increasing LPG coverage. While these measures will have a major impact in the long term, India needs innovations to deliver on the promise of cleaner air in the immediate future. There are many institutions involved in developing solutions. The Indian Agricultural Research Institute’s PUSA Bio Decomposer, which turns crop residue into manure in 15-20 days, could become a cost-effective alternative to tackle stubble burning. UNDP is also promoting startup-led innovations such as a filter-less retrofit device for cutting particulate matter at source in industries and vehicles, and a nature-based solution to amplify air purification through breathing roots technology for improving indoor air quality. Air pollution in India has numerous sources that are spread across vast geographies, which is a challenge for environmental regulators with limited capacity and manpower. In such conditions, it is imperative to leverage advance digital technologies, such as geospatial technology and AI, to upgrade our capacities to identify, monitor, regulate and mitigate air pollution hotspots. For instance, the GeoAI platform for brick kilns, developed by UNDP in partnership with the University of Nottingham, is supporting environment regulators to identify non-complaint brick kilns from space. The platform has already mapped over 37,000 brick manufacturing units across the Indo-Gangetic plains. Given the complexity and magnitude of air pollution, India needs context-specific innovations not only in the technological but also in the economic, social, legal, educational, political and institutional domains. It is important for it to develop a single window online platform for showcasing innovations with the potential to mitigate the challenges of air pollution. What more should be done? The need of the hour is provide an enabling ecosystem for innovations to address context-specific air pollution challenges. There needs to be significant government support for enterprises to come up with scalable pollution abatement technologies. Resources need to be allocated to support testing, certifying and scaling of innovative solutions and also to extend support for intellectual property rights protection. It is equally important to mobilise private sector participation. Businesses and enterprises need to innovate their operations and functioning, building in emission and pollution controls and reducing institutional carbon footprint to the lowest possible levels. The private sector has strong potential to develop commercially viable products to combat air pollution and boost the innovation ecosystem. Also, if one quantifies the impact of interventions that reduce air pollution with healthcare cost, disability-adjusted life years, or economic cost, it could lead to diversification of funding sources for that intervention. Rozita Singh, Krishnan S. and Swetha Kolluri work with Accelerator Lab, UNDP India
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Dangerous impasse||Winter has set in Ladakh, and the chill in India’s relations with China remains after more than a month since the last round of talks between Corps Commanders to take forward disengagement on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). There is no road map yet to a return to the status quo prior to May’s transgressions by China, which, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar acknowledged last week, have brought ties to the “most difficult phase” in the last 30 to 40 years. Mr. Jaishankar, speaking to a think-tank, said the relationship had been “profoundly disturbed” this summer, and China had “literally brought tens of thousands of soldiers in full military preparation mode right to the LAC in Ladakh”. The Minister’s forthrightness has stood as a sharp contrast to the persistent denials from the government this summer about the seriousness of the border situation, which it was forced to confront publicly after the tragic loss of 20 Indian soldiers in the Galwan Valley in June. His remarks drew a strong response from China, which yet again blamed India for the crisis, saying “the responsibility totally lies with the Indian side” and that it had strictly abided by border agreements, a claim that does not square with the unprecedented mobilisation of Chinese troops to various points across the LAC since early May. The Ministry of External Affairs then responded, asking China to “match its words with actions”. The sharp exchange last week underlined the perilous state of relations and the long road ahead towards restoring normalcy, which, India has made clear, is predicated on peace on the border. In an interview to this newspaper on December 2, the External Affairs Minister cautioned that full disengagement may not be an immediate prospect, drawing a parallel to the Sumdorong Chu crisis of 1986 that took nine years to resolve. The slow-moving talks on the LAC — both sides are yet to schedule the next round following the eighth meeting between Corps Commanders on November 6 — raise questions about China’s willingness to both restore fully the status quo and abide by past agreements, which India must insist upon. The government, for its part, should be far more forthcoming than it has been so far on the situation on the LAC. Peace on the border is what every other aspect of the relationship with China has rested on over the past three decades, from trade to growing links in new fields such as investment and education. Transparency, without which the public will not be fully aware about the border situation and the state of the broader relationship with China, should take precedence over optics and political expediency.
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Breaking up||The lawsuits against Facebook by the Federal Trade Commission and the attorneys general of 46 U.S. States, the District of Columbia and the territory of Guam are a significant challenge to the dominant Internet empire that Mark Zuckerberg has built in such a short time. The plaintiffs, working in close coordination, sued Facebook on Wednesday for its anti-competitive conduct, which they said harms users, advertisers, competition, and innovation. The basic charge is that Facebook, in fear of competition, plays by an anti-competitive strategy playbook. It either buys potential competition or, if it cannot, cuts them off from accessing its large platform. Money is no bar in buying off potential competition, as the $19-billion purchase price of WhatsApp in 2014 shows. The lawsuits highlight Facebook’s acquisition of Instagram and WhatsApp, which happened when Mr. Zuckerberg saw them as real threats to Facebook’s continuing success. Whatever Facebook cannot acquire faces, as a lawsuit puts it, the “wrath of Mark”. It may be years before the lawsuits are decided one way or the other. But not even the noisy fallout of the Cambridge Analytica scandal was as much of an existential threat for Facebook as this issue could turn out to be. For, while highlighting its lack of concern for privacy, a taint that Facebook has struggled to shrug off since, the Cambridge Analytica scandal did nothing to stop the social network’s roaring growth. Facebook, which last year made a revenue of over $70 billion, right now has a market capitalisation that is just a shade under $800 billion. These lawsuits could potentially endanger this business success. The action against Facebook, however, is not to be seen in isolation, and is linked to the growing backlash against what is called ‘Big Tech’ globally. Europe and the U.S., especially, have moved against these technology companies not just on anti-trust charges but also on cases involving violation of privacy. There seems to be a growing realisation about the disproportionate clout that these technology platforms have in the global scheme of things, which they exploit to further their domination in the industry. And that it is futile for regulators and policymakers to continue with a light-touch approach in the technology industry. In fact, calls for the break-up of technology firms have been put forward by politicians in the U.S. With its immense scale, Facebook has on more than one occasion managed to startle regulators and administrators, not to mention civil society and activists, by its grandiose plans which seemed to threaten the existing world order. The offer for a free limited version of the Internet and plans for a new digital currency are a few examples. Internet monopolies are not a feature of just the developed world. They are everywhere. And it would be useful for governments and regulators to draw the right lessons from this if they want to keep the spirit of competition alive.
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||International Communications||The International Communications Conference has practically come to a deadlock on the subject of the distribution of cables and may adjourn to enable the representatives to return to consult their Governments. America, England and Italy supported while France and Japan opposed the proposal for joint ownership of German cables instead of their being distributed among five Powers. France opposed with determination the American proposal to divert the Azores cable to Genoa dividing it between United States and Italy. As regards the Halifax Penzance cable, Britain has already acceded to the desire of United States to restore New York [...] in consideration for the transfer to Britain of one of the American translation cables between England and Canada. The Americans also opposed Britain’s alleged desire permanently to control the German cables she is now working. Mr. Davis acting Secretary of State has placed the whole question before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Make lessons lively, says Dr. Rao||A four-day annual meet of children got underway here to-day [New Delhi, Dec. 13] under the auspices of the Central School Organisation. Each of the 129 schools, run by the organisation all over the country for the benefit mainly of transferable Central Government employees, has sent two student representatives for a lively programme of music, dance, drama and literary events and games and sports competitions. The get-together was inaugurated by the Union Education Minister, Dr. V.K.R.V. Rao, with an appeal to teachers to make lessons interesting enough rather than a “painful duty” for young students to go through. On the occasion of the fifth foundation day of the organisation, Dr. Rao envisaged that the Central Schools become “a vanguard of new education,” and said teachers in these institutions should conduct new educational experiments and “give a lead to other schools in the country.” The children cheered the Minister when he announced that each one of them would be given at the end of the meet a book with their own photographs and a few biographical details so that they could correspond with one another and pursue their interests in true pen-friendship style. They presented on the occasion an impressive physical training display and group songs on the theme of national integration.
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Bond’ with the best||Are you among those bitten by the painful debt mutual fund episodes between late 2018 and 2020? Have you once again reluctantly moved to the comfort that bank fixed deposits (FDs) offer but crib about the low rates? Take comfort from the fact that there are other better, and more sound debt options emerging. Most of them are indeed market-linked, but without the high credit risk or liquidity risk that you may have experienced in the last few years in mutual funds (MFs). Here are five such options: For income earners Floating Rate Savings Bonds 2020, issued by RBI, is among the best-guaranteed investment products for the current interest scenario. That it is floating rate means that your interest is not the same over the seven-year tenure. However, given that we are at a low-interest scenario now and the current rate of 7.15% is pegged at 35 basis points above the NSC rate, you can secure a higher rate with this instrument as rates move up in future. This is an ideal option for those seeking some regular income. While this instrument is supposed to be made available in SBI and other major banks, you may need to push your banker to offer this to you. For those a little more adventurous and used to capital markets (and having a demat account), buying treasury bills and gilts (government securities) through the primary auction is now possible even for retail investors. Treasury bills with tenures of 91, 182 and 364 days, and longer tenure gilts are available on primary issue. You can check with your broker whether the same is made available through them. A minimum amount for a bid is Rs. 10,000. This is an auction, which means you will know the ‘yield’ only after the competitive bidding process. For more seasoned investors, longer dated gilts are available in the secondary market as well. These can offer safety and interest income. However, as discussed below, if you lock into these in a low-interest scenario, they won’t make for good income products. For those who believe safety is paramount, these can be great options, provided you understand how prices move in the debt market. Growth options In the mutual fund space, while credit and liquidity risk has painted a bleak picture on the safety of debt funds, the industry has also been coming up with quality products with lower risk. The Bharat Bond ETF and the Nifty CPSE Bond Plus SDL are examples. The Bharat Bond ETF from the Edelweiss house, which invests in high-quality PSU bonds, is India’s first fixed maturity ETF. It allows you to simply hold the ETF till maturity or sell the ETF in the exchange when you need liquidity. The Nifty CPSE Bond Plus SDL ETF from Nippon India is also a target maturity debt ETF. Its portfolio, however, will have an equal mix of PSU bonds and State development loans (SDL); the latter typically carries high coupon. What is to be noted in these two products is that they significantly reduce credit risk and liquidity risk but not interest-rate risk. That means their prices will swing to interest rate changes. Like all other debt instruments, their prices will rally when rates fall and move up when rates increase. So, the key to look for is the ‘yield’ in these bonds. Enter when rates rise If you want to simply buy and hold, it makes sense to enter such bonds when rates move up. That way, you will be buying at lower prices and lock into higher yields for the rest of the period. This strategy is ideal for those who wish to buy and hold them. Both these products hold potential to generate higher returns than your FDs with higher tax efficiency (long-term capital gain indexation benefit if held for more than three years). What you should know, though, is that you can have marked-to-market losses in these products during the tenure of your holding. But if you hold them to maturity, your returns will be close to the yield at the time of your entry. The biggest upside is their liquidity. You can sell them at any time. You will need a demat account to invest in these exchange-traded funds. However, these schemes are also available in a fund-of-fund structure for those who don’t have, or want, a demat account. Retirement option The NPS Tier II account, although not a tax-saving option, provides a great opportunity to build wealth. Specifically, the corporate bond (C) and government bond (G) are quality options for long-term debt allocation. Their credit risk is minimal, albeit with ups and downs, so the rate cycle will be felt in the value. But this evens out over the long term. The two most attractive features here are the liquidity (no lock-in like with NPS Tier I) and the low cost (compared with mutual funds). Of course, you cannot have an NPS Tier II account, without opening Tier I. The other limitation is that the taxation of Tier II is still unclear. All these options are at their early stage of product lifecycle and you will see them evolve and deepen the debt market. For retail investors, they can be good vehicles to ride, without (or almost without) fear of defaults.
14 December 2020||SYDNEY,||McDermott, Wildermuth deny Indians||The Indian team will head into the first day-night Test against Australia with a lot of optimism, having managed to tick most of the boxes before drawing the three-day pink-ball dress rehearsal against Australia-A here on Sunday. Australia-A gave a better account of itself on an eased out third day track. Despite being reduced to 25 for three, it ended on 305 for four thanks to centuries from Ben McDermott and Jack Wildermuth. Both survived a barrage of bouncers under lights from the Indian pacers. The talented McDermott (107, 167 balls) and skipper Alex Carey (58, 111b) added 117 in a counter-attacking fourth-wicket partnership. Rookie Wildermuth (111, 119b) put on 165 with McDermott, but Virat Kohli and Ravi Shastri will be happy with multiple options that emerged from the game. The probable first Test Australian opening pair of Joe Burns (one) and Marcus Harris (five) was sent back by Mohammed Shami (2/58 in 13 overs) in the first hour. On the other hand, Shubman Gill’s composure and technique while opening the innings wouldn’t have gone unnoticed compared to Shaw’s loose batting. Similarly, Hanuma Vihari strongly kept himself in the hunt with a century. With his handy off-breaks — one such delivery got rid of Carey — he can be a good option for the sixth specialist batsman’s spot. Multiple options Then there is K.L. Rahul, who has been sweating it out at the nets. Rahul gives multiple options, both as an opener and a middle-order batsman. If the warm-up game is any indicator, Rishabh Pant, after his 73-ball century, is the primary contender for the wicketkeeper’s slot. In bowling, Jasprit Bumrah, Shami, Umesh Yadav and R. Ashwin look all set to start in the Test match.  Bounce plays a major part in this country. We tend to play every ball because of the bounce... Going into the first Test, we are very well-equipped with pace and bounce of the wicket Hanuma Vihari
14 December 2020||Wellington,||West Indies in dire straits||West Indies captain Jason Holder held off a venomous New Zealand attack as the tourists survived to be 244 for six at stumps on day three of the second Test here on Sunday. The West Indies requires a further 85 runs with four wickets remaining to make New Zealand bat again and avoid a second innings defeat. Losing wickets in a heap  Against a four-pronged pace attack, that continued to get bounce and movement off the pitch, the West Indies lost seven wickets in the first two sessions. But after tea, Holder launched into the bowling and was unbeaten on 60, with eight fours and two sixes, when bad light ended play an hour early. Joshua da Silva, in his debut Test, was with him on 25, the pair having added 74 for the seventh wicket. Mopping it up New Zealand needed less than five overs at the start of the day to take the remaining two wickets and end the West Indies first innings at 131. Tim Southee mopped up the tail to finish with five for 32 to go with the five for 34 by Kyle Jamieson, who was not required to bowl on the third morning.
14 December 2020||Madrid,||Real shades Madrid derby||Real Madrid posted a convincing 2-0 home win over Atletico Madrid in the derby on Saturday to end the pacesetters’ unbeaten start to the league season. Real Madrid took the lead in the 15th minute when Casemiro headed home from a corner, leaving Atletico behind for the first time in its 11th league game of the season. Dani Carvajal put Zinedine Zidane’s Real side further at ease with a stunning strike in the 63rd minute which came off the post and into the net off keeper Jan Oblak for an own goal. Chelsea’s 17-match unbeaten run came to an end with a 1-0 defeat at Everton, while the Manchester derby between United and City ended goalless in the Premier League on Saturday.  Important results: Premier League: Southampton 3 (Adams 34, Armstrong 62, Redmond 83) bt Sheffield United 0; Crystal Palace 1 (Schulpp 81) drew with Tottenham 1 (Kane 23).   Serie A: Cagliari 1 (Sottil 42) lost to Inter Milan 3 (Barella 77, D'Ambrosio 84, Lukaku 90+4).   LaLiga: Real Sociedad 1 (Barranetxea 20) drew with Eibar (Enrich 65).   Saturday: Premier League: Newcastle 2 (Almiron 1, Gayle 82) bt West Brom 1 (Furlong 50); Everton 1 (Sigurdsson 22-pen) b Chelsea 0.   LaLiga: Getafe 0 lost to Sevilla 1 (Etxeita 81-og); Huesca 1 (Ontiveros 66) bt Alaves 0; Real Madrid 2 (Casemiro 15, Oblak 63-og) bt Atletico Madrid 0.     Bundesliga: Union Berlin 1 (Proemel 4) drew with Bayern Munich 1 (Lewandowski 67).
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Bengaluru’s second-half blitz stuns Kerala Blasters||This one had it all. Six goals, the highest in a match this season, a penalty save by Albino Gomes and a fine solo run by Gary Hooper that resulted in Kerala Blasters taking the lead. In the end, former champion Bengaluru FC won the Southern derby comfortably with a 4-2 verdict over the Kochi side in the Indian Super League at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, Fatorda, on Sunday night. A 14-minute spell in the second half during which Bengaluru scored three goals turned the match around. The first period was almost even and Blasters went ahead in stunning fashion in the 17th minute. Off a superb counterattack, Hooper made a dashing run through the middle before passing the ball to Rahul on the right. The midfielder came up with a perfect finish, his right-footer from inisde the box giving Bengaluru goalkeeper Gurpreet Sandhu no chance. Bengaluru’s equaliser, 12 minutes later, came off an unexpected move. Midfielder Cleiton Silva capitalised on a defensive error from Lalruatthara, who messed up a clearance, and slammed the ball home. Though the teams were level at the break, the second session was a different story. Sunil Chhetri missed a penalty early on — his chipped shot went straight to Gomes — but Carles Cuadrat’s side roared back with two quick goals in two minutes. The first came in the 51st minute when Erik Paartalu scored off an Ashique Kuruniyan cross. Delgado strikes In the 53rd minute, Gomes’ pass to Lalruatthara was intercepted by Cleiton, who relayed it to Dimas Delgado and he made no mistake. Jordan Murray reduced the margin for Blasters by scoring in the 61st minute before Chhetri made amends for the missed penalty, heading home a Harmanjot Khabra pass.  The results:   Bengaluru FC 4 (Cleiton 29, Paartalu 51, Delgado 53, Chhetri 65) bt Kerala Blasters 2 (K.P. Rahul 17, Murray 61).   NEUFC 0 drew with Chennaiyin FC 0.   Monday’s match: Mumbai City FC vs Jamshedpur FC (7.30 p.m.), Star Sports 2 (SD & HD) and 3.
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||CFC and NEUFC in goalless draw||Chennaiyin FC and NorthEast United FC played out a goalless draw in the Indian Super League at the Tilak Maidan Stadium, Vasco, on Sunday. Both teams will feel that they did not make use of their opportunities, especially in the second half with players wasting some easy chances. CFC had a chance in the second minute of the game when Lallianzuala Chhangte produced a good run on the left side to get into the box but yet again came up with a poor finish as he targeted the far post. In the second half, NEFC came out more aggressive, kept the pressure on CFC and created chances. NEFC striker Idrissa Sylla was in the thick of the action but the Guinean missed quite a few chances. In the 46th minute, he shot over the top a pass from Suhair Vadakkepeedika. The best chance of the day came in the 65th minute when Sylla received a through ball from Rochharzela and had only the goalkeeper to beat but shot wide. CFC’s best opportunity came in the 60th minute when Jakub Sylvestr’s shot deflected off the goalkeeper. It fell to Chhangte who had an open net, but shot over.  The results:   NEUFC 0 drew with Chennaiyin FC 0.   Bengaluru FC 4 (Cleiton 29, Paartalu 51, Delgado 53, Chhetri 65) bt Kerala Blasters 2 (Rahul 17, Murray 61).
14 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Mathana pips Ahamed in thriller||Mathana Kumar (Eneos Honda Erula Racing) registered a thrilling win, edging out K.Y. Ahamed, in Race-4 of the Pro-Stock 165cc class in the first round of the MRF MMSC FMSCI National racing championships on Sunday.   The results (provisional, six laps): Pro-Stock 301-400cc (Race-3): 1. Anish Damodar Shetty (Race Concepts) (11m 49.500s); 2. K.Y. Ahamed (TVS Racing) (11:52.301); 3. Deepak Ravikumar (TVS Racing) (11:56.906); Race-4: 1. Anish Damodar Shetty (11:49.216); 2. Karthik Mateti (Gusto Racing) (11:50.506); 3. Jagan Kumar (TVS Racing) (11:51.769).   Pro-Stock 165cc (Race-3): 1. Jagan Kumar (TVS Racing) (12:14.321); 2. Rajiv Sethu (Eneos Honda Erula Racing) (12:14.441); 3. S. Mathana Kumar (Eneos Honda Erula Racing) (12:14.779); Race-4: 1. Mathana Kumar (12:16.066); 2. K.Y. Ahamed (TVS Racing) (12:17.021); 3. Jagan Kumar (12:17.809).   Novice (Stock 165cc, Race-3): 1. Mohan Babu (Pvt, Chennai) (13:08.111); 2. Ullas Santrupt (RACR Castrol Power Racing) (13:08.479); 3. Allwin Xavier (Rockstar Racing) (13:08.645); Race-4: 1. Ullas Santrupt (13:07.914); 2. Allwin Xavier (13:08.051); 3. Nithin S (Sparks Racing) (13:09.919).   TVS One-Make Championship (Open, Race-4): 1. Abhishek Vasudev (Bengaluru) (11:46.358); 2. Anand R (Chennai) (11:48.296); 3. Anup Kumar (Coimbatore) (11:55.832); Novice (Race-3): 1. Navneeth Kumar (Puducherry) (13:26.494); 2. Mohd Yusuf (Coimbatore) (13:34.914); 3. Jayant G Prathipati (Hyderabad) (13:36.337); Race-4: 1. Navneeth Kumar (13:20.496); 2. Mohan Babu (Chennai) (13:23.784); 3. Prathipati (13:24.213).   Idemitsu Honda India Talent Cup: Open (NSF 250R, Race-2): 1. Sarthak Chavan (Pune) (11:11.204); 2. Kavin Quintal (Chennai) (11:11.309); 3. Varoon Sadasivam (Chennai) (11:18.939); Novice (CBR 150, Race-2): 1. Shyam Sundar (Chennai) (13:34.672); 2. Johann Emmanuel (Chennai) (13:49.319); 3. Rakshit S. Dave (Chennai) (13:49.637) .
14 December 2020||Coimbatore,||Ashwin, Amir strike it rich yet again||Dark Don Racing’s Ashwin Datta and Msport’s Amir Sayed signed off with a double win each in the 23rd JK Tyre-FMSCI National Racing Championship at the Kari Motor Speedway on Sunday. Ashwin won two of the three Formula LGB4 races, while Amir whistled his way to the top in the JK Tyre Novice Cup races. Ashwin began the day with some disappointing news. The placings for Saturday’s final race that he had won was changed based on protests and official observation. The revised result saw him placed 12th and Sarosh Hataria declared winner. However, the Chennai youngster won an incident-free first race. He followed it up with another fighting win in the second. Ashwin even looked set to complete a treble by leading the final race till the penultimate lap. Vishnu Prasad and Raghul Rangasamy (from MSport) were right behind and the pressure was beginning to show. Vishnu, looking for space on turn 6, came into contact with Ashwin’s car. It was all over for the two from there. Raghul seized the opportunity to finish first followed by Sarosh and Sandeep.  The results (provisional): JKNRC Formula LGB4: Race 1: 1. Ashwin Datta (Dark Don, 19:28.450); 2. Vishnu Prasad (MSport); 3. A. Sandeep Kumar (Dark Don). Race 2: 1. Ashwin Datta (21:30.683); 2. Raghul Rangasamy (MSport); 3. Vishnu Prasad. Race 3: 1. Raghul Rangasamy (19:45.015); 2. Sarosh Hataria (Ahura Racing); 3. A. Sandeep Kumar (Momentum Motorsports).   Saturday’s revised result: 1. Sarosh Hataria (22:14.932); 2. Arya Singh (Dark Don); 3. A. Sandeep Kumar.   JK Tyre Novice Cup: Race 1: 1. Amir Sayed (MSport, 18:24.277); 2. Karthikeyan Chandrasekar (Avalanche Racing); 3. Dhruv Gajjar (DTS Racing).   Race 2: 1. Amir Sayed (14:54.496); 2. Dhruvin Gajjar; 3. Dhruv Tyagi (Momentum Motorsport).
14 December 2020||Hyderabad:,||Staridar runs to glory in feature||R.H. Sequeira-trained Staridar, ridden by Akshay Kumar, claimed the upper division of the Silver Dagger Plate, the chief event of Sunday’s (Dec. 13) races. The winner is owned by Ms. Viveka Kumar Idar & Mr. Ashok Kumar Gupta. Trainer L.V.R. Deshmukh saddled three winners on the day.  1. BLUE BIRD PLATE (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 2-y-o only (Cat. II): FIRE POWER (P. Trevor) 1, Siyavash (Ashad Asbar) 2, Horse O’ War (Kiran Naidu) 3 and Costello (A.A. Vikrant) 4. Not run: Unsung Hero and Georgia Peach. 2-3/4, 2-3/4, Nose. 1m, 14.85s. Rs. 11 (w), 10, 5 and 29 (p). SHP: 18, THP: 68, FP: 162, Q: 180, Tanala: 2,775. Favourite: Akido. Owners: Miss Ameeta Mehra & Col. S.B. Nair. Trainer: L.V.R. Deshmukh.  2. WINDSCALE PLATE (Div. II) (1,800m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): ROYAL PAL (Nakhat Singh) 1, Balma (Akshay Kumar) 2, Alta Vita (A.A. Vikrant) 3 and A Hundred Echoes (B.R. Kumar) 4. 1/2, 2, 1/2. 1m, 55.56s. Rs. 26 (w), 5, 6, 42 (p). SHP: 17, THP: 51, FP: 123, Q: 69, Tanala: 7,150. Favourite: Balma. Owner: Mr. A.C. Muthiah. Trainer: K. Satheesh.  3. BRAVE DANCER PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): DOWNTOWN GAL (Ashad Asbar) 1, Just Incredible (Irvan Singh) 2, Different (Md. Ismail) 3 and Lamha (Akshay Kumar) 4. 4-1/2, 1-1/4, 2. 1m, 13.00s. Rs. 12 (w), 7, 12 and 12 (p). SHP: 60, THP: 42, FP: 225, Q: 353, Tanala: 2,629. Favourite: Downtown Gal. Owners: Mr. V.N. Babu, Mr. Veeramachaneni Arjun, Mr. Prodhutur Vijay Shourya & Mrs. Rajini Meka. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  4. MOSSY BANK PLATE (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): LIGHTNING BOLT (P. Trevor) 1, Esteva (Akshay Kumar) 2, Blazer (Arshad Alam) 3 and Havelock Cruise (Deepak Singh) 4. 3-1/4, 1-1/2, 1-1/4. 1m, 26.77s. Rs. 6 (w), 9, 8 and 15 (p). SHP: 56, THP: 40, FP: 40, Q: 32, Tanala: 100. Favourite: Lightning Bolt. Owners: Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla & Mrs. Simone Z. Poonawalla, rep. Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Vijay Kumar Gupta & Mr. Susheel Kumar Gupta rep. Vijay Racing & Farms Pvt. Ltd. and Mr. Aditya P. Thackersey. Trainer: L.V.R. Deshmukh.  5. SILVER DAGGER PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat.II): STARIDAR (Akshay Kumar) 1, Pontius Pilate (Gaurav Singh) 2, Reno Star (Koushik) 3 and Agni (A.A. Vikrant) 4. 2-1/2, Nk, Nk. 1m, 25.51s. Rs. 17 (w), 12, 15 and 24 (p). SHP: 34, THP: 36, FP: 143, Q: 189, Tanala: 526. Favourite: Agni. Owners: Ms. Viveka Kumar Idar & Mr. Ashok Kumar Gupta. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  6. WINDSCALE PLATE (Div. I) (1,800m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat.III): SPICY STAR (Mukesh Kumar) 1, Sweet Melody (B.R. Kumar) 2, Forever Bond (Ajeeth Kumar) 3 and Advance Guard (Irvan Singh) 4. Hd, Sh, Sh. 1m, 55.76s. Rs. 18 (w), 8, 6, 35 (p). SHP: 31, THP: 116, FP: 95, Q: 67, Tanala: 2,433. Favourite: Sweet Melody. Owner: Mr. Sarasam Madhusudan Reddy. Trainer: N. Ravinder Singh.  7. SILVER DAGGER PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat.II): SOVET PRIDE (Akshay Kumar) 1, Paso Robles (Afroz Khan) 2, Trump Girl (Abhay Singh) 3 and Long Range (Irvan Singh) 4. 1/2, 1, 2. 1,m 26.08s. Rs. 17 (w), 7, 6 and 23 (p). SHP: 18, THP: 54, FP: 34, Q: 20, Tanala: 283. Favourite: Paso Robles. Owners: Mr. Y. Damodar & Mr. Ashok Kumar Gupta. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  8. BRAVE DANCER PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45: COLACHEL BATTLE (Irvan Singh) 1, Amyra (P.Trevor) 2, Castlerock (Ashad Asbar) 3 and Blickfang (Afroz Khan) 4. 3/4, Hd, 2. 1m, 06s. Rs. 72 (w), 22, 18 and 22 (p). SHP: 26, THP: 13, FP: 156, Q: 117, Tanala: 620. Favourite: Amyra. Owner: Col.S.B. Nair. Trainer: L.V.R. Deshmukh. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 6,473 (16 tkts.) & 30%: 121 (366 tkts.). Treble: (i) Rs. 515 (26 tkts.), (ii) 266 (26 tkts.), (iii) 626 (14 tkts.). Mini jackpot: (i) Rs. 561 (14 tkts.). (ii) 5,172 (C/O).
14 December 2020||KOLKATA,||Kuldeep gearing up for Tests wearing a smile||Inspired by spin wizard Shane Warne, Kuldeep Yadav has learnt to wear a smile on the cricket field. “One thing he (Warne) insists on is to always wear a smile. He has told me that is an important virtue for a spinner. If your face shows any sense of stress, your body language goes for a toss. I have worked on this specifically and consider it as one of the best pieces of advice I have got,” Kuldeep told www.kkr.in . Kuldeep felt the spinners would have a role to play in the day-night Test in Adelaide. Difficult to read “It’s difficult to read the spinners at night, because if a spinner uses variations it’s not always easy to spot the seam position.” Patience would be a key factor, according to Kuldeep. “A lot of us, having played so much T20 cricket of late, will have to be patient when playing Tests. Mental toughness is very important,” said the chinaman bowler about the longest version of the game.
14 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Season to begin on Jan. 10 with Mushtaq Ali Trophy||More than a week after seeking the State associations’ opinion on organising a truncated domestic season, the BCCI has informed them that the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy will be played from January 10 to 31. While the teams have been told to enter their respective bio-secure hubs on Jan. 2, the venues and groups are yet to be announced. Chennai, Kolkata, and Visakhapatnam are set to be three of the six venues for the league stage. TN to play in Kolkata Tamil Nadu is expected to play its matches in Kolkata. BCCI secretary Jay Shah, in a letter to all associations on Sunday, said the Board has confirmed only the T20 tournament for now. “The BCCI will subsequently seek further feedback from the members on organising any other domestic tournament/s and a decision will be taken after the group stage of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy,” Shah said in the letter accessed by The Hindu . Shah also told them that the deadline for inter-State transfer has been extended to Dec. 20.  The Hindu understands that the primary reason for the delay in finalising the detailed itinerary is due to two senior executives of the Board being diagnosed with COVID-19 earlier this week. It is learnt that both these BCCI staffers were among a group that travelled to the hometown of a BCCI office-bearer last weekend. The official trip was meant for finalising various impending issues, including the preparation of the annual report to be presented in the AGM on Dec. 24 and the curtailed domestic season. Since one of the two attended a few meetings at the BCCI headquarters after returning to Mumbai before being diagnosed as an asymptomatic case, the BCCI management advised all those who came in contact with him to be home quarantined at least till Sunday. A BCCI insider assured that the domestic itinerary will be announced “midweek” as scheduled.
14 December 2020||MUMBAI,||State Govt. asks MCA to postpone AGM||The Government of Maharashtra has asked the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) to postpone its Annual General Meeting (AGM) from December 18 to Christmas week, citing COVID-19 guidelines. Since the MCA has 329 members — more than the maximum permissible number for a public gathering allowed by the State government — the MCA had sought special permission from the government after circulating the notice and agenda of the AGM to its members last month. In his reply to the MCA dated December 11, chief secretary Sanjay Kumar has given conditional permission for hosting the AGM in December last week according to COVID-19 guidelines. “Considering the COVID-19 outbreak, we can grant permission for organising the AGM during the public holidays over month-end after Christmas provided the MCA adheres to all the health guidelines,” states the letter, accessed by The Hindu.  The MCA apex council will meet on Monday to decide the rescheduled date. Since the AGM notice and agenda have been circulated and the State government has asked for a postponement, it is believed that a fresh notice need not need be circulated.  Chief Secy. Sanjay Kumar has given conditional permission to hold the AGM in the last week of December MCA apex council will meet on Monday to decide the new date
14 December 2020||Pune:,||Leopard Rock takes the honours||Leopard Rock (Suraj Narredu up) won the F.D. Wadia Trophy (Gr. 3), the feature event of the Mumbai races held here on Sunday (Dec. 13). The winner is owned by Mr. Jaydev M. Mody rep. J.M. Livestock Pvt Ltd & Mr. Dilip G. Jhangiani, Mr. Sunil G. Jhangiani & Mr. Milan J. Patel rep. Equest (India) Pvt. Ltd. M. Narredu trains the winner. M. Narredu had two mores successes on the day.  1. NOBLE OPINION PLATE (Div. II) (1,000m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: BETWEEN FRIENDS (M. Ayyar) 1, Thea’s Pet (Kaviraj) 2, Divija (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Pezula (K. Pranil) 4. 1/2, 1/2, 2. 59.95s. Owners: Est Of Late Hiroo G. Matai & Mr. S.S. Shah. Trainer: S.S. Shah.  2. AN ACQUIRED TASTE PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), Maiden, 3-y-o only: PRICELESS SILVER (Suraj Narredu) 1, Arcadia (Neeraj) 2, Ciplad (Dashrath) 3 and Fassbinder (Zervan) 4. 2-1/4, Nose, 4. 1m, 27.43s. Owners: Mrs. B.E. Saldhana, Mr. Mark Saldhana & Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: M. Narredu.  3. MAPLE STAR PLATE (1,200m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: RED CARNATION (Aniket) 1, Agrami (Peter) 2, Epiphany (T.S. Jodha) 3 and Safdar (Bhawani) 4. Sh, 1-1/4, 2-1/4. 1m, 12.37s. Owners: Begum Shaherbanoo Husain Lagad & Mr. Harisharan Hardial Devgan. Trainer: Narendra Lagad.  Note: Wild Flower (J. Chinoy up) got planted in the starting stalls and did not participate.  4. PRICELESS PLATE (2,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: BOLD LEGEND (Chouhan) 1, Luminous (Srinath) 2, Fire N Ice (Neeraj) 3 and Marrakesh (C.S. Jodha) 4. 2-1/2, 1, 2. 2m, 8.84s. Owners: M/s. S.R. Sanas, Mukul Sonawala, Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP & Mr. Inderraj Anand. Trainer: P. Shroff.  5. CURSETJEE DHUNJISHAW TROPHY (1,600m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: GALLANTRY (C.S. Jodha) 1, Notoriety (Neeraj) 2, Noble Heir (K. Kadam) 3 and Tudor Hall (Zervan) 4. Sh, 1/2, Nk, 1m, 41.50s. Owners: Mr. Ram H. Shroff & Mr. Raj H. Shroff rep. Stride Livestock Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Javed F. Tapia and Mr. Azim F. Tapia rep. Clover Livestock Pvt Ltd & Mr. Jaydev M. Mody rep. J.M. Livestock Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: M. Narredu.  6. F.D. WADIA TROPHY (Gr. 3) (1,400m), (Terms) 3-y-o only: LEOPARD ROCK (Suraj Narredu) 1, Tigrio (Srinath) 2, Miss Muffet (A. Sandesh) 3 and Hioctane (Parmar) 4. 1, 3/4,3-1/4. 1m, 27.98s. Owners: Mr. Jaydev M. Mody rep. J.M. Livestock Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Dilip G. Jhangiani, Mr. Sunil G. Jhangiani & Mr. Milan J. Patel rep. Equest (India) Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: M. Narredu.  7. AN ACQUIRED TASTE PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: RAMBUNCTIOUS (Neeraj) 1, Magic In The Wind (Parmar) 2, Iron Throne (T.S. Jodha) 3 and Allied Attack (Dashrath) 4. 3-12, Lnk, Lnk. 1m, 27.70s. Owners: Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: P. Shroff.  8. NOBLE OPINION PLATE (Div. I) (1,000m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: C’EST L’AMOUR (Kaviraj) 1, Ame (Parmar) 2, Thunderclap (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Tristar (Chouhan) 4. 3/4, 1-1/4, 1. 1m, 0.04s. Owners: Begum Shaherbanoo Husain Lagad rep. Chetak Horse Racing Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: Narendra Lagad.
14 December 2020||CHENNAI:,||Prevalent Force has an edge||Prevalent Force has an edge over his rivals in the A. Cheriyan Memorial Guindy Gold Cup (1,600m), the chief event of the races to be held here on Monday (Dec. 14).  MEYDAN PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 1-15 p.m.: 1. King Horof (8) Irvan Singh 56, 2. Majestic Charmer (5) P. Trevor 56, 3. Sunday Warrior (3) Rayan Ahmed 56, 4. Tender Rebel (11) Janardhan P 56, 5. Thunder Run (1) Farhan 56, 6. Ice River (2) Yash 54.5, 7. Mayflower (4) S. Shareef 54.5, 8. Regal Tiara (6) Shahar Babu 54.5, 9. Royal Dreams (7) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 10. Sweet Home (10) B. Nikhil 54.5 and 11. Ura (9) Muzaffar 54.5.  1. ICY RIVER, 2. ROYAL DREAMS, 3. MAJESTIC CHARMER   MEYDAN PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 1-45: 1. Blue Patent (2) A.M. Alam 56, 2. Cavallo Vincente (5) C. Umesh 56, 3. Country’s Genius (9) Irvan Singh 56, 4. Liverpool (4) B. Nikhil 56, 5. Majestic Wind (6) Suraj Narredu 56, 6. Radical Review (11) Yash 56, 7. Rajputana (3) Stephen Raj 56, 8. Autumn Shower (7) P. Sai Kumar 54.5, 9. Emile (1) Zervan 54.5, 10. Full Of Surprise (8) P.P. Dhebe 54.5 and 11. Romantic Bay (10) S. Shareef 54.5.  1. RADICAL REVIEW, 2. MAJESTIC WIND, 3. FULL OF SURPRISE   ABS FABS PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 2-15: 1. Oberon (2) Zervan 60, 2. Towns End (4) P.S. Chouhan 60, 3. Glorious Victory (11) C. Umesh 59, 4. Lady Rhino (3) S. Shareef 57, 5. Eyes Of Falcon (5) B. Nikhil 56, 6. Star Waves (8) Akshay Kumar 55.5, 7. Wonderful Era (12) Nakhat Singh 55, 8. Queen Supreme (10) Muzaffar 54, 9. Big Treasure (7) P. Sai Kumar 53.5, 10. Wild Passion (1) Shahar Babu 53, 11. Flame Of Diablo (9) P.P. Dhebe 51 and 12. Azzaro (6) Azad Alam 50.5.  1. BIG TREASURE, 2. TOWNS END, 3. GLORIOUS VICTORY   ABS FABS PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 2-45: 1. Arithmetica (1) Rayan Ahmed 60.5, 2. Butterfly (9) C. Umesh 60, 3. El Politico (5) Zervan 60, 4. Star Fling (10) Suraj Narredu 60, 5. Song Of Glory (12) Yash 59.5, 6. Agnes (7) Farhan 58.5, 7. Daring Dancer (4) B. Nikhil 57.5, 8. Star Proof (8) Brisson 57.5, 9. Beauty Of The Turf (3) P. Trevor 55, 10. Rhiannon (11) Irvan Singh 54.5, 11. Exquisite Star (6) Nakhat Singh 54 and 12. Break The Silence (2) A.M. Alam 52.  1. BEAUTY OF THE TURF, 2. BUTTERFLY, 3. EL POLITICO   A.V. THOMAS MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,400m), rated 60 to 85 (outstation horses are eligible), 3-15: 1. Silver Hawk (9) Janardhan P 60, 2. Royal Chieftain (7) Nakhat Singh 59.5, 3. Semele (11) Zervan 59.5, 4. Octavian (1) Yash 58.5, 5. Optimus Commander (12) Kamigallu 58.5, 6. Star Twist (8) Brisson 58, 7. Sentosa (6) P.S. Chouhan 57, 8. Hebron (2) C. Umesh 56.5, 9. Magnetism (4) P. Sai Kumar 56.5, 10. Drei Bruder (3) P.P. Dhebe 55.5, 11. Durango (5) Irvan Singh 55.5 and 12. Cotton Hall (10) Farhan 54.  1. ROYAL CHIEFTAIN, 2. SENTOSA, 3. OCTAVIAN   A. CHERIYAN MEMORIAL GUINDY GOLD CUP (1,600m), 3-y-o & over (Terms), 3-45: 1. My Opinion (7) Akshay Kumar 61, 2. Cavallo Veloce (3) A. Imran Khan 58, 3. Prevalent Force (6) Suraj Narredu 56.5, 4. Bernardini (4) C. Umesh 55, 5. Golden Fortune (2) Irvan Singh 55, 6. Texas Gold (8) P.S. Chouhan 55, 7. Shesmyscript (5) P. Trevor 53.5 and 8. Versallies (1) Zervan 53.5.  1. PREVALENT FORCE, 2. SHESMYSCRIPT, 3. MY OPINION   PASSION IN THE PARK PLATE (1,600m), 4-y-o & over, rated 00 to 25, 4-15: 1. Say My Name (12) Brisson 62, 2. Catalyst (4) A.M. Alam 61.5, 3. Beforethedawn (2) C. Umesh 60.5, 4. Benin Bronze (8) Janardhan P 60, 5. Beautiful Princess (6) P. Sai Kumar 59.5, 6. Uncle Sam (9) Mukesh Kumar 59.5, 7. Amazing Kitten (7) Stephen Raj 59, 8. Kasi Masi (3) S. Shareef 59, 9. Poppy (11) Shahsr Babu 59, 10. Gradiner (1) B. Nikhil 56.5, 11. Betty Boop (5) Rayan Ahmed 56 and 12. Dancing Belinda (10) Azad Alam 50.  1. BEAUTIFUL PRINCESS, 2. KASI MASI, 3. BEFORETHEDAWN   HAPPY VALLEY PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 4-45: 1. Swiss Agatta (5) Janardhan P 60, 2. Torbert (6) C. Umesh 59.5, 3. Otus (9) P. Trevor 58, 4. Victory Walk (7) Brisson 58, 5. Wakeful (11) Farhan 58, 6. Wise Don (4) Zervan 57.5, 7. Desert Force (8) Akshay Kumar 57, 8. Highland Light (12) S. Shareef 56.5, 9. City Of Sails (2) P.P. Dhebe 56, 10. Platini (3) P. Sai Kumar 56, 11. Flash Star (10) Rayan Ahmed 53.5 and 12. Marcous (1) B. Nikhil 51.  1. DESERT FORCE, 2. TORBERT, 3. OTUS  Jkt: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Mini Jkt: 5, 6, 7 & 8; Tr (i): 1, 2 & 3; (ii): 4, 5 & 6; (iii): 6, 7 & 8.
14 December 2020||GURUGRAM:,||Digvijay triumphs||Digvijay Pratap Singh defeated Lakshay Gupta 6-4, 7-5 in the final of the Rs. 100,000 AITA men’s ranking tennis tournament at the Pradhan Tennis Academy here on Sunday. It was the second title in a row for Digvijay who had won the Agra event last week. Interestingly, Digvijay had fought his way from the qualifying event both the times.  The result (final):   Digvijay Pratap Singh bt Lakshay Gupta 6-4, 7-5.
14 December 2020||Bengaluru:,||Double for Archana||India international Archana Kamath clinched two titles in the CVL Shastry memorial table tennis State championship at Malleswaram Association here on Sunday.  The results:   Men: Final: Raja Kundu bt M. Kalaivanan 11-8, 11-7, 11-9, 11-9. Semifinals: Raja bt Samarth Kurdikeri 11-9, 9-11, 13-11, 10-12, 11-5, 11-8; Kalaivanan bt Shreyal Telang 16-14, 7-11, 6-11, 11-7, 13-11, 11-7.   Women: Final: Archana Kamath bt Yashaswini D Ghorpade 8-11, 11-8, 9-11, 11-8, 11-9, 11-4.   Semifinals: Yashaswini bt Anargya 11-8, 11-7, 11-6, 11-6; Archana bt Kushi V 12-10, 11-8, 9-11, 11-8, 11-5.   Youth girls: Final: Archana Kamath bt Karruna Gajendran 11-4, 11-7, 11-5, 8-11, 9-11, 11-1. Semifinals: Archana bt Anargya Manjunath 11-9, 9-11, 11-9, 11-5, 11-2; Karruna bt Yashaswini D Ghorpade 11-8, 11-8, 7-11, 11-8, 7-11, 11-8 .
14 December 2020||Adelaide,||Starc back from compassionate leave||Left-arm pacer Mitchell Starc will rejoin the Australian squad here on Monday after being away on ‘compassionate leave’ due to illness in the family. “He’s, obviously, a huge part of our team and attack. Everyone knows his numbers with the pink ball. We welcome him with open arms,” said Josh Hazlewood.
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 07:54 IST,||Sudoku - December 14, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Some colour between the lines||“The northern border of Andhra Pradesh and the southern border of Odisha are ecologically similar — the landscapes, the wildlife, everything,” says illustrator Sudarshan Shaw, pointing out — over a phone call from Bhubaneshwar — how the possibility of such similarities doesn’t occur to most of us when we think of these States as two separate entities. Sudarshan dreams of drawing a map of India some day, where the borders are based on Nature, and not States. A similar vision was realised by Rohan Chakravarty back in 2017 in the form of a Wild Atlas commissioned by WWF India, and earlier in 2015 as his self-funded project: The Wildlife Map of India. The latter marks out 46 biodiversity hotspots of the country, as well as over 120 animals, including ones considered synonymous with certain States — like a lion-tailed macaque perched regally in Kerala, and a cheery whale shark swimming off the coast of Gujarat. Rohan, who publishes his art under the popular monicker Green Humour, is perhaps among the first in the country to have brought wildlife illustrations into the world of maps. His maiden such project was in the year 2013, in collaboration with wildlife biologist Nandini Velho. It was a map of Pakke Tiger Reserve in Arunachal Pradesh, complete with depictions of not only key species, but also of the river system, the anti-poaching camps, tribal villages and tribal life. The latter is an important aspect of such maps, says Rohan, adding that it is important to depict “how exactly tribes and communities interact with both wildlife and natural resources.” Part of a whole This is a point that Sudarshan emphasises as well: “I can’t go to see wildlife alone, without also noticing the culture, the tribes, the landscapes.” This subliminal, cohesive picture is something he wishes would stay in the minds of all travellers and map-readers. To that end, the NIFT Delhi graduate has taken his works — “I consider them artworks, not maps” — a step ahead, by drawing each in the art form that is inherent to that region. So his Wildlife Map of Odisha has all the ecological details, from hornbills atop their beloved fig trees to Olive Ridley turtle hatchlings going back to sea, etched out in the Pattachitra art form. “The silhouettes are that of Pattachitra; I have given some personal touches to make them more recognisable and universal,” he says. Similarly, in his next project — Biodiversity Map of Andhra Pradesh commissioned by the State’s Forest Department — every creature, pattern and detail is reflective of “the folk art of Srikalahasti Kalamkaari”. Additions like these are what make wildlife maps more effective. As illustrator Ashvini Menon puts it, a heavy dose of information alone is not enough to get the message across. “A map is already a complex picture. Enough usage of colour can build interest, especially among children,” she says, ruing the intimidating “iron ore and bauxite maps we were taught in school,” though she acknowledges that they were definitely loaded with data. Having designed the front cover of Bombay Natural History Society’s Bird Atlas in 2018, Ashvini is currently working with a conservation NGO to design vibrant wildlife maps for children. Eye of the beholder Over the years, Rohan has created nearly two dozen such maps, commissioned by NGOs, government departments and international institutions, to highlight the local biodiversity of mountains, forest reserves and even urban areas. His projects this year have included urban biodiversity maps of Mumbai, Gangtok and his hometown Nagpur, as well as a separate map highlighting Maharashtra’s coastal biodiversity alone. Some of them are in the form of murals, others are billboards, and almost all of them are online, but what matters is what form they are presented in to their target audience. The format of these maps are pre-decided to make the best of the amount of detailing that goes into them. Says Rohan, “For most of the forest department projects, the maps were made to be put up at interpretation centres and museums.” These are generally large, mounted works that tourists can stand and observe in detail. Besides these, there was also an interactive game designed for WWF India’s education portal ‘One Planet Academy’, based on Rohan’s 2017 Wildlife Atlas. Another interactive web page is in the works, and will hopefully draw more people in to the conversation about conservation. As Ashvini puts it, “The gap between serious content and the non-scientific community has to be bridged. What is the point of communicating among people who already know?”
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The Aga Khan Academy Clubs||Eight-year-old Arunima Ghosh of Aga Khan Academy Junior School, Hyderabad, mails a Zoom invite to her book club buddies, for a meeting. In minutes, her classmates and friends log in from Hyderabad, Mumbai, Kolkata, and even distant Shenzhen in China. The group of 10 members quickly dives into the business for the day: discusses their recently-read books — Looking At Planes, The Mahabharatha: A Child’s view, Goodnight Stories for Girls 2 and My Dream . Yashwin Sai Pratapaneni, a Class IV student, connects with classmates on Wednesdays, where they share their latest reading list — Cat Ninja 5, Bright Family , The AeroSmurf, and Harry Potter 1 . That is not all: the club also encourages participants to make props of a character from the book they read. For instance, when the team discussed The Cat In the Hat, the students made a wacky DIY hat with paper, glue, elastic, and thread.
14 December 2020||New Delhi,||Handle with care||In the last week of November, an image of a law enforcement officer wielding his baton to an elderly man during the farmers' protest went viral on social media including Twitter. After the image was shared by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Twitter, BJP IT cell head Amit Malviya responded to the tweet with a short clip of the incident in which the law enforcement officer’s baton misses the elderly man. The clip shared by Mr. Malviya said: “Police didn't even touch the farmer.” Within days, Twitter invoked its new policy on “misleading information” and tagged Mr. Malviya’s tweet as ‘manipulated media’. This move of the San Francisco-based tech company of deciding to interpret certain tweets as misinformation or manipulated has been called into question by some who see it as Twitter moderating its content and hence overarching its role of being just an intermediary. Moderator’s purview On March 5, 2020 Twitter started labelling tweets after its global survey found that people “wanted it to do something about” misleading altered contents. In the U.S., Twitter has been following the practice of tagging and adding fact-checking notices to tweets by U.S. President Donald Trump. In India, Section 79 of the IT Act shields social media platforms or intermediaries such as Twitter from liability for any third party information, data, or communication link made available or hosted by it in certain cases. Section 79 was also read down by the Supreme Court, in its landmark decision in Shreya Singhal vs Union of India case, so that an intermediary will face legal action only if it fails to act on order of a court or from the appropriate government or its agency to remove or disable access to the objectionable content. Advocate Virag Gupta, a cyber law expert, said: “Twitter is selectively moderating objectionable content from its platform which may debar it from legal protection of intermediary given under Section 79 of Information Technology Act, 2000.” Trigger point Mr. Virag also questioned how Twitter was picking and choosing certain tweets as ‘manipulated media’ when there are millions of objectionable content and bogus users on its platform. “Who is judging this [content] and how? We don't know,” Mr. Virag said, referring to the “internal system” used by Twitter to monitor content. Advocate Apar Gupta, co-founder of the Internet Freedom Foundation, on the other hand said social media platforms have always controlled what they permit on platforms. “This is as per their terms of use and the privacy policy. These mechanisms of takedowns, or now labelling is well within their rights,” Mr. Apar added. He said the liability exemptions under Section 79 were to ensure the intermediaries do not face legal consequences for tweets or content posted by end users. “This is to ensure they are not under a compulsion to censor [topics] that may cause what is referred to lawyers as a chilling effect. This balance has been explained within Justice Steven’s opinion in U.S. Supreme Court’s holding on the Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act in the case of ACLU vs Reno in 1996,” he explained. “A similar form of reasoning has been followed in the interpretation of Indian law by our own Supreme Court in a landmark judgment authored by Justice Nariman in the case of Shreya Singhal vs Union of India in 2015,” Mr. Apar added. Complex debate When asked whether Twitter is risking its status as an intermediary by deciding to moderate the contents that are shared on its platform, Mr. Apar said, “This is an active area of debate.” “It is a complex area of policy debate with arguments for greater oversight by platforms to police content given they are reasoned to be a public venue. It also requires principles of intermediary liability to be integrated with user rights, which come with greater accountability and transparency towards users,” he said. “Here, there is a realisation to move away from a liability-based conversation towards content and providing greater rights to users. Also, to focus on specific regulatory interventions that may impose legal duties and liabilities in cases of harm such as disinformation, which causes social harm. For instance through election interference,” Mr. Apar said. What if the intermediary status falls? “If the intermediary status is stripped from Twitter, it will be liable for any and all content that is posted on the platform. This will be a terrible outcome for users, as it will result in a massive amount of censorship. Let us realise that content laws such as defamation, hate speech and obscenity are not clear,” Mr. Apar said. “For instance, while a platform can proactively and voluntarily clean up its platform, if there is an added threat of legal proceedings without any immunity any piece of content which even incidentally touches upon these issues will require censorship,” he explained. This will increase arbitrariness, censorship and kill online conversation without a tangible benefit, he remarked. “We will in turn have social media in the style and manner of Doordarshan,” Mr. Apar added.
14 December 2020||New Delhi,||In the dead of winter, protest site comes alive||Amid strict foot patrols and discussions on parallels between their current state, the struggle of Sikh Gurus and what revolutionaries from an undivided Punjab of the past endured, the farmers’ agitation at the Singhu border gathered more steam on a cold December night here over the weekend. Thousands, predominantly from Punjab, were understood to have joined overnight. Police estimates put the gathering at around 25,000 on Sunday morning, a spike from approximately 20,000 to 21,000 on Saturday. Saddled on tractors, lining up behind one another for kilometres along a road connecting Narela to National Highway 1, they proudly recounted their journey that took days through fields, dirt and un-metalled roads to reach the site. Unflinching spirit As both fog and the temperature descended, the din of sloganeering protesters subsided. Some rearranged the stubble stuffed below the mattresses and others adjusted their turbans before lying down in quilts above carpets on the road. “We have groups of young men patrolling the perimeter of the site from late evening till dawn. We don’t want any undesirable element to enter the area, whether it is criminals or intelligence agencies to provoke or try to bring any kind of shame to the protest,” said Zorawar Pal Singh from Amritsar. As the area got increasingly out-of-bounds for “outsiders” including journalists, Jaswant Singh, a farmer from Gurdaspur, was chatting with companions and preparing for the night. “Some people are trying to portray this protest as an anti-government one, but it is not. No government is good or bad; it is the laws that it enacts and enforces which make it good or bad. My explanation about what is happening is simple: imagine something as essential as water,” he said. He then struck a powerful analogy. “What if I forced you to drink water when you are not thirsty? Either you will get wet or I, or both of us. It’s the same with these laws. We don’t need them no matter how much the government thinks we do,” he also said. Discipline, brotherhood A few metres from police barricades near the toll plaza, Dr. Baljinder Singh, a retired commerce professor from Amritsar’s Khalsa College, was sitting on a carpet delineating a makeshift community bed below a single layer of cloth on the road. From a farming background and among the several speakers who had addressed the gathering earlier in the day, Mr. Singh sought to underline what he said had emerged as the biggest strength of the protest. It’s discipline. “We have so far been successful in being perhaps the most successful protest gathering of this size in the country. On the other hand, what this protest has also succeeded in achieving so far is conveying the message of brotherhood. After decades, the people of Haryana and Punjab have come together and how,” he said. “The people here, no matter what the odds, find motivation in the message and lives of the Sikh Gurus and the revolutionaries of Punjab and Haryana. In many ways, the month of December is especially dreary for us. It is during this time that Guru Gobind Singh ji’s family was separated with tragic consequences. In the same way, the Gurus and our warriors left their families for battle. Those here have left their families in the countryside for what has so far been a peaceful, battle,” he said. As the fog grows thicker and the mercury dips further, more tractors lugging trolleys with five to seven passengers each inch closer to the site under the watchful eyes of young men patrolling the perimeter. Arriving after days on the road, they bring not only supplies but also motivation. “There are thousands of tractor trolleys with thousands of protesters moving to Delhi from several sides. You will see lines after lines of people like me who are willing to undergo any weather and any consequence to get these black laws repealed,” said Balwinder Sharma from Bhatinda who arrived late on Saturday night. By 6 a.m., with no sight of the sun on an icy Sunday morning, the border is abuzz, as farmers surround a Delhi Jal Board water tanker, taking turns to wash their face. Some others bathe from water being drawn from a concrete tub on the other side of the road. Inside, announcements are being made to increase the size of the pandal to accommodate those that have joined overnight, to sweep the roads and clean the carpets as the multiple langars begin operating again, amid the melodious kirtans.
14 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||AAP exploiting farmers’ stir for political gain, says Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday accused Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of exploiting the ongoing agitation by the farmers to further his party’s electoral agenda in Punjab with false propaganda. Capt. Amarinder said the Punjab government had neither signed any agreement with Adani Power nor was even aware of private players bidding for power purchase in the State. He said in sharp contrast it’s the Kejriwal government in Delhi, which had been touting its power reforms under the Reliance-run BSES as its biggest achievement. The Chief Minister was reacting to AAP Punjab president and MP Bhagwant Mann allegations that the Punjab government was busy signing electricity purchase deals with the Adani group.  ‘AAP notified farm law’ “It was, in fact, the Kejriwal government that was shamelessly notifying one of the black farm laws on November 23, at a time when farmers were preparing to march to Delhi to protest these very laws. And now they’re indulging in theatrics by announcing that they’d be sitting on fast in support of the farmers’ hunger strike on Monday,” said Capt. Amarinder. Training his gun at AAP’s Bhagwant Mann for levelling allegations without bothering to verifying facts about the power purchase situation in Punjab, the Chief Minister said “he was just a comedian who nobody ever took seriously.”  ‘Vested interests’ Pointing out that Punjab had been purchasing additional power to support farmers during the sowing season for years, the Chief Minister said it was obvious that Mr. Kejriwal and his party neither knew nor cared about what goes into sowing or what the needs of the farmers are. “All they are concerned about is taking advantage of the plight of the farmers for their vested political interests,” he added.
14 December 2020||Guwahati,||More females per 1,000 males in Assam, reveals survey report||The sex ratio in Assam is now skewed in favour of females, the National Family Health Survey for the 2019-20 fiscal (NFHS-5) has revealed. On the flip said, more women were found to have been married before attaining adulthood compared to those surveyed during NFHS-4 covering the 2015-16 fiscal. A multinational agency had done the NFHS-5 fieldwork for the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare conducted from June 17 to December 21, 2019. Information was gathered from 30,119 households, 34,979 women, and 4,973 men, a Ministry official said. The data showed Assam mostly ticked the right boxes with improvement in neonatal and infant mortality rates, birth and death registrations, maternity care, delivery care and child vaccination, access to electricity, sanitation, drinking water and clean fuel for cooking. The State recorded a jump in insurance coverage and children attending schools too. According to NFHS-5, Assam saw 1,012 females born during 2019-2020 per 1,000 males. The sex ratio in 2015-16 was 993 females per a thousand males. But compared to the last survey, more women and men were found to have tied the knot before reaching the permissible age. About 31.8% of the women who were surveyed said they married before they turned 18. The percentage of such women in 2015-16 was 30.8. Likewise, compared to 15% during the last survey, 21.8% of the men surveyed this time had married before they attained the age of 21 years. Fertility rate dips The total fertility rate, however, dipped from 2.2 children per woman in NFHS-4 to 1.9 in the latest survey. Female sterilisation also dropped from 9.5% to 9% between the two surveys while male sterilisation remained constant at 0.1%. The survey found more children aged 6-59 months were anaemic or with low haemoglobin count than five years ago.
14 December 2020||Patna,||Over 15% men consume alcohol in dry State of Bihar, says NFHS||The latest National Family Health Survey-5 (NFHS-5) report for 2019-20 which was released on Saturday (December 12) has revealed that still 15.5% men above 15 years of age consume alcohol in dry Bihar. The report also said that nearly 77% women in Bihar have their own bank account and over 51% of them use mobile phones. The report was conducted from July 9, 2019 to February 2, 2020 and information was gathered from 35, 834 households, 42, 483 women and 4, 897 men. In Bihar, the stringent Prohibition and Excise Act was enforced in April 2016 by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar-led NDA government with a provision of a minimum 10 years of jail term for violators of the law. So far, over 2 lakh people, mostly from poor marginalised class of society have been arrested under the new law and over 30 lakh litres of alcohol has been confiscated in the State.  Over 2 lakh court cases In November 2019, the Patna High Court pulled up the State government for clogging the courts with over two lakh cases related to the liquor ban. As many as 52 police officials in the State have been facing inquiries under the new law while, 36 of them have either been suspended or facing departmental and administrative inquiries. However, the latest NFHS-5 report said 15.5% people over 15 years of age in the State consumed alcohol while only 0.4% women did the same. Similarly, 48.8% men of similar age bracket use tobacco while, only 5.0% women consume it. “It’s very interesting that in a dry State where stringent prohibition law is enforced for the last four years 15.5% men consume alcohol. It must be taken as a blot on the governance here,” political commentator Ajay Kumar told The Hindu . “Now, it will also be very interesting to see what Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has to say on it as from where these 15.5% men have been getting liquor bottles,” added Mr. Ajay Kumar.
14 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Court flags shoddy probe by police||Hearing a bail petition of an accused in a cheating case, who was arrested by the police in a separate case of criminal intimidation, the local court here said that “it appeared to be a case of shoddy investigation and playing with the liberty of a citizen”, and directed that a copy of the order be sent to the Home Secretary for drawing appropriate action against the Investigation Officer, the Station House Officer and the Assistant Commissioner of Police. A FIR was registered against Sheikh Mohammed Habib, the bail applicant, on August 30 on charges of cheating and criminal breach of trust and later more charges including, criminal conspiracy, were added following the arrest of co-accused Sunil. On Nov 27, Additional Sessions Judge Sanjay Kumar Sharma granted interim protection to Habib from arrest till December 8. He was also directed to join the investigation into the case within seven days. On December 7, the police called Habib for interrogation in the case and arrested him in the early hours of December 8 in connection with another case registered on December 4 on charges of criminal intimidation based on the complaint of Anshuman Patnaik, the complainant in the earlier case as well.  Counsel’s argument During the scheduled hearing of the bail application in the first case on December 8, Habib’s counsel Rhea Verma argued that the exercise undertaken by the police was with a view to prove that it would be the police which would have the last laugh. The court observed that it was “alive to the fact that grant of protection to an individual by a Court of law is confined to only the case in which the protection is so granted”, but the arguments of the applicant’s counsel “cannot be brushed aside outrightly”.  ‘Unwarranted acts’ Mr. Sharma said that “it will be failing in its obligations if the unwarranted acts of omission and commission of the police officials/officers in the present case are tolerated meekly and those are not brought to the notice of the senior officers for drawing appropriate action against them.” In view of the facts and the circumstances of the case, the court also advised the Police Commissioner to “consider the desirability of getting conducted the further investigation by a senior officer preferably an IPS officer” in the matter.
14 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kejriwal to observe a day-long fast in solidarity with protesting farmers||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said he would fast on Monday in solidarity with the protesting farmers across the country. He also hit out at BJP leaders for defaming the farmers by calling them anti-national. In a press statement, Mr. Kejriwal said: “The farmers have appealed to the people to fast for a day in their support. I will also fast tomorrow [Monday]. I want to appeal to the supporters and volunteers of AAP to do the same.” He appealed to lakhs of supporters who cannot be at the borders with the farmers to observe fast for a day. Mr. Kejriwal appealed to the Centre to put an end to their ego and accept the demands of the farmers. He said the BJP government had mistaken the farmers’ movement to be a small one but now, every person in this country understands the intricacies of these laws and wants these to be repealed. “I could not help but reminisce the days of Anna Hazare ji’s movement. Even in those days, they [Congress] called us anti-nationals. The attempts made by Congress to malign our movement in those days, is the same kind of attempts are made by BJP against the farmers’ today,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal added that ex-servicemen, ex-Army men, and sportsmen — who have got laurels for the nations — are sitting with the farmers on the borders. “The governments are formed by the public and not the opposite. The three farm laws should be immediately repealed and the farmers should be given guaranteed MSPs,” he added.
14 December 2020||December 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Over 2,000 criminals arrested in last 6 months||The Delhi Police have arrested over 2,000 people under the Arms Act and recovered 1,702 illegal firearms along with 3,198 live cartridges in the last six months as part of a special crackdown on the illegal weapons supply network in the city, officials said on Sunday. The crackdown comes after Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava asked officials to chalk out a concerted action plan to unearth illegal firearms held by criminal, they said.
14 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Students can now email their answer sheets: DU||The Delhi University on Sunday said students can now submit their Open Book Examination answer sheets through email. This was introduced as the students were facing problems in submitting the answer sheets on the university portal even after getting extra time for uploading. The university said such submissions will be reviewed by a committee, which will also check the validity of the reasons for late submission. The process “It will be for the student to prove that he/she actually faced a problem in uploading his/her answer sheet on the OBE portal. Screenshots of the failure in uploading the answer sheet need to be taken by the students after making four to five attempts. These need to be attached in the mail along with the answer scripts,” the university said. Whom to mail The sheets need to be mailed to the Nodal Officer of the College/Department/Faculty/NCWEB Centre. The student also needs to mention his/her course name, paper code, and roll number in the subject line of the email.
14 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dense fog in city causes low visibility, traffic snarls||Several parts of the city were engulfed in dense fog, causing low visibility, air, rail and road traffic on Sunday. The Met department has forecast moderate to dense fog for Monday as well after the the city received light rain on Saturday under the influence of a western disturbance. The Met said the presence of moisture in the air led to the build-up of fog that reduced visibility at Safdarjung to 200 meters and Palam to 100 metres. The air quality was in the “very poor” category with an average 24-hour AQI of 305, according to Central Pollution Control Board data. Experts said the AQI is likely to improve from the lower end of “very poor” to the higher end of the “poor category” on December 14 and is likely to marginally deteriorate to the lower end of “very poor” on December 15. The forecast for December 14 reads: “Mainly clear sky with dense fog in the morning.” Maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to settle between 21 and 9 degrees Celsius respectively on December 14.
14 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU and AUD hold special drive to fill vacant seats||With Delhi University and Ambedkar University conducting special drives to fill vacant seats, students still have a chance to secure admissions in various merit-based undergraduate courses. Delhi University said for the special drive, the cut-off list to various merit-based undergraduate courses will be notified by the colleges under it by December 14. It said the drive is only for applicants belonging to the OBC/EWS/SC/ST/PwD/KM/Sikh minority categories. “The eligible candidates, who meet the requirements notified in the special drive cut-off list are further advised to complete their admission formalities online within the stipulated time, as notified on the university website,” the Registrar said. At Ambedkar University, the administration said a few seats are still vacant some of the undergraduate programmes due to withdrawal/cancellation/transfer and it was carrying out a second special admission drive. “Interested applicants of all the categories [reserved/unreserved] are hereby informed to refer to the notification at university website regarding the details,” AUD said. It added that the second round is open for fresh applicants and for those who were rejected due to non-submission of the required documents and payment within the stipulated time.
14 December 2020||Indore,||M.P. High Court judge dies during COVID-19 treatment||Justice Vandana Kasarekar of the Indore bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court died on Sunday while undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at a private hospital here, a medical officer said. Kasarekar, 60, had also been suffering from kidney ailment since a long time, he said. “Justice Vandana Kasarekar died while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in the city. She had been in a critical condition at the hospital since the last few days,” district nodal officer for COVID-19 prevention, Amit Malakar said.
14 December 2020||Chandigarh,||DIG resigns in support of farmers||Punjab Deputy Inspector General (Prisons) Lakhminder Singh Jakhar on Sunday said he has resigned from service in support of the farmers who are protesting against the Centre’s three new farm laws. Mr. Jakhar said he tendered his resignation to the State government on Saturday. In his resignation letter to the Principal Secretary (Home) he wrote “I, Lakhminder Singh Jakhar, DIG, Prisons, would like to inform you of my considered and introspective decision to stand with my farmer brothers who are peacefully protesting against the Farm Ordinances, 2020, which are detrimental to interest of the farmers and their future generations”.
14 December 2020||New Delhi,||Snowfall in North India to push temperature down||Parts of the northern India witnessed snowfall leading to subzero temperatures in several areas in Jammu and Kashmir, and Himachal Pradesh on Sunday while a dense fog engulfed some regions of the country, including the national capital and Madhya Pradesh, reducing visibility and affecting traffic movement. The IMD said the minimum temperatures is set to fall by over two to three degrees Celsius over Northwest India during the next three days. A “dense” fog covered parts of Delhi on Sunday morning, lowering visibility and affecting traffic movement. The rain on Saturday increased moisture content in the air that led to the “dense” fog cover, said IMD regional forecasting centre head Kuldeep Srivastava. Light rain in parts of Delhi under the influence of a western disturbance brought the mercury down by a few notches. On Sunday, the minimum temperature settled at 11.5 degrees C and may dip below 10 deg. C. on Monday. Meanwhile, half of the weather stations in Kashmir Valley recorded subzero night temperatures with the famous ski resort of Gulmarg being the coldest place in Jammu and Kashmir registering a low of minus 7.6 deg. C. Authorities have also issued a medium danger avalanche warning for the higher reaches of Kupwara and Bandipora districts. Meanwhile, Keylong, Kalpa and Manali in Himachal Pradesh recorded subzero temperatures after the higher reaches of the State received fresh snowfall in the last 24 hours.  Light rain fell at isolated places over western Uttar Pradesh. A thick blanket of fog enveloped Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. The fog was dense in the morning at many places including Amritsar, Ludhiana, Bathinda, Pathankot and Bhiwani. Chandigarh recorded a minimum temperature of 13 deg. C. In Haryana, Ambala recorded a low of 11.1 degrees Celsius, Karnal 10.5 degrees and Rohtak 11.6 degrees. People in many areas of western Madhya Pradesh woke up to a foggy morning.
14 December 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Two Maoists killed in Odisha’s Malkangiri||Two cadre of the outlawed CPI(Maoist) were killed in an exchange of fire with security forces in Swabhiman Anchal in Odisha’s Malkangiri district early on Sunday. The exchange of fire had taken place near Singharam village, close to Alampakka where 39 security personnel, most of them belonging to Andhra Pradesh police’s elite Greyhound force, were killed in an ambush set up by CPI(Maoist) in 2008. The operation was carried out by Special Operation Group, a special anti-Naxal force of Odisha police. “Around 3.30 a.m. when the SOG team was conducting area domination near Singharam village in Swabhiman Anchal, they were fired upon by the Maoists. They returned fire. An exchange of fire took place. But, because of their superior training, bravery and tactic, SOG personnel prevailed and the Maoists fled,” said Director General of Police Abhay. Later in the morning, bodies of a man and woman Maoist were found. The man was identified as an Area Committee Member, said Mr. Abhay. The woman was yet to be identified. But from the uniform she was wearing and the weapon she was carrying, it was assumed that she was high-rank cadre, he said. “Odisha police is determined to drive away CPI(Maoist) from Swabhiman Anchal and I urge CPI(Maoist) cadre to lay down their arms,” said Mr. Abhay. Security forces found one INSAS rifle, one SLR rifle, ammunition, three Maoist kits and other incriminating articles at the site. Odisha police said no SOG personnel were injured. In November end, one CPI(Maoist) was killed in an exchange of fire in Jantri Gram Panchayat of Swabhiman Anchal. Security forces evacuated another cadre injured in the confrontation. Border Security Force and Odisha police have now managed to establish their domination in Swabhiman Anchal, once CPI (Maoist) bastion. Due to the remoteness of the area which was known as the Cut-Off area, the Left Wing Extremists had found it suitable to carry out their activities. However, after a bridge was constructed over the Gurupriya river in 2018, connectivity improved that helped security forces carry out operation with swiftness. The State government too implemented development programmes at faster pace. Of late, security forces have been getting frequent intelligence inputs due to installation of mobile towers.
14 December 2020||Kanpur,||Army colonel booked in rape case||An Army colonel posted here was booked on Sunday for allegedly raping a friend’s wife at an officers’ mess, police said. The victim’s husband, a civilian, lodged an FIR against the Army officer at the Cantonment police station, Superintendent of Police (East) Raj Kumar Agarwal said. “The police have launched a probe and efforts are being made to nab the colonel. His friend has stated in the FIR that the colonel had invited his wife and him to a party on the occasion of his promotion to the rank of colonel from that of lieutenant-colonel on Saturday,” Mr. Agarwal said. The accused allegedly offered an intoxicating drink to his friend to make him unconscious and raped his wife, he added.
14 December 2020||New Delhi,||Man nabbed for molestation escapes custody||A 26-year-old man, who was arrested for allegedly molesting his niece, escaped from custody when he was being taken to Tihar jail, the police said on Sunday. The man committed the crime on Saturday when the victim’s parents were out for work. When she shouted for help, a neigbhour heard her cries and rushed to help her but the accused managed to flee. A case was registered under POCSO Act and he was nabbed on the same day. He was then produced at a court in Tihar and upon the direction of court, he was being taken to judicial custody by the police team. He suddenly pushed an ASI and managed to escape. "We have registered a case in this regard at Mayapuri police station,” said DCP (Rohini) P.K. Mishra.
