14 October 2020||Chennai,||After talks fail to break impasse, China blames India for tensions||A day after the marathon talks between Corps Commanders, held at Chushul in eastern Ladakh, failed to reach an agreement on disengagement, China on Tuesday said the “root cause” of the recent tensions was India’s infrastructure development and military deployments along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). China’s claim, which Indian officials have rejected previously pointing to the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) build-up of troops, multiple transgressions and attempt to unilaterally redraw the LAC since May, underlines the difficulty that the seven rounds of military talks have faced in taking forward the stalled disengagement process and achieving a return to the status quo that India has demanded. Following the sixth round on September 21, both sides, in a joint statement, agreed to “stop sending more troops to the front line”. The build-up of troops, however, remains, and Indian officials believe the Chinese side may be preparing for the long haul and the harsh winter to come. No timeline The joint press release on Tuesday shed no clarity on any possible timetable for disengagement. It said both sides had at the seventh round of talks on Monday held “a sincere, in-depth and constructive exchange of views on disengagement along the Line of Actual Control in the Western Sector of India-China border areas”. “They were of the view that these discussions were positive, constructive and had enhanced understanding of each other’s positions,” the release said. “Both sides agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, and arrive at a mutually acceptable solution for disengagement as early as possible .” The release did not mention a return to the status quo prior to May’s transgressions by China, a prospect that appears unlikely in light of the PLA’s entrenching of its positions in areas such as the north bank of the Pangong Tso (lake). The Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson, responding to a question at a daily briefing on India unveiling new bridges as part of upgrading border infrastructure in Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh, blamed India for the LAC situation, and said Beijing did not recognise the legality of Ladakh, a position Beijing took last year as it opposed the creation of the Union Territory because it included within its borders Aksai Chin, currently occupied by China.
14 October 2020||BELAGAVI,||Heavy rain continues to lash three districts||Heavy rain continued to lash parts of Belagavi, Vijayapura and Bagalkot districts on Tuesday and there were reports of floodwaters inundating farmland. Farmers in Bailhongal complained that heavy rain destroyed crops in several villages in Bailhongal, Hukkeri and Ramdurg taluks. Officers said that Hukkeri received 123 mm of rainfall in one day on Sunday, as against the monthly average of 130 mm for October. Rain subsided in Hukkeri on Tuesday. Warning In Vijayapura, Deputy Commissioner P. Sunil Kumar has in a release said that the State Disaster Management Centre had issued a warning that heavy rainfall was expected in seven districts of North Karnataka for the next 48 hours. These districts include Belagavi, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Raichur, Bidar, Kalaburagi and Yadgir. Those in distress can call toll free number Ph: 1077 or the Deputy Commissioner’s office on Ph: 08352-221261. Meanwhile, the barrage at Hadaginal village in Vijayapura district came under water on Tuesday, following heavy rain. This affected movement of villagers in Haranal, Kalladevanahalli, Nagur and Shivapur. They were forced to take a longer route to reach their destinations, officers said.
14 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Token performance of Pili Vesha allowed during Dasara festivities||The Dakshina Kannada District Dharmika Parishat on Tuesday gave conditional approval to Pili Vesha (tiger dance) performances during the Navaratri celebrations. A press release here said that the parishat meeting chaired by Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra decided to allow only 10 participants per temple to perform the traditional Pili Vesha as part of fulfilling owes inside premises of temples concerned. There should be strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols, including sanitisation of temple premises and use of sanitisers, the parishat said. Legal action would be initiated against the management of temples if any of the protocols were violated during the Pili Vesha performances, the release said. Meanwhile the parishat said that there should not be any public performance of Pili Vesha outside temples nor there could be bursting of crackers. Various Pili Vesha troupes had urged the district administration to allow the performance of Pili Vesha during the Navaratri/ Dasara festivities as it has been part and parcel of the celebrations in the region.
14 October 2020||Mumbai,||Governor, CM spar over reopening of temples||The issue of opening of temples in Maharashtra led to a “letter war” between Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, with the former questioning the Shiv Sena leader’s Hindu credentials. The CM was prompt to reply that he did not require any certificate of Hindutva from the Governor. After visits by several delegations of the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders demanding opening of temples, Mr. Koshyari wrote to Mr. Thackeray on Monday, asking whether he has suddenly turned ‘secular’ and if he is receiving ‘divine premonition’ to keep postponing the reopening of places of worship. ‘Turning secular?’  Mr. Koshyari wrote, “I wonder if you are receiving any divine premonition to keep postponing the reopening of the places of worship time and again or have you suddenly turned ‘secular’ yourselves, the term you hated?” Mr. Koshyari said it is ironic that on the one hand the government has permitted the opening of bars and restaurants, while on the other, our gods and goddesses have been condemned to remain in lockdown. In response, Mr. Thackeray, in his letter on Tuesday, said, “I appreciate the mention of Hindutva in your letter, but my Hindutva does not require your certificate. My Hindutva does not appreciate welcoming a person with a smile, who termed my State or the capital of my State as Pakistan-occupied Kashmir [PoK].” Mr. Thackeray was making a veiled reference to actor Kangana Ranaut, who compared Mumbai to PoK and visited Mr. Koshyari at Raj Bhavan to share her concerns. “Do you consider opening temples as Hindutva and not opening them as secularism? Then what about the Constitution, by which you were sworn in as Governor? Secularism is a core principle of the Constitution. Don’t you follow the Constitution?” asked Mr. Thackeray. He added, “You seem puzzled as to whether I get divine premonition. I am not as great as you are and therefore I have not such experiences like you. I only observe good and bad things happening in other States and work honestly to do better in Maharashtra.”  Taunting Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to abruptly declare a nationwide lockdown to check the spread of COVID-19, Mr. Thackeray said, “The government’s priority is to save people’s lives while safeguarding their emotions and beliefs. Just as it is wrong to abruptly implement lockdown, it is wrong to suddenly revoke it.” He said the government is undertaking the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign, which involves door-to-door health check-ups. “Maharashtra is the only State in the country to do so,” he said. Exposing the politics behind the demand to reopen temples, Mr. Thackeray pointed out that all three delegations that met Mr. Koshyari were by BJP office-bearers and supporters. “It could be a coincidence. Let that be. The State government is seriously thinking over these demands and a decision in this regard will be taken at the earliest,” he said. Allies support Uddhav Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut was critical of the Governor’s letter. He stresed on the Sena’s commitment to Hindutva. “Nobody should have a question in mind about whether one is Hindutvavadi or not. It only needs to be seen if the government is being run as per the Constitution or not,” he said, without naming Mr. Koshyari. State Congress chief and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said Mr. Koshyari is also the Governor of the BJP-ruled Goa, where places of worship are still closed on account of the novel coronavirus. “What the Governor has said goes against the principle of secularism in the Constitution. We think this is not right. Does the President approve of the language used in the Governor’s letter?” Mr. Thorat asked.  (With PTI inputs)
14 October 2020||Washington,||India’s economy to contract by 10.3% this fiscal, says IMF||India’s economy is expected to contract 10.3% in the current fiscal year as the country and the world reel from the COVID-19 pandemic, according to the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Global output is projected to shrink 4.4% in 2020, the IMF said in its World Economic Outlook October 2020 report titled, “A Long and Difficult Ascent”. The projection for India is a downgrade of 5.8 percentage points from its June forecast. India is expected to rebound in the fiscal year beginning in April 2021 with 8.8% growth — an upgrade of 2.8 percentage points relative to the June update. “Revisions to the forecast are particularly large for India, where GDP contracted much more severely than expected in the second quarter,” the IMF said. Consumer prices in India are expected to grow at 4.9% this year and by 3.7% in the next fiscal. The current account balance is projected to grow by 0.3% this year and -0.9% next year. For the world as a whole, the 2020 growth projection has been revised upwards by 0.8 percentage points relative to June — the result of a less dire second quarter and signs of a stronger recovery in the third quarter, partly offset by downgrades in certain developing countries and emerging economies (except China). The recovery in 2021 is projected to be at 5.2%, lower than the June 2020 projections. After 2021, global growth is expected to ease off at 3.5% in the medium term.
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Rain pours misery on Hyderabad residents; twin cities on high alert||Nature’s fury doubled its wrath upon the city on Tuesday, the third day of unremitting spell of rain, keeping the city and civic authorities on high alert. Torrential downpour, roads resembling ocean fronts, vehicles stranded on water logged stretches, menacing rush of water into low lying colonies, and imminent alarm bells for areas abutting the Musi river were common concerns across the metropolis, which received over 10 centimetres of rain at minimum across various localities. The thunderstorm which continued from the previous day, only intensified towards the evening, after a deceptive respite for a brief while in the morning hours. As per information from the automatic weather stations installed in the city, by 9 p.m. on Tuesday, South Hastinapuram area of LB Nagar received the highest rainfall at 22.5 centimetre, followed by Hayatnagar and Rajiv Nagar in Kapra at 21 centimetre. The stations at Dammaiguda, Peerzadiguda, Kushaiguda, Lingojiguda, Tarnaka, Kandikal Gate, Macha Bolarum, Ramanthapur, Cherlapally, Malkajgiri, Madhusudan Nagar, Rein Bazar, Habsiguda, Neredmet, Sardarmahal, West Marredpally, Monda Market, Mettuguda, among others received between 15 and 19 centimetre of rainfall. Very few localities remained where the rainfall was less than 10 centimetres, which in isolation indicates very heavy rain by city standards. Insufficient storm water drainage drove the water surge onto the roads and colonies, while officials were kept on tenterhooks with rising levels of lakes. With the threat imminent of rising water in Ramanthapur Pedda Cheruvu, and the spectre of inundation looming large, GHMC officials used pumps to de-water the lake on Monday night itself. Still, by Tuesday evening, the lake was back to the brim. Saroornagar lake too has started inching towards FTL, and with several encroachments on its surplus nala, officials have evacuated a few colonies and sheltered the residents in community halls. Officials informed that with two minor water bodies Kappala Cheruvu and Bathula Cheruvu showing signs of overflowing, evacuations are in full force there. Disaster Response Force from the Disaster Management wing of GHMC had to use boats to evacuate citizens from inundated areas of Nadeem Colony in Tolichowki. Miyapur Metro station too was inundated, where the DRF teams have been pushed into service, apart from Rajbhavan stretch.Cars were washed away in Nadeem Colony, Tolichowki, while in Kalapather, a car was drowned completely, with the driver rescued by passersby. Collapse of walls and structures was reported from multiple locations, including Shankar Nagar in Amberpet, Jhatpat Nagar in Chanchalguda, Adikmet and Dhoolpet areas. GHMC’s Town Planning wing has gone on an active demolition spree, bringing down structures in areas such as Moosa Bowli, Charminar, Lal Darwaza and other areas. Still surplus water from Hussainsagar entered homes at several localities including the ever prone Padmanagar colony behind Shanker Mutt, Adikmet and Ashoknagar area. At Himayatsagar, the water level hovered about 1762.303 feet, against the FTL of 1763.5 feet.
14 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State adds another 8,764 cases to tally||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph notched up another 8,764 new cases on Tuesday when the State tested 48,253 samples, taking the cumulative case burden of the State to 3,03,896. The last one lakh cases were added on to the cumulative case burden of the State in just 12 days. Kerala also reported 7,723 recoveries on Tuesday. The test positivity rate (TPR) has shot up to 18.16%, defying all attempts of the State to keep disease transmission down and the TPR below 10 % Kerala’s cumulative case burden first crossed the one lakh mark on September 11 with cases building up slowly with the third wave of the epidemic from mid-May and taking over four months to reach the figure of one lakh. However, the next one lakh cases were added on to the cumulative case burden in just 21 days and on October 1, and the next one lakh cases added in just 12 days. With the total recoveries touching 2,07,357 cases, the number of active cases in the State at present is 95,408. Of these cases, 707 patients are critically ill and being treated in ICUs while183 patients are on ventilator support. Toll mounts The COVID toll of the State reached 1,046 with 21 more deaths being added on to the official list of fatalities. Kozhikode accounted for eight of these deaths, four each in Alappuzha and Ernakulam, three in Malappuram and one each in Kannur and Kasaragod. Of the new cases reported on Tuesday, 8,643 cases (98.6%) are locally acquired infections, which include 528 cases in which no epidemiological link could be established. These also include 76 cases of health-care workers who contracted the virus. Drop in capital Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram, which had been consistently reporting the highest number of cases in the State for over three months or more, has now fallen to the sixth place with the case graph surging in all other districts. The case graph of Thiruvananthapuram has finally begun to show signs of plateauing. On Tuesday, Malappuram topped all other districts with 1,139 cases, Ernakulam 1,122, Kozhikode 1,113, Thrissur 1,010, Kollam 907, Thiruvananthapuram 777, Palakkad 606, Alappuzha 488, Kottayam 476, Kannur 370, Kasaragod 323, Pathanamthitta 244, Wayanad 110, and Idukki 79 cases. The number of hotspots in the State is 660.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||The principal who won freedom for Indian hostages||After almost a month of tense negotiations, the hostage situation involving seven Indians in Libya came to an end with their release on October 11. In the absence of a resident Ambassador in the country, the delicate task of ensuring the safe release of the Indians workers with Al Shola Al Mudea energy company, fell to longterm resident of Bengazhi and principal of the city’s Indian school Tabassum Mansoor. The seven men had been abducted by militants at Asshwerif on September 14. A source with knowledge of the operation said the rescue would not have been possible but for Ms. Mansoor, who carried out negotiations with the militants through the Libyan authorities and tribal elders. Born in Gorakhpur, Ms. Mansoor has been in Benghazi for more than three decades. Ms. Mansoor has mentored the Indian school in Benghazi over the years and the school has emerged as the only Indian-led English-medium educational centre in the city.  Recognition for her long-standing commitment to education amid difficult circumstances came from the Libyan authorities when she inducted as a member of the National Education Council of Libya. Ms. Mansoor’s work in the larger Indian community first came into the spotlight for her efforts during the 2011 evacuation of around 3,000 Indians from Benghazi when the city witnessed intense fighting between pro- and anti-Qadhafi forces. This time too Ms. Mansoor swung into action when requested by the Indian authorities. ‘Given up hope’  “We had initially given up hope of seeing Umed again. But it was at that time that we found strength and support from Tabassumji. The Indian Embassy in Tunis provided excellent diplomatic support but Tabassum Madam handled the local negotiations to free our people,” said an emotional Firoz, brother-in-law of Umed, one of the seven Indians, in an online interview. The local recognition helped the 59-year-old principal in the talks to ensure the safe release of the seven Indians. Ms. Mansoor declined to speak about her role when The Hindu reached out to her. But a source familiar with the developments said the negotiation with the militants was extremely risky as they are known to be unpredictable. As the negotiations reached their conclusion, Ms. Mansoor went personally to Brega with Libyan security officials where the captors handed over the Indians. The Libyan support to the Indian-led initiative were lauded by the Ministry of External Affairs which expressed “sincere thanks to the Libyan authorities and the tribal elders from the region” for their support in securing release of the men.
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,||More than 29,000 children ‘disappeared’ from RTE quota over eight years||In the first year that the RTE Act was implemented in Karnataka in 2012, as many as 43,626 students were admitted under the 25% reservation quota for class one in private unaided schools. Eight years on, only 13,910 of them are availing themselves of this benefit. As many as 29,716 among these children are no longer under the quota, according to records of the Department of Public Instruction. This is for a variety of reasons, including parents being unable to afford fee for “extracurricular activities” that schools allegedly demand. While many are no longer under the quota, others were unable to access education in these private schools till class eight as they did not have upper primary classes. Other reasons cited include schools being shut down and parents relocating. According to department rules, reservation under the quota can be availed of only in the school where the child has been admitted.Surprisingly, the department has also found a few instances where students who were initially admitted under the RTE quota later migrating to non-RTE quota in the same school. The State government reimburses the fees to private schools for every child from weaker sections and disadvantaged communities admitted under the RTE quota. The per-child expenditure is currently capped at Rs. 8,000 for pre-primary and Rs. 16,000 for primary classes. B.N. Yogananda, general secretary, RTE Students’ and Parents’ Association, said a large number of parents pulled their children out as they could not afford to pay the “extra fees” demanded by school managements for books, uniforms, smart classes, and other extracurricular activities. “Although the department on paper tells us that schools cannot collect any fees for the RTE students besides for books and uniform, the reality is far from it,” he said. Parents even alleged that the extra fees collected by school were in the range of Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 50,000 a year in some instances.Rishikesh B.S., associate professor, Azim Premji University, said very few private schools had implemented the reservation quota in spirit and had taken steps to bridge the socio-cultural gap between students admitted under the quota and the rest. “While many private school managements evaded admitting students under the quota by claiming minority status, many other schools pushed students out by charging extra fees,” he said.
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Recoveries breach six lakh mark in State||With over 1.17 lakh people recovering since October 1, Karnataka’s total recoveries breached the six lakh mark on Tuesday. With 10,421 patients getting discharged in the last 24 hours, the total recoveries touched 6,02,505. Recoveries that crossed the one lakh mark on August 11 shot up considerably since then. A total of 3,47,879 people have beaten the infection from September 1 onwards and recoveries have outnumbered active cases by over five times. Over 58% of the total recoveries have happened since then. The State’s recovery rate rose after the State tweaked its discharge policy in August. While in the initial months, patients were being discharged only after two negative reports within 48 hours, the State changed its policy that allowed a patient’s discharge after 10 days if he/she does not have any symptoms for three consecutive days before discharge. The recovery rate that was just about 50.73% till August 6, now stands at 83%. The national average is 87% as of Tuesday. Recovery rate in at least 17 districts in the State is higher than the national average. Stating that an increasing recovery rate is a positive sign, Giridhara R. Babu, member of State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, said: “As recoveries increase, we will soon reach a stage where the growth rate of recoveries too will plateau till active cases come down.” Stating that the recovery rate reflects whether the curve flattens and bends, he said the focus must continue to be on doing more and more tests using a syndromic approach. New cases Meanwhile, the State on Tuesday reported 8,191 new cases taking the total number to 7,26,106. With 87 new deaths, the toll rose to 10,123. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Five killed as heavy rain batters coastal districts||The coastal districts of Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West Godavari and Krishna were battered by incessant rain, as the deep depression crossed the coast in the early hours of Tuesday at Kakinada. At least five persons were killed in three districts due to rain and flood-related incidents. A woman and her and daughter in Visakhapatnam and a man in Krishna district died due to landslides. In East Godavari’s Bommuru village near Rajahmundry, one person died due to wall collapse and in Visakhapatnam, a woman died after being swept away in a car in a stream. Several mandals witnessed very heavy to extremely very heavy rainfall during the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. The deep depression crossed the coast between 6.30 a.m. and 7.30 a.m. at a speed of around 65 kmph. This caused extremely heavy rains, registering over 204.4 mm rainfall in 26 mandals of East Godavari, eight mandals of West Godavari, seven mandals of Visakhpatnam and one mandal of Krishna district in 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. Also, very heavy rainfall (115.6 mm to 204.4 mm) occurred in 129 mandals in Srikakulam (8), Vizianagaram (4), Visakhpatnam (26), East Godavari (31), West Godavari (35), Krishna (18), Guntur (1), Prakasam (1), Kadapa (2) and Anantapur (2). As many as 146 mandals in the State witnessed heavy rainfall while 278 witnessed moderate rainfall.  Several areas were inundated to the heavy rainfall and also increasing flood in Godavari and Krishna rivers. In Visakhpatnam, 40 villages in 10 mandals were affected and 350 houses were inundated due to the rains. About 3,700 persons in vulnerable areas were evacuated and moved to seven relief centres. In East Godavari nearly 1,000 people were moved to relief centres. National Disaster Response Force personnel rescued three persons, Sk. Yakub, Sk. Jansaid and D. Ashok, who got struck in Pedda Vagu stream near Chenagapdu of Nandigama mandal in Krishna while they were crossing a road across the stream. Officials said that the trio got trapped in the stream as the water level increased suddenly. Police on alert Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang asked police officials to stay alert for another 24 hours in view of increasing flood levels and rain forecast. He appreciated police personnel who played a key role in rescuing people and moving them to safer places in various districts affected by the deep depression. Meanwhile, all the major reservoirs in the State are full to their maximum capacity.
14 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Colleges in State set to reopen on November 2||Colleges in the State are set to reopen on November 2. The much-awaited academic calendar for 2020-21 put together by the AP State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has been submitted to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who will review the key components on Wednesday before a formal announcement. “For the first time, admissions to all non-professional degree programmes will be done through a centralised window in online mode this year based on the students’ Intermediate marks,” said Council Chairman K. Hemachandra Reddy. As part of the exercise, the Council had in June asked all degree colleges offering non-professional undergraduate courses, to furnish detailed information about their institutions on a specific format on its official website apsche.org to verify facts and accordingly allow admissions by the institutions. Sources in the department said compilation of the data was imperative for clarity to emerge. A G.O. is expected to be released soon that will end all confusions, said an official. New specifications This academic calendar, being released after postponing it thrice in the past due to the uncertainly on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, has certain new specifications partly on account of lockdown and also as part of educational reforms in line with the new National Education Policy. The new academic calendar has special provisions for the loss of teaching days due to the pandemic. Besides, introduction of four-year Bachelor degree for non-professional programmes with one full year of internship/on the job training/apprenticeship from the ensuing academic year. The Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) for non-professional degree programmes introduced in 2015 has been revised since it has completed five years of subsistence. “The revised CBCS has incorporated life skill courses and skill development courses (multi-disciplinary skills) and skill enhancement courses (domain skills). A 10-month internship along with community service is a new component,” said the official. Besides proposing establishment of State Research Board to promote science and technology, the Council has constituted a committee to suggest policy measures for effective implementation of the recommendations of the NEP. Promotion of interaction between industry and academia, working in coordination with the AP Skill Development Corporation, establishment of a Cluster University, improving gross enrolment ratio in higher education sector and increasing gender parity index are other focus areas of the Council.
14 October 2020||Srinagar,||Mehbooba released after 14 months; PSA charges revoked||The Jammu & Kashmir administration on Tuesday revoked the detention under the Public Safety Act (PSA) of former Chief Minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti, who has been under arrest for more than 14 months. The move comes just days ahead of the Supreme Court hearing on her detention. “In exercise of powers conferred under Section 19(1) of the J&K Public Safety Act, the government revokes the detention order dated February 5 and extended for a period of three months on July 31, 2020 against Ms. Mufti,” an order issued by Shaleen Kabra, Principal Secretary, Home, said. Ms. Mufti was lodged in two separate sub-jails in Srinagar before she was shifted to her official residence, which was converted into a sub-jail. A PDP spokesman said Ms. Mufti would address the press in Srinagar on Friday. Ms. Mufti has not issued any statement since her arrest last year. The former chief minister was the last of the senior leaders under detention in Kashmir.
14 October 2020||Lucknow,||Hathras case: High Court pulls up U.P. govt||The Allahabad High Court has said it is not satisfied with the explanation of the Uttar Pradesh government on why it had taken action against the district police chief of Hathras but not the District Magistrate (DM) over the alleged rape of a Dalit woman and the hurried cremation of the victim, though it was admittedly a “collective decision”. ‘Rights infringement’ The action of the State authorities, though in the name of the law and order situation, was prima facie an infringement upon the human rights of the victim and her family, stated the court. The Lucknow Bench also pulled up Additional Director General (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar and asked if it was proper for anyone not directly connected with the investigation to comment, even when the probe was pending. Earlier, when the court asked Awanish Awasthi, Additional Chief Secretary-Home, why only the Superintendent of Police had been suspended but the DM was allowed to continue in his job, Mr. Awasthi said the first report of the SIT (Special Investigation Team) had indicted the Superintendent of Police. However, on being asked whether the SIT had absolved the DM and if the role of the DM was the subject matter of the SIT probe, he stated it was not. “He could not give any satisfactory reply in this regard as to why the two officers had been treated differently,” said the court.
14 October 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal alters 2017 law to allow basic procedures in clinics||Amid the glut of news related to the pandemic that included capping the price of COVID-19 test at Rs. 1,500, one key development went largely unnoticed in West Bengal: the government’s decision to allow doctors to perform basic medical procedures at their private clinics. In early 2017, the government brought in the West Bengal Clinical Establishments Act, which prohibited private practitioners from carrying out even the simplest of procedures — such as conducting ECG or administering a vaccine or stitching a wound — at their clinics unless the clinic was registered under the Act. Since getting registered and meeting the requirements prescribed under the Act was a cumbersome and expensive process, most clinics had been reduced to consultation chambers. This reversal of stand is a major victory for the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum, which was formed that year to fight the Act. The forum had gone to court, and while the hearing is still on, the State Government, following a series of dialogues with the forum, has scrapped the clause that barred private clinics from carrying out basic procedures. Department notification A notification issued by the Department of Health on October 1 allows 10 procedures to be carried out in consultation clinics. They include primary resuscitation and life-saving procedures; stitching of superficial injuries; removal of stitches, incision and drainage of superficial abscess; ECG; and catheterisation for urinary retention. “Because of this clause, our clinics were being used only for consultation purposes, depriving care-seekers of routine as well as emergency procedures. This not only hindered clinical services but was also a blow to clinical autonomy. Now that clause stands abolished,” Dr. Koushik Chaki, a founding member of the forum, told The Hindu . Timely scrapping The scrapping of this clause couldn’t have been more timely. So far, from the time the Act came into effect, a private practitioner could only refer a patient to the nearest hospital or diagnostic centre for these simple — but often life-saving — procedures. In the time of the pandemic, visiting a hospital or diagnostic centre to get an ECG or a wound stitched only puts the patient at risk because the chances of contracting COVID-19 are high.
14 October 2020||Mumbai,||Power supply restored in Mumbai||Electricity supply was restored in the financial capital on Tuesday. “Power supply is not a constraint anymore,” an official spokesman for the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company (MSEDCL) said, pointing out that 500 MW supply from Tata Power has been resumed and synchronised.  Some pockets served by MSEDCL reported power cuts even on Tuesday, but the spokesman said those were due to localised issues, voltage fluctuations and road works as well.  A scheduled press meet of Power Minister Nitin Raut was cancelled on Tuesday. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has ordered an inquiry into the incident, which happened when one of the lines was undergoing a planned maintenance. The MSEDCL called off rotational load balancing in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region in the early hours of Tuesday after sorting out the technical issues that led to a power failure in the city. The exercise caused some parts in Navi Mumbai to remain without electricity for over 13 hours. “As per orders from higher authorities, we kept switching the feeders. By 12.30 a.m., all feeders were functioning well. Now, power supply is normal,” said the MSEDCL PRO. “Electricity in most places in Navi Mumbai was restored by 10 p.m. The last batch received power by 12.30 a.m.,” superintendent engineer Rajaram Mane of Vashi Circle said. The MSEDCL PRO said there was a power outage at Rabodi in Thane for 30 minutes on Tuesday due to repair work by the Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Limited on the 400 kV Kalwa-Talegaon line. “The insulator got damaged due to thundering a few days ago and work on the line is still on. This work will not affect power supply anywhere,” an official said.  (With inputs from Raina Assainar)
14 October 2020||Tirumala,||TTD to confine Brahmotsavams to the temple inner precincts||Adopting a pragmatic approach towards the dreaded COVID-19 which is yet to come under control, the TTD on Tuesday announced that it was confining the celebrations related to the Navaratri Brahmotsavams to the inner portals of the temple of Lord Venkateswara here. All the vahana sevas will be observed at the Kalyanotsava Mandapam inside the temple in ‘ekantham’ (without presence of devotees). TTD’s Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC) will telecast live all the proceedings of the nine-day festival commencing on October 16. On October 1, the TTD announced that the daily processions of various vahanams would be taken out in the mada streets encircling the shrine and also allow a limited number of devotees to witness the festivities from the open galleries. To ensure sufficient physical distance among devotees, markings were also painted at the galleries. However, Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy, who till recently monitored the COVID-19 situation as the Special Chief Secretary, Health, Medical and Family Welfare, before the current posting, is said to be averse to taking any risk with pilgrim safety and resolved to confine the festivities to the temple in adherence to the health guidelines. Mr. Reddy had detailed talks with senior officials and is believed to have apprised Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and TTD Chairman Y.V. Subbareddy before taking the final call. The fresh health guidelines issued by the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry that none of the religious or cultural events conducted outdoor should exceed a congregation of 200 persons is believed to be the major reason for arriving at the decision.
14 October 2020||Shiv Sahay Singh Kolkata,||Double deckers return to Kolkata||To give a boost to tourism in Kolkata during the Durga Puja, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday launched two double decker buses. “Such buses are usually seen in London. They will tour the heritage and landmark places in the city and highlight the culture and tradition,” Ms. Banerjee said flagging off the buses. The buses, considered part of Kolkata’s colonial transport legacy, were introduced in the city during the 1920s and were phased out in the first decade of the 21st century. Attempts made to reintroduce them as a mode of transport in the city, could not fructify. A statement by the State government said “special sightseeing services of the double decker” have the objective of “boosting heritage and cultural trails of Kolkata”. A ride can be booked online from October 23. The landmarks the buses will cover include Victoria Memorial, Fort William, St. John’s Church, Old Currency Building, Dalhousie Square, GOP, Great Eastern Hotel, Eden Gardens and Princep Ghat among others. The Chief Minister said more routes can be added depending on the response. Ms. Banerjee said her government would also request the Ministry of Civil Aviation to restore direct flights from Kolkata to European cities, including London.
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Eight killed in old city wall collapse||At least eight persons, including a 2-month-old infant, were killed late on Tuesday night after a portion of a large boundary wall collapsed in old city here following incessant rains that lashed the city from evening. The tragic incident took place in Mohammadia Hills in Mohammad Nagar, under Chandrayangutta police station area. Neighbours said there were nearly eight metal-sheet roofed houses abutting the massive compound wall which was built with heavy boulders. Part of the wall came down crashing and the boulders fell on three of the houses breaking the roofs. Hit by the boulders, eight persons died while some others were injured, the police said. Residents of the locality said the wall was on higher ground and due to the rains which lashed the city, the debris smashed into homes below. Local police rushed to the spot and took up rescue operations with the help of municipal workers. Hyderabad parliamentarian Asaduddin Owaisi rushed to spot. Taking to Twitter, he said that nine had lost their lives. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South Zone) Gajarao Bhupal confirmed the incident and added that at least three persons are seriously injured. They were taken to the hospital. Bodies of the victims were moved to the Osmania General Hospital.
14 October 2020||KALABURAGI,||Water released from Sonna barrage into the Bhima||As the Bhima catchment area in Karnataka and Maharashtra is receiving good rainfall resulting in an increased inflow at the Sonna barrage built across the Bhima in Afzalpur taluk of Kalaburagi district, 65,000 cusecs of water was released from the barrage into the river course on Tuesday. As per information provided by Executive Engineer of Bhima Lift Irrigation Project Ashok R. Kalal, the barrage was receiving 28,100 cusecs of water. Since the barrage had swollen due to large quantity of inflow owing to incessant rain and release of water from reservoirs into the barrage and its channels, 65,000 cusecs of water was released into the Bhima in the evening. Meanwhile, officials cautioned villagers living along the river banks in Afzalpur, Jewargi, Chittapur and Kalaburagi taluks against going to the river for any purpose, or taking their cattle to the river.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,||HC refrains from suspending stay order in breach of privilege case||The first Division Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday refrained from suspending an order of interim stay passed by a single judge on September 24 restraining Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly’s Committee of Privileges from proceeding against DMK president M.K. Stalin and 17 other MLAs of his party in the gutkha sachets display issue. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, however, granted liberty to the Assembly Secretary as well as the Privileges Committee to move an application before the single judge to vacate the stay. The liberty was granted pursuant to writ appeals preferred by them against the single judge’s stay order. The Bench made it clear that the present appeals against the stay order would not stand in the way of the single judge considering applications for vacating the stay. Simultaneously, it also ordered notices, returnable by four weeks, to Mr. Stalin and other MLAs on the individual writ appeals filed by the Assembly Secretary and the Privileges Committee. Advocate General Vijay Narayan, representing the Assembly Secretary, brought it to the notice of the Bench that show cause notices were issued to the DMK MLAs for breach of the privileges of the House in 2017 after they displayed gutkha sachets in the House. However, those notices were found to be erroneous by the Bench in August this year. In the same breath, the Bench had permitted the Committee of Privileges to issue fresh notices. Without appreciating that fact, the single judge had stayed the fresh notices in September this year when they were challenged by the MLAs, the A-G said. On his part, senior counsel A.L. Somayaji, representing the Privileges Committee, said the single judge should not have even entertained the writ petitions filed by the DMK MLAs challenging the fresh show cause notices since no pure question of law had been raised in them. He requested the Division Bench to order suspension of the single judge’s stay order. However, wondering whether such a course would be appropriate without hearing the other side, the Chief Justice permitted the appellants to move the single judge once again with a plea to vacate the stay.
14 October 2020||Kolkata,||Offer 20% reduction in school fees: HC||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday directed private schools in the State to offer 20% reduction of fees across the board from April 2020 till the month following the one in which the schools reopen physically. A Division Bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya, while hearing a number of writ petitions filed by parents and guardians, said there will no increase in fees during financial year 2020-21 and non-essential charges for use of facilities not availed will not be permissible. The court also observed that a maximum of five per cent excess of revenue over expenditure will be permissible. While accepting the autonomy and freedom that private unaided schools generally enjoy, the Bench observed that “it is completely unacceptable that schools have not incurred less expenditure than usual since the lockdown came to be in force from or about the end of March this year”. The court also added that every school will entertain applications from parents or guardians for further reduction or waiver or exemption or delayed or instalment payments, as the case may be. “Such applications have to be filed before the respective schools by November 15, 2020 and every application should be dealt with on an individual basis and a decision communicated to the applicant by December 31, 2020,” the order read. If the parents or guardians are aggrieved by the decision of the school, an application may be filed, upon deposit of Rs. 1,000/ to a committee constituted by the court.
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Protest seeking arrest||Supporters of Pulakeshinagar MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy on Tuesday staged a protest at Periyar Circle in D.J. Halli demanding that the police arrest former Mayor and councillor R. Sampath Raj and former councillor Abdul Zakib Zakir, who have been accused in the violence case. The protesters said that despite the police having ample evidence of their involvement, they are yet to arrest them. Meanwhile, eight accused among over 400 persons arrested in the violence cases are yet to be released despite getting bail. Ishrathullah, a member of Secular Advocates Front, which is taking up the cases, said that though the sessions court granted bail to eight of the accused and they were supposed to be released on Tuesday, the police have taken them on body warrant inanother case. This is to avoid bail for the accused, which would be challenged in the High Court, Mr. Ishrathullah said. According to him, the CCB has filed 73 FIRs against over 400 persons out of which 300 accused have been booked under UAPA charges.
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||State sees 1,708 more coronavirus cases||Telangana recorded 1,708 COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the total to 2,14,792. While 46,835 people underwent tests on October 12, results of 1,034 were awaited. Five more COVID-19 patients died. The Telangana High Court on Monday, however, stated that the statistics on the deaths due to COVID-19 furnished by the Public Health department were not trustworthy. The new 1,708 cases includes 277 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area, 137 from Rangareddy, 124 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 97 from Bhadradri-Kothagudem, 86 from Karimnagar, and 81 each from Khammam and Nalgonda. On the whole, 36,24,096 tests were conducted till October 13. As of Monday, there were 24,208 active cases while 1,89,351 have recovered, and 1,233 persons have died. Case fatality in the State is 0.57% as against national average of 1.5%. On the other hand, Telangana’s recovery rate is 88.15% while it is 86.8% nationally. In the 62 government hospitals, 4,618 oxygen beds and 1,039 ICU beds were available on Monday while in 228 private hospitals, a total of 2,621 oxygen beds and 2,165 ICU beds were vacant.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Krishna water diverted to Chembarambakkam||With a steady inflow of the Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh, the Water Resources Department has started diverting water to Chembarambakkam reservoir and step up storage. The State’s entry point on the Kandaleru-Poondi canal has so far received an inflow of 1.45 tmcft. since September 20. Officials of the WRD said the combined storage of the four reservoirs has improved after the release of Krishna water. The total storage in reservoirs now stands at nearly 5 tmcft. as against their capacity of 11.2 tmcft. The current storage would be sufficient to sustain drinking water supply till summer. At present, the supply in the city is maintained at 700 million litres a day on alternate days. Low storage The reservoirs that supply water to the city had a storage of 3.9 tmcft. in mid-September before the Krishna water started flowing into Poondi reservoir. “We have started transferring water from Poondi to Chembarambakkam reservoir through the link canal to boost its storage. Water is being drawn for city supply from the Chembarambakkam lake that now has a storage of only one-third of its capacity,” said an official. “There may be a 15% loss of water during the process of diversion. We are continuing the work to remove vegetation and desilt the foreshore area of the lake for better water holding capacity,” the official added. Krishna water would be let into Red Hills reservoir too, which has a better storage among the water bodies, in a few days depending on the demand. The department plans to increase patrolling in the areas around the lake and the link canal to prevent people from bathing in the water course. Officials said Andhra Pradesh had assured Tamil Nadu of providing 4 tmcft of Krishna water in two months. “We will request for more water even after the onset of the northeast monsoon depending on the storage in reservoirs. Kandaleru reservoir has adequate storage to release water for the city’s requirement,” the official said.
14 October 2020||GUNTUR,||Flood notice to Naidu’s Undavalli residence||The revenue authorities have served notices to 36 properties on the Krishna river bed in Undavalli and Tadepalli villages, including the house in which former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu is living. MRO Srinivasa Reddy said that all these structures were built below the Karakatta (river bed) Officials expect more than five lakh cusecs to of water will reach Prakasam Barrage in the coming days. As a precautionary measure, Tadepalli revenue officials have served alert notices have been served on people living alongside Krishna river. This is third time the house in which Chandrababu Naidu is staying has been served notice.
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Himayatsagar gates lifted||With reciept of large volume of flood water, authorities have made a decision to lift the gates of Himayatsagar reservoir and release water downstream into Musi river. Though initially on Tuesday, the Water Board officials estimated that the reservoir would reach its full tank level around 11 am on Wednesday, the situation drastically changed with sudden flood of 16,666 cusecs by 11 pm. Against an FTL of 1763.5 feet, the reservoir had reached 1762.867 feet. This has forced the officials to open flood gates at around 12 am., to let out 1,300 cusecs of water downstream. To begin with, two of the 17 flood gates will be lifted by two feet, followed by more based on the need, officials informed. Official administration of the Hyderabad and Ranga Reddy districts apart from GHMC and police have been alerted about the flood release into the Musi.
14 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State registers over 3 lakh cases in the last month||Seven months since the first COVID infection was reported in the State, the overall tally has increased to 7,63,573 with 4,622 new infections and 35 new deaths in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The death toll went up to 6,291. In the first month since March 12, only 420 infections were reported and the later the number increased. In the first four months, only 29,168 cases were reported and in the fifth month, 2.24 lakh cases were reported. Later in the sixth month 3.03 lakh and in the seventh and the last month 2.01 lakh cases, which is one lakh less than the previous month’s tally, were reported.
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Eight dead, three injured||At least eight persons, including a two-month-old baby, were killed on Tuesday night after portions of a large boundary wall in Bandlaguda collapsed on homes due to incessant rains. The tragic incident was reported in the Mohammad Nagar in Bandlaguda. Those familiar with what happened said that a large boundary wall which was on higher ground collapsed on to homes below. Police, locals, and public representatives rushed to the spot and began rescue operations. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South Zone) Gajarao Bhopal confirmed the incident and added that three others are injured and in serious condition.
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||Air quality dips in Delhi, Gurugram||The air quality of Delhi and Gurugram deteriorated on Tuesday and nearly touched the ‘very poor’ category. According to monitoring agency SAFAR, the air quality of Delhi is likely to be in the ‘poor’ to ‘very poor’ category for the next two days. Delhi’s AQI on Tuesday was 300, on the verge of ‘very poor’ category, and in Gurugram, it was 288 (poor).
14 October 2020||KALABURAGI,||Not a single special train for Kalyana Karnataka||Though the Railway Ministry has planned to introduce 196 festival special trains between October 20 and November 30 to cater to passengers travelling during the festival season, the authorities concerned have not announced a single special train either from Bengaluru or Mumbai to the any of the six districts — Kalaburagi, Bidar, Yadgir, Raichur, Ballari and Koppal — of Kalyana Karnataka region.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Practicality||
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Caught in the wind||
14 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CM cautions against private tuitions||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has cautioned parents against sending children for private tuitions at a time when COVID-19 transmission is intense in the State. While addressing media here on Tuesday, he said that a significant proportion of those who tested positive for COVID-19 in Thiruvananthapuram was children below 15 years. He said that Thiruvananthapuram district seemed to have withstood the challenge posed by COVID-19 after consistently reporting the highest number of cases in the State. People continued to crowd at wayside eateries and markets, totally unmindful of the COVID-19 protocols which required people to maintain physical distancing, he said.Mr. Vijayan also warned private hospitals in Kannur against turning away pregnant women who had contracted COVID-19. Unless there were serious health issues which warranted referral to a government facility, pregnant women should not be turned away by hospitals, Mr. Vijayan said.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Wang Yi slams Quad||In Beijing’s most high-profile criticism so far on the Quad, China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi said the U.S. was aiming to build an “Indo-Pacific NATO” that would be founded on the India, U.S., Japan and Australia grouping.page 11
14 October 2020||Mumbai,||Pawar backs Uddhav, writes to PM||Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi backing Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in his verbal spat with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on the decision not to reopen temples in the State. Mr. Pawar said he was pained at the erosion of standards of conduct by the high constitutional office of the Governor. “I was shocked and surprised to see the letter of the Governor released to the media and the kind of language used,” he wrote. “In the very Preamble the word ‘secular’ is added that equates and shields all religions and hence the Chair of the Chief Minister must uphold such tenets of the Constitution. Unfortunately Hon. Governor’s letter to Chief Minister invokes the connotation as if written to the leader of a political party.” Mr. Koshyari had asked Mr. Thackeray “have you suddenly turned ‘secular’ ”, questioning the continued closure of temples.
14 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Biomining of waste at Palayam market begins||As part of the Palayam Connemara market redevelopment plan under the city Corporation’s Smart City project, the process for biomining of the waste that has accumulated there over the years has begun. Mayor K. Sreekumar inaugurated the process on Tuesday. The accumulated waste will be segregated into compost manure, incinerable products which can be used in cement factories, coarse soil, construction and demolition waste, glass and hard plastics and coconut husks. The authorities estimate the area to have around 4,800 tonnes of waste.
14 October 2020||Kolkata,||covid||West Bengal on Tuesday recorded 3,631 new COVID-19 cases taking the total case tally past three lakh to reach 3,02,020. The State also recorded 62 deaths in the past 24 hours taking the COVID-19 fatalities to 5,744. The active cases rose to 30,988 and the discharge rate remained at 87.84%. The percentage of positive cases out of samples tested in West Bengal stands at 8% . Of the 62 deaths recorded on Tuesday, Kolkata accounted for 18 taking the causalities in the city to 1,914. North 24 Parganas recorded 14 deaths and the COVID-19 toll in the district increased to 1,295. Kolkata recorded 728 and North 24 Parganas 756 cases in the past 24 hours.
14 October 2020||Lucknow/Ghaziabad,||Hathras: HC not satisfied with U.P. govt. response||The Allahabad High Court said on Tuesday it is not satisfied with the explanation of the Uttar Pradesh government on why it has not taken action against the District Magistrate of Hathras over the alleged rape and the hurried cremation of a Dalit woman. Earlier in the day, a CBI team visited the crime scene in Boolgarhi village in Hathras and took the older brother of the victim with it, possibly for questioning.
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Multiplexes get ready for showtime in Bengaluru||As the countdown begins for theatres to resume screening films from October 15, many multiplexes are gearing up to welcome customers. However, many single screen theatres have adopted a wait-and-watch approach.
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,||BJP picks Munirathna to contest in R.R. Nagar||Ending days of speculation, the BJP announced former MLA Munirathna, who joined the party last year after quitting the Congress, as its candidate in the byelection to R.R. Nagar Assembly seat.
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||Court seeks transfer of case against Ramani||A Delhi court, which was hearing former Union Minister M.J. Akbar’s defamation case against journalist Priya Ramani for her tweets accusing him of sexual harassment, on Tuesday said it cannot hear the case any more because of a recent verdict of the Supreme Court. “As the present matter is not filed against MP/MLA, hence cannot be tried by this court and needs to be transferred to the competent court of jurisdiction,” Judge Vishal Pahuja said.
14 October 2020||Mumbai,||Deepak Kochhar sent to ED custody till Oct. 17||The Prevention Of Money Laundering Act court on Tuesday remanded Deepak Kochhar, husband of former MD and CEO of ICICI Bank Chanda Kochhar, to the custody of Enforcement Directorate (ED) till October 17. He was arrested by ED on September 7 on charges of money laundering. On September 14, he tested COVID-19 positive and the application of his ED custody was transmitted to judicial custody during the treatment period.
14 October 2020||MANGALURU,||CAMPCO Ltd. steps up arecanut procurement||CAMPCO Ltd. has stepped up procuring arecanut stocks from the doorsteps of its member-farmers on an experimental basis, according to president of the cooperative S.R. Satishchandra.
14 October 2020||MYSURU,||‘Safety must at Dasara, Theerthodbhava venues’||With a spurt in COVID-19 cases in Kodagu, the ensuing Cauvery Theerthodbhava at Talacauvery on October 17 and Madikeri and Gonikoppal Dasara on October 17 and 26 would be celebrated with highest precautions.
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,||BJP picks Munirathna for R.R. Nagar bypoll contest||Ending days of speculation, the Bharatiya Janata Party announced former MLA Munirathna, who joined the party last year after quitting the Congress, as its candidate in the byelection to Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly seat. There were several aspirants from the BJP’s own cadre.
14 October 2020||MADURAI,||Avoid crowded places, says Health Secretary||Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan on Tuesday urged people to follow COVID-19 safety precautions when they are outdoors and avoid crowded places for Deepavali shopping. He said people must not forget the precautions because cases were on the decline across the State.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,||E-registration set to replace e-pass system||The government has decided to replace the existing system of issuing e-passes to those who travel from other States or countries with e-registration, Advocate General Vijay Narayan told the Madras High Court on Tuesday. He told the first Division Bench that the restrictions on visits to hill stations alone would continue, since those places were short on medical infrastructure.
14 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala’s test positivity rate exceeds 18%||Tamil Nadu reported another 4,666 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 1,164 persons tested positive in Chennai and 398 persons in Coimbatore. The State also recorded 57 deaths. For the second consecutive day, the State saw less than 5,000 COVID-19 cases. With this, a total of 6,65,930 persons have tested positive n the State so far. Of this, 43,239 persons were under treatment. Another 5,117 persons were discharged following treatment, taking the total number of persons discharged to 6,12,320. The toll increased to 10,371. In Chennai, 1,217 persons were discharged and 13 persons died. The city has accounted for 1,84,429 cases till date - 1,67,284 discharged, 13,704 active cases and 3,441 deaths.  Kerala’s case graph for COVID-19 rose by another 8,764 cases on Tuesday, with testing covering 48,253 samples. The test positivity rate shot up to 18.16%. Kerala’s cumulative case burden first crossed the one lakh mark on September 11, cases building up with the third wave of the epidemic from mid-May. However, the next one lakh cases were added to cumulative cases in 21 days and on October 1, the two lakh mark was crossed, while the next one lakh cases were added in just 12 days. There were 4,622 new infections and 35 new deaths in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday. Also, 72,082 samples were tested with a positivity rate of 6.41% while the overall positivity rate was 11.39%. The tests per million ratio was 1,25,520 and cases per million ratio 14,299. There was a small increase in new cases in Godavari and Chittoor districts consistent with their larger share of new infections in recent days. West Godavari reported the highest new infections at 752 while Chittoor reported 705. East Godavari reported 691 infections. Other districts had less than 500 new cases. Telangana recorded 1,708 cases on Monday. While 46,835 people underwent tests on October 12, the results of 1,034 were awaited. Five more COVID-19 patients died. The High Court for the State on Monday stated that the statistics on deaths due to COVID-19 furnished by the Public Health department were not trustworthy. There were 277 new cases from Greater Hyderabad, 137 from Rangareddy, 124 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 97 from Bhadradri-Kothagudem, 86 from Karimnagar, and 81 each from Khammam and Nalgonda. Karnataka on Tuesday reported 8,191 new cases and 87 more deaths.  On the State’s claim of a rising recovery rate, Giridhara R Babu, member, State COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, said it was a positive sign: “As recoveries increase, we will soon reach a stage where the growth rate of recoveries too will plateau till active cases come down.”   (With inputs from   Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, Hyderabad   and Bengaluru bureaus)
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||BJP rebels blame party leaders in Bihar||Rebel Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidates fighting on Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) ticket in the Bihar Assembly election blame senior leaders in the BJP for their rebellion, saying they have been forced to seek ticket from other parties and the BJP in the State is being “pawned” to the Janata Dal(U). Senior leaders had given warnings of expulsion once it had become clear that the LJP would be fighting separately from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and there were signs that some BJP candidates were approaching that party for seats. These candidates were among those whose Assembly seats had gone to the JD(U) in the NDA seat distribution. Senior BJP leaders like Rajendra Singh, Usha Vidyarthi and Rameshwar Chaurasia moved to the LJP and on Monday, they, along with six others, were expelled from the party. Speaking to The Hindu over the telephone, Mr. Chaurasia, who is fighting from Sasaram on LJP ticket, said that he did not hold a grudge against the party as such but only towards certain leaders. “It is an open secret that there are certain leaders in the BJP who have pawned the party (party ‘ ko girwi rakha ha ’) to Nitish Kumar as it suits them. All the people who have sought ticket from the LJP have done so as those seats, despite being our traditional stronghold, were given away to the JD(U) in the seat distribution,” he said. While Mr. Chaurasia said he was referring to Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Modi as one such leader, “there are others who are with him,” he added. He also said that the BJP’s threat to go to the Election Commission (EC) if the LJP candidates used the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in their posters was “silly”. “We will follow EC guidelines on all these issues. Besides, Prime Minister Modi belongs to all,” he said. Surprise rebels Mr. Chaurasia and Mr. Rajendra Singh were surprise rebels as both have been rooted in the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)-BJP organisation in the State for years, with the former also being given charge of the Kashi and Kanpur sambhag (division) during the 2014 Lok Sabha election, reporting directly to the then BJP general secretary in charge of U.P., Amit Shah. Mr. Chaurasia, along with Union Minister Giriraj Singh, was also among those who regularly celebrated the birthday of then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi in Patna, in defiance of Nitish Kumar, who had managed to persuade the BJP not to allow Mr. Modi to campaign in successive Assembly elections in Bihar while in alliance with the party. Two streams The expulsion, indeed the seeking of LJP ticket, once more focuses attention on the two streams of thought within the BJP in Bihar. One set is comfortable with the alliance with the JD(U), where despite the BJP having a better strike rate in terms of electoral victories vis-a-vis seats fought, the JD(U) is given a larger share of seats. The other set has protested the “big brother attitude” of the JD(U). Despite the fact that both the parties are more or less contesting an equal number of seats this time around, ceding of specific seats has led to the rebellion, with the rebels stating that their less than cosy equations with certain Bihar BJP leaders has led to the deliberate ceding of these seats. The LJP’s decision to part ways with the NDA while remaining friendly with the BJP and fighting polls only in seats where the JD(U) is contesting was expected to help the BJP. The anger of the JD(U) at this supposed ploy, and the BJP’s determination to pacify its ally, has meant disciplinary action against the rebels. The matter has further complicated an already complex caste pitch in the State. Senior BJP leaders admit that while Mr. Chaurasia may yet lose the polls, others like Mr. Rajendra Singh and Anil Kumar (fighting on LJP ticket from Vikram), may win. Post-poll, the BJP may have to pay attention to whoever is left standing in this face-off.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘70% of virus fatalities are men’||The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday cautioned those below 60 against ignoring COVID-19 preventive measures. Nearly 14% of COVID-19 fatalities are those in the 45-60 age group with co-morbidities and 1.5% without co-morbidities. At a press conference, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said 70% of COVID-19 fatalities were men and the rest women. “We have 1% fatalities reported from the below-17 age group and the 18-25 age group,” he said. Across the country, the number of fatalities had been lower than 1,000 for 10 successive days. In the past 24 hours, 706 fatalities had been reported. Of these, nearly 79% were concentrated in 10 States and Union Territories. More than 23%, or 165, were from Maharashtra, he said. Vinod K. Paul, member, NITI Aayog, urged the public to use the social vaccine against the virus. “The pandemic is stabilising but winters are known to be conducive for the spread of viruses. If we are not careful, large gatherings for festivals could turn into super spreading events,” he said. India had one of the lowest cases per million and reported deaths per million. While the global figure for cases per million was 4,794, India was clocking 5,199. The deaths per million in India were 79, while the world average was 138, he said. Karnataka in the lead Data released by the Ministry noted that India was reporting a consistent slide in the new confirmed cases. As many as 55,342 new cases were registered in the last 24 hours. “From the last five weeks, there is a continuous decline in the average daily new cases. The weekly average of daily new cases fell from 92,830 cases in the second week of September to 70,114 cases in second week of October,” the data noted. As much as 76% of the new confirmed cases are from 10 States and UTs, it stated. Karnataka had overtaken Maharashtra with the highest number of new reported cases. “Both are contributing more than 7,000 new cases. The States which are reporting a spurt in cases are Karnataka, Kerala, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh,” the Ministry said.
14 October 2020||Lucknow,||Hathras case: HC pulls up U.P. govt||The Allahabad High Court has said it is not satisfied with the explanation of the Uttar Pradesh government on why it had taken action against the district police chief of Hathras but not the District Magistrate (DM) over the alleged rape of a Dalit woman and the hurried cremation of the victim, though it was admittedly a “collective decision”. The action of the State authorities, though in the name of the law and order situation, was prima facie an infringement upon the human rights of the victim and her family, stated the court. The Lucknow Bench also pulled up Additional Director General (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar and asked if it was proper for anyone not directly connected with the investigation to comment, even when the probe was pending. Earlier, when the court asked Awanish Awasthi, Additional Chief Secretary-Home, why only the Superintendent of Police had been suspended but the DM was allowed to continue in his job, Mr. Awasthi said the first report of the SIT (Special Investigation Team) had indicted the Superintendent of Police. However, on being asked as whether the SIT had absolved the DM and if the role of the DM was the subject matter of the SIT probe, he stated it was not. “He could not give any satisfactory reply in this regard as to why the two officers had been treated differently,” said the court.
14 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Suraj, Kani bag top honours in Kerala State Film Awards||It began as small hints of change, but now the focus on independent cinema and non-superstar actors has become quite a visible trend in the Kerala State Film Awards. None of the major superstars have won the best actor award in the past many years. In the 1990s and the 2000s, the other actors winning awards was an aberration. Now there seems to be a clear intention to look beyond the superstar system and award the performance, rather than the name. Suraj Venjaramoodu won the best actor (male) award for his moving performance of a lonely old man getting emotionally attached to a robot in Android Kunjappan Version 5.25 and for his portrayal of a deaf and mute man getting his life turned upside down by a social media post in Vikruthi . From his early days of slapstick comedy roles to his National Award winning turn in Perariyathavar and now being the go-to-actor for a wide range of roles, he certainly has found his place. Kani Kusruti, who made her transition from the stage to the screen, won the best actor (female) award for her portrayal of a woman struggling hard to survive in a deeply religious, patriarchal society in Sajin Baabu’s Biriyani . The awards  Vasanthi , a tale on a woman's survival against odds, directed by Rahman brothers (Shinos Rahman and Sajas Rahman) won the best film award. The film also picked up the award for the best screenplay. Madhu C. Narayanan’s Kumbalangi Nights won the award for the best film with aesthetic value and popular appeal. Lijo Jose Pellissery picked up his second best director award in three years for Jallikattu , an immersive, sensory experience that bristles with gob-smacking visuals that blur the line between animals and humans.  Kenjira , a film in Paniya language directed by Manoj Kana, won the award for the second best film. Ratheesh Pothuval won the best debut director award for Android Kunjappan . Year of debutants The jury headed by Madhu Ambatt said the large number of debut directors this year, constituting a total of 71 films out of the 119 films submitted, bodes well for the industry. Many of these were experimental films that have taken forward the industry forward with regard to the aesthetics and the content. The shift in the awards’ character is visible even in the best music award for Sushin Shyam’s moody, acoustic tunes from Kumbalangi Nights , signalling a shift from the established names and traditional tunes of Malayalam film music. That there has been hardly any controversy after the award declaration in the past few years, unlike the situation some years ago, also points to the wider acceptance of the change in the nature of the awards.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||eVIN network to handle COVID-19 vaccine supply||The eVIN network, which can track the latest vaccine stock position; temperature at storage facility; geo-tag health centres; and maintain facility-level dashboard, is being repurposed for the delivery of the COVID-19 vaccine, said the Union Health Ministry in a release issued on Tuesday. Vinod K. Paul, member, NITI Aayog, in his presentation at the 21st meeting of the high-level Group of Ministers (GoM) on COVID-19 on Tuesday, chaired by Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, added that the listing of healthcare workers would also be complete by October-end or early November, while the task of identifying frontline workers, recalibration of the digital platform, the logistics of non-vaccine supplies, and cold chain augmentation, are being carried out as per the detailed implementation plan. During the meeting, he presented a comprehensive study on the priority sections of the population that would have initial access to the vaccine, drawing upon the recommendations of the Centers for Disease Control, U.S., and the World Health Organization, said a release issued by the Health Ministry. During the meeting, Sujeet K. Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control, presented a detailed report, and said that the overall recovery rate for India is 86.36%. “Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu have the highest recovery rate of 96.25% in India, followed by Andaman & Nicobar Islands (93.98%) and Bihar (93.89%). Kerala has the lowest recovery rate of 66.31% because of the huge surge in cases in recent days,” he said.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Our institutions are very patriarchal: Soumya||She is counted among the country’s top scientists and public health experts, but for Soumya Swaminathan, who is the Chief Scientist at the World Health Organization and the former Director-General (DG) of India’s top medical research body, the Indian Council of Medical Research, it wasn’t always easy to be heard as a young researcher, and a woman at that. She was often “talked down to” or had her ideas dismissed, Dr. Swaminathan recounted before a global audience at an event on Tuesday. “I was lucky perhaps that during my school, college days or right through education, even when I was doing my MD, I never felt that I was treated differently as a girl or a woman. Perhaps that is very unusual. It was only after I started my career in a government research institution that I experienced the culture of a male-dominated committee room. That is when you felt you were being talked down to or made fun of almost. And then you become diffident of expressing your opinion the next time. I was in my thirties,” Dr. Swaminathan said about her time at the ICMR, where she was first a part of the Tuberculosis Research Centre in Chennai, later rose to become its Director, and finally the head of the ICMR in New Delhi. “I was not taken seriously; I was always told what to do, and if I had ideas, they would be shot down. I think that is the way many of our institutions function. They are very patriarchal,” she said at the fourth Women Leaders in Global Health Conference, 2020, which is being organised online. The conference that was instituted in 2017 serves as a rallying point for gender equity in health. “It is more difficult for women researchers to get their grants approved, significantly smaller portion of research grants go to women, and women also have difficulties in getting their results published if you are from developing countries in journals because of perceived biases. I have faced those kinds of challenges and biases,” Dr. Swaminathan said, adding that this is prevalent even today, where women have a tougher time defending their grant proposals because they are treated differently from male scientists. The pandemic has brought to the fore several gaps in equal representation of women in decision-making in national and global bodies constituted to develop a response to health crises. A study published in the British Medical Journal on October 1 and authored by Kim Robin Van Daalen, Csongor Bajnoczki and Maisoon Chowdhury, et al, analysed COVID-19 task forces and expert committees constituted by 87 countries and found that 85.2% of 115 identified COVID-19 decision-making and expert task forces had mostly men as members, while a mere 3.5% had gender parity.  It is more difficult for women researchers to get their grants approved... Soumya SwaminathanChief Scientist, WHO
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi court seeks transfer of case against Priya Ramani||A Delhi court, which was hearing former Union Minister M.J. Akbar’s defamation case against journalist Priya Ramani for her tweets accusing him of sexual harassment for about two years, on Tuesday said it cannot hear the case any more because of a recent verdict of the Supreme Court. “As the present matter is not filed against Member of Parliament (MP)/Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA), hence cannot be tried by this court and needs to be transferred to the competent court of jurisdiction,” Judge Vishal Pahuja said. On September 16, the apex court had asked the Chief Justices of all High Courts to list before an appropriate Bench all pending criminal cases involving sitting and former lawmakers where stay was granted. Case record In terms of this order, certain cases that did not pertain to sitting and former lawmakers but were already being heard by Judge Pahuja were transferred to other courts. On Tuesday, when Mr. Akbar’s case came up for hearing, Judge Pahuja said, “Let this matter be put up before the court of Principal District and Sessions Judge (Rouse Avenue District Courts) for October 14... for further appropriate orders.” Speaking to The Hindu , senior advocate Rebecca John said since this case was instituted by Mr. Akbar, the court has referred it to the Principal District and Sessions Judge. If the case is transferred to another court, it will commence at the stage of final argument where it left off. “The record of the case goes with the case,” said Ms. John. At the height of the ‘MeToo movement’ in 2018, Ms. Ramani had accused Mr. Akbar of sexual harassment during his previous role as newspaper editor. Following Ms. Ramani’s accusation, about a dozen former colleagues of Mr. Akbar also came out with different allegations against him. Days before he resigned from his post of Minister of State for External Affairs in October 2018, Mr. Akbar filed a criminal defamation case against Ms. Ramani, citing her open letter published in a magazine and her tweets naming him.
14 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CJM grants bail to YouTuber||Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM), Thiruvananthapuram, R. Jayakrishnan on Tuesday granted bail to controversial YouTuber Vijay P. Nair. The police had arrested him last month on the charge of posting offensive videos against dubbing artiste Bhagyalakshmi. They also found that Nair routinely used his YouTube channel to portray successful women in a bad light by spinning salacious stories about their past. Matters came to a head when Bhagyalakshmi and two women activists, Diya Sena and Sreelakshmi Arackal, allegedly trespassed on Nair’s lodging and assaulted him in what was widely termed as an act of personal payback. The women had filmed the episode on their mobile phone cameras. They broadcast the footage on social media and via television news channels. The high-profile crime had triggered a lengthy and often polarising social debate on gender equations in Kerala. It had also opened a discussion on whether vigilantism was a justifiable form of political action against embedded misogyny in society. The judge observed that Nair had been in judicial custody for the past fortnight. The police had almost completed their investigation. The prosecution had not sought the custody of the suspect. However, the CJM set rigorous conditions for granting bail. He ordered the suspect to execute a bond for Rs. 25,000 and produce two solvent sureties to guarantee the sum. He ordered Nair to appear before the investigating officer on all Saturdays between 9 a.m. and 11 a.m. until further orders or filing of chargesheet. He should also appear before the Investigating Officer when required and should not commit or get involved in any similar offence.
14 October 2020||Kozhikode,||Rift in JD(S), NCP flusters LDF||The tug of war between the Malabar and Central Travancrore lobbies in the Janata Dal (Secular) and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) appears to give a headache for the ruling CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front ( LDF) during the fag end of its term in Kerala. At least two recent developments have emerged within these constituents of the LDF even foreshadowing a split in these small parties. The dissolution of the State unit of the JD(S) and the subsequent replacement of its president C. K. Nanu, MLA, by Mathew T. Thomas, MLA, with an ad hoc committee by party president H.D. Deva Gowda have not gone well with the Malabar faction. In the fierce rivalry between the factions last year, Mr. Thomas was forced to quit as Minister and K. Krishnankutty occupied that post and the octogenarian Mr. Nanu became president of the party which has three legislators. Now Mr. Krishnankutty has his own preferences though he visibly shows allegiance to the Nanu faction, sources said. Another trouble Another trouble is the noticeable crisis brewing in the NCP with a section led by Mani C. Kappan, MLA, opposing the electoral understanding the LDF plans to have with the Kerala Congress (M)-led by Jose K. Mani and offer the Pala segment to Mr. Mani. Mr. Kappan is representing the segment now. At present, the NCP has only two legislators, including Minister for Transport A.K. Saseendran, after the demise of Thomas Chandy from Kuttanad in December last. Though the JD(S) and the NCP have no big stakes in the State's polity, the LDF has offered them Assembly seats.  The ruling CPI(M) would not want to shed its proposed political association with Mr. Mani even if it is at the cost of a split in the NCP as a section led by Mr. Saseendran enjoys the support of the Chief Minister, the sources said. At the same time, the LDF will have to accommodate its nascent partner, the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), which has solid grassroots support despite having no legislators.
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Heavy rain batters Telangana districts||Very heavy rainfall, up to 19.6 cm, was recorded during the 24-hour period up to 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday and the intensity continued throughout the day on Tuesday across Telangana due to the impact of deep depression over Bay of Bengal, that made landfall near Kakinada in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday morning, combined with the southwest monsoon which has been vigorous over the State and north interior Karnataka. According to the Disaster Management Department, very heavy rainfall was recorded at a few places in Khammam and Bhadradri-Kothagudem districts and heavy rainfall occurred at some places in Khammam, Bhadradri, Mahabubabad, Suryapet, Nagarkurnool and Wanaparthy districts. The highest rainfall of over 19.6 cm rain was recorded at Vemsoor in Khammam district during the 24-hour period till 8.30 am on Tuesday. The heavy rainfall flooded vast swathes of fields under cotton and other crops and disrupted normal life in both Khammam and Bhadradri-Kothagudem. The incessant rains have triggered flash floods in Wyra, Munneru, Pedda Cheruvu, Rathoni Cheruvu, and various other rivulets and streams across Khammam district, cutting off road link to several villages and swamping low-lying areas in Madhira, Penuballi and several other mandals on Tuesday. The rain fury was at its worst in Thallada mandal as a wall of the government high school building in Kurnavalli village collapsed due to overnight heavy rainfall in the small hours of Tuesday. About 20 quintals of PDS rice and several “Bathukamma sarees” stocked inside a room in the same building got soaked as rainwater gushed into the premises, sources added. In Penuballi mandal, a middle aged farmer was feared drowned after he was washed away by swirling waters of Rathoni Cheruvu near the mandal headquarters town on Tuesday morning. The farmer’s son narrowly escaped from getting swept away by strong undercurrent in the stream. Efforts by the police and local youth to trace the farmer proved futile till late in the evening. In Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, road connectivity to several border villages in Aswaraopeta mandal, adjoining Andhra Pradesh, was disrupted for several hours on Tuesday morning due to overflowing of streams across the low-level road points at various stretches of Aswaraopeta-Vagoddugudem and other main roads. Very high rainfall was also recorded during the period at Pentlam and Annapureddipalle in Bhadradri-Kothagudem (17.4 cm), Siripuram (16.2 cm), Sathupalle (15.8 cm), Sadasivunipalem (15.1 cm), Penuballi (14 cm) – all in Khammam district, Maddukuru in Bhadrdri (13.3 cm), Mahabubabad (13 cm), Ankampalem (12.2 cm) and Aswaraopet (12 cm), both in Bhadradri district. The Met Department has forecast that enhanced rainfall is expected across the State up to Wednesday morning due to the impact of deep depression over the west-central Bay of Bengal which has crossed over land and would gradually recede.  (With inputs from Khammam, and Bhadradri-Kothagudem districts)
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Bill on reservation for women in GHMC passed||Fifty per cent of the 150 divisions of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation will be reserved for women henceforth. Reservation of seats for Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes, Backward Classes and women would forthwith be fixed for two consecutive terms rather than changing the allocation for every election on rotation basis. The schedule and date of the election will be decided by the State Election Commission in concurrence with the State government. Amendments have been made to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Act, 1955, to facilitate the changes. The amendments include mandatory allocation of 10% of budget for green initiatives and fixing responsibility on ward/division members and nodal officers to survival rate of 85 per cent of the total plantations. The Legislative Assembly on Tuesday passed the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (amendment) Act, 2020. Piloting the Bill in the House, Municipal Administration Minister K. T. Rama Rao said the decision to fix reservations for two terms had been made to ensure continuity and focused approach towards development. The amendment was made with retrospective effect from 2016 and hence, the same reservation pattern would continue for the forthcoming elections to GHMC. Subsequent polls “Reservations will be decided afresh from the subsequent election to the GHMC,” he said. He recalled that the Telangnaa Rashtra Samithi government had implemented 50% quota for women through an executive order in the past GHMC elections and this was being followed by the legislation now. “In fact, the TRS fielded 79 women in the past elections and ensured their victory,” he said. In addition to the amendments, the government was committed to putting in place participatory democracy in the functioning of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and hence, it was decided to constitute four ward/division level committees comprising women, youth, senior citizens and eminent citizens. These committees would be apolitical and would meet every three months to discuss the developments in their areas. The advices/suggestions given by these committees with 25 members each would be discussed at the Council meetings and would be appropriately adopted. “This will be a people’s army of 15,000 covering various aspects of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) development. These committees are aimed at ensuring participatory development,” he said. The committees were envisaged to put a check on illegal constructions, encroachments and consumption of plastics besides furthering green initiatives. “They will not, however, intrude on the functioning of the corporators,” he averred. Replying to a query by CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka on the 33% quota for BCs, he said the government would take steps to ensure that the 33% quota would not be disturbed. Asked about the Building Regularisation Scheme, he said the government had received 1.13 lakh applications so far, but the process was stopped after the High Court imposed a stay. “We are trying our best to vacate the stay at the earliest,” he said.
14 October 2020||KOCHI,||Kerala HC stays CBI probe into LIFE Mission project||The inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the alleged Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) violation in the acceptance of funds from the UAE-based Red Crescent for the Wadakkanchery LIFE Mission housing project was stayed by the Kerala High Court for two months. The order was passed on a petition filed by U. V. Jose, Chief Executive Officer of the mission. In his judgment, Justice V.G. Arun noted that the provisions of the FCRA and materials on record did not justify arraying the petitioner as accused in the case. The CBI had booked the case for FCRA violation on a complaint by Anil Akkara, the Congress MLA representing Wadakkanchery Assembly constituency. Petitioner’s contention Counsel for the petitioner had contended that the complaint in the case did not make out even a prima facie case and the hasty manner in which the crime was registered indicated a deliberate attempt to malign the State government. He also contended that the allegations in the complaint, even if accepted in their entirety, were inadequate to implicate the petitioner or other officials of the mission. The order In his order, the judge noted that “undisputedly, the LIFE Mission has not received any foreign contribution directly from the sponsor. The amount received by Unitac Builders and Developers and Sane Ventures LLP, in terms of the agreement entered between them and the foreign source being towards the cost in lieu of goods or services rendered in the ordinary course of business, is exempted” from Section 3 of the Act, which deals with prohibition from accepting foreign contribution. A careful perusal of the section shows that the prohibition against acceptance of foreign contribution is applicable only to the categorises specification under sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the Act. The contention that the LIFE Mission would fall under Section 3 (1) (c) is liable to be rejected on a plain reading of the section and by applying the ejusdem generis (of the same kind) rule, the judge noted. Hence, the LIFE Mission or the builders do not fall under any of the categories enumerated in Section 3 (1), the court ordered.  The provisions of the FCRA and materials on record do not justify arraying the petitioner as accused in the case. Justice V.G. Arun Kerala High Court
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||The school principal who won freedom for hostages in Libya||After almost a month of tense negotiations, the hostage situation involving seven Indians in Libya came to an end with their release on October 11. In the absence of a resident Ambassador in the country, the delicate task of ensuring the safe release of the Indians workers with Al Shola Al Mudea energy company, fell to Tabassum Mansoor, the Principal of the city’s Indian school and a long-term resident of Bengazhi. The seven men were abducted by militants at Asshwerif while they were on their way to the airport in Tripoli on September 14. A source with knowledge of the operation said the rescue would not have been possible but for Ms. Mansoor, who carried out negotiations with the militants through the Libyan authorities and tribal elders. Ms. Mansoor, 59, who was born in Gorakhpur, has been in Benghazi for more than three decades. She has mentored the Indian school in Benghazi and it has emerged as the only Indian-led English-medium educational centre in the city. Recognition for her long-standing commitment to education amid difficult circumstances came from the Libyan authorities when she was inducted as a member of the National Education Council of Libya. Her work in the larger Indian community first came into the spotlight for her efforts during the 2011 evacuation of nearly 3,000 Indians from Benghazi when the city witnessed intense fighting between pro- and anti-Qadhafi forces. This time too, Ms. Mansoor swung into action when requested by the Indian authorities. “I can’t explain the terrible time we have been through. We had initially given up hope of seeing Umed again. But it was at that time that we found strength and support from Tabassumji. The Indian Embassy in Tunis provided excellent diplomatic support, but Tabassum Madam handled the local negotiations to free our people,” said an emotional Firoz, brother-in-law of Umed, one of the seven Indians, in an online interview. Local recognition helped The local recognition helped the principal in the talks to ensure the safe release of the Indians. Ms. Mansoor declined to speak about her role when The Hindu reached out to her. But a source familiar with the developments said the negotiation with the militants was extremely risky as they are known to be unpredictable. As the negotiations reached their conclusion, Ms. Mansoor went personally to Brega with Libyan security officials where the captors handed over the Indians. The Libyan support to the Indian-led initiative were lauded by the External Affairs Ministry which expressed “sincere thanks to the Libyan authorities and the tribal elders from the region”.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pak. likely to remain on FATF greylist||Pakistan is unlikely to exit the Financial Action Task Force (FATF’s) greylist next week, when the plenary session of the Paris-based global terror-financing watchdog is held, after its latest evaluation saw it clear 21 of 27 action points, with six key areas outstanding where Pakistan has yet to show progress. According to sources, there is still no consensus amongst the 39-member FATF, which includes the U.S., U.K., China and Russia, to blacklist Pakistan, despite its failure to meet its original deadline in September 2019, which would mean the group would maintain the status quo and continue Pakistan on the greylist until February 2021. On Tuesday, the International Co-operation Review Group (ICRG) of the FATF held a meeting to discuss the final recommendation to the plenary session on October 21-23. “Much will depend on the approach adopted to review the performance. Rather than going by mere statistics, if the member nations take cognisance of the inaction in cases like 26/11 Mumbai attacks, Pulwama attack and the Daniel Pearl murder case, an explanation may be sought from Pakistan,” a government official told The Hindu. He added that the decision by U.S. and European countries would be key. At the plenary next week, Pakistan needs at least 3 of 39 members to keep it off the blacklist, and the support of 12 of 39 members to exit the “greylist”. The six points of failure in the FATF’s 27-point action list include Pakistan’s lack of action against charitable organisations or NPOs (Non-profit organisations) connected to terror groups banned by the UN Security Council, and delays in prosecution of banned individuals and entities like Lashkar-e-Taiba chief Hafiz Saeed and LeT operations chief Zaki Ur Rahman Lakhvi, as well as Jaish-e- Mohammad chief Masood Azhar. While Saeed was sentenced in February this year to 11 years in prison for terror financing, and remains behind bars, the Pakistan government claims the others are “untraceable”. Meanwhile, Pakistan’s chances of being removed from the FATF greylist suffered another blow as the watchdog’s Asia-Pacific Group (APG) cleared it on only about 11 of 40 parameters. The APG review, that only takes into account actions taken until February 2020, decided to recommend Pakistan be kept in “expedited (enhanced) Follow Up (EEFU), which means more regular scrutiny of its government’s progress.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pak. likely to remain on FATF greylist||Pakistan is unlikely to exit the Financial Action Task Force (FATF’s) greylist next week, when the plenary session of the Paris-based global terror-financing watchdog is held, after its latest evaluation saw it clear 21 of 27 action points, with six key areas outstanding where Pakistan has yet to show progress. According to sources, there is still no consensus amongst the 39-member FATF, which includes the U.S., U.K., China and Russia, to blacklist Pakistan, despite its failure to meet its original deadline in September 2019, which would mean the group would maintain the status quo and continue Pakistan on the greylist until February 2021. On Tuesday, the International Co-operation Review Group (ICRG) of the FATF held a meeting to discuss the final recommendation to the plenary session on October 21-23. “Much will depend on the approach adopted to review the performance. Rather than going by mere statistics, if the member nations take cognisance of the inaction in cases like 26/11 Mumbai attacks, Pulwama attack and the Daniel Pearl murder case, an explanation may be sought from Pakistan,” a government official told The Hindu. He added that the decision by U.S. and European countries would be key. At the plenary next week, Pakistan needs at least three of 39 members to keep it off the blacklist, and the support of 12 of 39 members to exit the “greylist”. The six points of failure in the FATF’s 27-point action list include Pakistan’s lack of action against charitable organisations or NPOs (Non-profit organisations) connected to terror groups banned by the UN Security Council, and delays in prosecution of banned individuals and entities like Lashkar-e-Taiba chief Hafiz Saeed and LeT operations chief Zaki Ur Rahman Lakhvi, as well as Jaish-e- Mohammad chief Masood Azhar. While Saeed was sentenced in February this year to 11 years in prison for terror financing, and remains behind bars, the Pakistan government claims the others are “untraceable”. Meanwhile, Pakistan’s chances of being removed from the FATF greylist suffered another blow as the watchdog’s Asia-Pacific Group (APG) cleared it on only about 11 of 40 parameters. The APG review, that only takes into account actions taken until February 2020, decided to recommend Pakistan be kept in “expedited (enhanced) Follow Up (EEFU), which means more regular scrutiny of its government’s progress.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||APG review is a setback for Pakistan||Pakistan’s chances of being removed from the FATF (Financial Action Task Force) greylist at next week’s plenary in Paris suffered another blow as the watchdog’s Asia-Pacific Group (APG) cleared it on only about 11 of 40 parameters set by the FATF for compliance. The APG review, that only takes into account actions taken until February 2020, decided to recommend Pakistan be kept in “expedited (enhanced) Follow Up (EEFU), which means more regular scrutiny of its government’s progress, in addition to its FATF greylist commitments. “Much will depend on the approach adopted to review the performance. Rather than going by mere statistics, if the member nations take cognisance of the inaction in cases like 26/11 Mumbai attacks, Pulwama attack and the Daniel Pearl murder case, an explanation may be sought from Pakistan,” a government official told The Hindu.  He added that the decision by U.S. and European countries would be key. Plenary soon At the plenary next week, Pakistan needs at least 3 of 39 members to keep it off the blacklist, and the support of 12 of 39 members to exit the “greylist”. Last week Pakistani media reported that Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi had telephoned his counterparts in several countries including Turkey, Malaysia and Saudi Arabia, in an effort to “apprise” them of steps taken by Pakistan to comply with the FATF’s demands. On Sunday, Mr. Qureshi even claimed that Pakistan would be off the FATF greylist “soon”. In the past two months, the Imran Khan government has brought eight new laws to parliament in an effort to enhance its rating with the FATF. U.S. support However, it is the support of the United States, considered crucial, that has not yet swung in favour of Pakistan, despite some hopes in Islamabad that cooperation in pushing talks between the Taliban and the Afghan government would help its chances at the FATF. The six points of failure in the FATF’s 27-point action list include Pakistan’s lack of action against charitable organisations or NPOs (Non-profit organisations) connected to terror groups banned by the UN Security Council, and delays in prosecution of banned individuals and entities like Lashkar e Toiba chief Hafiz Saeed and LeT operations chief Zaki Ur Rahman Lakhvi, as well as Jaish-e- Mohammad chief Masood Azhar.
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||Congress denies dropping key leaders||The Congress on Tuesday issued a strong denial that senior leaders from Bihar have been dropped from a panel that is selecting candidates for the coming Assembly polls after complaints of ‘irregularities’ in ticket distribution. The episode, however, brought into focus the Congress’s Bihar fault lines out in the open, prompting former party chief Rahul Gandhi to intervene. There was a news alert on Twitter (now deleted) by the All India Radio (AIR) that Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha, Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader Sadanand Singh and former Union Minister Akhilesh Prasad Singh have been dropped from the party’s Screening Committee following charges of irregularities. “@INCIndia party is in complete denial of the news. It is very unfortunate that, a credible and responsible organization like @airnewsalerts have given out this misguiding information without even verifying with the authorities at AICC”, Avinash Pande, chairman of the Congress Screening Committee, tweeted. He said the leaders mentioned in this post by @airnewsalerts were respectable and active members, who were seriously involved in the proceedings of screening for #BiharElections”. Irrespective of such claims, last Sunday, party chief Sonia Gandhi’s announcement of key election panels to oversee the party’s election campaign, right in the middle of the poll preparation, was a clear indication of the State unit being sidelined. Party general secretary Randeep Surjewala, a close aide of Mr. Gandhi, has been put in charge of the Election Management and Coordination Committee that includes prominent leaders like Meira Kumar, Shakeel Ahmed, Tariq Anwar, Kirti Azad, Shatrughan Sinha and Nikhil Kumar.
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Woman from Mumbai ‘raped’ in Hyderabad||A woman from Mumbai was allegedly raped at a luxury hotel in Banjara Hills. While the complaint was filed in Mumbai a few days ago, it was recently transferred to Banjara Hills police station. According to Banjara Hills inspector S. Kalinga Rao, the 23-year-old victim came to the city to attend a birthday party of one of her acquaintances. The alleged sexual assault took place on June 13. The woman had arrived in the city a couple of days earlier. “The accused has been identified as Zubair. According to the complaint, she was raped at a hotel room,” Mr. Rao said. Another person, allegedly a friend of the accused, captured the rape on his mobile phone and threatened to release it if the victim raised an alarm or informed anybody about it. The Mumbai police had booked a zero FIR and transferred it to Hyderabad on grounds of jurisdiction. The Banjara Hills police have booked a case and an investigation is under way. Two held for dating app fraud The Hyderabad Cyber Crime police arrested two persons for allegedly cheating people through a dating app. The accused have been identified as Anand Kar (31), a resident of Kolkata, and Budhadev Paul (24), a resident of South 24 Parganas, West Bengal. Police said that they contacted their victims through dating apps and promised to date them. They allegedly took money from the victims on the pretext of providing them membership cards and booking hotels through PayTM wallets and bank accounts. They would keep up the pretence till the victims realised that they were cheated. The duo was brought to the city from West Bengal on a prisoner transit warrant. Man gets 3 yrs in assault case A local court awarded three years rigorous imprisonment to a 39-year-old man and imposed fine of Rs. 1,000 on Tuesday for sexually assaulting a seven-year-old girl. The accused is Syed Rahman, a resident of Uppal, who works as a daily wage earner. According to Rachakonda police, the accused knew the family of the victim. The sexual assault was reported on March 29, 2015, when the accused took the victim to an area behind her house and sexually assaulted her. After she raised an alarm, locals rushed to the spot after which the accused fled. He was later apprehended and a case was booked.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Pawar backs Uddhav, writes to PM||“I was shocked and surprised to see the letter of the Governor released to the media and the kind of language used,” he wrote. “In the very Preamble the word ‘secular’ is added that equates and shields all religions and hence the Chair of the Chief Minister must uphold such tenets of the Constitution. Unfortunately Hon. Governor’s letter to Chief Minister invokes the connotation as if written to the leader of a political party,” said Mr. Pawar. In his letter, Mr. Koshiyari said, “I wonder if you are receiving any divine premonition to keep postponing the reopening of the places of worships times and again or have you suddenly turned ‘secular’ yourselves, the term you hated?” “Do you consider opening temples as Hindutva and not opening them as secularism? Then what about the Constitution on which you were sworn in as Governor? Secularism is a core of Constitution. Don’t you follow Constitution?” Mr. Thackeray had replied. The NCP chief in his letter to the PM said he ‘too would have noticed the intemperate language that has been used’ by Mr. Koshyari. “The tone and tenor used must always be in keeping with the stature of the constitutional post occupied by individuals. Looking at the turn of events, the Chief Minister, in fact, was left with no option but to release his reply in the press,” said Mr. Pawar, , adding that he does not oppose free exchange of views between both the individuals in a democracy.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||After talks fail, China blames India for tensions||“Both sides agreed to earnestly implement the important understandings reached by the leaders of the two countries, not to turn differences into disputes, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in the border areas.” The release did not mention a return to the status quo prior to May’s transgressions by China, a prospect that appears unlikely in light of the PLA’s entrenching of its positions in areas such as the north bank of the Pangong Tso (lake). The Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson, in response to a question at a daily briefing on India unveiling new bridges as part of upgrading the border infrastructure in Ladakh and in Arunachal Pradesh, blamed India for the LAC situation, and said Beijing did not recognise the legality of Ladakh, a position Beijing took last year as it opposed the creation of the Union Territory because it included within its borders Aksai Chin, currently occupied by China. “First, I want to make it clear that China does not recognise the Ladakh Union Territory illegally set up by the Indian side and [does not recognise] Arunachal Pradesh,” said the spokesperson, Zhao Lijian. “We stand against the development of infrastructure facilities aimed at military contention along the border area. Based on the two sides consensus, neither should take actions along the border that might escalate the situation to avoid undermining the two sides efforts to ease the situation.” He stated, “For some time, the Indian side has been ramping up infrastructure development along the border and stepping up military deployment, which is the root cause for the tensions between the two sides. We urge the Indian side to earnestly implement our consensus and refrain from actions that might escalate the situation and take concrete measures to safeguard peace and tranquillity along the border.” China has already upgraded its border infrastructure in Tibet and Xinjiang, and enjoys an asymmetry in its favour. It is also in the process of extending its railway network in Tibet up to the border. India has been moving to speed up the construction of roads and bridges to reduce the gap. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday inaugurated 44 permanent bridges across seven States and Union Territories built by the Border Roads Organisation.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||India’s economy to contract by 10.3%: IMF||For the world as a whole, the 2020 growth projection has been revised upwards by 0.8 percentage points relative to June — the result of a less dire second quarter and signs of a stronger recovery in the third quarter, partly offset by downgrades in certain developing countries and emerging economies (except China). The recovery in 2021 is projected to be at 5.2%, lower than the June 2020 projections. After 2021, global growth is expected to ease off at 3.5% in the medium term. Except for China, where output this year was expected to exceed 2019 levels, the advanced, developing and emerging market economies were expected to see lower output even next year, IMF Chief Economist Gita Gopinath said in a note that illustrated the uneven recovery across country groups. The U.S. economy is expected to shrink 4.3% this year and grow by 3.1% next year. The corresponding numbers for the euro Area are -8.3% and 5.2%. For China, they are 1.9% and 8.2% respectively. “The crisis is however far from over,” Ms. Gopinath noted. She warned that the labour market had become more polarised, with low-income workers, women and youth being hit harder. The world would not catch up fully to its pre-pandemic 2020-25 projected growth trajectory, the IMF said, reversing the progress made since the 1990s in reducing poverty and increasing inequality and causing a “severe setback” to projected improvements in living-standards across all groups of countries. The Fund projects that close to 90 million people could fall below the $1.90/day extreme poverty threshold (the World Bank last week projected that there could be up to 150 million additional extreme poor in 2020, 2021). Along with subdued growth for the medium term, the stock of sovereign debt is expected to increase. The projections are based on the assumption that social distancing continues into 2021 fading as vaccine coverage expands and therapies improve. By the end of 2022 local transmission is expected to be low in the forecasting model. However, these projections come with “unusually large” uncertainties.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Mehbooba released after 14 months||The former Chief Minister was the last of the senior leaders under detention in Kashmir. Iltija Mufti, daughter of Ms. Mufti who has been handling the official Twitter account of her mother since her detention, said, “As Ms. Mufti’s illegal detention finally comes to an end, I'd like to thank everybody who supported me in these tough times. I owe a debt of gratitude to you all. This is Iltija signing off.” Earlier, in March this year, National Conference (NC) president Dr. Farooq Abdullah and vice president Omar Abdullah were released. “I’m pleased to hear that Ms. Mufti has been released after more than a year in detention. Her continued detention was a travesty and was against the basic tenets of democracy. Welcome out Mehbooba,” Mr. Abdullah tweeted. Ms. Mufti is among the top regional leaders of J&K who advocates a joint struggle for restoration of J&K’s special status under the Gupkar Declaration, which is supported by seven regional parties, including the NC, the Peoples Conference and the Congress. Sources said Ms. Mufti has been in touch with Dr. Abdullah in the last three months to carry forward the agenda of the Gupkar Declaration.
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||Why are sub judice cases out in the media, A-G asks||Attorney General K.K. Venugopal asked the Supreme Court on Tuesday to examine how sensitive details of sub judice cases (cases pending in court) made their way to the media and were published on penultimate days of court hearings, threatening to injure the rights of parties. “When a bail application is coming up, there are conversations on TV very damaging to the accused... On the day Rafale [case] is argued, an article with documents is published. The issue of sub judice has to be contended,” Mr. Venugopal told a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar. The submission was made while hearing a contempt case against civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan for comments he made about Supreme Court judges in an interview to Tehelka magazine in 2009. But senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, for Mr. Bhushan, mildly quoted his Shakespeare at Mr. Venugopal’s views. “When Shylock’s case is going on, can we tell the Press not to talk about it?” Mr. Dhavan said. “If we get into the sub judice issue, we will get into Sahara judgment, which does not ban comment. Other thing is this is an extremely wide area.” The court asked the senior lawyers to coordinate and “refine” the issues which needed to be examined. The case was shifted to November.
14 October 2020||Lucknow,||Chemical thrown at 3 sleeping girls in U.P.||Three minor girls were attacked with some chemical on their faces while they were sleeping in their house in a village in Gonda district, the police said on Tuesday. While the family said the girls had acid thrown on their faces, the police are yet to identify the chemical and have launched a forensic examination. The incident took place in the Parsapur area of the district. The father of the girls said the crime took place at 1.30 a.m. on Tuesday. He was sleeping on the verandah along the ground floor while the three girls were sleeping on the first floor, he said. He said he had no clue about who attacked the girls and believed that the suspects used a ladder to break into the room. “When my daughters screamed, I immediately opened the door and grabbed one of them. When my vest burned, I got to know that somebody had thrown acid at them,” he told a local news channel. Shailesh Kumar Pandey, Superintendent of Police, Gonda, said the eldest daughter suffered 30% burns, while the other two suffered 20% and 5-7% burns. All three were out of danger and receiving treatment, said police. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted: “The U.P. government’s politically motivated narrative of justifying and protecting perpetrators of crimes against women has only emboldened criminals across the State,” she said.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC dismay at roadblocks faced by women officers||The Supreme Court expressed annoyance at the roadblocks faced by women officers on the way to permanent commission, promotion and consequential benefits, saying it showed a “difference in thinking” between the highest levels of leadership in the country and the Army bureaucracy. “There is a different thinking that permeates the highest levels of leadership in the country and a different thinking in the bureaucracy of the Army. Bureaucracy is thinking how can these women protect the nation?... We have to bridge the gap,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, heading a Bench, observed orally on Tuesday. The court was exasperated with a medical criterion by which women officers with 10 to over 20 years of service and in the age bracket of 35 to 50 years had to compete with gentlemen officers aged between 25-30 years for permanent commission. “All these women have served the nation and are still serving. They are in saddle today. Army cannot be oblivious of the fact that after 26 years of service, they are only saying that at 52, don’t expect us to compete with men at the age of 25 and 30... If you apply the medical standards of a 25-year-old man to a woman officer who has gone through childbirth, how do we protect the rights of these officers?” Justice Chandrachud addressed Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain. The court asked the government and the Army to take a considered decision to provide these women officers with a different standard. “You will have to ensure that criteria that you apply for 25- and 30-year-old men should not be applied to these women officers,” Justice Chandrachud told Mr. Jain. Mr. Jain however said a dilution of medical and physical standards for permanent commission may become a cause for disgruntlement.
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||Single SBI branch for all FCRA accounts: govt.||The Union Home Ministry has asked all NGOs seeking foreign donations to open a designated FCRA account at the State Bank of India’s New Delhi branch by March 31, 2021. The Ministry’s order reiterated that NGOs registered under FCRA shall not receive any foreign donations in any other bank account from April 1, 2021. In September, the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2020 was amended by Parliament and a new provision that makes it mandatory for all non-government organisations and associations to receive foreign funds in a designated bank account at SBI’s New Delhi branch was inserted. An order specifying the process of opening the FCRA bank account was issued by the MHA on Tuesday. As of now there are 22,434 such NGOs and associations active under the FCRA. The order said an NGO will have to report the amount and source of foreign remittance received to the authorities. The order said the Centre has notified the New Delhi Main Branch (NDMB) of SBI, 11 Sansad Marg, New Delhi-110001 for the purposes of opening the “FCRA account” to receive foreign contribution. The Ministry said to open the account, the applicant need not visit the NDMB in Delhi and they might approach the nearest SBI branch or their SBI branch of choice. It said that all persons/associations/NGOs who are already registered under FCRA will get sufficient time to transition to the new system and can open accounts at NDMB till March 31, 2021. “However, all fresh applicants for certificate of registration or prior permission under the FCRA, 2010, shall have to first open the FCRA account in the NDMB to receive any foreign contribution…,” the order said.
14 October 2020||Mumbai,||Deepak Kochhar sent to ED custody till Oct. 17||The Prevention Of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Tuesday remanded businessman Deepak Kochhar, husband of former Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the ICICI Bank Chanda Kochhar, to the custody of Enforcement Directorate (ED) till October 17. Mr. Kochhar was arrested by ED on September 7 late evening on charges of money laundering. ED’s counsel Sunil Gonsalves told the court that on September 8, Mr. Kochhar was remanded to ED custody till September 19. However, on September 14 he tested COVID-19 positive and therefore the application of his ED custody was transmitted to judicial custody during treatment period. Special judge Milind V Kurtadikar said, “The ED was granted custody till September 19. Meanwhile, Mr. Kochhar tested COVID positive. That time priority was given to his health issue and therefore the ED custody was suspended. While considering rights and liberty of accused, we cannot ignore that the investigation agency also gets fair opportunity for investigation. Here, he is the prime accused. In such circumstances, fair chance of investigation has to be given” and remanded Mr. Kochhar to ED custody till October 17.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||JEE-Advanced candidates to get another chance||All candidates who had successfully registered to appear in JEE-Advanced 2020 but were absent for the examination will be allowed to reappear in 2021, as a one-time measure due to COVID-19. They will not have to re-qualify by writing JEE-Main 2021 and will be allowed to directly appear in the JEE-Advanced examination, which is the entrance test for admission to the elite Indian Institutes of Technology. The decision was taken in an emergency meeting of the IITs’ Joint Admission Board, held virtually on Tuesday, according to a statement issued by IIT Delhi, which was the organising institute for the entrance test this year. Candidates getting a second chance will be considered in addition to and not a part of those who will qualify from JEE-Main 2021.
14 October 2020||Patna,||JD(U) expels 15 leaders||A day after the BJP expelled as many as nine party leaders for contesting on a Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) ticket against National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidates in the upcoming Bihar Assembly poll, State president Basistha Narayan Singh of the ruling alliance partner Janata Dal-United (JD-U) expelled 15 leaders from the party for six years for their “anti-party activities”. The expelled JD(U) leaders are: Dadan Singh Pehalwan, Rameshwar Paswan, Bhagwan Singh Kushwaha, Ranvijay Singh, Sumit Kumar Singh, Kanchan Kumari Gupta, Pramod Singh Chandravanshi, Arun Kumar, Tajmul Khan, Amaresh Chaudhury, Shiv Shankar Chaudhury, Sindhu Paswan, Rakesh Ranjan, Mungeri Paswan and Kartar Singh Yadav. “The party has acted upon them for their anti-party activities...some of them are also in the fray to contest the Assembly election against official NDA candidates,” said a JD(U) leader.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Awareness campaign aims to reach out to 90 crore people||The awareness drive launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 8 on wearing masks, maintaining safe distance and hand and face hygiene to combat COVID-19, aims to reach out to about 90 crore people, Information & Broadcasting Ministry Secretary Amit Khare said on Tuesday. The first phase of campaign will be run intensively for two months till March. The communication strategy has been developed in view of the winter, which is conducive to the spread of respiratory viruses, and the opening up of all activities.
14 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||CBI inspects crime spot||The Central Bureau of Investigation team probing the alleged gang-rape and the murder of a Dalit woman visited the crime scene in Boolgarhi village in Hathras on Tuesday, and took the older brother of the victim with them, possibly for questioning at the camp office in Hathras. In a related development, a Chief Judicial Magistrate court in Mathura granted permission to Enforcement Directorate officials to question the four alleged Popular Front of India members who were arrested last week near Maant toll plaza when they were on their way to Hathras. According to local sources, the team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police Seema Pahuja visited the crime spot and measured its distance from the village road. After that, the officials checked the spot where the victim was cremated by officials in the early hours of September 30, allegedly without the consent of family members. The team also questioned the family members separately. The victim’s older brother, who had accompanied his sister to Chandpa police station after the alleged assault on September 14, was taken to the camp office. Sources said the team spent much of the time with the brother. The younger brother of the victim told reporters that they had been told he (the older brother) would be sent back soon, but it was not clear where he had been taken. He said officials asked general questions such as where each of the family members had been at the time of the incident. On Tuesday, the mother of the victim felt unwell and was taken to a hospital for a check up by local officials. The family members had returned to the village late on Monday night after a hearing before the Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court. Vineet Jaiswal, Superintendent of Police, Hathras, said the district administration had made arrangements for the stay of CBI officials in Hathras during the period of their investigation. He refused to comment on where the victim’s brother would have been taken. “We have handed over all the documents related to the case to the CBI,” he said.
14 October 2020||Chitrakoot (U.P.),||Rape victim found dead||A Dalit teenager, who was allegedly gang-raped, was found dead on Tuesday in Chitrakoot of Uttar Pradesh, officials said. The 15-year-old was found hanging in her house. Family members have alleged that the girl was raped by three men on October 8.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tanishq pulls ad over ‘hurt sentiments’||Following an uproar on social media over its latest advertisement, Tanishq, the Tata Group’s jewellery brand, on Tuesday said it withdrew the advertisement “keeping in mind the hurt sentiments and well-being of our employees, partners and store staff”. The advertisement, released ahead of the festive season, shows a baby shower being thrown by a Muslim family for their daughter-in-law, who is a Hindu. Towards the end of the video, the young woman points out to her mother-in-law that baby showers are not a tradition in their household. To which the mother-in-law replies: “Isn’t it a tradition for every home to keep daughters happy?” The ad drew severe criticism from a section of social media users who alleged that it promoted ‘love jihad’ — a derogatory term used by fringe groups to describe interfaith relationships. The hashtag #BoycottTanishq has been trending across social media sites such as Twitter since Monday. Buckling under the pressure, Tanishq pulled down the ad.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI/CHANDIGARH,||Farmers to hold talks with Centre today||At least 28 farmer unions in Punjab, which have been protesting against the controversial new farm marketing laws, have agreed to hold discussions on the issue with the Union Agriculture Ministry in Delhi on Wednesday, after rejecting a previous invitation just days ago. However, they emphasised that protests will continue. Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal’s invitation to the unions to hold talks in Delhi was the trigger for much debate and argument among farmer leaders at a coordination meeting in Chandigarh on Tuesday evening. Some groups wanted to attend to showcase their willingness to talk to the government while others demanded that the Centre depute representatives authorised to negotiate the repeal of the laws and discuss a new law guaranteeing MSPs. At the end of the day, most unions agreed to participate with the caveat that they will not lift their agitation — blocking roads and rail lines. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and the Punjab unit of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) were among the few hold-outs which said they will not attend the meeting. “The Government of India has always been serious about agriculture. Therefore, the Central government is eager to talk to you,” said Mr. Agarwal’s invitation, which noted that the Punjab farmers have been agitating for days. “We have accepted the invitation extended by the Agriculture Secretary for the meeting. We don’t want to give the government an excuse that we are not willing to talk on the issue, and hence we have decided to participate,” said Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda). Mr. Singh said farmer outfits have also decided to continue their ‘rail-roko’ agitation across the State. “It was also decided that if the Punjab government did not convene an Assembly session by October 15 to repeal the laws, we will start boycotting Congress leaders, the same way as the BJP leaders are being boycotted,” he said. The Agriculture Secretary’s letter was sent to 29 groups, of which eight call themselves a faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, the group originally founded by iconic farmer leader Chaudhary Charan Singh. The faction named after the western Uttar Pradesh leader Mahendra Singh Tikait claims it is the only registered BKU and insists it will not take part in the talk.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||392 ‘festival special’ trains proposed||The Railways on Tuesday said it would run 392 special trains between October 20 and November 30 to cater to the festive season demand. “To clear the festive rush, the Ministry of Railways has approved 196 pairs of ‘Festival Special’ services ... to be operated from October 20, 2020 and November 30, 2020,” a statement said. The fare for these trains would be equal to that applicable for special trains. The special trains will be run to and from States including Kolkata, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh amid upcoming festivals.
14 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Paytm KYC updating gang busted||The Cyberabad Cyber Crime Police busted a Paytm KYC updating gang, and apprehended five persons. They seized Rs. 1.47 lakh cash, mobile phones, and other items. Police identified the accused as Nanku Mandal (27), Rajesh Mandal (26), Shiva Shakti Kumar (25), Gaurav Arun (46) and Dilkush Kumar Singh (18), all residents of Jharkhand, and brought them to city.
14 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Two arrested for dating app fraud||The Hyderabad Cyber Crime police arrested two persons for allegedly cheating people through a dating app. The accused have been identified as Anand Kar (31), a resident of Kolkata, and Budhadev Paul (24), of South 24 Parganas. Police said that they contacted their victims through dating apps and promised to date them. They allegedly took money from the victims promising them membership cards. They would keep up the pretence till the victims realised that they were cheated.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Aadhaar not mandatory for birth, death registration, clarifies Registrar General of India||The provision of Aadhaar is not mandatory for the registration of births and deaths, the Registrar General of India (RGI) has clarified in a recent reply to an RTI request. If Aadhaar is provided voluntarily, it must not be printed on any document or stored in any database of births and deaths in full form, according to an RGI circular cited in the RTI response. The RTI request was filed by Visakhapatnam-based advocate M.V.S. Anil Kumar Rajagiri.
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||SC dismisses plea for re-test of ICSE classes nine and 11 exams||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to entertain a plea to direct the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (ICSE) to conduct a re-test for students who have failed their Class IX and XI exams. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar dismissed the petition filed by Ojas Achyut Gupta, represented by advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava, to immediately “adopt, formulate and implement” norms similar to the one issued for school-level re-test in these two classes by the (CBSE).
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. doesn’t view crime from prism of caste and creed: Kishan Reddy||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy said on Tuesday the government does not believe in viewing crime from the prism of caste, creed or region as any crime is against humanity and peace. Mr. Reddy said the government would never tolerate crime against women and the downtrodden. The comments come in the wake of the alleged gang rape and killing of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras.
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||CBI probe into assault complaint against official||The Central Bureau of Investigation has initiated a fact-finding inquiry into its public prosecutor’s allegation that he was assaulted by a Deputy Inspector-General level official over the delay in framing of charges against Rajendra Kumar, former Principal Secretary to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. During a hearing before a city court on Monday in connection with the corruption charges against Mr. Kumar, prosecutor Sunil Kumar Verma alleged that the official, Raghavendra Vats, punched and strangulated him on October 9. The court has summoned Mr. Vats on the next date of hearing on October 19. Mr. Verma has also filed a complaint at Lodhi Road police station.
14 October 2020||B. Tilak Chandar,TAMIL NADU||HC issues guidelines for conducting post mortem||Passing a series of directions with respect to conduct of post mortems and issue of certificates, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ruled that doctors should follow Article 621 of the Tamil Nadu Medical Code, by sending the post mortem certificate, as soon as it is over, to the judicial magistrate concerned. A copy of the certificate should be sent to the head of the department on the same day, failing which departmental proceedings should be initiated against them, the court said, and directed the Health Secretary to issue a circular directing the doctors to strictly follow Article 621 of the Tamil Nadu Medical Code. The court directed the State government to appoint Scientific Officers at all Government Medical College Hospitals for providing assistance. Biometric attendance for staff should be followed in hospitals. A web-based medico legal examination and post mortem reports system should be followed at all hospitals from January 1, 2021. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by advocate R.M. Arun Swaminathan, who complained of lacuna in the procedures followed in conducting post mortem at government hospitals. There was no transparency and the procedure prescribed under the Tamil Nadu Medical Code was not followed, he said. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and S.S. Sundar took cognisance of the fact that there were several irregularities in the conduct of post mortem, and sometimes even unauthorised people were conducting them. Also, the preparation of the certificate was not in the format prescribed by NHRC.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Congress is a party without mental growth, says Kushboo||The Congress is a party that has no thinking capacity and no mental development, former Congress spokesperson Kushboo Sundar, who joined the BJP, said on Tuesday. Speaking to presspersons at the Chennai airport, Ms. Kushboo hit out at Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K.S. Alagiri for his statement that the Congress had seen her only as an actor and that she did not have any thinking capability. “One leader [L. Murugan] is trying to build a party convincing people that the BJP alone can do good for the country. Another leader [Alagiri] says I don’t have intelligence. So they came to know after six years of my hard work for the Congress that I don’t have intelligence?” Ms. Kushboo asked. ‘No criticism allowed’ She also said no one could criticise anything within the Congress party. “That’s a party where no one can even make criticisms internally. How can such a party be good for the country?” she asked. When presspersons asked if she would be able to make internal criticisms in the BJP, she said she believed that it was possible. “I have confidence that the BJP will not be like that [the Congress]. I will answer when that sort of a situation [where internal criticism is not allowed] arises,” she said. Ms. Kushboo also said that her job as the opposition spokesperson was to criticise the government and its schemes as, politically and democratically, having an opposition is good for the country. “But I supported the NEP [National Education Policy] and the abolition of triple talaq. You cannot criticise everything just for the sake of being the opposition,” she said. She further added that she had carried out her job as opposition spokesperson to the best of her abilities when she was with the Congress. “I was loyal to that party till the last day I was there,” she said. She also added that the Congress was trying to find various faults with everything despite many of the schemes such as the GST, the NEP and the farm laws being started by the Congress itself. On Mr. Alagiri’s criticism that she joined the BJP at the behest of her husband, director Sundar C., as he was reportedly facing financial problems, she asked whether people had ever seen him at any of the events with her. “There is no such issue. The fact that they are making all these allegations show how terrible they are,” she said.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. plays down Koyambedu cases||The Greater Chennai Corporation has denied that the Koyambedu market complex would be closed again due to the rising number of COVID-19 positive cases among traders and workers. Confirming that more than 50 persons had tested positive, a senior official of the civic body said that this had not happened on a single day but over a period of time after the wholesale vegetable market and food grains section reopened last month. Pointing out that there was nothing alarming about 50 persons testing positive in the market, the senior official said tests were conducted on more than 3,500 persons in two weeks. He said the positivity rate was at a slightly more than 1% and so there was nothing to worry. The market was closed on May 5 after it emerged as a COVID-19 hot spot. It all started during the last week of April when vendors in the city started to test positive for COVID-19. By early May, the Health Department acknowledged Koyambedu market to be a cluster as cases began to spread to other parts of the State. The Koyambedu cluster accounted for nearly 3,000 cases in the State by mid-May. Health camps Now, the civic body plans to organise health camps in the market regularly to keep the pandemic under check. The civic official said continuous testing along with individual precautions could alone keep the virus under control. The civic body had said that the situation was under control and people need not fall prey to rumours of the market being proposed to be closed. The Koyambedu market falls under the Kodambakkam zone where the number of positive cases had been the highest at 18,626 cases in the city. Anna Nagar stands second at 18,433 cases and Teynampet at 15,793 cases as per the figures of the civic body on Tuesday. The total active cases stood at 1,66,067. Meanwhile, various traders’ associations demanded that the semi-wholesale vegetable shops must be opened as planned earlier and later reopen fruits and flowers sections in the market. Association’s plea Noting that only retailers who visited were tested positive for COVID-19, D. Rajasekaran, president, Federation of All Traders’ Associations of Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex, on Tuesday said cases were not reported among wholesale merchants and labourers in the Koyambedu market. “Rumours about an increasing number of cases in the market will affect the livelihood of about 50,000 families dependent on the trade. Several semi-wholesalers and retailers have remained out of business for the past six months,” he said. Of the nearly 3,500 shops waiting to be reopened, about 1,700 shops were vegetable semi-wholesalers. Only 200 vegetable wholesale shops shifted from Thirumazhisai functioned at Koyambedu and were closed by 9 a.m. The crowd had reduced to 30,000 people, including wholesale vendors, daily. The market is being monitored by camera surveillance and several norms were in place, he added. M. Thyagarajan, president, Koyambedu Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers Merchants Association, said prices of several vegetables had stabilised after the market was shifted to Koyambedu. Only a minimal number of cases had been reported so far. The government must take steps to reopen other sections of the market to protect livelihood of traders.  Rumours about an increasing number of cases in the market will affect the livelihood of about 50,000 families D. Rajasekaran President, Federation of All Traders’ Associations of Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||When a veteran who groomed many scribes turns a centenarian||When times are dominated by talk of the pandemic, here is a story on a veteran scribe who turns a centenarian. Chennai resident G.N. Srinivasan will be celebrating his centenary year on Wednesday. Having served as a reporter with The Hindu , his family members and friends have put together a souvenir containing news clippings of important events he had covered and a felicitation note from N. Ravi, Chairman of Kasturi and Sons Ltd. Mr. Srinivasan, fondly called GNS among the reporting fraternity, joined The Hindu in 1953 and served the organisation for 30 years. During his stint, he covered the Assembly Council meetings, the Legislature, the Secretariat and political meetings attended by important leaders. According to his daughter, Sandhya Ravi Mohan, GNS covered the proceedings of the Sarkaria Commission — a Commission appointed by the Central government in 1976 to inquire into the allegations of corruption against former Chief Minister and DMK leader M. Karunanidhi. His balanced coverage of the Sarkaria Commission was appreciated by all, she recalled. Having completed his graduation in economics, GNS started his career in the Indian Express as a stenographer and later became a reporter. He joined The Hindu based on his reporting of Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru’s visit to Chennai in 1953. After his retirement from The Hindu , he served as a legal correspondent with the Press Trust of India for five years. V. Jayanth, former Managing Editor of The Hindu , lauded GNS for helping groom youngsters in covering the Legislative Council meetings. GNS had also served as president and treasurer of the Madras Reporters’ Guild.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai-Bengaluru Highway strengthening work begins||Work to strengthen a 23 km stretch of the Chennai-Bengaluru Highway from Maduravoyal to Sriperumbudur has commenced. The project will be carried out at a cost of Rs. 35 crore so that the road will have a smooth riding surface, and will have the strength to carry the enormous volume of traffic that it usually gets on a daily basis. On an average, the road witnesses over 2 lakh passenger car units each day. According to sources in the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), the contractor will lay two layers of bitumin on the existing road. They will also install additional signages and will have to complete the work within a period of six months. This was being taken up following a direction from the Madras High Court, the official added. The NHAI had started making improvements to junctions, including the Vanagaram, Velappanchavady and Parivakkam ones. Lighting not included However, the proposal will not include lighting facilities, something that the road is in dire need of. Sangeetha Raghunathan, who frequently visits Kancheepuram, said she preferred the Padappai route despite its cattle menace. “Although that route also does not have lighting, it is better that this one. Driving at night on the Bengaluru road is tough. I take it only if I drive in the afternoon,” she said. Meanwhile, the NH wing of the State Highways Department has begun marking roadsides to remove encroachments for widening the facility into six lanes along with service roads on either side. “We have enough land with us. But it has been encroached on in many places. We will clear them shortly,” an official said.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Song and dance about the pandemic at busy junctions||The wait at the traffic signal may not be boring any more. The Greater Chennai Traffic Police have tied up with a performing art group to create awareness about COVID-19 through gaana (tamil folk) songs, dance and mime in the city. The awareness programme was inaugurated in the city at Ega junction on Tuesday. 1-minute performance “The waiting time at the signal is one minute. At this point, the group will dance, sing or perform a mime to create awareness about COVID-19. Once the signal turns green, they will go to the other side where traffic is static,” said N. Kannan, Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic). This awareness programme will be conducted at different signals on different days. “Our team will sing for COVID-19 awareness, a few others will dance and some others will perform mime. All this will be done in one minute,” said Kavignar G. Dheena, who sings gaana songs.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajinikanth moves HC against tax demand||Actor Rajinikanth has filed a writ petition in the Madras High Court challenging the demand of property tax to the tune of Rs. 6.50 lakh for his Raghavendra marriage hall located at Kodambakkam here. His case against the demand made by the Greater Chennai Corporation for the half-yearly period, from April to September, has been listed for admission before Justice Anita Sumanth on Wednesday. According to the case filed by the actor, through his counsel Vijayan Subramanian, he had been paying property tax regularly for the marriage hall. The tax was paid last on February 14. Subsequently the pandemic broke out, forcing the Centre and State governments to impose a lockdown. As a result, his marriage hall had remained vacant and was not rented to anyone since March 24. In such circumstances, the actor received a property tax invoice from the Corporation on September 10, asking him to pay Rs. 6.50 lakh as property tax for the months April through September. Cancellations Stating that he had cancelled all bookings for his marriage hall after March 24 and even refunded the advance money in accordance with the government instructions, the actor said he was entitled to vacancy remission on property tax. He pointed out that Section 105 of the Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act of 1919 provides for remission of tax if the premises remained vacant for over 30 days and insisted on according the benefit to him. The actor also said he had sent a notice in this regard to the Corporation on September 23 but there was no reply till date.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK’s functionary attacked in Chennai||DMK functionary K. Dhanasekaran and his stenographer were attacked with sharp weapons in broad daylight at K.K. Nagar on Tuesday. The police said the attack took place around 3 p.m. The victims, Mr. Dhanasekaran and Ms. Amudhavalli, sustained injuries to the head and shoulder. The police suspect the involvement of Ms. Amudhavalli’s husband and his aide in the crime. “Ms. Amudhavalli and her husband Ponnuvel had got embroiled in a quarrel and had not been on good terms over the past many months. The quarrel seems to have aggravated, and on Tuesday, he [Mr. Ponnuvel] came to Mr. Dhanasekaran's office along with his accomplice to attack Ms. Amudhavalli,” according to a senior police officer. He started arguing with Ms. Amudhavalli, and all of a sudden, took out a sharp weapon and started attacking her.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Happy Paws comes to the rescue||A year ago, a small group of people were individually rescuing abandoned and injured animals in and around Mogappair. Gradually, by word of mouth, they got together and today over 100 people quietly work as a team at ‘Happy Paws’ and have saved close to 260 animals. Bharath Surya, 28, a resident of Mogappair, says that while he has been doing it for many years, it makes a world of difference when more people come forward to help. “We initially wanted to focus on one area and since we live here, we began with Mogappair. In the past one year, we work through a WhatsApp group and have rescued many dogs and cats that need immediate medical intervention and those that have been deserted by owners. When someone calls, one of us in the group provides some first aid on the spot or straight away take the animal to the veterinary clinic,” he said. So far, they have vaccinated and sterilised several animals in the area. “In some cases, if an animal is abandoned, we first see the condition, provide care and then find a good home,” he adds. Apart from dogs and cats, owls, crows, pigeons and even squirrels are cared for by many of the volunteers. Sudha Muthuvel, a 40-year-old resident of Mogappair, says, “Once an owl was almost strangled by a manja thread and in many instances we have helped crows and pigeons that got entangled in wires. There are many who drive or walk past an injured animal and even if they are not able to help, they can call us and one of us can rush to the spot”. Mr. Surya says they have been gradually trying to expand and replicate this model in more areas. Those who find an animal in distress can call 9840631449/8778482421.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Judge should not have doubted functioning of vigilance wing without ascertaining facts: CJ||The first Division Bench of the Madras High Court led by its Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi has said that a single judge of the court should have not doubted the functioning of the vigilance wing in State judiciary without ascertaining any facts on that count. The Bench, also comprising Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, said the vigilance wing of the High Court was very much alive to its responsibilities and it had initiated disciplinary action against as many as 39 judicial officers and court staff in the last one year. While dismissing a writ petition filed by advocate B. Sathishkumar with false averments that the High Court’s Registrar (Vigilance) R. Poornima had not passed higher secondary examinations, the judges referred to observations made by the single judge at its Madurai Bench. The single judge had said: “Undoubtedly, judiciary has to strengthen its vigilance wing and the prevailing vigilance system in the judiciary is insufficient to crush the corrupt practices. Frequent surprise visits and inspection in the judicial departments and premises are needed. “It is pertinent to remind that many former Chief Justices of India had lamented that judiciary is not exempted from corrupt practices. Unfortunately, efficient measures are yet to be taken to deal with many kinds of corrupt practices in the judicial system. ‘Right spirit’ “If these observations are taken in a right spirit by the administrators, then alone we can see the development of our great nation. Thus, the administrator must have a heart and spirit to take the issues in a right manner.” Disapproving of such observations, the first Division Bench said the High Court had been responding to every challenging situation on the administrative side to the best of its capacity and ability and it was evident from the statistics on action initiated so far. “The public at large, therefore, need not be sounded on the capacity of the administrators to have a heart and a spirit to take effective steps to keep the stream of justice running pure. A general perception on any impulse may cause a doubt but it appears to be far from reality,” the Bench said. Apart from imposing a cost of Rs. 5 lakh on the advocate who had filed the case against the Registrar (Vigilance), initiating criminal contempt proceedings against him and suspending him from practising law, the court decided to deal with the issue on its administrative side too. The matter would be dealt with on the administrative side too “in order to keep the administration free from impediments that are likely to cause damage to the system on account of unnecessary publicity or veiled efforts made by either insiders or outsiders.”
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Raw drug repository coming up at National Institute of Siddha||A Regional Raw Drug Repository (RRDR) for Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani medicines for the southern plateau region is being set up at the National Institute of Siddha, Chennai. A five-year project, the repository will serve as a one-stop library for raw drugs available in this part of the country. Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH and Minister of State for Defence Shripad Yesso Naik inaugurated the RRDR through a virtual platform on Tuesday. The establishment of RRDRs was a component of the Union government’s National AYUSH Mission. The Ministry of AYUSH, through the National Medicinal Plants Board (NMPB), has initiated the establishment of the National Raw Drug Repository and Regional Raw Drug Repositories. As a part of this, the NMPB has identified the National Institute of Siddha (NIS) as the lead institute, with the Regional Research Institute of Unani Medicine (RRIUM), Chennai, and Siddha Central Research Institute (SCRI), Chennai, as the collaborating institutes. This RRDR would be involved in the collection, documentation and authentication of raw drugs gathered largely from the respective agro-climatic region, says a press release. ‘Library-cum-museum’ “This repository will serve as a library-cum-museum and house database of raw drugs of Ayurveda, Unani and Siddha in the southern region. Take ‘ tulsi ’ for instance. For a complete study of ‘ tulsi ’, we will travel and collect ‘ tulsi ’ from various areas, study the biochemical ingredients, structure and other details. This repository will provide A to Z details of a drug, comprising all scientific data, under one roof,” National Institute of Siddha Director R. Meenakumari said. She added: “In the last three months, we have collected 30 to 40 raw drugs, and are going to collect samples of 500 more raw drugs for this repository. This will then be standardised, while DNA and fingerprinting will be done and monograph readied. The repository includes a virtual library. Researchers will be able to do multi-disciplinary studies with the database available at the repository.” She will head the project as principal investigator, while Zaheer Ahmed, head of institute, RRIUM, and Satyarajeswaran, director in-charge, SCRI, RRDR (southern plateau), will be the co-investigators. Though most of the raw drugs are commonly available, there is a lack of scientific documentation that makes research on these medicines difficult. Easy availability of authentic scientific data of raw drugs will promote research on the medicines belonging to the AYUSH system, the release said. The RRDR will not only act as a collection centre of raw drugs available and used in the southern region but also as an accredited reference library for authentication of raw drugs and establishment of standard protocols and keys for authentication of raw drugs used in herbal industries.  The establishment of RRDRs is a component of the Union government’s National AYUSH Mission
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Complaints of ganja menace in Mahalingapuram||Despite repeated complaints to the police, residents in Mahalingapuram claim that there has been no action taken to solve the issue of the sale of ganja in the locality. “Traders come and stand at designated points and the contraband is sold in just a few minutes. We chase them away daily,” said K. Sekhar, a committee member of the Mahalingapuram Residents Welfare Association. Residents also said that for the past five years, a few people occupy dark alleys at night and are involved in soliciting clients. “They stand at different points in the locality. When residents walk past, they demand money from us, too. It has become a huge problem,” said Mr. Sekhar. There are over 1,000 residents in Mahalingapuram. Mr. Sekhar said that he had approached Prem Anand Sinha, the then Additional Commissioner of Police, some time ago regarding the issue. “There used to be container trucks parked in the locality and anti-social activities used to happen behind it. He [Mr. Sinha] asked his personnel to remove the lorries and the problem was brought under control,” he said. Complaint lodged Recently, however, the issue has come up again. G.G. Jayaraman, a resident of the locality, had mailed a complaint to the City Police Commissioner about the issue on October 2. “Two days ago, some policemen called and said that they would look into the complaint. But, as of now, nothing has happened. Residents, especially women and children, are not able to venture outside after 10 p.m. All this happens despite CCTV cameras installed in the locality and regular patrolling by the police,” said Mr. Jayaraman. A police officer said that he would look into the issue. “We are filing cases against those who are involved in solicitation and chasing them away. Earlier, there used to be more than 50 of them. Now, there are one or two,” said the police officer. Regarding the sale of ganja in the locality, the officer said that it was a false allegation. “We are closely monitoring it. Contraband sale does not happen here,” he said.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nalli Silks forays into U.K. market, opens first store in London||Chennai-headquartered Nalli Silks has opened its first store in London with support from the U.K.’s Department for International Trade (DIT). “We have invested approximately £300,000 (over Rs. 2.86 crore) for a 2,500 square feet store in Wembley and have picked an eight-member team to run the operations,” Lavanya Nalli, vice-chairperson, Nalli Silks, said. The firm, which previously gifted sarees to King George V and Queen Elizabeth, is expected to open more stores in London and Birmingham to serve U.K. customers. The U.K.’s Indian diaspora is estimated to be almost 1.5 million people. “We set up the business here based on our learnings from our other international expansions (U.S., Canada and Singapore),” Ms. Lavanya said, adding that the market potential was huge. Demand for sarees for wedding season and COVID-19 travel restrictions prompted the firm to fast track the project. DIT officials in Chennai and London have been working with Nalli over the past 18 months to help facilitate site visits in the U.K., introductions to key tax services, and updates on COVID-19 related support measures – including the retail bounce-back announced by Exports Minister Graham Stuart. “Our team from the Department of International Trade at the British Deputy High Commission in Chennai continues to work with Tamil Nadu-based investors like Nalli, who have shown immense faith in the U.K. market for their international expansion. The U.K. will remain open to investors.” Oliver Ballhatchet, British Deputy High Commissioner to Chennai, told The Hindu .
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||4,666 new COVID-19 cases, 57 deaths in T.N.||Tamil Nadu reported 4,666 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. Chennai accounted for 1,164 cases and Coimbatore 398. The State also recorded 57 deaths, taking the toll to 10,371. For the second consecutive day, the State reported less than 5,000 cases. A total of 6,65,930 persons have so far tested positive in the State. Of them, 43,239 were active cases. With the discharge of 5,117 more persons after treatment, the number of persons discharged rose to 6,12,320. In Chennai, 1,217 persons were discharged and 13 persons died. The city has so far accounted for 1,84,429 cases: 1,67,284 discharged, 13,704 active cases and 3,441 deaths. Salem recorded 277 cases, Chengalpattu 252 and Tiruvallur 236. Ten other districts had 100-plus cases. Among them were Tiruppur 166, Cuddalore 138, Namakkal 129 and The Nilgiris 123. Of the 57 fatalities, 38 persons died at government hospitals. Among the deceased was a 35-year-old woman from Coimbatore. A diabetic, she was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on October 9, and her swab returned positive the next day. She died on October 12 owing to bilateral bronchopneumonia and uncontrolled diabetes, according to a bulletin issued by the Health Department. Six persons in their 40s succumbed to the infection. One of them was a 48-year-old man from Chennai, who had no co-morbidities. He died at ESIC Medical College and PGIMSR, K.K. Nagar, owing to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia on October 12. He had tested positive on September 22, and was admitted to the hospital on October 11 with complaints of fever and difficulty in breathing. In the last 24 hours, 85,509 samples were tested in the State. So far, 84,88,503 samples have been tested. Situation in U.T. The test positivity rate in Puducherry declined further with 268 new cases reported from over 4,200 tests on Tuesday, even as the overall COVID-19 tally crossed 32,000 cases. The test positivity rate touched a new low of 6.30% in over three months, while case fatality rate declined to 1.77%. The recovery rate was 83.94%. Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi said there should be no let-up in the enforcement of safety norms in spite of the fall in the test positivity rate. The system of random sampling could be taken as part of survey of state of health and as a form of feedback on the ground situation, she said. Ms. Bedi, who reviewed the situation with officials, had given instructions to get the LED screen of the Tourism Department at the beach repaired and use it for running awareness messages. Meanwhile, two more persons, including a 60-year-old woman, died of COVID-19, taking the toll to 567. Both fatalities were recorded in Karaikal where the toll stands at 51. For the first time in nearly three months, no COVID-19 casualty was reported in the capital. The deaths in Puducherry is 470, Yanam 42 and Mahe four. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told a press meet that 268 new cases were registered at the end of testing of 4,249 samples on Tuesday, raising the overall tally to 32,004 cases. With 310 patients discharged on Tuesday, 26,865 patients had recovered so far in the U.T. Of the 4,572 active patients, 2,944 patients were in home isolation. Puducherry accounted for 202 new cases out of 268 fresh infections, followed by 36 in Karaikal, 8 in Yanam and 22 in Mahe region. Mr. Rao said retired health officials were willing to volunteer their services to help contain the pandemic. The health department is looking at forming teams to carry out post-COVID health check-up on recovered patients. Of the 2.41 lakh samples tested by the health department, 2.06 lakh samples were negative. Of the 57 fatalities, 38 persons died at government hospitals. Among the deceased was a 35-year-old woman from Coimbatore. A diabetic, she was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on October 9, and her swab returned positive the next day. She died on October 12 owing to bilateral bronchopneumonia and uncontrolled diabetes, according to a bulletin issued by the Health Department. Six persons in their 40s succumbed to the infection. One of them was a 48-year-old man from Chennai, who had no co-morbidities. He died at ESIC Medical College and PGIMSR, K.K. Nagar, owing to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia on October 12. He had tested positive on September 22, and was admitted to the hospital on October 11 with complaints of fever and difficulty in breathing. In the last 24 hours, 85,509 samples were tested in the State. So far, 84,88,503 samples have been tested.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||E-registration will replace e-pass, govt. tells court||The State government has decided to replace the existing system of issuing e-passes to those travelling from other States or countries with e-registration, Advocate General Vijay Narayan told the Madras High Court on Tuesday. The Advocate General told the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy that the restrictions on visits to hill stations alone would continue, since those places were short on medical infrastructure. After hearing him, the judges directed the State government to write to the Centre seeking a clarification as to whether imposition of such restrictions could continue on visits to hill stations and then publicise the reply through the media. ‘Basic details’ According to the A-G, the e-registration would require travellers to provide only basic details for the purpose of contact tracing. On the other hand, e-passes to hill stations would be issued only to those who have an address there and not to tourists. Unlike the plains, the medical facilities in hill stations were very limited. Hence, permitting tourists might lead to a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases and they might not be able to cope with such a situation, he said. Self-regulation The A-G also said at present, the only way to contain the spread of the pandemic was through self-regulation. Yet, people did not seem to understand the importance of wearing masks and maintaining physical distance, he said. He also brought it to the notice of the court that the number of new COVID-19 cases reported in Tami Nadu was hovering around 5,000 every day due to effective steps taken by the government, as against Kerala where the numbers had now risen to as high as 10,000 cases a day. Concurring with the A-G, the Chief Justice said people were indeed moving around in public places without masks as if the disease had vanished. He said people could feel safe only when a vaccine comes out.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Industries Minister hits out at Stalin||Rural Industries Minister P.Benjamin on Tuesday came down on DMK president M.K.Stalin on the the incident of South Thittai panchayat president of Cuddalore district, Rajeshwari Saravana Kumar, having been forced to sit on the floor during meetings of the rural local body. In a statement, the Minister claimed that the panchayat vice-president Mohan Raj, who had forced Ms. Rajeshwari to sit on the floor, was a member of the DMK. It was the “height of deception” when the DMK chief blamed the ruling party for the episode after “having suppressed his party’s link in the incident and attempted to help the person who had conducted himself with casteist prejudice”. Giving an account of controversies surrounding the DMK’s functionaries for their reported observations against Scheduled Castes, Mr.Benjamin said that his party, AIADMK, had been functioning, transcending the barriers of caste and religion. On the South Thittai panchayat incident, the Minister said the Cuddalore district administration had called for strong measures so that no such incident recurred. Apart from booking a case against Mr.Mohan Raj and the panchayat secretary, the process of arrest had been initiated. The panchayat official had been suspended from service. Also, District Collectors in the State had been advised to see to it that meetings of the village panchayats were held properly and monitored, the Minister added.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Welfare board for light music group members soon, says Minister||An announcement regarding the creation of a new welfare board for members of light music orchestra groups can be expected in a couple of weeks, said Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture Minister Ma Foi K. Pandiarajan. Addressing a virtual conference organised by the Tamil Nadu Progressive Writers and Artistes Association (TNPWAA) to discuss the livelihood issues of performing artistes, Mr. Pandiarajan said that the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister had already announced the government’s intent to form the board and work towards its formation was under way. “Before the COVID-19 pandemic began, we had around 38,000 members registered with the board. Now, it has increased to nearly 50,000. We are planning to increase it to one lakh by the end of this year,” he said. Thoothukudi Lok Sabha MP and DMK women’s wing secretary M.K. Kanimozhi, who spoke at the conference, highlighted that the welfare board for folk artistes was formed when the DMK was in power. She spoke about the need to bring folk performances to urban audiences. Aadhavan Dheetchanya, general secretary, TNPWAA, presented the conference’s report and demands, which included organising annual festivals in every district for folk art forms, providing medical assistance for the artistes, introducing folk art in schools and engaging folk artistes for the government’s outreach programmes.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Implement death penalty for rapists’||DMDK founder Vijayakant on Tuesday said violence against Dalit women continues though a law was passed 1989 to prevent atrocities against them. Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan were the three States where such violence went unchecked, he added. “The only way to prevent violence against women and Dalit women is to implement death penalty for rape,” he said. In a statement, Mr. Vijayakant also recalled similar incidents of violence against women and children in various regions of Tamil Nadu. In Saliamangalam near Thanjavur a Dalit a woman was raped and murdered, in Siruvallur in Kanchipuram district a sexual violence was committed against a minor girl in 2019, in Ariyalur a young woman was gang-raped in 2017, in Ayanavaram a young girl was gang-raped by 17 men and in Namakkal district two minor girls were threatened and repeatedly assaulted by 15 men recently, the DMDK leader said.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prince of Arcot calls on Governor||Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali made a courtesy call on Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit at Raj Bhavan to enquire about his welfare and well-being. He expressed his good wishes to the Governor and wished him and his family health, happiness and long life, and to continue his services to the nation and humanity for years to come. A release said the Governor was happy to meet Mr. Abdul Ali following a long gap due to COVID-19 restrictions. The Governor advised the Prince of Arcot to stay at home and avoid meeting people for at least another three months by which time, he hoped, the pandemic would have subsided.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Clarity needed at the earliest on syllabus reduction’||State board schools in Tamil Nadu continue to wait for clarity over the 40% reduction in the syllabus for the current academic year. Voicing concern over the delay, the Tamil Nadu nursery, primary, matriculation and higher secondary schools association has appealed to School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan to issue directions at the earliest. “For the last seven months, schools have remained shut, and we have been taking classes online. We have been working to ensure that learning is not compromised in any way and have been teaching as well as conducting exams virtually, wherever possible,” the association said in a letter to Mr. Sengottaiyan. An 18-member expert committee was appointed in June to look into the syllabus and reduce it. After the committee submitted its report, the Minister said a 40% reduction had been recommended. “However, we are yet to hear about what lessons have been reduced or what changes are being brought about...,” State general secretary K.R. Nandhakumar said.
14 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Release Keeladi excavation reports’||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Tuesday said that the reports on archaeological excavations carried out in Keeladi in the State should be released without any delay. In a statement, Dr. Ramadoss said that while excavations have been completed in six phases, only one report has so far been released. “The sixth phase of excavations happened in September last year. Forty-seven pits were dug up in four places and they have found child skeletons, skulls, pots and pot shells, totalling around 2,430 items,” he said.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Drugs seized at airport||Four persons have been arrested for smuggling drugs through Air Courier by Chennai Air Customs. A parcel meant for Australia was opened on suspicion. The information on the parcel said it contained spices. When the Customs officials opened the parcel, it had few spice powder and some of the packets had been tampered with. Inside the packets, there was a plastic pouch with white crystalline powder, which were later found to be pseudoephedrine. In total, officials recovered 3 kg of this substance in 37 packets and seized them. Sathik, 37, had booked this parcel after getting it from a Bengaluru-based person. Sathik took help from his partner in Thanjavur to conceal the powder inside spice powder. This person in turn took the assistance of Khan.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vidya Sagar opens B.Ed admissions||Vidya Sagar has invited applications for its two-year B. Ed in Special Education — multiple disabilities and inclusive education programme. The course is affiliated to the Tamil Nadu Teacher Education University and recognised by the Rehabilitation Council of India. For details, candidates can contact 9840035203 /9444412388 or mailhrd@vidyasagar.co.in
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Postal covers on COVID-19 released||As part of its efforts to create interest about philately among school children, the Philatelic Bureau, Anna Road Head Post Office had conducted a drawing competition for students on COVID-19. On Tuesday, B. Selvakumar, Chief Postmaster General, Tamil Nadu Circle, released the special covers on COVID-19 designed with winners’ sketches as part of the National Postal week celebrations. Chennai District Collector R. Seethalakshmi received the special covers. As many as 321 students had participated in the contest and winners were awarded with a cash prize, said a press release.
14 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Fire service personnel demonstrate preparedness||Personnel from Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) demonstrated their preparedness ahead of the northeast monsoon at the Collectorate here on Tuesday. Officials said that around 60 personnel from four fire stations in Coimbatore district – Ganapathy, Peelamedu, Coimbatore North and Coimbatore South – participated in the event, which was organised to mark the International Day for Disaster Reduction. Rescue equipment, such as lifebuoys and life boats as well as improvised equipment used by the fire service personnel during rescue operations, were demonstrated, the officials said. District Revenue Officer Ramadurai Murugan, District Fire Officer R. Jegadheesh and Assistant District Fire Officer S. Thavamani were among the officials present during the demonstration that was held for about an hour.
14 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pumpset manufacturers see sharp fall in sales||Pumpset manufacturing units across the country have seen 15 % drop in sales during the first six months of the current financial year (April to September 2020) compared to the same period last fiscal. According to K.V. Karthik, vice-president of Southern India Engineering Manufacturers’ Association, the average drop in sales, mainly because of the lockdown, is estimated to be 15 % . However, some sectors such as agricultural pumps have done better than last year even during the April-September period. Units in Coimbatore are mainly into agriculture and domestic pumps. While the sale of agriculture pumps is almost 10 % more compared to April-September last year, growth in sales of domestic pumps is almost flat. Pumps used in sectors such as sewage treatment and industries have seen a negative growth in demand. Hence, pumpset units here that catered to the agriculture sector have seen better market, he said. However, most of the demand that continues till now is mainly because of the measures taken by the government to boost the economy. If these measures are not continued, the industry may face a slump in demand. Though it is difficult to forecast the market in the coming months, he said the Government should continue with measures to revive the economy.
14 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Wholesale price of onion crosses Rs. 50 in Coimbatore markets||Wholesale price of onion has crossed Rs. 50 a kg in Coimbatore markets. On Tuesday, the wholesale price of big onion was Rs. 55 a kg and that of small onion Rs. 80 a kg for high quality varieties. According to M. Rajendran, president of TK Market vegetable traders’ association, the city gets about 150 tonnes of big onion a day, mainly from Maharashtra and Karnataka. There is hardly any supply from here to Kerala. Demand from hotels, hostels or for weddings is also minimum. Hence, the current supply just meets the local demand. Prices of onion have been going up for the last few days and have now crossed Rs. 50 a kg. While the price for the onions from Maharashtra is Rs. 55 a kg, it is Rs. 50 a kg for the supply from Karnataka. “Even now, there are heavy rain in the onion-growing areas in Karnataka. This damages the crop and hence the prices are up,” he said. If the supply from imports was delayed, prices may increase further. Imported consignments were expected soon from Turkey and Iran. But it was said that the landing cost of these onions was also high. In the case of small onion, the supply to Coimbatore was mainly from Karnataka and other districts of Tamil Nadu. There was shortage in supply of small onions and hence, the prices had shot up. Prices of almost all the vegetables were high now, he added.
14 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Unaccounted cash seized from Sub-Registrar office||Officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) seized Rs. 2.25 lakh unaccounted cash from the Sub-Registrar Office at Mettupalayam after 14 hours of raid on Monday and Tuesday. Sources in the DVAC said a team of 10 sleuths led by Deputy Superintendent of Police T.H. Ganesh visited the office for a raid on Monday at around 5.30 p.m. The officials along with District Inspection Cell Officer Duraisamy conducted the raid based on a tip-off regarding the presence of unaccounted cash. The raid concluded at around 7.30 a.m. on Tuesday. Portions of the unaccounted cash were allegedly hidden in various rooms inside the office and inside a car, the sources said. Following the raid, the DVAC registered a case against Mettupalayam Sub-Registrar Latha Rani, three office staff and four document writers on Tuesday. Further investigations are under way.
14 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Semen station to promote native cattle breeds||The National Dairy Development Board has set up a semen station to address the challenges faced by those having indigenous cattle varieties and to promote native cattle breeds. Domestic breeds The Alamadhi Semen Station, a unit of the Board, at Edapalayam, Red Hills, Chennai provides semen doses of domestic breeds of cattle, including the Kangeyam cattle. Details For details, contact: email:harishankar.s @ alamadhise menstation.comor dial: 7092922400 or 7092922401
14 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Trade unions demand re-opening of NTC mills||Leaders of eight trade unions staged a protest in front of the southern region office of National Textile Corporation (NTC) here on Tuesday. According to former MLA M. Arumugam of AITUC, the workers had staged protests in front of the mills demanding re-opening of the NTC mills and payment of full wages to workers for the period when the mills remained closed. NTC runs seven textile mills in the State and five of these are located in Coimbatore district. The NTC mills in the State employ nearly 6,000 workers. Of these, 3800 are permanent workers. Mr. Arumugam said the workers were paid full wages till May 17. After that, they received only part wages. However, they are yet to get the wages that should have been paid in September. “Coimbatore MP PR Natarajan had written to the Central Government about the plight of the NTC workers. The Textile Minister has said that the financial condition of the mills should improve and the workers will be paid full wages after that,” he said. The trade unions had planned a series of protests demanding re-opening of the mills. The union leaders, two from each of the eight unions, planned a sit in protest at the south region office for three days from Tuesday. However, the police said they cannot enter the office premises. Hence, they staged a protest in front of the southern region office on Tuesday. “The regional labour commissioner has called us for a virtual meeting on October 17. If there is no agreement on that day, the union leaders will decide on the future course of action,” he said.
14 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Resume train services’||BJP State General Secretary G.K.S. Selvakumar requested Railway Minister Piyush Goyal to resume four train services for the benefit of the passengers in Coimbatore district. In a letter on Monday, Mr. Selvakumar sought resumption of train services between Pollachi and Coimbatore and Madurai and Coimbatore, along with inter-State train services such as Thiruvananthapuram-Madurai Amritha Express and Palakkad-Tiruchendur Passenger trains.
14 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MLA seeks early completion of flyover projects||Singanallur MLA and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s Coimbatore east urban unit in-charge N. Karthik has called for early completion of road overbridge and flyover projects. In a statement here on Tuesday, he said the failure on the part of the State government and Highways Department to plan and complete the projects in time had troubled residents, who suffered traffic jams and met with accidents. Though the DMK government in 2010 had issued orders for construction of two road overbridges across railway track in SIHS Colony and Neelikonampalayam, the AIADMK government had, in the last nine-and-half years, failed to see the projects to fruition. As a result, the residents in Bharathiar Nagar, Nethaji Nagar, Shakthi Nagar and Cauvery Nagar were forced to take a circuitous route of five km to reach the other side. Likewise, the progress in the Hope College-Thanneerpandal road overbridge across railway track had crossed only the 10% mark.
14 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Pay pending power bills’||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has asked all the electricity consumers in Coimbatore metro to pay the pending power consumption bills immediately. Low Tension and High Tension consumers were given time till June 15 to pay the power bills because of the lockdown announced in March. However, several consumers are yet to pay the bills. The Tangedco asked the consumers to pay the pending amount immediately to avoid disconnection, according to a press release.
14 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Five held for murdering woman||The Coimbatore City Police on Tuesday arrested five persons on charges of murdering an elderly woman at Kempatty Colony on September 30. Latha Rani (47), Revathi Rani (43), Manojkumar, Selvam and Sathyaseelan were arrested by the Bazaar Street police on Tuesday. Investigations revealed that the five, along with Latha’s younger brother Thilak, conspired to murder S. Dhanalakshmi (62) reportedly for the jewellery, the police said. Dhanalakshmi and her son Manikandan lived in the house at Kempatty Colony. On September 30 at around 8.30 p.m., Manikandan returned home from work and found his mother lying in a pool of blood with her throat slit, apart from stab injuries on chest and abdomen. Some jewellery was also missing from the house, the police said. Based on his complaint, the Bazaar Street police registered a case. The five accused were remanded in judicial custody on Tuesday. Gold jewellery weighing 245 grams and a four-wheeler were seized from the accused. Efforts to arrest the absconding accused Thilak are under way, according to the police.
14 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for cheating investors||The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) police arrested a man on Tuesday on charges of duping investors of nearly Rs. 10 crore through an online trading business. Police sources said Sherin Shanmugam (37) from Thrissur in Kerala was the proprietor of a private online trading company at Saravanampatti for the past two years. Company closed After having attracted over a thousand investors from Tamil Nadu and Kerala, the company was closed abruptly in 2019 without returning any money to most of the investors, following which Sherin absconded. The EOW police registered a case and arrested him on Tuesday after nearly 10 months, according to the sources. The accused was remanded in judicial custody and efforts to arrest others involved in the case are on.
14 October 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||138 cases in Cuddalore||As many as 138 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Tuesday. With this, the number of cases in the district touched 21,932. According to a bulletin of the Health Department, three persons died on Tuesday, taking the toll to 255. The district had 928 active cases as on Tuesday while 147 recovered and were discharged from treatment centres. Villupuram district reported 85 fresh cases, taking the total to 12,712. Thirty-one persons tested positive in Kallakurichi district, taking the tally to 9,753.
14 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Athikadavu – Avinashi scheme works inspected||District Collector C. Kathiravan inspected the construction of pumping station for the Athikadavu – Avinashi Ground Water Recharge and Drinking Water Supply Scheme here on Monday. The Rs. 1,652-crore scheme, accorded administrative sanction by the State government in 2018, is to benefit the drought-prone and ground water depleted areas of Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode districts. The project proposes to draw 1.5 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) of surplus water from River Bhavani, from the downstream of Kalingarayan anicut, and fill 32 Public Works Department tanks, 42 union tanks and 970 ponds in the three districts. The project will also help irrigate 24,468 acres. The project is executed by the Larsen and Toubro (L&T), Chennai, under the under Design, Built, Operate and Transfer basis. The foundation for the scheme was laid by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on February 28, 2019 and major works commenced on December 25, 2019. The project is scheduled for completion in December 2021. Six pumping stations at Anai Nasuvampalayam, Nalla Goundan Palayam, Tiruvachi, Pola Naicken Palayam and Emmampoondi and Annur are under construction . Mr. Kathiravan inspected the works at Bhavani, Nalla Goundan Palayam, and Tiruvachi and held discussions with officials on the status of the work. S. Manmadhan, Executive Engineer, Public works Department, Ramkumar Patnavick, Project Director, L&T, and other officials were present.
14 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Gani textile market sees brisk business ahead of Deepavali||With one month left for Deepavali, the shops at E.K.M. Abdul Gani Textile Market (Gani Market) in the city witnessed brisk sales on Tuesday.  The weekly market with 740 shops began on Monday night and went on till late Tuesday, as traders from across the State thronged the market and made bulk purchases. “About 80% of the regular traders arrived at the market and the business was good,” said S. Sakthivel, secretary, Erode Gani Market Weekly Textile Trader’s Association. He told The Hindu that due to COVID-19 pandemic, traders from Karnataka did not turn up. “Merchants from various districts in the State visited the market and purchased materials for Deepavali,” he said. While traders prefer Mumbai and Kolkata for readymade garments and Surat for saris, they buy dhotis from Erode, Salem and Namakkal districts and towels from Uttukuli in Tiruppur district. Other garments are from Tiruppur, he said. Due to the return of workforce to North India, hike in price of yarn and closure of dyeing units, there is a 30% drop in overall production, he added. Mr. Selvaraj said that they expected good business for the next three weeks. A few traders expressed confidence that increase in cash flow among people would improve their business. “The pandemic had kept people away from buying materials in the last seven months. But, now they are ready for the festival season,” said a trader.
14 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||9th Century grinding stones discovered at Bhavani taluk||Three grinding stones and a hero stone belonging to the ninth and 13th Century respectively were identified by a team of archaeology enthusiasts at Sanarpalayam village in Bhavani Taluk recently. Based on information from Jambai Palaniappan, a team comprising Ponnusamy, Sudhakar Nalliappan and Kumaravel Ramasamy, found the grinding stones, each measuring 90 cm in diameter and 40 cm in depth. They were placed for common usage of the people. In one stone, a three-line inscription was found and the readable form of the word carries the name Valavaraya . Inscriptions identified in Kongu region until the period of 10th Century do not carry the names of any rules or kings. “Only regional leaders were involved in such social work and he could be the person who created the stone”, said the members. The hero stone, measuring 135 cm height and 115 cm breath, has a fully carved with embossed feature of a hero in which the inscriptions were deciphered. “The hero holds a long sword in his right hand and a flat shield in his left hand readily facing the enemy while his clothes look like fluttering in wind”, they added. Inscription speaks about a hero who lost his life to protect his people from quarrel. The word Oorali meaning, 'person who rules', is seen in another hero stone inscription from the same area and is used to denote the head of a society. “The hero stones do not carry the name of the hero and are created to praise his sacrifice”, they said and added that of the 500 hero stones identified in the Kongu region, 90% of the stones do not carry any inscription. “Hero stones with inscriptions are highly significant”, they said. Team members said that cultural values of Kongu region, along Amaravathi river bank at the southern Kongu region and Bhavani river bank at the northern Kongu region, are unspoken. “Currently very few historical monuments and traces can be seen where most others are gradually destroyed by day-to-day activities of people in these region”, they said and wanted more excavations to be done to unearth more history of the region.
14 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Signature campaign against farm laws||A campaign to collect one lakh signatures from farmers demanding repeal of the new farm legislations was launched by the Erode South District Congress Committee here on Tuesday. The committee’s president, Makkal G. Rajan, started the campaign at Mullamparapu village in 46 Pudur Panchayat. He said that the three Acts -- Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- would force farmers to sell their produce at a price fixed by the corporates and termed it as “anti-farmers”. After collecting one lakh signatures, they will be sent to the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri and working president Mohan Kumaramangalam, Mr. Rajan said.
14 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||DVAC seizes Rs. 1.65 lakh unaccounted money||Sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) raided the office of The Senior Assistant Director of Boilers, Erode Circle, on Tuesday evening and seized Rs. 1.65 lakh in unaccounted cash. The officials conducted a surprise inspection at the office, functioning at the District Treasury Office Complex on the Collectorate premises, and found cash inside the office. The team began the raid at 4.30 p.m. and questioned Assistant Director Mahesh Pandian, his assistant, car driver and a middleman who was in the office during the inspection. The office is responsible for examining boilers in textile processing units and other industries and certify if they are in good condition. DVAC sources said that they received complaints that officials were receiving money in view of Deepavali.
14 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plea to conduct gram sabha meeting||Satta Panchayat Iyakkam, a social organisation, has urged the district administration to conduct the gram sabha meeting that was postponed recently. In a letter to District Collector C. Kathiravan, the organisation’s urban secretary S. Kannaiyan said the government’s development schemes were not reaching many villages in the district, halting the progress of the villages. The State government had on September 26 announced conduct of gram sabha meetings in all village panchayats on October 2. But the meetings were postponed, much to the disappointment of the people.
14 October 2020||Kariyapatti,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC unable to pay high rent for bus depot at Kariyapatti||Even as a section of officials of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) have expressed fear that its Kariyapatti depot is facing the threat of closure, senior officials clarified that efforts were being taken to find a government land for a permanent depot. An official said that the depot was set up on a private land in 2009 and over the years the rent has increased to Rs. 25,000 a month. The depot has only a maintenance shed and a retiring room for labourers and no other facilities. The Kariyapatti depot has got 19 buses – one muffosil bus operated to Tiruchi and Aruppukottai and 16 town buses catering to Madurai, and villages in Kariaypatti, Narikudi and Tiruchuli blocks. Two are spare buses. “Under the COVID-19 pandemic conditions, the administration is finding it difficult to pay a rent of Rs. 3 lakh annually. We have been searching for a government poromboke land for very long but however we have not succeeded so far,” an official said. The only way to cut down on the rent is to find a government land or to close down the depot. “In the event of its closure, the buses will be sent back to Aruppukottai and Virudhunagar depots that are 20 km and 29 km away respectively. This will result in additional fuel expenses and will lead to reduced services to the rural areas,” an official said. However, a senior official said that there was no proposal to close it down but only to shift it to its own land so that additional facilities could be created. The officials have zeroed in on a Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment land in the vicinity fo the depot. “We have discussed with the Revenue offifials to buy the land for the depot. Even if it is for rent, we will get it for a cheaper rate and could have better facilities,” he said.
14 October 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Four underpasses sanctioned along NH 44||Four vehicular underpasses (VUPs) have been sanctioned at important junctions and intersections along National Highway 44 in Karur district. Proposals have been forwarded to the Centre for construction of VUPs at four more places along the highway in the district, according to Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar. The Srinagar-Kanyakumari NH 44 runs across the district and there have been long-pending demands from the public for construction of underpasses at various junctions as they find it difficult to cross the highway. Accidents have become frequent. While underpasses have been proposed at eight places to overcome the problem, National Highways Authority of India has sanctioned VUPs at Perichipalayam at a cost of Rs. 21.95 crore, Periyar Arch (Rs. 26.64 crore), Semmadai Roundatana (Rs. 30.11 crore) and Thavittupalayam (Rs. 21.30 crore), Mr. Vijayabhaskar said after inspecting progress of work at Periyar Arch recently. Proposals have also been forwarded to NHAI headquarters for construction of similar VUPs at Manmangalam, Kodangipatti, Veerarakiyam and Aravakurichi. Sources in NHAI say construction of VUPs has begun at Periyar Arch and Perichipalayam. The VUPs will be of 5.5 metres in height allowing even heavy vehicles to pass through. Radar guns, cameras The State government has sanctioned Rs. 117 crore for installation of radar guns and cameras along major highways to monitor the speed of vehicles and penalise those overspeeding and violating road safety rules, Mr.Vijayabhaskar told reporters after inspection. Last year, Rs. 22 crore was sanctioned and radar guns were installed from Chengalpattu to Tiruchi. This year, radar guns and cameras will be installed on Salem-Palakkad, Salem-Kanyakumari and Ulundurpet-Salem highway sections, he said. T. Anbalagan, Collector, M. Muthudayar and N. Varadharajan, Deputy General Managers, NHAI, Dindigul and Salem, accompanied the Minister during the inspection.
14 October 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Couple gets||The Additional District and Sessions court, on Tuesday, sentenced a couple to three years of imprisonment for damaging a Public Works Department canal here. Samikannu and his wife Rukku, residents of Thalalapatti in Uthankarai, are into farming. Thangam, a farmer who owns their adjacent land, complained to Kallavi police in 2011 that the couple damaged about 250 metres of a PWD canal. Based on the complaint, police registered a case. Hearing the case on Tuesday, Additional District and Sessions Judge R.Vijayakumari found the couple guilty and sentenced them to undergo three years and three months of imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 10,000 each.
14 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Railway reservation centre at Tallakulam closed down||Railway passenger reservation system (PRS) centre located at Tallakulam that has been serving the people from northern parts of Madurai city for nearly 23 years was closed down on Tuesday. A public notice has been put up outside the gate of the PRS centre that was functioning on the Postal Department premises. It has mentioned that the centre has been shifted to Western Entry of Madurai Railway junction. Railway passengers who were regularly visiting the centre for booking their reservation for train journey had to return disappointed. “I have been coming here for the last 15 years to book tickets,” said S. Rathinam (89), a retired Tahsildar. A resident of Anna Nagar, Mr. Rathinam said that he found it convenient as it was closer to his home. “I am a frequent traveler and getting tickets at Tallakulam was a better option,” he said. The elderly man returned home disappointed without booking tickets. Divisional secretary of Dakshin Railway Employees Union, R. Sankaranarayanan said that the PRS was serving the people since 1997. It was helpful for several educational institutions and government offices. “The students who would get concession for their educational tours would come here to book their tickets,” he said. Besides, the officials of various departments, including the police personnel who would use travel warrants to book tickets also found it easier to come here to book tickets. “We condemn this sudden closure without any prior announcement,” he said. However, a senior railway official said that the Railway Board had asked the Postal Department to take over the PRS centre and continue to do the booking with its staff on a revenue-sharing basis. “This is a policy decision taken way back in 2014. Since, then we have been asking the Department of Post to take over this PRS, like it has done in other towns. But, since it has not evoked any positive response, we had to close if after a recent Railway Board circular to close down all the PRS centres functioning outside railway premises,” he added. The PRS centre that had four counters has been functioning with two counters till recently. “As part of various austerity measures, we have shifted it. If Department of Posts comes forward to operate it, we are ready provide all support,” the official added.
14 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Avoid crowded places for shopping: Health Secretary||Until a vaccine against COVID-19 becomes available, it is essential that people follow safety precautions when they are outdoors and avoid crowded places for Deepavali shopping, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said here on Tuesday. Addressing journalists while inspecting the COVID-19 speciality wing of the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), he said people must not forget precautions because COVID-19 cases were on the decline across the State. “By not following safety precautions, people are not only fooling themselves, but can affect others too.” Though the government was constantly creating awareness of the precautions, there was a need for a behavioural change among the public. “By following all safety measures it can be ensured that there is a further decline in the cases...,” he said. The Health Secretary, along with Collector T.G. Vinay and GRH Dean J. Sangumani, interacted with the patients at the COVID-19 wing. Later, Dr. Radhakrishnan told The Hindu that the main objective of entering the COVID-19 ward with personal protective equipment (PPE) was to acknowledge the efforts of doctors and paramedical workers who had been working hard for the past seven months, treating COVID-19 patients. “Being in the frontline with the doctors for 40 minutes while wearing PPE will help to boost their morale,” he said. The team interacted with patients with varying severity of infection, he said. “This will also provide psychosocial support to the patients. It is also to emphasise that there is no need to stigmatise COVID-19 patients,” he said. The Health Secretary inspected the newly installed oxygen tank at the hospital with a capacity of 20 kl. He said oxygen capacity was increased at tertiary, taluk and non-taluk hospitals across the State. The positive cases were declining in the State, even after 80,000-95,000 RT-PCR tests were done every day. While all districts had a positivity rate below 10%, it was below 5% in 18 districts, he said. “But the public must cooperate by following safety precautions to further bring down the positivity rate.”  By not following safety precautions, people are not only fooling themselves, but can affect others too
14 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Release water from Vaigai through Nilaiyur channel for irrigation’||A section of farmers from Tirupparankundram block urged the district administration to release water from the Vaigai through Nilaiyur channel to fill the system tanks for undertaking cultivation during the online grievance meeting held on Tuesday. The meeting chaired by Collector T.G. Vinay was the first farmers' grievance meeting conducted in the district since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. Farmers from the 13 blocks took part in the online meeting. Sethu, a farmer from Tirupparankundram block, said that the groundwater level in their block was depleting and all the tanks were dry without water. “By releasing water for irrigation, the groundwater level will increase and the farmers can also undertake cultivation,” he said. There were several irregularities in the distribution of water for irrigation by Public Works Department (PWD) officials, said S. Dharmaraj, a farmer from Karuppayurani. “The PWD officials are releasing excess water for areas where the requirement is lower. Similarly, they are releasing less water for areas where the requirement is higher,” he added. The Collector said that the issue will be addressed at the earliest. The PWD officials are releasing excess water when compared to last year, said Rajamanickam, a farmer from Melur block. Many private establishments were not giving printed receipts to farmers who purchase agricultural commodities, said Kumarasamy, a farmer from Alanganallur block. Joint Director of Agriculture T. Vivekanandan said that the officials will inspect the shops and take immediate action against such private establishments. Many farmers complained that water for irrigation did not reach tail-end areas. Ramar, a farmer from Chellampatti block, said that there was a need to establish more number of Direct Procurement Centres (DPC) for paddy in their block as harvest for kuruvai season was under way.  The Collector said that the officials will inspect and accordingly introduce more number of DPCs. Farmers from Vadipatti block alone couldn't participate in the online meeting due to a technical glitch and the Collector asked them to submit their petitions to agricultural department officials.
14 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||State appeals against trial court order in Dindigul case||The State has preferred an appeal before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court against the acquittal of a youth by Dindigul Mahila Court in the rape and murder case of a minor, daughter of a hairstylist. The acquittal had sparked outrage and hairstylists across the State staged protests, demanding justice. State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan on Tuesday made a mention in this regard before a Division Bench of Justices K. Kalyanasundaram and T. Krishnavalli. The judges ordered notice to the youth, who was accused of rape and murder. The State, in the appeal, said the trial court had failed to consider key evidence in the case. It ought to have seen the presence of the accused in the house of the deceased at the time of occurrence and his conduct after coming out of the house, as stated by an eye witness. The trial court also failed to consider the evidence of the DNA test conducted from the blood-stained inner wear of the accused that matched with the DNA of the girl’s parents. This, coupled with the evidence, clearly established the guilt of the accused, the State said, and sought setting aside of the acquittal.
14 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Man who shared PM’s caricature gets advance bail||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has granted anticipatory bail to a 30-year-old man from Kanniyakumari district who was booked by Kanniyakumari police for sharing a caricature of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on WhatsApp. Justice G.K. Ilanthiraiyan granted anticipatory bail to the petitioner, J. Sajin of Kadayal. The court took into account the fact that there was no other case pending against him. Apprehending arrest, Sajin, in his petition, said he had shared the images accidentally and had no intention to defame the reputation of the Prime Minister.  Various sections  He was booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code.
14 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea for better network connectivity||I. Irudhayamary, a 65-year-old woman, filed a public interest litigation petition before the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Tuesday seeking a direction to the State and the BSNL to upgrade 2G network connectivity currently available in Manjolai, Kakkachi, Nalumukku and ooththu estates region in Ambasamudram in Tirunelveli district. Around 700 family cards had been issued to the people and presently 2,000 labourers were working in plantations The children of these labourers, more than 100 in numbers, were all studying in schools, colleges and other institutions across Tirunelveli. The children are unable to attend online classes, apply for examinations or other courses, download study materials. There was a need to upgrade the network to 4G connectivit. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi ordered notices to State and BSNL. The case was adjourned.
14 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to release water||A section of farmers from Tirupparankundram block urged the district administration to release water from the Vaigai through Nilaiyur channel to fill the system tanks for undertaking cultivation in their block, during the online grievance meeting held on Tuesday. District Collector T.G. Vinay chaired the meeting
14 October 2020||MAYILADUTHURAI,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat V-P, spouse booked||A case was filed against Mannampandal panchayat vice-president and her husband after president Priya Periyasamy, 23, belonging to a Scheduled Caste, staged a dharna for three hours in front of the Mayiladuthurai panchayat union office on Monday, alleging caste discrimination at the workplace. Amala and her husband Rajagopal were booked at the Mayiladuthurai station under the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, and under the Indian Penal Code for causing annoyance with an obscene act at a public place and criminal intimidation. Sources said the flashpoint came when Ms. Amala and Mr. Rajagopal sneered at Ms. Priya for having bought a revolving chair for her use in the office, along with other pieces of furniture, in compliance with the procedures. Support extended The Left parties and the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi members backed Ms. Priya, who withdrew the protest after Block Development Officer Saravanan assured her of action. Meanwhile, president of the Erugaiyur panchayat in the T. Palur block of Ariyalur district, also belonging to a Scheduled Caste, staged a dharna in front of the panchayat union office on Tuesday, alleging discrimination by the vice-president and ward members. Dakshinamoorthy, 50, and his supporters alleged that he was ill-treated by vice-president Kanimozhi, her husband Sekar and a few ward members.    Mr. Dakshinamoorthy told journalists that he had undergone treatment at the Jayankondam Government General Hospital for the mental agony brought on by their ill-treatment. He said the vice-president was bypassing authority, and he had already conveyed the matter to the Block Development Officer (BDO) through an advocate. BDO Sridevi met Mr. Dakshinamoorthy and assured him that his grievance would be redressed. Then, he withdrew the protest, sources said. Official sources, however, said the interference in the administrative matters by Mr. Dakshinamoorthy’s son, a government employee, did not go down well with the ward members. Since the discord between the president and the ward members had been persisting for long, officials cautioned Mr. Dakshinamoorthy against allowing his son to interfere in the administration. Mr. Dakshinamoorthy had reasoned that he was uneducated, so he required his son’s assistance. ( With inputs from Special Correspondent in Ariyalur )
14 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry’s tally goes past 32,000||The test positivity rate declined further with 268 new cases reported from over 4,200 tests on Tuesday even as the overall COVID-19 tally crossed 32,000 cases in the Union Territory. The test positivity rate touched a new low of 6.30% in over three months while case fatality rate declined to 1.77%. The recovery rate was 83.94%. Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi said there should be no let up in the enforcement of safety norms in spite of the fall in test positivity rate. The system of random sampling could be taken as part of survey of state of health and as a form of feedback on the ground situation, she said. Ms. Bedi, who reviewed the situation with officials, had given instructions to get the LED screen of the Tourism Department at the beach repaired and use it for running awareness messages. Meanwhile, two more persons, including a 60-year-old woman, died of COVID-19, taking the toll to 567. Both fatalities were recorded in Karaikal where the toll stands at 51. For the first time in nearly three months, no COVID-19 casualty was reported in the capital. The deaths in Puducherry is 470, Yanam 42 and Mahe four. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told a press meet that 268 new cases were registered at the end of testing of 4,249 samples on Tuesday, raising the overall tally to 32,004 cases. With 310 patients discharged on Tuesday, 26,865 patients had recovered so far in the U.T. Of the 4,572 active patients, 2,944 patients were in home isolation. Puducherry accounted for 202 new cases out of 268 fresh infections, followed by 36 in Karaikal, 8 in Yanam and 22 in Mahe region. Mr. Rao said retired health officials were willing to volunteer their services to help contain the pandemic. The health department is looking at forming teams to carry out post-COVID health check-up on recovered patients. Of the 2.41 lakh samples tested by the health department, 2.06 lakh samples were negative.
14 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Expedite constitution of welfare board for informal workers: CPI(M)||The Puducherry unit of the CPI(M) has urged the government to expedite constitution of the Informal Workers Welfare Board to offer lifeline to a labour segment worst hit by the pandemic. In a memorandum to the Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, CPI (M) secretary R. Rajangam said the labour force in the Union Territory had the largest number of informal workers and this section was facing loss of job security and social security. Pointing out that many workers were depressed, unable to pay for food, rent and meet children's needs and a few had committed suicide, the CPI(M) leader said the failure of the government to implement its own assurance for a board was a matter of concern. He pointed out that the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance passed the Informal Workers Protection Act in 2009. The Informal Workers Welfare Board was also an assurance given in the Assembly in 2019. During subsequent negotiations with the workers, it was promised that the Welfare Board would be constituted by January 10, 2020, with a Diwali allowance of Rs. 1000 for 2019 have not materialised. There was also a union demand for providing assistance of Rs. 1,000 as corona relief to informal workers who were not registered with the welfare society. However, about 8,000 workers, including tailors, who are members of the welfare society, have not been given any aid. The government had also announced that it would follow the Centre in extending vehicle insurance/renewal/road tax validity for rental vehicles engaged in transportation till the end of the year, but had failed to implement it. Mr. Rajangam urged the Chief Minister to implement the assurances without any further delay.
14 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G hiding facts on rice, medical admission: CM||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy has accused Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi of ‘hiding’ certain facts while issuing statements on medical admission controversy and rice distribution issue. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, the Chief Minister said Ms. Bedi had failed to openly acknowledge the fact that the Central Bureau of Investigation had cleared all charges she had levelled against senior officials involved in the admission process. Recently, the Madras High Court while imposing fine on private medical colleges for committing irregularities, did not find any wrong-doing by the officials. The government had always maintained its stand that the admission procedure followed by the Centralised Admission Committee (Centac) was proper and as per rules. The government was in favour of taking action against the private colleges if they were found guilty of wrong-doing in admission process by not admitting the students recommended by Centac. The government’s views on the issue was communicated to the Medical Council of India. However, it was the Lt. Governor who recommended a CBI probe against government officials overseeing the admission process. The agency closed the case as it found that the officials were not guilty, the Chief Minister said. “The court recently gave its judgement imposing fine on the colleges for irregularities in the admission process. Ms. Bedi was quick to say the court judgment was a Diwali gift to the people of the Union Territory,” he said. The Chief Minister sought to know from the Lt. Governor whether making false complaints against the officials and harassing them was any sort of Diwali gift. “It is Ms. Bedi who is giving false information to the public. She has never acknowledged the closure of a case recommended by her,” Mr. Narayanasamy said. Responding to the Lt. Governor’s statement that the judiciary and the Centre had approved her stand on direct benefit transfer (DBT) mode for implementing welfare schemes, the Chief Minister said the court has not given any final judgement on DBT for free rice scheme. “I have appealed against the single Bench order on transfer of money instead of providing free rice. And the case is likely to come up next month. How can someone say that the judiciary has upheld her decision when the appeal is still pending,” the Chief Minister said. Stating that free rice was one of the commitments given by the party during elections and it was a policy matter of the government, the Chief Minister said “the Lt. Governor has no right to interfere in policy matters.” The Chief Minister said it was also wrong on her part to state that the Centre had concurred with her stand. The former Union Minister for Consumer Affairs Food and Public Distribution, late Ram Vilas Paswan, was in favour of distributing rice, he said. “He clearly said if the government wanted to distribute rice it was free to do so. We even asked the Minister to supply rice through the FCI,” he said. On Lt. Governor’s statement that distribution of rice would lead to corruption, the Chief Minister said majority of the States, including Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala, were distributing rice through public distribution outlets. “So does it mean the distribution process in these States is corrupt,” he added.  How can someone say that the judiciary has upheld her decision when the appeal is still pending?
14 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Power supply will be disrupted from 9.30 a.m. to 6 p.m. in Vaithikuppam and Ramalinga Nagar on Wednesday due to maintenance works in the area. On Thursday, there will be power disruption in parts of Vazhaikulam and Guber Pada Salai Street.
14 October 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Five surrender in court||Five persons surrendered before the Judicial Magistrate Court here on Tuesday in connection with the murder of a priest at Pandi Koil near Madurai on Oct 10. Police said that Gopi (22), son of Veeranan of Illamanur, Karan (23), son of Boominathan of Pandian Nagar, Gowtham (25), son of Muthuvel of Karupayoorani, Rajapandi (26), son of Nadukattan and Pandithurai (24), son of Arasu of Karupayoorani, surrendered before the JM. The court directed them to be detained in judicial custody until Oct 16. A police officer said that the priest Gurusami (28), son of Muthuraja of Karuppayoorani, was murdered by an armed gang in Madurai three days ago. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the heinous crime had happened due to previous enmity. The Anna Nagar police in Madurai had registered a case of murder, he added.
14 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||CM’s mother cremated at native village in Salem||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s mother K. Thavasayammal, who died late Monday night at a private hospital in Salem, was cremated along the banks of Cauvery river here on Tuesday morning. Mr. Palaniswami and his brother Govindhan performed the final rites at their native village Siluvampalayam in Edappadi. Thavasayammal is also survived by an elder daughter K. Vijayalakshmi. Thavasayammal was undergoing treatment for age-related ailments. Earlier, Mr. Palaniswami reached Salem by road during the early hours of Tuesday. Speaker P. Dhanapal called on Mr. Palaniswami and expressed his condolences. Deputy Chief Minister O. Pannerselvam and Ministers paid their respects. Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy, ADGP, Law and Order, Rajesh Das, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugham, secretaries of various other departments, senior party functionaries and legislators also paid their respects. District functionaries of DMK T.M. Selvaganapathy, S.R. Sivalingam, DMK MLA R. Rajendran, S.R. Parthibhan, MP, and representatives of various other political parties also paid their respects. Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Telengana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, Leader of the Opposition. M.K. Stalin, PMK leader S. Ramadoss, MPs Anbumani Ramadoss and Thol. Thirumavalavan, MDMK leader Vaiko, actor Rajinikanth, DMDK leader Premalatha Vijaykanth, BJP State president L. Murugan and other leaders condoled the death.
14 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Presumed dead, relatives put aged man in freezer||An elderly man who was presumed dead by relatives was put in a freezer for over 12 hours, before being rescued by emergency responders here. According to police, Balasubramania Kumar (74) lives with his sibling, Saravanan, and the latter’s family near Kandhampatti. Mr. Kumar was undergoing treatment for various age-related ailments and his health condition had deteriorated on Monday. Taking him for dead, Saravanan ordered for a freezer box and placed the “body” in it around 9 p.m on Monday and made arrangements for funeral on Tuesday. However, the persons who came to collect the freezer box on Tuesday found Mr. Kumar’s toes moving and alerted the police and 108 ambulance service. Medical technicians in the ambulance checked Mr. Kumar’s pulse and found him to be alive. He was then rushed to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital and rescued. Sooramangalam police are investigating. Family members reportedly told the police that they thought he was dead, and, therefore put him in the freezer.
14 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CM’s mother cremated at native village||Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami’s mother K. Thavasayammal, who died late on Monday, was cremated along the banks of Cauvery river in Salem district on Tuesday. The cremation was done by around 9 a.m. Mr. Palaniswami and his brother Govindhan performed the final rites at their native village Siluvampalayam in Edappadi here. Thavasayammal is also survived by an elder daughter K. Vijayalakshmi. Thavasayammal was undergoing treatment for age-related ailments. She breathed her last at a private hospital in Salem. Earlier, Mr. Palaniswami reached Salem by road during the early hours of Tuesday. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, State Ministers and Members of Rajya Sabha, K.P. Munusamy, R. Vaithilingam, M. Thambi Durai visited the Chief Minister at his residence in Salem and paid their respects. Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, DMK president M.K. Stalin, TNCC president K. S. Alagiri, TMC president G.K. Vasan, PMK founder S. Ramadoss, DMDK founder Vijayakant and BJP leader L. Murugan and actor Rajinikanth condoled the death, an official release said. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy, ADGP, Law and Order, Rajesh Das, Secretaries of various other departments, several District Collectors, senior party functionaries and legislators paid their last respects. Villagers and AIADMK cadre took part in the funeral procession in large numbers.
14 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Harvester machines transported from Chinnasalem to Nalgonda||As part of improving the freight business under the Salem Railway division, harvester machines were transported from Chinnasalem to Nalgonda in Telengana. The special freight train was flagged off by A. Annadurai, Additional Divisional Railway Manager, Salem Division, from Chinnasalem station on Monday. The freight train would be transporting the machines to Nalgonda (Telangana) in Guntur division of South Central Railway, a release said. According to a release, 80 harvester machines were loaded in 32 wagons. The operation of the freight train fetched a revenue of Rs. 11.40 lakh for the Railways. Pazhanivelu, president, State Harvester Machine Owners’ Association, said that the transportation through trains have saved them costs considerably. “This machines while taken via road, besides fuel costs there are toll charges and traffic issues along the way. By transporting the machines through trains, we have saved 50% of the costs,” he said.
14 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem MP questioned by public on poll promises||DMK MP from Salem S.R.Parthibhan was on Monday confronted by a few persons on the poll promises made by DMK-led front during last year’s Lok Sabha polls. The MP, however, alleged that they were drunk and belonged to a rival party. Mr.Parthibhan visited a few areas in Omalur that fall within his Parliamentary constituency. At one place where people were engaged in MGNREGS work, a few persons questioned him on the fate of poll promises. Video clip In a video clip, shared on mobile messaging platforms, they were heard asking the MP on fulfilment of promises such as waiver of education loans, gold loans and farm loans as promised. Mr. Parthibhan was heard saying that the DMK would have fulfilled those promises if it had captured power. He added that the promises would be fulfilled when DMK leader M.K.Stalin becomes Chief Minister. However, as the argument dragged on, he left the place saying those who argued with him “were from the AIADMK”. When contacted, Mr.Parthibhan told The Hindu that he had visited Periyaripatti in Omalur Union to review MGNREGS works on Monday and was interacting with women working there. “They aired their grievances and complained that the State government did not do enough for them during the COVID-19 pandemic,” he claimed. The MP charged that two persons in inebriated condition, claiming to be members of a rival political party, asked him about the poll promises while recording it on phone. “I told them that I am here to listen to the grievances of the public and not to do politics. Later, women at the place advised me to go and not to argue with persons in inebriated condition,” he said.
14 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Mettur water level touches 100 ft||The water level in Stanley Reservoir, Mettur, reached 100ft for the second time this season. According to Public Works Department officials, the water level touched 100ft around 12.25 p.m on Thursday, against a total scale of 120ft. The stored capacity was 64.84 tmc and the dam received an inflow of 27,200 cusecs. The discharge was 14,000 cusecs to Cauvery and 900 cusecs through East-West Canal .
14 October 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Former DMK MLA dies in road accident||Former DMK MLA P Manoharan (66) died in a road accident here on Tuesday. Police said that the ex-MLA, a resident of Kottakudi Street here, left his house in the early morning with his friend identified as Thaibudeen of Ghokale Street on a two-wheeler. They were heading towards Madurai. As they were approaching Padamathur, a mini-lorry from Kerala, carrying vegetables, collided with the bike, in which both Mr. Manoharan and his friend were thrown off. They died on the spot. Poovanthi police in Madurai Rural District rushed to the spot and sent the body to the GH for post mortem. The lorry driver, aged about 30 years, has been secured. Further investigation is on. As the news spread, the DMK members paid tributes. The former MLA’s wife Shanthi had served as chairperson in Sivaganga Municipality.
14 October 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Fire accident||Huge stock of textile was destroyed in a fire that broke out in a textile shop near Sivakasi bus stand on Tuesday. The police said that the fire from the textile shop that spread to an adjacent hotel gutted over 80 chairs in the conference hall and some other furniture too. Fire and Rescue Services personnel, led by Station Fire Officer, K.P. Balamurugan, deployed two fire tenders. However, they could not prevent the inferno from spreading to the hotel from the textile shop that was run in a temporary shed with tin roof. District Fire Officer, Ganesan, and Additional District Fire Officer, Muthupandi, rushed to the spot to monitor fire fighting. After three hours of struggle, the flames were brought under control. Though the actual cause of fire was not known immediately, the police suspect that sparks from a gas stove while cooking could have triggered the fire.
14 October 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers continue agitation||Farmers, who have been demanding arrears from a private sugar manufacturing unit at Vasudevanallur for the sugarcane supplied during the last two years, continued their agitation on Tuesday also. As the Vasudevanallur-based Dharani Sugars reportedly has not paid Rs. 24 crore for the sugarcane purchased from 2,000-odd farmers, the growers, led by P. Ayyakannu, president, Farmers’ Association for National – South Indian Rivers Linking, started the agitation near the Collectorate on Monday. Even as the agitation was going on, Collector G.K. Arun Sundar Thayalan chaired a meeting with representatives of farmers and senior officials of Dharani Sugars, Vasudevanallur, on paying arrears to the suppliers. When the officials representing the sugar company assured that they would settle the arrears by October 30, farmers refused to believe saying that similar assurances given in the past on various occasions in the presence of the Collector during the farmers’ grievance day meetings were not honoured. “If you need two more weeks even beyond October 30 to mobilise the funds for disbursing the arrears to the farmers, we are ready to cooperate with you and wait for two more weeks. At the same time, the Dharani Sugars management, which is now giving us the assurance of settling the entire arrears of Rs. 24 crore by October 30, should give us post dated cheques for the amount to be settled so that our prolonged wait would be meaningful,” the farmers’ representatives said. Talks fail As the officials representing the Dharani Sugars refused to give the post-dated cheques to the sugarcane suppliers for the arrears they have to pay, the talks failed on Monday night, forcing the farmers to continue their agitation beneath the rail over bridge on Tenkasi - Madurai Road. After preparing their food below the bridge, the protesting farmers stayed there overnight braving mosquito bite, intermittent drizzle and cold weather. On Tuesday morning, the farmers, led by Mr. Ayyakannu resumed their agitation without shirt and noose around their neck even raising slogans to highlight their demand. They raised slogans against the Farm Act introduced by the Union Government, saying that it would destroy their livelihood. “Our agitation here will continue until our demand for the immediate disbursal of arrears is met,” said Mr. Ayyakannu. When the agitation started gaining more vigour on Tuesday with the arrival of more farmers from other parts of Tenkasi district, the police cordoned off the agitation venue and stopped outsiders and sent them back to their native places. On an assurance from the Collector that the arrears would be settled in a fortnight’s time, the farmers withdrew their stir in the night.
14 October 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Jawan’s body cremated in Tenkasi district||The body of an Indian Army jawan, who allegedly committed suicide in Jammu and Kashmir, was cremated in his native place of Aayaalpatti on Tuesday. The family of jawan D. Mullairaj, 28, of Aayaalpatti in Tenkasi district, who was working in Baramullah district of Jammu and Kashmir, received information on October 11 over phone that Mullairaj passed away. Since the person who informed the family about the untimely demise of Mullairaj could not be contacted again to understand the reason for his death, the family was shocked. No senior army official contacted the family to formally inform them about the death of Mullairaj. After Mullairaj’s mother Azhagathal submitted a petition to Collector G.K. Arun Sundar Thayalan on Monday, he contacted the higher-ups in the Ministry of Defence to know the reason behind the death of the soldier and took steps to bring the body back to his native place. MDMK general secretary Vaiko sent a letter to Minister for Defence Rajnath Singh seeking probe into the “mysterious death” of the jawan and immediate steps to send the body quickly. A team of army personnel brought the body to Aayalpatti on Tuesday. However, the villagers, who accused the army officials for not properly informing the family about the death, staged a road roko. Led by MDMK Tirunelveli rural district secretary T.M. Rajendran, they said the due compensation should be given to the family. Even though Revenue Divisional Officer Murugaselvi, DSP, Sankarankovil, Balasundaram, and tahsildar Thirumalaiselvi held talks with them, they refused to give up their agitation. When the army officials, in the presence of police and revenue officials, held talks with the protesters, they told the family that Mullairaj had committed suicide. They promised the family that assistance would be given early. The jawan’s body was later cremated. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
14 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Collector’s warning to fertilizer outlets||Thanjavur Collector M. Govinda Rao has warned that the licences of fertilizers traders would be cancelled if they were found indulging in activities leading to scarcity in availability of stock for farming operations in the district. In a press release issued on Tuesday, the Collector said sufficient quantity of fertilizers had been brought and moved to societies, distributors and retail units in different parts of the district. As on date 6,550 tonnes of urea, 3,900 tonnes of DAP, 4,704 tonnes of potash and 8,070 tonnes of ‘complex’ fertilizers had been brought and made available in the district. Further, a consignment of 600 tonnes of IPL urea was expected to reach the district. Directing distributors/retailers and societies to ensure that fertilizer was sold to farmers upon collecting their Aadhaar details, the Collector called upon them to encourage buyers to make the payment for the purchase through digital mode. For this purpose, all retail/distributing outlets should equip themselves with QR scanners. At the same time, they should not insist that farmers complete the transaction digitally but should encourage them to switch over to the mode of payment. The sellers must maintain the inventory of sale on daily basis. Stringent action would be initiated against them if they were found carrying out bulk sales to individuals. Meanwhile, the Communist Party of India, Ammapettai Union unit, alleged that fertilizer and urea were being sold at Rs. 10 to Rs. 15 over and above the rate fixed by the government in the area. Further, agriculture societies had restricted distribution of urea to its members to one bag per acre.
14 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||IIFPT launches two plants||The Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology (IIFPT) added two pilot plants, a virgin coconut oil and food beverage processing plants, to its infrastructure. IFFPT officials said there was a growing demand for virgin coconut oil due to the presence of potential antioxidant activity mainly from vitamin E and dietary bioactive compounds such aspolyphenols which reduce cardiovascular risks. Considering the significant health benefit and global market demand, IIFPT has established a virgin coconut oil processing pilot plant for skill development among farmers, FPOs and food industry stakeholders. The plant will have a capacity to process 1000 coconuts a day. The integrated and automated plant is equipped with facilities such as coconut de-shelling machine, pairing machine, coconut shredder, disintegrator, coconut milk extractor, vibratory stage filter, storage tank, clarifier, tubular centrifuge, microfilter and deep freezer. Virgin coconut oil can be processed by both cold and hot pressing methods and the residual cakes can be utilised for value-added product development resulting in complete utilisation of the nuts. The ease of operation and handling of the plant enables the farmers and small scale operators to benefit. Similarly, a pilot plant for food beverage processing is established with a capacity to process 100 litres of beverage per hour. The integrated plant is assembled with bubble washer, fruit pulper, citrus juice extractor, plate and frame filter press, homogenizer, a storage tank with agitator, sanitary pumps, ultra high temperature sterilizer, carbonation unit with chiller, automatic bottle rinser, filler, capping machine and boiler. The plant is established for skill promotion to farmers, SHGs and industry stakeholders. The two plants were inaugurated laid on Tuesday by Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar through video conference.
14 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Sub-registrar and six others booked||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption has registered a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Criminal Procedure Code against a sub-registrar and six others after seizure of unaccounted money from the office of the Sub-Registrar, Kumbakonam, on Monday. According to official sources, the DVAC, Thanjavur Unit, received information about bribes being taken at the Kumbakonam Sub-Registrar office. Hence, a team of officials led by S. Manoharan, Deputy Superintendent of Police, DVAC, and C. Padmavathi, Inspector, raided the office on Monday evening. The raid, which began around 7 p.m., went on till midnight leading to seizure of Rs. 23,000 in cash from the office premises and pieces of paper containing details about the amount received from document writers and others. After interrogating Asaithambi, sub-registrar, and six other staff attached to the Sub-Registrar Office, a case under Section 7 and 7A of Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 120 of Criminal Procedure Code was booked against the seven persons, sources said.
14 October 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Eight two-wheelers set on fire||The police have arrested a person who set eight bikes on fire due to prior enmity in which a mechanic got charred to death on Monday night. They said N. Maria Antony Dinesh Mendis, 46, who was living in a gated community with 27 houses near Cleopatra Theatre on South Cotton Road, was forced to leave the place two months ago by other tenants as he was troubling others, especially women everyday under the influence of alcohol. Agitated over this, Dinesh Mendis, who suspected that two-wheeler mechanic N. Annamalai, 42, one of the residents there, was the reason behind his leaving the place, came to the gated community on Monday night in an inebriated condition. As Dinesh picked up quarrel with Annamalai, other tenants managed to flush him out of the campus. However, Dinesh, who returned to the spot after midnight., torched the bikes including two-wheelers parked adjacent to the workshop of Annamalai in which eight vehicles were destroyed completely. When fire from the bikes spread to the house of Annamalai, which is situated next to his workshop, Annamalai saved his wife Ganga and younger son Nikhil, 6, first by swiftly evacuating them to safety from the first floor of the house where they were sleeping. As he tried to save his eldest son Nithin, 8, both the father and the son swooned inside the room due to smoke and sustained burns. While Annamalai died on the spot, Nithin has been admitted to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital with serious injuries. Firefighters led by Thoothukudi Fire Station Officer M. Shankar, doused the flame after an hour-long operation that saved other tenants inside the campus. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar and Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thoothukudi, Ganesh, visited the spot. The Thoothukudi South Police have nabbed Dinesh Mendis in this connection.
14 October 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Seven held for assaulting shepherd||The police have arrested seven persons for allegedly forcing a Scheduled Caste shepherd to fall at the feet of intermediate caste Hindu shepherd as a mark of tendering apology to him following a tiff between them. “Besides arresting seven accused in this case, we’ve provided protection to the house of Paulraj, the victim,” said S. Jayakumar, Superintendent of Police, who visited the Kayathar police station and the victim’s house on Tuesday after the case was registered on Monday based on a complaint from Mr. Paulraj. When Mr. Paulraj took his sheep and goats for grazing to Thirumangalakurichikulam tank on October 8, S. Sivasangu, an intermediate caste Hindu shepherd from the same village, also took his sheep and goats inside the water body for grazing. When a lamb of Mr. Paulraj accidentally entered the herd of Mr. Sivasangu, the former entered the herd of Mr. Sivasangu in a bid to take the lamb back to his herd. Agitated over this, Mr. Sivasangu, after verbally abusing Mr. Paulraj by allegedly referring to his caste, tried to attack him with a club. As Mr. Paulraj resisted it, Mr. Sivasangu went to the village and mobilized his relatives S. Periyamari, S. Veeraiya, P. Mahendran, S. Maharajan, S. Sangilipandi and S. Udaiyammal, who assaulted Mr. Paulraj and reportedly threatened him of dire consequences. The victim alleged that they forced him to fall at the feet of Mr. Sivasangu multiple times as a mark of tendering apology to him even as Mahendran and Maharajan were allegedly recording it with their mobile phones. After they posted this video on social media, Mr. Paulraj submitted a complaint with Mr. Jayakumar seeking action against all the accused. As the complaint was referred to the Kayathar police station, a case was registered against Sivasangu and others on Monday under Sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 294(b) (uttering obscenities in public), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506(ii) (criminal intimidation) of The Indian Penal Code, read with sections 3(i)(r), 3(i)(s) and 3(2)(v)a of The SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, read with 66 of IT Act. The police arrested Mr. Sivasangu and others on Tuesday while protection, led by a Sub-Inspector of Police, has been given to the house of Mr. Paulraj. “The police will protect the victim’s family,” said Mr. Jayakumar.
14 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Downward trend continues||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to show a declining trend in the central region for the second consecutive day on Tuesday with 475 persons testing positive for the virus. There was a drop in the number of deaths, with Thanjavur district alone recording two deaths among the eight central districts. In the last few weeks, the region has been recording about 500 to 600 cases every day. Over the past couple of days, however, the figure has come down below 500, to the relief of authorities. Karur and Perambalur districts appear to have effectively controlled the spread of the novel corona virus and are recording less than 50 cases over the past few days. Perambalur has been recording the least number of cases in the region and is reporting fresh cases in single digits in recent days. However, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur continued to record high number of cases, with both reporting over 100 cases on Tuesday too. While the figure was 118 in Thanjavur, it was 109 in Tiruvarur. Two more patients succumbed to the virus in Thanjavur district as per the Health Department’s bulletin on Tuesday. One of them was an 84-year-old male admitted to a private hospital with complaints of cough and difficulty in breathing. He died of COVID-19 pneumonia on Monday. The other patient, a 69-year-old male, died on Sunday due to viral pneumonia/acute respiratory distress syndrome at Thanjavur Government Medical College Hospital. Meanwhile, 164 patients were discharged from hospitals and care centres in Thanjavur district after recovery. District authorities said the intensive measures had started paying off and the death rate in the district was coming down. The number of active cases stood at 727 in Thanjavur and 638 in Tiruvarur. Tiruchi recorded 66 fresh cases, Pudukottai 54 and Nagapattinam 51. Karur and Ariyalur reported 36 cases each. Perambalur with five was at the bottom of the list.
14 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Dalit girl from Anitha’s village to study medicine||Three years after S. Anitha of Kuzhumur in Ariyalur district ended her life, unable to get an MBBS seat through the National Eligibility- cum-Entrance Test (NEET), the dream of another girl hailing from the village of studying medicine has become a reality. Daughter of daily wage earners Shankar and Dhanalakshmi, S. Soundarya will fly to the Philippines to pursue medical education, free of cost, at the Davao Medical Education School Foundation, thanks to a private sponsor. Besides the expenditure for her education, her boarding, food and transport expenses during the period of her study will be sponsored by Transworld Educare Private Limited. Soundarya’s ambition to become a doctor came to be known to Anitha’s brother S.A Manirathnam, who is running a charitable trust in memory of his sister at the village. “The medical institute’s office at Mahabalipuram near Chennai, which wanted to help a poor girl pursue medicine in memory of Anitha, got in touch with me. That was when I told them about Soundarya’s ambition and her poor economic background,” said Mr. Manirathnam, managing trustee of Dr. Anitha Memorial Charitable Trust. A representative from the institute in Chennai came to Kuzhumur a few days ago and interacted with Mr. Manirathnam and Ms. Soundarya to ascertain the girl’s wish. Ms. Soundarya, who had completed Plus Two in a higher secondary school at Kuzhumur with 410 out of 600 marks, said she was sceptical about her chance of studying medicine owing to her economic background and she might be at a disadvantage because of the NEET. Soundarya’s family runs on the wages earned by her parents and her elder brother, who works in Chennai as a labourer after completing Plus Two. Her elder sister is pursuing electrical and electronics engineering at a private college near Tiruchi. “I had almost decided to take up law or some other degree course when this opportunity came knocking at my door,” she said, thanking Mr. Manirathnam for the help and motivation. “I see an Anitha in Soundarya and want her dream of becoming a doctor is realised,” Mr. Manirathnam said. A ‘Free Education Certificate’ from David K Pillai, founder and CEO, Transworld Educare Private Limited, was handed over to Ms. Soundarya a few days ago. Mr. Manirathnam said the trust that he runs has been extending financial support to a girl student from Jayamkondam in Ariyalur district, who is studying medicine, and to a few others.
14 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Evict encroachers from tank’||Farmers and residents of Devarayaneri on the outskirts of the Tiruchi have urged the Public Works Department authorities to take expeditious steps to remove encroachments on the vast irrigation tank in their village. A group of farmers, who petitioned the PWD officials in Tiruchi on Tuesday, alleged that as much as 200 acres of the sprawling tank spread over about 360 acres have been encroached upon by outsiders. Claiming that the Devarayaneri was among the biggest tanks in Tiruchi district, D.R.Karuppasamy, who led the petitioners, said that the tank has been under encroachments over the past 40 years. “The tank is fed by the Uyyakondan canal running from the Vazhavanthankottai tank. It also gets rain flows from jungle streams in Pudukottai district. It has a registered ayacut of about 600 acres,” Mr.Karuppasamy said and complained that despite repeated representations the authorities have failed to evict the encroachers. According to Mr.Karuppasamy and other villages, about 18 acres of land near the tank was given as house site pattas for the ‘narikuravars’ who are settled at Devarayaneri several years back. Taking advantage of this, several persons started encroaching upon the tank. “The encroachers started extending the cultivation area with each passing year and currently about 200 acres is under encroachment,” Mr.Karuppasamy alleged. Accusing the officials of failing to heed their representations and the High Court directives to remove encroachments from irrigation tanks, Mr.Karuppasamy wondered why the encroachments from the Devarayaneri tank were left untouched even though the authorities had recently carried out eviction drives on the Asoor, Thaeneripatti, Thuvakudi and Navalpattu tanks recently. “The PWD officials had previously assured that the encroachments from our village tank will be removed. But they have not kept their word yet. If they fail to act, we will intensify our agitation,” said Mr.Karuppasamy. When contacted, a PWD official said efforts were on to trace the original land records and steps would be taken to remove the encroachments soon.
14 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Recruitment process to fill 54 teaching posts in Bharatidasan University hangs in the balance||The process of recruitment of teaching faculty for 54 vacancies in Bharathidasan University that was initiated last year hangs in the balance, as the hearing on a petition filed by the Association of University Teachers earlier this year is still in progress in the High Court. After the university initiated the process last year based on the Union Cabinet’s promulgation of the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Teachers Cadre) Ordinance, which paves way for treating the entire institution as a singe unit, AUT opposed the move, citing the the Higher Education Department’s subsequent instruction to State universities to treat every department as a single unit to reserve teaching posts for professors, associate professors and assistant professors. Eventually, the department had, during June this year, given the green signal to the university to fill the vacancies to the posts of Professor (14), Associate Professor (14) and Assistant Professor (26). The last recruitment process to fill vacancies to regular posts in bulk was carried out in 2012. According to university sources, there are more than one-third of the regular vacancies out of the sanctioned faculty strength of 240 that have remained unfilled since then. When the case filed by AUT came up for hearing in the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Monday, it was adjourned to the first week of November. “There will be very little time left for the recruitment process to be completed as the three-year term of the Vice-Chancellor P. Manisankar ends in January 2021,” a senior professor said. A university source says there may not be difficulty in completing the process within a month as shortlisting of candidates was completed during January when the interviews were also scheduled. However, there could be obstacles cropping up. During 2017, the State Higher Education Department issued a directive to State Universities advising Vice-Chancellors to avoid recruiting or taking crucial policy decisions during the last three months of tenure. In any case, since the knotty problem — whether to treat the institution or the department as a single unit for the purpose of recruitment — has not been resolved, the chances of filling the posts soon appear dim, senior professors say.
14 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Special postal cover released||A special cover on Philately Day representing philately, numismatics and notaphily was released by Postmaster General, Central Region, Tiruchi, A. Govindarajan here on Tuesday. A set of bookmarks on Gandhiji was also released by him in the presence of department officials. The event was organised in connection with National Postal Week celebrations. The special cover and bookmarks are available at Tiruchi Philatelic Bureau at Tiruchi Head Post Office. During the function, best performers of Tiruchi Postal Division in speed post booking, delivery, opening of accounts, Postal Life Insurants and Rural Postal Life Insurants were honoured by the Postmaster General, a press release said.
14 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Firefighters conduct fire, rescue drill||Firefighters carried out mock rescue and fire drills here on Tuesday on the occasion of International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction. The drills were carried out at the Tiruchi East and West Taluk offices. The firefighters conducted mock exercises such as rescuing people from buildings and water bodies using ropes and ladders. The equipment deployed by firefighters during rescue and fire-fighting operations were demonstrated during the event by the teams. The proper ways to put out different kinds of fire were also demonstrated on the occasion. A senior Fire and Rescue Services Department official said the mock drill was conducted also keeping in mind the forthcoming northeast monsoon. The precautionary measures to be taken by the public ahead of the monsoon season were explained on the occasion.
14 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered||A 35-year-old man, Kalidoss, of Panduthakudi village near Koothanallur in Tiruvarur district was murdered on Tuesday evening. V. Velayutham, 43, his son V. Naveenkumar, 20, and K. Kamaraj, 27, of the same village were detained in connection with the murder. According to police, Kalidoss had an extra-marital relationship with a 25-year-old married woman. The three men apparently came to know of this and allegedly spread the word in the village, leading to enmity between them and the victim. They allegedly attacked Kalidoss with sickles killing him. Koothanallur Police are investigating.
14 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||HPO receives threat letter||Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad personnel conducted checks at the Head Post Office here on Tuesday night following receipt of an anonymous threat letter to postal department officials warning of a bomb explosion. Acting on an alert, personnel of the squad carried out elaborate checks on the premises for nearly two hours. However, they could not find any explosive substances, the police said adding that inquiry was under way.
14 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Advocate murdered||An advocate was murdered by unidentified persons in Harithuvaramangalam police station limits in Tiruvarur district on Monday. The victim, K. Rajkumar, 35, of Muniyur village and his wife Sandhiya, 33, who is also a lawyer, were practising at Judicial Magistrate court in Needamangalam. The advocate’s body was found with cut injuries on the head, jaw and nose near Muniyur lake. Police sources said Rajkumar went on a two-wheeler to his field near the lake to disburse salary to labourers working in his farm and did not return. Harithuvaramangalam Police are investigating the case.
14 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Plea for better basic amenities||Seeking better basic amenities in the twin towns of Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai under the Corporation’s jurisdiction with the State Government’s funds and also under the ongoing ‘Smart City’ programme, the CPI (M) cadre staged a demonstration here on Tuesday. The protesters, led by CPI (M) Tirunelveli district secretary K.G. Bhaskaran, said all urban primary health centres within the corporation limits should be upgraded with better facilities and additional facilities should be created on behalf of the corporation at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital and also at Kandigaiperi Hospital for the benefit the patients coming to the hospitals. After removing the encroachments, all busy roads should be widened and ring roads formed around the city to avert traffic congestion and entry of heavy vehicles inside the city. Work on construction of rail over bridge at Kulavanigarpuram manned level crossing should be started by the Department of Highways. The corporation should facilitate this work. All water bodies within the corporation limits such as Nainarkulam, Vaeinthaankulam, Ilanthaikulam, Vaachchaankulam and Aanaiyarkulam should be deepened and the bunds strengthened. The garbage being dumped at Ramaiyanpatti should be recycled, they said.
14 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||55 new cases in Thoothukudi||Kanniyakumari registered 78 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, which took the district’s tally to 13,927, even as 768 patients are undergoing treatment at hospitals. A total of 100 people were discharged in the district. Dindigul had 71 fresh cases, a jump of 40 over the previous day’s count, with which its tally climbed up to 9,409. There were 54 discharges from hospitals in the district. Sixty-five people tested positive in Madurai, taking the total number of cases in the district to 17,636. A total of 68 persons were discharged from hospitals and the number of active cases is 793. There was one fatality on Tuesday, which pushed the district’s death toll up to 399. Adding 60 fresh cases, Tirunelveli marked a total case count of 13,633. After 62 patients were discharged from hospitals, the district has 679 active cases. The death toll stands at 204. Theni reported 59 fresh cases, with which its tally moved up to 15,750. There were 62 discharges. Thoothukudi recorded 55 new cases to have a tally of 14,236, with 535 active cases. Even as 58 cases were discharged from hospitals, one patient succumbed to the viral infection to push the district’s toll to 125. Virudhunagar registered 51 fresh cases, which saw the district’s tally rise to 14,924. After 32 people were discharged from various hospitals, the number of active cases in the district stands at 262. The death toll remains at 215. Thirty-one people tested positive in Tenkasi, raising the district’s total positive case count to 7,661. After the discharge of 22 people, the district has 190 active cases. Sivaganga registered 19 new cases, which raised its tally to 5,543. Twenty-seven people were discharged from hospitals. Ramanathapuram had 17 fresh cases, with which the district’s tally moved up to 5,777. The district marked 15 discharges.
14 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam Dam on Tuesday stood at 89.15 feet (permissible level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 1,669.45 cusecs and 604.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar Dam stood at 66.90 feet (permissible level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 41 cusecs and no water was discharged.
14 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Draft list of polling stations released in Tiruppur||The district administration released the draft list of the polling stations for the eight Assembly constituencies in the district on Tuesday. District Revenue Officer G. Saravanamurthy released the list in the presence of representatives from various political parties at the Collectorate, a release said. As many as 2,490 draft polling stations were announced for Dharapuram (reserved), Kangeyam, Avinashi (reserved), Tiruppur North, Tiruppur South, Palladam, Udumalpet and Madathukulam Assembly constituencies. Copies of the draft list were issued to the representatives and were made available at the offices of the Electoral Registration Officers and Assistant Electoral Registration Officers, which included the Tiruppur Corporation office, Dharapuram Sub-Collector office, all Taluk and Revenue Divisional Offices and Municipality offices in the district. Representatives of the recognised parties and the voters shall submit any grievances in writing regarding the draft list of polling stations at the above offices before October 20. These grievances will be discussed by the district administration in the subsequent meetings with the party representatives, the release said.
14 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Boy from Pudukkottai reunited with mother||A 15-year-old boy, who left his home in Pudukkottai, was reunited with his mother in Tiruppur on Tuesday by officials from Childline. Tiruppur Childline officials said that the boy left his home in Pudukkottai on Sunday following an argument with his father and boarded a bus to Coimbatore. Upon reaching Coimbatore on Sunday night, he was unsure of how to reach Udhagamandalam where he was planning to stay at a relative’s house. However, he started walking without asking for any directions and inadvertently reached Thekkalur near Avinashi in Tiruppur district on Monday morning after traversing nearly 40 km by foot. At Thekkalur, he requested a motorist to drop him at Udhagamandalam. The motorist, who happened to be a Childline official, took him to the Childline office on Tiruppur-Avinashi Road. The boy was subjected to a medical check-up at the Childline office. No signs of physical abuse or COVID-19 symptoms were found, according to the officials. The officials also conducted counselling sessions for the boy and his parents at Pudukkottai were informed. On Tuesday, his mother picked up her son from the Childline office and left for Pudukkottai by bus, according to the officials. Childline, a 24x7 emergency helpline service for children in distress, can be reached at 1098.
14 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Sambar deer at Ooty park to be let into the wild||The last surviving deer at the Ooty Deer Park are to be released into the wild. According to officials, there are less than 15 Sambar deer left at the park which has been closed for the last few years due to the Central Zoo Authority of India deeming the facility as not meeting requirements to continue operations. The facility is being managed by the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR). On Tuesday, a cage was placed to start trapping the deer so that they could be released back into the wild. Speaking to The Hindu , MTR Field Director K.K. Kaushal said the animals had already been checked for diseases they could be carrying and had been deemed fit for release. “We will slowly start releasing the deer in a phased manner into the reserve forests in the Nilgiris,” he said, and added that the move was being undertaken with the consent of the Chief Wildlife Warden. There had been plans to rehabilitate the deer at zoos across the State, but they were dropped due to concerns about the health and well-being of the animals, especially during transportation to other facilities.
14 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||105 new cases in Vellore, tally crosses 16,500||The number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 16,500 with 105 new cases reported on October 13. While 15,496 patients have been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 728. The district’s death toll stands at 276. In Ranipet district, 24 new cases were reported taking the total to 4,104. In Tirupathur, the number of positive cases stood at 5,842 with 61 new cases on Tuesday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 55 new cases were reported, taking the total to 16,730. Out of this, 15,786 have been discharged and there are 696 active cases.
14 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||IT professional helps set up smart class||A 31-year-old software professional crowd-sourced funds through social media to set up a smart classroom in the Government Adi Dravidar Welfare Primary School in Vellore. Vellore Collector A. Shanmuga Sundaram inaugurated the facility on Tuesday. Dinesh Saravanan from Rangapuram, Vellore, has been working in the IT industry since 2013. Every week he would visit this home town, do some social activity and then publish it on his social media account. Seeing his posts, many people sent him money to continue different social work and help others. “I came to know that the Government Adi Dravidar Welfare Primary School at Nadaiparai, Vellore, did not have a smart class. I waited till I collected Rs. 1.15 lakh and then installed a projector, screen, soundproof ceiling, speakers, woofer and other facilities in a classroom. The room was painted with cartoon characters,” said Mr. Dinesh. The school was started in 1947 and has 102 students and four teachers. “Children will be able to grasp things quickly if it is conveyed visually. Hence, the smart class will be of great help to us once school reopens,” said T. Anbazhagan, headmaster of the school. Mr. Dinesh said he started social work in 2014 after his brother died. “He used to help others a lot,” he recalled.
14 October 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||T.N. Minister taken to Chennai hospital||Agriculture Minister R. Duraikannu, 72, was admitted to the Villupuram Government Medical College and Hospital (VGMCH) in Mundiyambakkam on Tuesday morning with complaints of chest pain. Later, he was taken to Chennai in an ambulance from the hospital. Sources said that Mr. Duraikannu was brought to the VGMCH around 11 a.m. and was stable. He was admitted to the emergency ward and was treated by a team of doctors. The Minister was travelling from Chennai to Salem to pay homage to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’smother who passed awayat a private hospital in Salem early on Tuesday. When the Minister’s convoy reached Vikravandi en-route to Salem, he complained of uneasiness and chest pain and was immediately rushed to the VGMCH. A senior doctor in VGMCH said that he was admitted for a cardiac problem. His condition was stable, and he has now been taken to Chennai in an ambulance.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 toll crosses 500-mark in Coimbatore district||Coimbatore district saw the total COVID-19 toll exceeding the 500-mark on Tuesday with the death of five patients aged 35, 64, 67, 64, and 74. The toll stood at 502. With the reporting of 398 fresh cases on Tuesday, the district’s overall tally stood at 37,919. Of these, 32,653 recovered and 4,764 were active cases. On Tuesday, 478 patients were discharged from various hospitals. Tiruppur reported 166 cases, taking the district’s tally to 10,367. With the death of four persons aged 57, 69, 66 and 72, the toll stood at 160. Of the total cases, 8,878 recovered and 1,329 were active cases. On Tuesday, 116 patients were discharged. All the 277 cases reported in Salem were indigenous including 173 in Salem Corporation limits. Close to 30 patients returned from Namakkal, Coimbatore, Dharmapuri, Kallakuruchi and Karur. Three patients aged 78, 54 and 43 died in Salem. In Namakkal, 129 persons tested positive of whom 13 returned from Erode, Karur, Salem, Chennai, Tiruchi, Coimbatore and Thenkasi. In the Nilgiris, 123 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 5,635, with 727 persons undergoing treatment. The toll in the district increased from 30 to 31 on Tuesday. Erode district reported 106 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 8,527. While 160 persons were discharged, 1,062 persons continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, taking the toll to 104. In Dharmapuri, 104 indigenous cases were reported and in Krishnagiri 85.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||IndiGo set to start New Delhi to Tiruchi daily service||IndiGo airlines is all set to start a service to New Delhi from Tiruchi via Bengaluru from October 25. The airline will operate an Airbus-320 flight with 186 seats on the Tiruchi-Bengaluru-Delhi sector. The daily service will provide connectivity to passengers from Tiruchi and those in the central region, to the national capital. Airline sources said the flight will leave Tiruchi at 7.35 p.m. and reach Bengaluru at 8.40 p.m. It will depart Bengaluru at 9.40 p.m. and arrive at New Delhi at 12.45 a.m. the next morning. The flight from Bengaluru to Tiruchi will leave at 5.40 p.m and arrive at Tiruchi at 7 p.m. It will thereafter leave for New Delhi via Bengaluru from here at 7.35 p.m. IndiGo is the lone airline providing connectivity to domestic destinations such as Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Mumbai from Tiruchi. The airline launched a bi-weekly service to Mumbai in August. Private carrier Jet Airways had, in February 2018, launched a daily service in the Tiruchi-Mumbai-Delhi sector providing direct connectivity to the country’s financial and national capitals from here. However, the airline all of a sudden suspended the service in October 2018, seven months after it began. Since then, there has been no direct connectivity to New Delhi from here. Airports Authority of India statistics reveal that Tiruchi airport had handled 33,585 domestic passengers during the period April to August this year as compared to a little over 1.22 lakh during the corresponding period of 2019, witnessing a decline in passenger movements owing to suspension of flight services due to COVID-19 pandemic.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Temporary doctors appointed||Deaths due to novel coronavirus has been brought under check in Thanjavur district, according to Collector M. Govinda Rao. Disclosing this to reporters at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on Tuesday after distributing appointment letters to 21 medical practitioners absorbed as temporary doctors at COVID-19 ward, the Collector said tireless work of field staff and follow-up exercises carried out in the district helped contain the death rate to below 1.50 %. As on date, 13,684 persons had tested positive in the district and 12,888 recovered and discharged from hospitals/treatment centres. Apart from organising fever camps, door-to-door monitoring of persons suffering from breathing problems helped in identifying patients in need of oxygen support and moving them to hospitals for treatment. Further, field activities such as intensive contact tracing and effective containment measures resulted in containing the spread of the viral infection, he added. Addressing the media, TMC hospital dean Maruthu Durai said normal functioning of the hospital was not affected by the pandemic. As many as 1,190 major and 678 minor surgeries had been performed.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fishkill in U.T.||
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||4,666 new COVID-19 cases, 57 deaths in T.N.||Of the 57 fatalities, 38 persons died at government hospitals. Among the deceased was a 35-year-old woman from Coimbatore. A diabetic, she was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on October 9, and her swab returned positive the next day. She died on October 12 owing to bilateral bronchopneumonia and uncontrolled diabetes, according to a bulletin issued by the Health Department. Six persons in their 40s succumbed to the infection. One of them was a 48-year-old man from Chennai, who had no co-morbidities. He died at ESIC Medical College and PGIMSR, K.K. Nagar, owing to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia on October 12. He had tested positive on September 22, and was admitted to the hospital on October 11 with complaints of fever and difficulty in breathing. In the last 24 hours, 85,509 samples were tested in the State. So far, 84,88,503 samples have been tested.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat vice-president, husband booked||Dakshinamoorthy, 50, and his supporters alleged that he was ill-treated by vice-president Kanimozhi, her husband Sekar and a few ward members. Mr. Dakshinamoorthy told journalists that he had undergone treatment at the Jayankondam Government General Hospital for the mental agony brought on by their ill-treatment. He said the vice-president was bypassing authority, and he had already conveyed the matter to the Block Development Officer (BDO) through an advocate. BDO Sridevi met Mr. Dakshinamoorthy and assured him that his grievance would be redressed. Then, he withdrew the protest, sources said. Official sources, however, said the interference in the administrative matters by Mr. Dakshinamoorthy’s son, a government employee, did not go down well with the ward members. Since the discord between the president and the ward members had been persisting for long, officials cautioned Mr. Dakshinamoorthy against allowing his son to interfere in the administration. Mr. Dakshinamoorthy had reasoned that he was uneducated, so he required his son’s assistance. ( With inputs from Special Correspondent in Ariyalur )
14 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Body found; investigation reveals it was murder||When farmers found a body floating in the Krishna waters near Athani a few days ago, they informed the police. Police officers who retrieved the body were surprised to find gold biscuits valued at Rs. 77 lakh in a trouser pocket. Routine investigation led them to Patagaon village in Maharashtra. A woman from the village came to Athani and identified the man as her husband Sagar Patil. She said that her husband had left with another person from Athani to work in a gold jewellery shop in Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Nagar, earlier known as Mughalsarai, in Uttar Pradesh, a few months ago. She had not heard of him since then. Athani Police identified the other person as Santosh Patil, who is related to Sagar Patil. He revealed that Sagar Patil had gone missing. Meanwhile, Belagavi Police, who got in touch with Uttar Pradesh police, came to know that Sagar Patil and his friend Navanath Babar had hatched a conspiracy to steal gold from Santosh Patil’s shop. Sagar Patil took some gold biscuits and money and fled to Athani from Uttar Pradesh. Navanath Babar, who met him at the border, killed him and took his bag containing the valuables. He threw the body in the Krishna, without realising that there were some gold biscuits left in a trouser pocket. Athani Police have arrested Navanath Babar. A case has been registered, said Police Inspector Shankargouda Basanagoudar.
14 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Three flights diverted from Belagavi||Bad weather forced Sambra airport officers in Belagavi to divert three flights to Hubballi on Tuesday. The three flights — belonging to SpiceJet, IndiGo and TrueJet — could not land due to poor visibility and low-level clouds. Pilots concerned tried to land them initially; but, due to safety concerns, they were advised not to do so. Airport communication officers asked the pilots to land them in Hubballi, instead. In turn, the return flights to Bengaluru, Hubballi and Tirupati from Sambra airport were cancelled for the day. The precaution was taken for safety considerations, airport director Rajesh Kumar Mourya said.
14 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Services resume in hospital||Out-patient and in-patient services have resumed in all departments of the multi-speciality hospital of the Bijapur Lingayat District Educational Association (BLDEA) in Vijayapura, after its conversion into a COVID-19 hospital. COVID ward services are also being continued.
14 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||After days of speculation, BJP picks Munirathna in R.R. Nagar||Ending days of speculation, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) announced former MLA Munirathna, who joined the party last year after quitting the Congress, as its candidate in the byelection to Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly seat. Another new entrant to the party, Rajesh Gowda, a medical practitioner, has been given ticket to contest in Sira. The R.R. Nagar seat had fallen vacant following the resignation of Mr. Munirathna, who had won in 2018 on Congress ticket. The Sira seat fell vacant following the death of JD(S) MLA B. Sathyanarayana. There were several aspirants from the BJP’s own cadre for both seats. But consistent with its stand of giving tickets to those from other parties who quit their Assembly membership to help the saffron party capture power in the State, the BJP central election committee picked Mr. Munirathna. Much uncertainty There was uncertainty as the party’s State core committee had recommended the name of local leader Tulsi Muniraju Gowda along with that of Mr. Munirathna. However, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is said to have insisted on giving ticket to Mr. Munirathna on the grounds that he had crossed over to the BJP following an assurance of getting ticket to contest bypolls. However, concerns are far from over for Mr. Munirathna as the State BJP leaders now have the onerous task of making the party workers and grassroots leaders, along with Mr. Gowda, fall in line in R.R. Nagar. The party had a running feud with Mr. Munirathna when he was a Congress leader and poll opponent for a long time. In fact, the announcement of ticket for Mr. Munirathna came only after the Supreme Court rejected a plea by Mr. Gowda challenging the Karnataka High Court’s order rejecting his election petition against Mr. Munirathna. ‘Inevitable’ Defending the selection of candidates, a prominent BJP leader said this choice was “inevitable” as the party did not have strong candidates from its own cadre. He sought to remind those critical of the choice that the party was trying to make inroads in these two constituencies where its rivals have a strong voter base.
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Parents demand extension of RTE quota till Class 10||Many parents whose children were admitted under the RTE quota to private schools and have completed Class 8 in the 2019-20 academic year are left in the lurch as the State government has not extended the RTE quota till Class 10. School managements are asking these parents to pay the fees if they want their children to be admitted to Class 9. As many parents are unable to pay the fees, their children have been denied access to online classes, they alleged. There are parents who have pulled out their children out of school and admitted them in either low budget private schools or government schools as they are unable to pay the fees. An autorickshaw driver whose daughter completed Class 8 in 2019-20 under the RTE quota in a private school said that the school was not allowing her to attend online classes for Class 9 as the government has not extended it to this year. “I have not put her in another school as I am waiting for the State government to take a decision. She has not touched a notebook or textbook since March. She is keen on studying, but I cannot pay the Rs. 40,000 that the private school is asking me to pay,” he said. The State government, however, has not taken any decision in this regard which has put parents in a dilemma. While the State government was initially mulling over the possibility of extending the quota beyond Class 8 for students from Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities, the move was met with opposition from parents who were not from these communities and they demanded that it should be extended to all students. Officials of the Department of Primary and Secondary Education said the State government is not keen on extending this move as it incurs a cost of around Rs. 560 crore on tuition reimbursements to private schools. Across all classes, 5.06 lakh students are currently studying in private schools under the 25% reservation quota.
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||How can govt. seek money to set up PHC in a village: HC||Is the policy the government compelling the villagers to provide two-acres of land and deposit Rs. 1 lakh if they want a primary health centre (PHC) in their village is justified when the citizens have right to protection of health? The Karnataka High Court posed this question to the State government during the hearing of a a PIL petition, filed by H.K. Ramchanandra and five others. The petitioners wanted a PHC in their village of Jodihocihalli of Kadur taluk in Chikkamagalur district. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S Kinagi said the policy of the Government villagers requiring to provide two acres of land and deposit Rs. 1lakh for a PHC appears to be unjust when the citizens right to health care as per the interpretation the apex court’s judgements on the right to protection of life and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. Earlier, Vijayakumar A Patil, a government counsel, in response to Court’s query on whether there exists any policy to establish PHCs, said that the policy framed, in 1987, stated that the residents of a village, having population more than 30,000, were required to deposit Rs. lakh and give two acres of land free of encumbrance for constructing a building if they wanted the Government to set up a PHC their village. The villagers were also required to provide temporary building till permanent building for PHC till permanent building is constructed, it was stated on behalf of the Government while pointing out a sub-centre of PHC is esblished in a place having population of 5,000 and Community Health Centres (CHCs) is established in an having population of one lakh. Meanwhile, Mr. Patil assured the Court that the Government will reconsider the policy as it was framed several years ago.
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ORR line: BMRCL opens bids||The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) on Tuesday opened the financial bids of the long-pending and crucial Outer Ring Road (ORR) line. The managing director of BMRCL said that financial evaluation of the bids will be carried out before awarding the tender. In December 2019, the BMRCL had floated a tender in two packages for construction of an elevated line from Silk Board to K.R. Puram. Ajay Seth, MD, BMRCL, said that lowest bid cannot be declared before completion of the financial evaluation. “L&T, AFCONS, GR Infra and NCC had bid for both Package 1 and 2. ITD Cementation and Shankaranarayan Constructions had bid for Package 2,” Mr. Seth said. The Union government is yet to approve the project. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had written to the Union government seeking early approval for the project, first in June and again in September this year. The stretch will have stations at Central Silk Board, HSR Layout, Agara, Ibbalur, Bellandur, Kadubeesanahalli, Kodibeesanahalli, Marathahalli, ISRO, Doddanekundi, DRDO sports complex, Saraswathi Nagar and K.R. Puram. Construction of a flyover loop at Silk Board is also a part of the project. BMRCL, in the tender document, had stated that it would take 27 months to complete the project. This is the second time that BMRCL had floated the tender. In December 2018, BMRCL had cancelled a tender citing various reasons, including difficulty in taking possession of land, raising funds, and lower bid by the crisis-hit IL&FS.
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Do not let your guard down post COVID-19, say doctors||With one in four recovered patients turning up at hospitals with post COVID-19 infections, doctors say it is important that patients do not let their guard down even after recovery. Doctors are seeing people reporting various symptoms ranging from recurrence of fever and cough to breathlessness due to fibrosis or scarring in the lungs, cardiac issues and stroke due to blood clotting. While some patients are reporting psychological distress, others have minor issues that can be treated with just a little counselling, said doctors. Sudarshan Ballal, Chairman of Manipal Hospitals, who is also part of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee, said apart from these symptoms, most are complaining about fatigue. “We have seen nearly 25% of recovered patients coming back with complaints. We have also seen two patients, who developed a reinfection. They had recovered in July and had tested negative before discharge. But they came back recently with a RT-PCR positive report,” he said. Advising patients to strictly follow their doctor’s advice post recovery, Dr. Ballal said it is important that they do not compromise on precautions such as mask wearing and maintaining social distancing. “Oxygen saturation levels must be monitored regularly and CT scan of the lungs should be repeated for those who return with breathlessness. Those with comorbid conditions should take extra care,” he said. Pulmonologist K.S. Satish, who is also part of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee, said every recovered patient can have one or the other post COVID-19 issue even up to 90 days. “Minor issues do not need any medication and can be treated through counselling. Those who return with mild lung issues can be treated just through pulmonary rehabilitation (physiotherapy). People are unnecessarily getting hysterical,” he said. Stating that only around 10% of patients, who would have required ventilator support (during the first infection), are returning with fibrosis, Dr. Satish who is also the president of Karnataka Pulmonologists Association said: “That can also be treated over a period of time and people need not panic.” V. Ravi, Senior Professor of Neuro Virology at NIMHANS, also part of the State’s expert committee, said reinfections are rare and can occur only in those who have not mounted a proper immune response, especially antibody response. “If a patient has a timely and protective immune response he/she can clear the virus. People should not panic and at the same time not throw precautions to the wind after recovery,” he added.  Every recovered patient can have one or the other post COVID-19 issue even up to 90 days. Minor issues do not need any medication and can be treated through counsellingK.S. SatishPulmonologist
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘How will COVID-19 norms be enforced in festival season?’||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to explain how it plans to ensure COVID-19 safety norms such as social distancing and wearing of masks are followed strictly during the upcoming festival season at public places such as markets. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi issued the direction during the hearing of PIL petitions related to COVID-19 health management. Earlier, it was pointed out to the Bench by the counsel for a petitioner that as already a large section of the public was not wearing masks in public places, a similar attitude during congregations during the festival season might result in a greater spread of COVID-19. Bed availability The Bench directed the government to submit its policy on reserving 50% beds in private hospitals for COVID-19 patients. This direction was issued after noting that the data submitted by the government indicated that there were only 44,848 beds reserved for COVID-19 patients in both publicand private hospitals across the State. As there was a confusion over whether the data on beds reserved for COVID-19 patients was complete, the Bench asked the government to look into the numbers again. It pointed out that the number of beds available was low given the steep rise in the number of COVID-19 patients last fortnight. The Bench also asked the government to state whether any exercise has been carried out recently on the requirement of beds as per the mandate for preparedness under the Disaster Management Act based on the projection of COVID-19 cases. Meanwhile, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike informed the Bench 62 of the 380 hospitals designated for COVID-19 had been inspected by special teams set up by the monitoring committee so far.
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Virtual multi-speciality clinics at PHCs||Tendering process to set up virtual multi-speciality clinics at primary health centres (PHCs) in Bengaluru is set to start within a week. This was decided at a meeting of Deputy Chief Minister Ashwath Narayana with BBMP health officials on Tuesday. The facility would enable patients avail of the services of specialists in addition to the existing services available in the PHCs. One such centre will be established in each legislative constituency of the city in the first phase. BBMP officials felt the time is conducive for enhanced digitisation of health services in the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic. As per the proposed model, any patient could walk into a PHC and get registered by providing the Aadhaar card. The digital clinic centre would connect the patient to the specialists concerned who would be in the E-Command Health Centre. Later, this would enable diagnostics, doctor’s examination, the release of prescription, and other services. “This would result in over 60% reduction in bed days, admissions and costs. Over 90% decrease in emergency department use by CHF (congestive heart failure), COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), and diabetic patients. Over 80% reduction in 30-day COPD readmissions,” according to an official release.
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PU lecturers stage protest against appointment delay||Hundreds of candidates who were recruited as lecturers in a government PU college staged an overnight protest as the Department of Pre-University Education has not given them appointment orders even a year after they were selected. Following this, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar assured them that the appointment orders would be issued soon after the PU colleges reopen. However, the candidates have not withdrawn the protest and demanded that the government should immediately issue appointment orders. It has been a long wait for the candidates who applied in 2015 when a notification for recruitment of PU colleges was issued. The counselling for 1,203 candidates has been completed, but appointment orders have not been given.
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mineral corporation begins exploration of BGML land||Mineral Exploration Corporation Ltd. has commenced exploration of natural minerals on the land belonging to the defunct Bharat Gold Mines Ltd. (BGML) in Kolar. The drilling was started on BGML lands to identify non-mineral areas and hand them over for development as an industrial park by the State government. “Happy to convey that exploratory drilling at Betrayaswamy block of Kolar Gold Field commenced today. This will help in resolving the BGML issue which has been pending for the last 16 years,” tweeted Union Coals and Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi on Tuesday. After a meeting with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on August 28, Mr. Joshi said the Mineral Exploration Corporation Ltd. would identify areas that have not been explored for natural minerals within six months. If after the survey the land parcel does not possess any minerals, it will be handed over to the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board to set up the industrial park. The land is strategically located, at 90 km from Bengaluru airport, 260 km from Chennai port, and 314 km from Krishnapatnam port. During the survey, if any gold, palladium or tungsten minerals are found, the State government will auction them off and get royalty, Mr. Joshi had said at the meeting in August.
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM has virtual meeting with Piramal Group head||In an attempt to draw investments to Karnataka, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday assured all support to Anand Piramal, executive director of the Piramal Group, for investment in the pharmaceuticals business in the State. During a virtual interaction with the Chief Minister, Mr. Piramal acknowledged the pro-industry and ease-of-doing-business steps taken by the State government and evinced interest in investing in pharmaceuticals in the State, according to official sources in the government. Mr. Yediyurappa explained to Mr. Piramal the various concessions being offered by the government to entrepreneurs in the State. He also explained the recent policy changes made to attract investments and land acquisition for establishment of industries. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar informed Mr. Piramal about the business opportunities in the Karnataka and made efforts to convince the company about the rules prevailing in the State for setting up industrial units.
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Doctors suggest flexible discharge of stable patients||With a rise in the number of positive cases, doctors have now suggested to the State government that the discharge of stable patients should be made flexible so that more beds can be made available for those with severe symptoms. Sudarshan Ballal, Chairman of Manipal Hospitals, who is also part of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee, said: “We should look at options of an early discharge of stable patients who can further undergo therapy in an ambulatory manner or through home care with rigorous monitoring.” “If this is done for appropriate patients, we could free up almost 50% of hospital beds at any given time by bringing down the average length of stay for COVID-19 patients. We can always move the patients back in case they become sick for any reason at short notice,” he added.  If this is done for appropriate patients, we could free up almost 50% of hospital beds at any given time by bringing down the average length of stay for COVID-19 patients.Sudarshan BallalChairman of Manipal Hospitals
14 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||KPSC: Interviews from Oct. 19 to Nov. 18||The Karnataka Public Service Commission will hold interviews from October 19 to November 18 for 221+88 (HK) posts of Assistant Horticulture Officer in the Horticulture Department, five posts of Chief Librarians in Department of Public Libraries, and 7+3 (HK) posts of Urdu teachers in Morarji Desai Residential Pre-University Colleges. It will be held at the KPSC Central Office in Bengaluru. For details, visit www.kpsc.kar.nic.in
14 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on October 15-16 from 10.30 a.m. to 4 p.m. in areas coming under Jayadeva, F9, F10 and F20, Sarakki F-24 and F-15 sub-stations for taking up conversion works, according to a Bescom release.
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Council polls: 30 candidates remain in fray||A total number of 30 candidates remain in the fray in the two graduates’ and two teachers’ constituencies of the Legislative Council after the final day of withdrawal of nominations. Karnataka South-East Graduates constituency has the highest number of candidates with 15 in the mix after the withdrawal of three. Karnataka North-East Teachers constituency has the least number of candidates (5). Among the other two, Bangalore Teachers constituency has nine candidates and Karnataka West Graduates constituency has 11 candidates. The polls will be held on October 28, while the votes will be counted on November 2. The polls have been necessitated by the retirement of R. Chowda Reddy Toopahalli, Sharanappa Mattur, S.V. Sankanur, and Puttanna on June 30.
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) picks candidate||After long deliberations,the Janata Dal (S) on Tuesday announced V. Krishnamurthy as its nominee for the R.R. Nagar byelection. He, accompanied by former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, will file his nomination papers on Wednesday, a release from the party said. While the JD(S) had announced Ammajamma, wife of the late MLA B. Sathyanarayana, as the candidate in Sira last week, the R.R. Nagar announcement had been delayed. Insiders said the party wanted to wait till the BJP formally announced its candidate. The JD(S) announcement came soon after the BJP finally announced Munirathna as its pick.
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Parting shot||Minister B. Sriramulu on Tuesday indirectly tried to imply that COVID-19 cases had increased after Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar took over the responsibility of handling the pandemic. “The number of COVID-19 cases used to be around 1,000 a day when Sudhakar started monitoring the situation in Bengaluru. But now the cases have touched 5,000 in Bengaluru. But it does not mean that Mr. Sudhakar has failed,” Mr. Sriramulu said when asked if his being stripped of the Health portfolio meant he had failed in handling the COVID-19 situation.
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KPCL plant fire: Two more dead||Two more engineers injured in the KPCL power plant fire in Yelahanka recently succumbed on Monday, taking the total number of deaths to three. Executive Engineer Krishna Bhat, 56, and Assistant Executive Engineer Manjappa, 58, were among 15 persons injured during the trial run of the gas-based power plant on October 2. The other persons, who sustained burn injuries, are recovering at various hospitals.
14 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hassan sees 316 new cases||As many as six people died and 316 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Hassan on Tuesday. With this, the death toll rose to 384. The total number of cases stands at 21,905. Among the infected, 17,587 people have recovered so far and 3,934 are under treatment. A bulletin released by the district administration said that among the new cases, 47 are from Arsikere taluk, 24 from Channarayapatna, four from Alur, 121 from Hassan, 23 from Holenarasipur taluk, 29 from Arkalgud, 58 from Belur, seven from Sakaleshpur, and three persons from other districts.
14 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Three held on charge of murder||The Hassan police have successfully solved a nine-month-old murder case reported in Arsikere taluk, working on a tip-off from an informant. The police arrested three people in connection with the murder of a beggar, whose identity is yet to be ascertained. Hassan Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda, in a press conference in Hassan on Tuesday, shared information about the investigation with the media. A half-burnt dead body was found near Arekere near Banavara on January 6 this year. The investigation did not proceed until S. Siddarameshwara, Belur CPI, received a call from the informant from Lakya village in Chikkamagaluru taluk recently. The caller said that a group of three persons had killed a beggar in the village over a petty issue. The officer and his team took three suspects — Srikanth, 26, Mohan, 29, and Chetan, 29 — into custody. Mr. Gowda said the three, who were in an inebriated condition, picked up a quarrel with the beggar at Lakya. They assaulted him. In retaliation, the beggar bit Srikanth’s hand and ran away. Later, the three caught the beggar and killed him by hitting him with sticks. To avoid getting caught, they threw the body near Arakere after burning it.
14 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Implement Sadashiva panel report’||Members of the Federation of Dalit Chalavadi Madiga Sanghas staged a ‘Tamate Chalavali’ in Hassan on Tuesday urging the State government to implement recommendations of Justice A.J. Sadashiva Commission on internal reservation. The protesters raised slogans of their demands, beating the Tamate, a percussion instrument, in front of the B.R. Ambedkar statue on the premises of the Deputy Commissioner’s office. The protesters said people had been fighting for the implementation of the panel’s recommendations for the last 12 years. Recently, the Supreme Court ruled in favour of internal reservation among the Scheduled Castes. If the recommendations are implemented, many castes under the Scheduled Castes would benefit from it. The BJP had promised implementation of the recommendations during the election campaign. It should stand by its promises, they said. The protesters also demanded that the government release the socio-economic census conducted by the Karnataka State Backward Classes Commission.
14 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Street meetings held at various localities in Dharwad||Members of All India Mahila Samskrutika Sanghatane (AIMSS) held street meetings at various localities in Dharwad on Tuesday condemning the Hathras incident and the Uttar Pradesh government’s apathy towards in providing justice to the victim’s family. The Hathras rape and assault incident took place in September; it will be a month on October 14. And, as mark of a protest, the Dharwad district committee of AIMSS organised street meetings by the roadside at various localities. The street meetings were held at the City Bus Terminal, the Old Bus Station, the Vivekananda Circle, among other places. The protestors sang songs, raised slogans and highlighted the need for raising voice against such inhuman crimes and also the need for a united fight to get justice to the victim’s family. District secretary of AIMSS Vijayalakshmi Devatkal said that recurrence of such inhuman crimes had made one to wonder whether society one lived in was civil. “The Uttar Pradesh government has indulged in character assassination of the victim in a bid to protect the accused who belong to the powerful community of the State. The way the incident had unravelled clearly indicated how the system looked at women and how women from the lower classes were being exploited,” she said. District AIMSS vice-president Gangubai Kokare said that the incident also revealed the patriarchal mindset of society. She said that sex and violence in mainstream films, pornography, vulgar literature, drugs and liquor were the main cause for the increase in such crimes and they should be totally banned. AIMSS joint secretary Devamma demanded speedy trial in the case in a fast track court outside Uttar Pradesh and stringent punishment to all those involved in the crime. She also sought action against the police officials who had denied a decent funeral for the victim.
14 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Candlelight march in protest against Hathras gang-rape||As part of their “protest week”, students associated with All India Democratic Students Organisation (AIDSO) took out a candlelight march in Kalaburagi on Tuesday evening condemning the rape-and-murder of a 19-year-old woman at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. Earlier in the day, the agitating students actively participated in a campaign on Twitter between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m., condemning the brutal crime and demanding justice for the victim. “Uttar Pradesh under the BJP is increasingly becoming unsafe for women and weaker sections of society. The increasing sexual assaults on women and atrocities on Dalits speak volumes about the derailed law and order in that State. Uttar Pradesh Police are trying to protect the guilty. A case should be booked against the police who deliberately delayed registering an FIR, denied proper medical care to the victim and tried to destroy all evidence of the crime,” said H.S. Hanamantha, district president of AIDSO, after paying homage to the victim at SVP Circle here. Sneha Kattimani, a student leader, demanded that the government put the case on fast track for quick hearing and disposal so that the culprits could be punished at the earliest. “It is very much clear that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had failed to ensure women safety in his State. To douse the protests that were erupting across the country in condemnation of the rape, the government is trying to brand the agitations as international conspiracy,” she said. The students also opposed the recent amendment to farm legislation terming them “anti-people”.
14 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Activists take to the street in Kalaburagi||Condemning the Hathras gang-rape and demanding stringent punishment for the culprits, hundreds of activists belonging to the Karnataka Rajya Dalit Sangharsh Samiti took out a procession and staged a demonstration in Kalaburagi on Tuesday. The activists, led by samiti State convenor D.G. Sagar, took out a protest rally on Jagat Road holding blue banners, waving flags and raising slogans against the culprits as well as the Uttar Pradesh government. Later, they staged a demonstration outside the district administrative complex and submitted a memorandum, addressed to the President, to the office of the Deputy Commissioner. “Uttar Pradesh has hitherto been known as a land of rowdies. With a series of rapes being reported, it is now becoming a land of rapists. Under the BJP government, lawlessness has become the order of the day. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath himself is protecting the rapists. We appeal to the President to intervene and ensure that the culprits in the recent rape cases get stringent punishment,” Mr. Sagar said, during the agitation. Taking serious exceptions to the remarks of Mr. Adityanath over the incident, Mr. Sagar said that the Chief Minister’s words were encouraging to upper caste rapists. “Considering the fact that the culprits in the Hathras gang-rape belonged to the Thakur caste, Mr. Adityanath said that Thakur blood is hot and Thakurs tend to make mistakes. His words, indeed, justified the rape of a Dalit girl by upper caste men. His police are trying to protect the culprits. We appeal to the President to dissolve the Adityanath government for its failure to keep law and order,” he said. In a memorandum, the agitating activists also demanded a compensation of Rs. 2 crore to the family members of rape victims. Their other demands included ensuring stringent punishment to the offenders and providing protection to the families of rape victims.
14 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Lightning kills man, two goats in Kalaburagi||A 26-year-old man died on the spot after he was struck by lightning in Alolli village of Chittapur taluk in Kalaburagi district on Monday evening. The deceased was identified as Ayyappa M. Naduvinakeri.  The incident occurred when Ayyappa Naduvinakeri had been to his agriculture field. As it started raining, he took shelter under a tree when lightning struck the tree killing Ayyappa Naduvinakeri. Chittapur Police have registered a case. Two goats Two goats belonging to Lakshman Dhangar were killed after being struck by lightning in Kodli village of Chincholi taluk in the district on Monday night. A case has been registered at the Raktal Police Station.
14 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||32 kg ganja seized in Ballari district||Excise Department sleuths headed by Deputy Commissioner of Excise raided a field near Shusheela Nagar in Sandur taluk, Ballari district, on Tuesday and seized 142 ganja plants that together weighed 32 kg. The officers said that the plants which were eight feet high were secretly grown in the field. The ganja was valued at about Rs. 3 lakh. They said that a case was registered and efforts are on to arrest the absconding land owner.
14 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Alake Market building inaugurated||The Karangalpady and Car Street markets in the city will be upgraded as modern facilities, according to MLA from Mangaluru City South D. Vedavyasa Kamath. Speaking at a function here on Tuesday, after inaugurating the Alake market building built by the Mangaluru City Corporation at an estimated cost of Rs. 1.40 crore, the MLA said that the new Urwa Market building will be commissioned shortly by the city corporation after taking the market building into possession from Mangaluru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) which has built it. The Alake market has been built on 536.19 sq m area. It has provision for 40 stalls/rooms. Of these, six stalls are for selling vegetables, four each (12, in all) are for general items, fruits and flowers, respectively. In addition, it has two stalls each for selling mutton and dry fish. The market has one stall each for selling beef and pork. It has 12 stalls for selling fresh fish. The market has one room each for maintenance, office, generator set and for electrical panels. A corporation official said that the market has been provided with power supply, water supply and underground drainage connection. The funds for the construction work were drawn from different sources. The official said that Rs. 50 lakh each has been drawn from the Chief Minister’s Nagarottana special grant and from the enterprise fund of the city corporation. Of the balance amount, Rs. 30 lakh has been drawn from Mangaluru City South MLA’s Area Development grant, and Rs. 10.40 lakh was contributed by the city corporation. Mr. Kamath, without naming any party or government, said that the previous administration had laid foundation stones for some projects in the city without reserving enough funds for completing them. The present administration now will have to focus on completing the works by allocating the required funds. He said that issues in the financial allocation for completing works on the Kankanady and Kadri (Mallikatta) markets will be addressed at the earliest. Mayor Diwakar and Whip in the corporation council Premananda Shetty and others were present.
14 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain affects life on the coast||The twin districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi continued to receive heavy rain on Tuesday with the India Meteorological Department predicting heavy rain (up to 204 mm) for the next two days in the region. Unusual in the month of October, the South West Monsoon has been active throughout the State, said the department in its bulletin. During the 24 hours ended at 8 a.m. on Tuesday, Kukke Subrahmanya in Dakshina Kannada district received 70 mm rainfall, followed by Siddapura in Udupi district with 60 mm rainfall and Udupi and Karkala towns with 50 mm rainfall each, the bulletin said. As it continued to pour on Tuesday, life came to be affected in both the districts with people struggling to adjust to the changed weather condition. While Dakshina Kannada district received an average rainfall of 44.18 mm during Tuesday, Udupi district received 62.52 mm rainfall, according to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Management Centre. The Meteorological Department has forecast very heavy rains in the coastal districts (115 mm to 204 mm) till Thursday morning.
14 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Karnataka Bank posts Rs. 119.35 cr. net profit in second quarter of 2020-21||Karnataka Bank on Tuesday announced posting of Rs. 119.35 crore net profit during the second quarter of financial year 2020-21, registering 12.69 % growth year-on-year compared to the results of Q2 of previous financial year (Rs. 105.91 crore). The bank’s half-yearly net profit too registered 12.23 % year-on-year growth, from Rs. 281.33 crore in the previous financial year to Rs. 315.73 crore in the current financial year, said a release from the bank here. The bank’s Board of Directors approved the financial results for the quarter and the half-year at a video conference meeting held in Mangaluru. The operating profit of the bank during the first half year increased from Rs. 763.44 crore to Rs. 1,177.38 crore, a growth of 54.22 %. The Net Interest Income increased by 11.75 % on year-on-year basis to Rs. 1,109.99 crore from Rs. 993.31 crore. The business turnover of the bank touched Rs. 1,27,021.51 crore as on September 30, 2020, registering a 2.72 % year-on-year growth. The deposits of the bank grew from Rs. 70,189.65 crore to Rs. 72,922.58 crore and advances grew from Rs. 53,468.42 crore to Rs. 54,098.93 crore. The CD ratio is at 74.18 %. Gross NPAs declined to 3.97 % compared to 4.78 % as on September 30, 2019 and net NPAs declined to 2.21 % from 3.48 %. Bank Managing Director and CEO M.S. Mahabaleshwara said that he was happy that the bank was the first to come out with Q2 results thereby flagging off Q2 earnings season. It was able to keep the bottomline intact with a steady growth of 12.23 % in net profit and improve the asset quality significantly as the NPAs decreased. He said that the bank was successful in facing the impact of the COVID-19 situation as the retail and mid corporate advances grew at 8.53 % and 16.52 %, respectively and the share of CASA deposits rose to 29.17 % of total deposits.  Appointed The board on Tuesday appointed Uma Shankar as Additional Director (Non-Executive), to become effective on November 1. Ms. Shankar, a former executive director of the Reserve Bank of India, has over 37 years of banking experience in different capacities. Her core competence is in financial sector supervision, but she also looked after currency management, foreign exchange and internal accounting and administration.
14 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Week-long Tulu drama fest in city from today||Karnataka Tulu Sahitya Academy will organise a week-long Tulu drama festival at Tulu Bhavan, Urwa Stores, here from Wednesday. It will be conducted in association with Sri Prapthi Telikeda Kalavidaru and Tuluva Bolli Prathisthana. Sarathya Sindhura Kalavidaru, Karkala, will stage a play “Panodittnd Sorry” on Wednesday and Sangama Kalavidaru, Ujire, will perform “Tuyare Barper” on Thursday. Panchashree Kalavidaru, Charmadi, will present “Aetunda Aate” on Friday. It will be followed by a play “Madimal” by Annapoorneshwari Kalatanda, Inchara, on Saturday and “Kasda Kasarat” by Bollu Bolpu Kalavidaru, Puttur, on Sunday. “Panpana Yan Panoda” by Mokeda Kalavider, Polali, will be staged on October 19 and “Satyoda Biruver” by Sri Prapthi Telikeda Kalavidaru will be performed on October 20. All plays will be streamed live on Facebook, a release from the academy said.
14 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CAMPCO Ltd. steps up arecanut procurement||Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Cooperative (CAMPCO) Ltd. has stepped up procuring arecanut stocks from the doorsteps of its member-farmers on an experimental basis, according to president of the cooperative S.R. Satishchandra. It purchased about 5,000 quintals from the houses of 200 farmers in Vitla and Puttur areas recently, he said. He told The Hindu that many farmers are facing the issue of lack of farm workers to pack, load and transport the produce to the nearest procurement centres. Such farmers, of which some are aged above 60, who have related issues, have called the cooperative asking whether it was possible to collect their produce. Hence, the cooperative has stepped up its procurement. Sources in the cooperative said that earlier CAMPCO lifted produce from the doorsteps of farmers if the quantity of the produce was huge. Its focus was only on purchasing bulk quantity; for example, if the produce was more than 10 bags. He said that now the cooperative is yet to fix the minimum quantity if the produce was to be lifted from the doorsteps of farmers. Since it has increased the quantity of purchase only on an experimental basis, nothing has been finalised, he said. General secretary, All India Areca Growers Association, Puttur, Mahesh Puchchappady, said that if the quantity is very less, initially, CAMPCO can purchase the produce from the doorsteps and make the payment to farmers on the spot and keep the produce in houses itself after sealing the bags. It can transport the produce fro- m an area at one go, may be, once or twice a week. It could save transportation cost, he added.
14 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Special trains to operate from State till Nov. 30||The Railway Ministry on Tuesday announced introduction of 196 pairs of festival special trains, mostly comprising inter-State long distance services to be operational between October 20 and November 30, including about 28 pairs operating out of Karnataka. These special trains were being introduced in view of the upcoming Dasara and Deepavali festivals. In a message to the GMs of Zonal Railways, the Ministry told them to ensure the special services are operated at a minimum speed of 55 kmph so that they become super-fast services. The Ministry also asked the zones to operate the special services with more number of AC 3-Tier coaches that were in good condition. This was in line with the recent announcement of the Ministry that long-distance super-fast trains would come to have more AC coaches in the place of Second Sleeper coaches. Fares applicable for these special trains would be as those applicable to special trains. While a majority of trains operate from cities like Bengaluru, Mysuru and Hubballi, other parts of Karantaka have not got their due, rue railway activists. Kalyana Karnataka did not get any festival specials, rued rail activist Sunil Kulkarni. Places such as Kalaburagi, Raichur, Yadgir, Bidar, Koppal and Ballari did not get trains. Similarly, Mangaluru region too did not get any festival specials. Though Central Railway had proposed to reintroduce Mumbai CSMT-Mangaluru Junction-Mumbai CSMT Special (earlier 12133/34), the same appears to have not been approved by the Ministry. Some of the trains to be operated from South Western Railway include, Train No. 02251/52 Yeshwantpur-Korba-Yeshwantpur (weekly); 02253/54 Yeshwantpur-Bhagalpur-Yeshwantpur (weekly); 02539/40 Yeshwantpur-Lucknow-Yeshwantpur (weekly); 02607/08 and 02657/58 Chennai-Bengaluru-Chennai (daily) and 06231/32 Mayiladutarai-Bengaluru-Mayiladutarai (daily).
14 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||PoCSO case accused arrested||Udupi Police have arrested an accused in a PoCSO case reported in Bairampally village, Udupi taluk, on August 24, 2020. A release from the Udupi Police gave the name of the accused as Pradeep Shetty (39) from Moodumane of the same village. He was arrested in Mangaluru on October 12. Shetty has been accused of sexually assaulting two minor girls belonging to Scheduled Castes. Earlier, Hiriyadkka Police in Udupi district registered a case relating to sexual assault against him in 2018.
14 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||OPD services in Udupi hospital from tomorrow||Regular out-patient department services at TMA Pai Hospital in Udupi will be available to people from Thursday between 9 a.m. and 1 p.m. Though the hospital continues to be a dedicated COVID-19 facility, the out-patient block is separated from the admission block. All precautions related to COVID-19 will be taken. Those who require can avail themselves of this facility with prior appointment on Ph: 7259032864.
14 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Precautions must at Dasara, Theerthodbhava venues’||With a spurt in COVID-19 cases in Kodagu, the ensuing Cauvery Theerthodbhava at Talacauvery on October 17 and Madikeri and Gonikoppal Dasara on October 17 and 26 would be celebrated with highest precautions. RT-PCR test has been made mandatory for all participants of the low-key events. The participants, as per the opinion of the Talacauvery temple committee, would be subjected to the test on October 14 and 15. A COVID-19 negative certificate is a must to participate, said Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy in Madikeri on Tuesday. She said no special buses will run to Talacauvery but route buses between Madikeri, Bhagamandala and Talacauvery will operate as usual. There is no provision for the devotees to stay at Bhagamandala and Talacauvery. Rituals by the devotees at Bhagamandala, however, will be allowed with precautions. Those participating in the Karaga Utsava during Navarathri festivities must take the test on October 14 and 15 and the DHO will arrange the PCR tests. The Karaga Utsav participants must undergo the test twice and events on Dasara finale would end by 10 p.m., she added. As a safety precaution, the Raja Seat and Abbey Falls will remain closed on October 17 and 26. This year, there will not be cultural events and procession in Madikeri. According to the Hindu almanac, the time has been fixed at 7:03 a.m. on October 17 at Kanya Lagna. The event is marked by a sudden gush of water from the spring at the specified time and is considered sacred. Usually, the event attracts a heavy rush of devotees who throng the site to watch the occurrence and collect the holy water. However, in view of COVID-19 this year, restrictions had been imposed on the devotees from visiting the site during the event. The district administration has issued guidelines ahead of the event. The Theerthodbhava took place on October 18 last year.
14 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||INTACH begins groundwork eyeing UNESCO world heritage tag for Mysuru||The Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) has begun the groundwork to pitch Mysuru as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Both Jaipur and Ahmedabad have been certified as world heritage sites and INTACH is confident that Mysuru will qualify for the UNESCO certification as it has a history of art, culture, and architecture that have evolved over the last few centuries. However, the process is elaborate and could take years to even reach the nomination stage as the number of monuments from India under the ‘tentative list’ is long. “But the preliminary ground work pertaining to collection of documents to establish the historicity of Mysuru, apart from highlighting its claim as a centre for culture has commenced,” said N.S. Rangaraju, convener, Mysuru chapter of INTACH. He said this is one of the long-term objectives of INTACH, Mysuru chapter, as it shares lot of similarities with Jaipur which was certified by UNESCO as a world heritage city last year. Jaipur was recognised for its history of city planning and construction. The same is true of Mysuru which took the lead in establishing an urban planning body in the City Improvement Trust Board in 1904. Amalgam of styles Besides, art historians have described Mysuru as an amalgam of different architectural styles as evident in the presence of nearly 250 buildings that have been identified as heritage structures and many of them have been converted to public offices. If successful, it will help conserve heritage buildings which are on the verge of being dismantled and demolished by realtors, said Prof. Rangaraju. Structures apart, the city continues to be synonymous with culture and traditions and this is also one of the criteria prescribed for recognition as a world heritage centre. Mysuru satisfies the UNESCO criteria that a city or a region should be directly or tangibly associated with events or living traditions, with ideas, or with beliefs, with artistic and literary works of outstanding universal significance. “It is not the wealth of built structures of different styles alone but traditions and practices of which Dasara is just one example,” Prof. Rangaraju added. The city and the region has an unbroken history of encouraging art and culture since historical times and these traditions including folk arts continue to be a part of the live heritage of the people of the region, he said. INTACH Mysuru will rope in subject experts, including specialists who have worked for the Ahmedabad project, to prepare the documentation. “We would have covered sufficient grounds if not for the pandemic and will take up work once there is a semblance of normalcy,” he said.
14 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Laurels for Mysuru railway zone||The Mysuru railway station was adjudged the ‘best maintained station’ for 2019-20 under the category of “major” stations of the South Western Railway. This was announced during the 65th Railway Week Celebrations at Hubballi on Tuesday, during which the Mysuru Divisional Railway also bagged other honours. Mysuru station underwent a major transportation under the Comprehensive Station Redevelopment Plan undertaken during the year, according to local authorities. A release said that the station saw the addition of many passenger-friendly initiatives with care taken to retain the heritage value of the building. “The redevelopment of the station has brought appreciation from different forums,” the release added. Recent upgrade The Signal & Telecommunication Department (S&T) of the Mysuru division won the Zonal Efficiency Shield for the year 2019-20. The department recently upgraded signalling technology in the Sakleshpur-Subramanya Ghat section in record time, paving the way for enhanced safety and sectional capacity despite facing hurdles in the hostile territory as also battling COVID-19. As a result of the new installation, the Railways can now explore the possibility of introducing additional passenger services in the ghat section, a demand remaining unfulfilled as the Commissioner of Railway Safety had imposed restrictions in operations of passenger services owing to safety reasons. The freight trains can now run at higher speeds leading to higher productivity, according to the release. The Security Department of Mysuru division also bagged the efficiency shield for 2019-20. Adding another feather in the cap of Mysuru division, the Swarnajayanthi Weekly Superfast train running between Mysuru and Nizamuddin (New Delhi), which undergoes primary maintenance at Mysuru, was declared as the ‘Best Maintained Rake’ on South Western Railway. Ajay Kumar Singh, General Manager South Western Railway, Hubballi, handed over the efficiency shield for ‘Best Maintained Station’ to Aparna Garg, Divisional Railway Manager, Mysuru, in a low-key function organised in South Western Railway headquarters, Hubballi, the release added.  The Security Department of Mysuru railway division also bagged the efficiency shield for the year 2019-20.
14 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||DC: Pandemic peak foreseen in Oct., Nov.||Kodagu Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy on Tuesday said the COVID-19 peak has been foreseen in October and November and the cases are expected to flatten after the peak stage. It is therefore crucial for everyone to be extra vigilant taking all precautions and fighting the pandemic, especially during the ensuing festive season, she added. Ms. Joy told reporters in Madikeri that two major events – Cauvery Theerthodbhava and Madikeri Dasara – were approaching this month and it was a challenge for the administration to conduct the festivities amidst the virus peak, complying with guidelines and avoiding crowding. For every 100 swab samples tested, an average of 18 persons have been testing positive in Kodagu. In the last two weeks, the deaths have also gone up and the fatality rate has been around 1.4%. “We need the support and cooperation of the public to bring down the mortality rate to less than 1%. In case of any inattention during the festive season, the situation will go out of hand. Therefore, the public must strictly follow the guidelines during the festive season, which will be low key this year,” she said at a press conference. Warning to homestays Meanwhile, in a warning to homestays that are being operated illegally and not adhering to COVID-19 SOPs, the assistant commissioner and assistant director of tourism had been told to conduct surprise raids across the district and verify whether homestays were adhering to the guidelines. “If they are found flouting rules, they will be dealt with stringently,” Ms. Joy said. The warning follows rising COVID-19 cases in the hill district, which is now open to tourists. Ms. Joy said erring homestays would be booked under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act.
14 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Low-key Srirangapatna Dasara on October 23||This year’s Dasara fete at Srirangapatna in Mandya district will be low key with a simple and traditional celebration on October 23, in view of the -19 pandemic. Minister in-charge of Mandya district Narayana Gowda inspected the sites in Srirangapatna where the celebrations will be hosted. Mr. Gowda, accompanied by Deputy Commissioner M.V. Venkatesh, visited Bannimantap and the Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple on Monday and told officials to make arrangements keeping in mind all COVID-19 precautions. Music concert After a discussion, a decision was taken to hold a music concert at Sultan Battery. If the event was organised taking all safety steps at the Battery, people in the nearby areas could watch it from their balconies, the Minister said after the inspection. Pandavapura Assistant Commissioner Shivananda Murthy and tahsildar Roopa were present.
14 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||NEKRTC services resume||North East Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC), Yadgir Division, has resumed bus services to neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Goa and Maharashtra after passenger services remained suspended due to the COVID-19 situation. According to official communication, buses from Yadgir, Shahapur, Surpur, Kembhavi, Hunsagi and Gurmital will be operated to Mumbai, Pune, Tuljapur, Miraj, Solapur, Kolhapur, Panjim, Srisailam, Kodangal, Narayanpet and Hyderabad.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Multiplexes get ready for show time||As the countdown begins for theatres to resume screening films from October 15, many multiplexes are gearing up to welcome customers. However, though the Central and State governments have permitted cinema halls to resume operations with 50% seating, many single screen theatres in the city will not immediately re-open as they have adopted a ‘wait and watch’ approach. A senior representative of PVR Cinemas said that they would resume screenings for the general public from October 16. “The schedule will be out soon. Online bookings will begin from the night of October 13. All precautionary measures for a safe and hygienic cinema experience for movie-goers are in place,” the representative said. Sources in INOX said that they would “gradually” open all screens over the next few days, and within 15 days, all the screens would be functional. Standalone theatres But not all standalone theatres in the city are ready to resume screening immediately. D.R. Jairaj, chairman, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce, said that the Chamber would soon call a meeting of producers, distributors and exhibitors to discuss and decide on resuming operations in single screen theatres. “While the exhibitors are worried about the content, producers are worried about patronage. Though most of them are enthusiastic about resuming screening, uncertainty over various aspects will delay opening of many theatres,” he said. A few exhibitors The Hindu spoke to said that they were not ready for resumption of screening in the current circumstances. Apart from the problem of content, they expressed worry over whether people would come to theatres. Maneka, Mukunda and Radhakrishna are among theatres that will not resume screening films immediately, sources said. N.S. Srinivasa Murthy, partner in Menaka theatre and former president of FKCCI, said that they have “indefinitely” postponed the opening of Menaka. “On the one hand, the number of COVID-19 cases in the city is on the rise, which might prompt people not to go to theatres. On the other hand, there is 50% cap on the seating capacity. Screening should be a continuous process. We cannot stop after a few days owing to lack of content. Hence, we will wait,” he said. Veteran producer K.C.N. Chandrashekar hoped that the theatre business would pick up by Deepavali. “The industry will have to gain momentum in the first few weeks. We still do not know how people will respond, and we cannot guess during such unprecedented times. Hence, everyone is adapting a wait and watch approach,” he said. A manager of a standalone theatre in the city said that fear of additional loss after being shut for around seven months was one of the main reasons to wait. Santosh is among the standalone theatres that are set resume operations. Arun Kumar B.S., owner of Santosh, said that initially they would screen “running films” that were released in February and March. They had in stock Shivarjuna, starring the the late Chiranjeevi , which was released just before the lockdown was imposed in March. “We might also go for re-runs of old movies. Once we start, we will get to know how things pan out, which will help us plan for the future. This will give a good picture to producers and distributors. “Based on the response, producers can take a decision on releasing new films,” he said.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC notice to State on vehicles in Cubbon Park||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition seeking a ban on the movement of vehicles inside Cubbon Park. A division bench comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice N.S. Sanjay Gowda passed the order on a PIL petition filed by Cubbon Park Walkers’ Association Bangalore. The petitioner has pointed out that Cubbon Park was closed for movement of vehicles during the lockdown, and, as a result, the pollution level was very low and had helped walkers and other visitors. “It is imperative that Cubbon Park be preserved and protected by completely banning any vehicular movement. The lockdown restrictions had witnessed the emergence of clean air in Cubbon Park, which was felt by people in the offices and court buildings situated in the vicinity of Cubbon Park,” the petitioner claimed. The petitioner has pointed out that the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) had on September 2, 2020 written to the Secretary, Department of Horticulture recommending closure of the park for both vehicular traffic and parking of vehicles. The DULT had examined the issue of allowing traffic though Cubbon Park following representations received from various groups for banning traffic. Any decision to allow movement of vehicular traffic through Cubbon Park contrary to recommendations of the DULT would violate the right to clean air to which every citizen is entitled to as such a right is part of the right to protection of life guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of India, the petitioner has argued.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Demand for office space up||The commercial office space absorption has been picking up in Bengaluru, with Q3 2020, according to a statement from property consultant Colliers International. During January-September 2020, Bengaluru accounted for 30% of the total gross absorption of 6.5 million sq.ft. of commercial property in the country, with around 2 million sq.ft., in the QoQ period.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Drugs probe: Accused held||Central Crime Branch (CCB) sleuths, on Tuesday, arrested Ashwin Bhogi, an accused in the drug racket linked to the Kannada film industry, from his hideout in Chikkamagaluru. According to the police, Ashwin was on the run soon after the arrest of Ravishankar, following which the CCB filed a case against him. He was accused no. 9 in the FIR. ‘Helped procure drugs’ The police said Ravishankar had claimed that Ashwin was an important link between him and drug peddlers, and that Ashwin would often help him procure drugs. CCB officials had formed special teams to trace Ashwin. His arrest might help the CCB get stronger evidence against the accused. He might also help the CCB get fresh leads in the case, sources said. Meanwhile, the CCB special teams continue their search for the accused who are on the run.
14 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha has 488 new patients||The district has witnessed a slight dip in fresh COVID-19 cases. On Tuesday, it added another 488 new cases, pushing the tally to 21,903. The 488 cases include 459 patients who acquired the virus locally, 19 people who contracted the disease from unknown sources, four persons each who came from abroad and other States and two health staff. The district also recorded four COVID-19-related deaths, taking the official tally to 66. The deceased were identified as a 76-year-old man from Neerkunnam (died on October 5), a 68-year-old man from Ottamassery (died on October 9), a 51-year-old man from Vallikunnam (died on October 9), and an 81-year-old man from Komana (died on October 9). As many as 534 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 6,262. So far, 15,575 people have recovered from the disease in the district. The police have registered 57 cases and arrested 47 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action taken Action was taken against 292 people for not wearing face masks, 1,358 for not maintaining physical distance and two persons for violating the home quarantine norms. Another 11 cases were registered for violating prohibitory orders imposed in the district under section 144 of the Cr.PC. Action was taken against 69 people in connection with the 11 cases. Ward 7 in Arookutty, ward 1 in Mararikulam North, parts of ward 5 in Kanjikuzhy, ward 13 in Ramankary, ward 15 in Chennam Pallippuram, ward 12 in Neelamperoor, ward 15 in Chettikulangara and ward 21 in Thanneermukkom grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.
14 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Land being acquired for bridge across Pampa||Authorities have expedited the process of acquiring land for constructing a bridge across the Pampa river connecting Kavalam and Thattassery in Kuttanad. A survey to fix the boundary of the land to be acquired for the project has begun. According to officials, around 1.45 acre of land in 51 survey numbers in Kavalam and Kunnumma villages will have to be acquired for the project. Earlier this year, the process of acquiring land for the bridge came to a halt after an inspection found that some of the land needed for the project was missing from the notification issued. However, a meeting chaired by District Collector A. Alexander in September decided to initiate immediate steps to acquire the land. Further, a fresh notification was issued. In 2016, the State government allocated Rs. 30 crore for the construction of the bridge and approach road. The estimate was later revised to Rs. 51.5 crore following changes made in the design.  AC and MC roads The bridge will connect the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) road and Main Central (MC) road. It will help reduce the distance between Alappuzha and Kottayam by around 9 km along with opening the doors of development to the remote areas of Kuttanad. Once constructed, the bridge and approach road will be 396.21-metres-long. The bridge and walkway together will have a width of 11 metres.
14 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Water taxi service||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will launch a water taxi service of the State Water Transport Department (SWTD) in Alappuzha on Thursday. According to Shaji V. Nair, Director, SWTD, a catamaran diesel-powered craft will be used for the water taxi service. The boat, with a seating capacity for 10 passengers, will pick passengers and drop them at their destination. The tariff fixed had been Rs. 750 for 30 minutes, Mr. Shaji said. It can cruise at a maximum speed of 19 knots (35 km/hour). The vessel has been constructed by Kochi-based Navgathi Marine Design and Constructions Private Limited, which built the country’s first solar ferry, Aditya. The boat comes with a 250-horse power outboard diesel engine imported from Sweden. Besides, it has an electric power steering and solar panel atop to provide enough electric energy to fulfil all the power requirements, including lights, fan and control system. The SWTD has placed orders for four boats. Mr. Vijayan will also inaugurate a catamaran boat service with a seating capacity of 100 passengers through videoconferencing at 11.30 a.m.
14 October 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Blue alert as water crosses rule curve level||The district administration issued the blue alert in the wake of the water level in the Idukki reservoir crossing 2,390.85 ft on Tuesday. With an increased spell of rainfall in the catchment areas, the water level had been near to the blue alert level for the past two days. The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) sounded the blue alert with the water level reaching 2,391.18 ft in the morning. It was 86.41% of the storage level. The blue alert level for the day as per the new rule curve level fixed by the Central Water Commission (CWC) was 2,390.85 ft. The orange alert will be issued before October 20 if the water level reaches 2,396.85 ft and a red alert at 2397.85 ft. The full reservoir level is 2,403 ft. The present water level is higher than the level recorded the same day in the previous two years. The change in monsoon pattern is also evident as the catchment area recorded above normal rainfall in the first and second week of October. Power position meet A power position meeting of the KSEB on Tuesday decided to increase generation from 5 million units to 10 mu at the Moolamattom powerhouse to reduce the water level in the reservoir. The Idukki reservoir is mainly reserved for power generation when the demand in the State escalates during summer season. The generation which remained below normal was raised to 5 mu from 3.2 mu on Monday. The KSEB wants to avoid a situation of opening the dam shutters as in the case of the 2018 floods and keep the water level below the new rule curve level. With the increased power generation, water level will fall in the coming days. The Dam Monitoring and Research Station is monitoring the situation, an official said. The power position meeting also decided to surrender power from the Central pool and instead use the power generated at Moolamattom. The present situation does not warrant opening of the dam shutters as the water level remained over 10 ft short of the full reservoir level. The shutters need to be raised only if there is extremely high rainfall in the coming days, the possibility of which is remote considering the weather predictions, the official said.
14 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Cheruthoni bridge work begins||Union Minister for Surface Transport Nithin Gadkari inaugurated the construction work of the Cheruthoni bridge across the Periyar on the downstream of the Idukki reservoir on Tuesday. The unveiling of the plaque was done through videoconference, attended by Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Speaking at the function, Mr. Gadkari applauded the initiatives taken by the State government for the construction of national highways. Issues faced He said the State was facing problems with regard to acquiring land for national highway development. However, the government took special interest in such projects and was succeeding in it. He also noted that Mr. Vijayan and Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran had met him many times to discuss the problems related to land acquisition. The new bridge at Cheruthoni is constructed as part of the national highway. Mr. Vijayan said the bridge being constructed at a cost of Rs. 24 crore would withstand floods. In 18 months It was expected that the construction would be completed in 18 months. The new bridge will connect the Puliyanmala-Thodupuzha State highway with the Neryamaganlam road. In the 2018 floods, water overflowed through the low-lying bridge (chappathu) constructed as part of the Idukki dam project at Cheriuthoni town. Traffic was allowed through it only after verification by National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) engineers on the extent of the damage. Heavy water flow The low-lying bridge withstood the heavy flow of water from the Cheruthoni dam and a large stock of the rocks were deposited in its upstream areas during the floods. Only one-way traffic is possible through the bridge.
14 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Priest held on sexual assault charge||The Adimali police on Tuesday arrested a Jacobite priest on the charge of sexually assaulting a 22-year-old woman. The police arrested Reji Palakkadan, also an Ayurveda practitioner, on a complaint filed by the parents of the woman. The police said the priest was running an Ayurveda clinic at Adimali. In their complaint, the parents said their daughter was assaulted by the priest on Monday when she went there for treatment. He was arrested under Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code (assault or criminal force on a woman with intent to outrage her modesty).
14 October 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Wayanad gears up to tackle spread||While the COVID-19 situation in the State continues to be critical, the Wayanad administration is gearing up to intensify steps to contain the spread of the disease among the tribal population. Close to 5,000 COVID-19 cases had been reported in the district so far, of which 156 were of tribespeople testing positive, District Collector Adeela Abdulla told The Hindu . “We have directed the local administrative bodies, Health and Scheduled Tribes Development Departments to adopt all possible steps to tackle the spread of the pandemic in tribal hamlets,” said Ms. Abdulla, adding that better coordination and strong field-level activities were needed. The highest number of cases were reported among the 31-40 age group and then the 41-50 age group, according to District Medical Officer R. Renuka. Most of the cases were reported in tribal hamlets under the Meenangadi, Periya and Vengapally health centres, she said. Wayanad tribal cell nodal officer Neetha Vijayan said the plan was to focus on highly vulnerable people, including the elderly suffering from diabetics, hypertension and cancer, and pregnant women and children among the tribespeople. The Health Department would open a post-COVID clinic at Mananthavady on Wednesday to deal with health issues of recovered persons, said Dr. Renuka. The service of a pulmonologist will be available at the centre.
14 October 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Minister opens carp hatchery at Thalapuzha||Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma has said that the government is planning to enhance production of indigenous fish varieties in inland waterbodies. Speaking after inaugurating the peninsular carp hatchery at Thalapuzha in Wayanad district, the first such initiative in the country, on Tuesday, Ms. Mercykutty Amma said the project envisaged conservation and enrichment of indigenous carp variety of fish. The project also aims to ensure food security, especially food security of tribal people in the district, the Minister said. The hatchery unit has been set up with technical assistance from the Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bengaluru, at a cost of Rs. 1.56 core.
14 October 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Vayalkilikal burn Pinarayi and Gadkari in effigy||Vayalkilikal, a collective of villagers at Keezhattoor here, burnt Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Union Surface Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari in effigy in protest against the plans to construct a bypass through the village. Vayalkilikal leader Suresh Keezhattoor said the protests against the construction of the Keezhatoor bypass would continue. He added that the CPI(M) was taking a stand that betrayed the farmers’ struggles. The protest comes against the backdrop of Mr. Gadkari and Mr. Vijayan inaugurating national highway development work. Mr. Keezhattoor said the construction of the bypass needed to be stopped and Tuesday’s protest was just the beginning of agitations. He said the detailed project report for the modernisation of the national highway from Kasaragod to Vengalam (Kozhikode) was prepared as per a contract awarded to AECOM in February 2016. Though the project was for a four-lane road, the NHAI issued tenders for a six-lane road. He said that nod for construction was given without assessing the environmental impact. Also, the project had not yet received the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) approvals. He also questioned the contract issued for construction of the section from Neeleswaram to Taliparamba (up to the Kuttikol river) to Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Ltd.
14 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||PVS COVID-19 hospital in need of critical care||PVS Hospital that was resuscitated by the district administration and repurposed into a treatment centre for critically ill COVID-19 patients, is now relying mostly on donations to meet daily expenses and replace a defunct CT scan facility. While the facility has the capacity to accommodate 120 patients, only 56 beds have been made functional in the six months since it was taken over by the administration in March. A total of 49 patients, mostly category C patients identified on the basis of severity of symptoms or those patients who might quickly progress to category C, are admitted at the centre. Defunct facility Though the hospital treats critically ill patients, a functional CT scan system is not available, said Dr. Junaid Rahman, former president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Kochi chapter, and a member of the district programme management and supporting unit set up to coordinate work related to hospitals, ambulances and treatment centres for COVID-19 care. While some supplies and basic medicines are procured through Kerala Medical Services Corporation Limited, others like antivirals have been adding to the hospital’s mounting daily expenses, he said. A functional CT scan facility could cost over Rs. 50 lakh, he added. Daily expenses are largely met through donations from corporate entities, said Dr. N.K. Kuttappan, District Medical Officer. A request has been placed for finances under the State Disaster Response Fund, but it has not been sanctioned yet, he said. Once more beds are put to use, expenses will rise, he said. “Daily expenses now stand at over Rs. 8 lakh with about 50 patients. The amount is cobbled together from various sponsors. Others have contributed with ventilators and equipment like fans,” Dr. Rahman said. “A consistent funding source would have been ideal for this facility. The administration has only taken the hospital over temporarily while the property is still caught in litigation,” he added. Support sought “We need support from the general public to procure additional equipment like monitors, ventilators, infusion pumps and defibrilators to equip the centre with more ICU facilities. With the surge in cases in Ernakulam, the number of hospital beds for category C patients will have to be augmented,” said an official. “We are working on funding. The hospital has been running for over a month now and about 110 patients have been treated so far at a facility that had been lying defunct. The few initial hiccups can be tided over. The government is paying staff salaries, besides some funds that came in earlier for the repairs,” he said. At the hospital, health workers have been appointed from the government service and from a pool of staff under the National Health Mission.
14 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Champakkara Bridge to be opened tomorrow||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the Champakkara Bridge on the Vyttila-Pettah road on Thursday. It was built by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (DMRC) for Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) . The bridge was reconstructed as four lane, in place of a two-lane bridge that existed earlier. The pair of two-lane bridges, one of which was opened to traffic a year ago, was constructed across the National Waterway 3, across the Champakkara Canal, says a KMRL release. “We have completed the construction of the second bridge in a record 10 months’ time. With the opening of the new bridge, vehicular traffic will finally be smooth in the area,” said Alkesh Kumar Sarma, managing director of KMRL. The total cost of construction of the pair of two-lane bridges is about Rs. 50 crore. The bridge is 245-m long, with central span of 45-m bowstring girder, and with 7-m vertical clearance to enable safe navigation of boats beneath it.
14 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Pandemic crisis adds to exam woes of CA students||The worsening pandemic crisis has increased the anxiety of candidates appearing for the chartered accountancy examinations starting November 1. With the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) deciding to stick to the declared schedule for exams concluding on November 18, aspirants remain worried about whether the health crisis will affect their chances of appearing for the exam. Some of the provisions in the standard operating procedures to be implemented at exam centres have also added to their woes. Candidates having temperature above the limit prescribed by the health authorities will not be permitted to the enter the exam centre. Aspirants recalled that separate rooms had been provided for candidates who had appeared for national and State-level entrance exams held recently. “We may lose the chance to write the exam in such a scenario. The next chance will come only in May next year,” they said. The guideline will be applicable for students residing in containment zones too. A section of the students pointed out that candidates who opted for exam centres in Bihar would enjoy the advantage of additional days for exam preparation as the ICAI had postponed the exams scheduled on November 2, 3, 6 and 7 to November 19, 21, 23 and 25 in view of the Assembly election. COVID certificate Babu Abraham Kallivayalil, member of the ICAI’s central council, said that students having above normal temperature would be permitted to appear for the exam if they submitted a COVID-19 negative certificate issued the day before the exam. “They will be seated separately,” he said. On candidates residing in containment zones, Mr. Babu Abraham said that the government rules stated that they were not permitted to come out of containment zones.
14 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||949 contract virus through local transmission||Of the 1,122 people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday, 949 people contracted the infection through local contact. Five health workers were newly infected and the source of infection of 159 people remains untraced. The district recorded 1,123 recoveries on Tuesday, while the active case load stands at 12,258. Around 30,755 people remain in quarantine. At the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, 225 patients are being treated, 49 patients are at PVS Hospital, 698 patients are at private hospitals, 1,203 people are under observation at first-line treatment centres and 8,765 people are recovering at home. For testing, 3,290 samples were collected from both government and private facilities. District Collector S. Suhas has directed all hospitals in the district to set aside 25% of their high dependency units and ICU beds for COVID-19 patients. All hospitals that have physicians on the staff must treat people who test positive in their hospital. All private hospitals are required to be registered under the Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi (KASP) to provide free treatment to COVID-19 patients with financial difficulties. The amount due to the hospital under the KASP COVID-19 package will be returned in a time-bound manner, said a communication from the district administration.
14 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||City to commemorate 175th year of Elementary School||The city is all set to celebrate the proud history of the English Elementary School founded in 1845. The institution, which heralded the modern system of education in the erstwhile Cochin State, had started functioning in a single thatched room on what is today the campus of Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam, in 1845. The erstwhile Maharaja of the Cochin State and then Dewan Sankara Warrier had taken the initiative to open the school. It was converted into a high school in 1868. The school was upgraded to a college in 1875 before it became Maharaja’s College in 1925. The school was handed over to the government post-Independence, and it attained popularity as SRV High School. Organisers of the 175th year celebrations of the school said both SRV High School and Maharaja’s College continued to remain active in the socio-political sphere of the State. Many illustrious personalities have come out of the campus to take up major roles in various arenas. The celebrations will be jointly organised by the representatives of SRV School, Maharaja’s College and the Ernakulam Public Library. An organising committee comprising illustrious teachers like M.K. Sanoo and M. Leelavathi has been formed. Projects showcasing the history and achievements of SRV School and Maharaja’s College will also be part of the celebrations.
14 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Help pours in for transwoman after ill-treatment by vendor||Close on the heels of a vendor allegedly stopping a transwomen from selling biriyani packets on the roadside at Irumpanam, Thripunithura, on Monday, help is pouring in from all quarters, including the Social Welfare Department, for the community. Actor Jayasurya too has come forward, offering to set up a biriyani shop for members of the community. Sajana Shaji, a transwoman, was reportedly assaulted and verbally abused by the vendor. A native of Kottayam, Sajana graduated from Maharaja’s College and has been living in Kochi for the past 13 years. After initially eking out a living by begging in trains, she turned to selling food on the wayside. A video of Sajana breaking down after the alleged assault had gone viral. Minister for Health and Social Welfare K.K. Shylaja spoke to Sajana over phone and promised all help from the Social Welfare Department through its We Care Project. She said members of the community too enjoyed the same rights as those of others. The State government has issued identity cards to them, besides formulating a TG Policy aimed at their upliftment. Attacks on them can never be tolerated, the Minister said. Thripunithura MLA M. Swaraj was among those who offered help to Sajana. Arrested Meanwhile, the Thripunithura police arrested Girish, 48, of Eroor under the provisions of the Transgender Persons Protection of Rights Act. He was also charged with assault and use of abusive words against the complainant, the police said. Thripunithura Sub Inspector Ramu Balachandra Bose denied the allegation that the police did not promptly act on the vendor’s complaint. “We made the mandatory preliminary enquiry and arrested the person who has been charged under relevant provisions of the Transgender Persons Protection of Rights Act. This is perhaps the first time in Kerala that the Act is being invoked to charge a criminal case. We have assured all protection to TG vendors. The police here are severely short-staffed, as seven personnel have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, while 15 are in quarantine,” he said. At the same time, allegation is rife that transwoman vendors were singled out for action by the health wing of the Thripunithura Municipality. The Congress sought action against the police for what it alleged as tardy response. “The assault is a blot on our culture,” said Raju P. Nair, DCC secretary.
14 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||MGU’s practical exam schedule leaves students a worried lot||The decision by Mahatma Gandhi University to conduct the fourth semester undergraduate practical exams from Wednesday onwards has left a section of the students and teachers worried. With the pandemic crisis escalating, they suggest that a change in the schedule would help avert the possibilities of getting exposed to the health crisis. The government had already declared that the pandemic curve would worsen in the October-November period. The practical exams were being scheduled till November 14, they said. Teachers said that it would be difficult to adhere to physical-distancing rules inside laboratories. “We can ensure adequate distancing between candidates inside halls where theory exams are held. But it will not be possible inside labs considering space and other constraints,” they said. The labs will have to be sanitised before the start of practical exams as per the standard operating procedure prescribed by the health authorities. The process will have to be repeated after each session to avoid any potential risks of infection. Managements clueless Students residing in other districts pointed out that they would have to travel all the way to their colleges to attend the practical examinations. “We are not sure whether the college authorities will provide us with hostel accommodation,” they said. Many students would have to stay back as they have to appear for the practical for subsidiary papers too. College managements remain clueless on how to open up hostels even as the number of positive cases was going up across the State. ‘No other option’ The university authorities said the postponement of the schedule for the practical exams would affect the career prospects of supplementary students. “Any delay would affect their chances of applying for higher studies. We do not have other options but to conduct it as per the present schedule,” they said.
14 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC stays shifting of distance courses to open varsity||The provisions in the Sree Narayana Guru Open University Ordinance to shift the distance and continuing education programmes and private registration of students from Kerala, Calicut, Mahatma Gandhi, and Kannur Universities and to vest it in the open university was stayed by the Kerala High Court on Tuesday. The court directed the special government pleader and the standing counsel for the University Grants Commission to inform the court whether the open university had obtained the necessary recognition from the UGC for the educational programmes. On a question from the court whether the government had approached the UGC for necessary recognition for the university to start functioning, the special prosecutor sought time to file the reply. UGC norms The UGC provisions stipulate that no higher educational institutions shall offer distance-learning programme or other online programmes and admit students without obtaining the commission recognition. The UGC also stipulates that admissions shall not be made by educational institutions in anticipation of the recognition. Referring to these provisions, the court noted that unless the recognition was granted to the open university, the transfer of students and staff from other universities to the new one could be prejudicial to them if the recognition was refused in future. The court posted the case for October 16.
14 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Handbook on disaster management to be launched||The U.S. Consulate General, Chennai, in association with the Centre for Public Policy Research (CPPR), Kochi, will host an online launch of Community Resilience Handbook for Disaster Preparedness and Management at 11:00 a.m. on Thursday. Anne Lee Seshadri, Public Affairs Officer at the U.S. Consulate General in Chennai, will deliver the opening remarks, followed by a panel discussion on ‘All-Hazards Approach to Community-Based Disaster Risk Mitigation’.
14 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Maharaja’s gets new principal||Mathew George has taken over as principal of Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam. He was heading the Government College in Kottayam before. Dr. George, from Muttom in Cherthala, is a member of the Mahatma Gandhi University Syndicate.
14 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Surge in Kollam caseload at 907||The district once again recorded a surge in caseload with a total of 907 persons testing positive for SARS-C0V-2 on Tuesday. Among the patients are 862 contact cases, 26 persons with no known source, 16 health workers, two NRIs, and one person who had travelled from another State. While Kollam Corporation reported over 250 cases, Kottankara, Anchal, Alappad, Karungappally and Thevalakkara are also among the places with several new patients. The health workers who tested positive include eight Thekkumbhagam residents, four persons from Thevalakkara, and three others from Yeroor, Neendakara and Sasthamcotta. The district currently has 19,643 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 2,64,719. While 1,892 persons completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 57,674 primary and 7,188 secondary contacts of the positive cases. The number of recoveries on Tuesday is 410 and Kollam currently has 7,981 active cases. Following the spike in cases, Minister J. Mercykutty Amma has instructed the officials concerned to deploy three volunteers in each ward to strengthen preventive measures. Each panchayat will find volunteers for the purpose and all those who can’t maintain physical distancing norms and home isolation will be shifted special centres. Volunteers will be monitoring the patients shifted to the centres due to the lack of home care facilities and local bodies will ensure that they are provided medicine, food and tele consultation. The Minister also instructed the district administration not to close any FLTCs currently operating in Kollam. Since shop owners, merchants and autorickshaw drivers are increasingly contracting the infection, special groups will be formed for them as part of containment. “Sector officers and ward-level committees should monitor the groups and if necessary, doctors should be assigned at panchayat level. Sector officers should be given the responsibility of keeping a tab on ward-level activities and volunteers,” she said. More FLTCs The Minister also urged the public to cooperate with the officials and ensured that more FLTCs will be opened in panchayats that report high number of cases. “Joint efforts of people’s representatives, volunteers, and sector officers will help us to enforce containment activities in a more efficient manner and prevent further spread,” she said.
14 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||KKS’s farms ready for harvest||Kerala Karshaka Sangham (KKS) State secretary K.N. Balagopal inaugurated the district-level harvesting of various crops cultivated by the farmer’s body. KKS had started farming in more than 2,000 acres of fallow land in the district and the harvest festival was held at the Kummil polder in Kadakkal. The farmers had cultivated paddy in 900 acres of land under the supervision of KKS area and village committees. Majority of the farmers from the district participated in the extensive drive launched by the sangham as part of Subhiksha Keralam, an initiative of the government to make the State self -reliant in food production. Banana was cultivated in 310 acres of land while various intermediary crops including tapioca were planted in 47 acres. Kitchen gardens Around 25,000 KSS members now have kitchen gardens at their homes and they have also been promoting vegetable and fish farming in the district. In connection with Subhiksha Keralam, various local bodies and department had also started cultivation of paddy and vegetables in the district. Projects Animal Husbandry Department, Dairy Development Department and Fisheries department had announced different projects that includes fodder grass cultivation, pearl spot farming, and biofloc units. The district had 3,393 hectares of fallow land and the project aims to convert the maximum area into farm land. KSS district president Biju K. Mathew presided over the function while area secretary B. Sivadasan Pillai and district panchayat member P.R. Pushkaran were also present on the occasion. KSS district committee would be cultivating paddy in 1,000 acres of land for the upcoming ‘virippu season’, said the Sangham officials.
14 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||476 cases in Kottayam||With Changanassery, Kottayam and Erattupetta municipalities recording a sharp increase in positive cases, the number of fresh COVID-19 cases remained high on Tuesday. Apart from one person who returned from another State recently, 475 persons were infected through local contact. Of the infected persons, the infection source of 38 patients was yet to be traced. While the fresh cases in Changanassery municipality shot up to 67, Kottayam and Erattupetta municipalities recorded 57 and 52 new cases each. The spread of the disease continued to be alarming in several local bodies including Panachikadu-15, Chemp and Thiruvarp-13, Chirakkadavu, Ettumanoor municipality, Kanjirapally-12, Vaikom municipality, Parathodu-11, Kallara and Kanakkari-10. With 478 recoveries, the district currently has 5,469 active cases. Presently, 18,355 persons are undergoing quarantine in the district.
14 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Recoveries exceed fresh cases||The number of recoveries exceeded that of fresh COVID-19 cases for the second day in a row in Kozhikode district on Tuesday, and test positivity rate has slumped compared to previous days. According to the District Medical Officer, 1,113 people were declared tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and 1,236 others recovered from the infection. On Monday, 1,306 people had recovered. The test positivity rate, the percentage of people testing positive in lab tests, which was way above 15% for the past couple of days, declined to 9.06%. The desirable level is 5%. As many as 11,877 samples were sent for lab tests on Tuesday. However, the district is just behind Malappuram (1,139) and Ernakulam (1,122) in terms of the number of cases. Of the total cases, 1,054 are due to local transmission of the infection and 44 are without known sources. The number of active cases came down to 10,934. Meanwhile, one death was reported from the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Tuesday. The death of two others on Monday and Sunday too was included in the medical bulletin. In Wayanad As many as 110 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Tuesday. Of them, 107 persons were infected through contact and the source of infection could not be traced in three cases. The total number of active cases has reached 1,081 in the district.
14 October 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Lijo’s remarkable talent to the fore in Jallikattu||Lijo Jose Pellissery has come a long way since making his debut with Nayakan in 2010. During the past one decade, not many Malayalam directors have made as much an impact nationally and internationally. He has deserved all the laurels that have come his way. His latest triumph came on Tuesday when he won the State Award for the best director. It was almost a foregone conclusion. For, Jallikattu i s not just an exceptional film, it is totally a director’s film. It has a promising premise and a fine script yes, but in the hands of a lesser filmmaker, it wouldn’t have become such a stunning visual experience. The film — it is basically about a buffalo getting away from the slaughter house and how it is hunted down by the villagers, but is also about the beast inside man — earned praise from a global audience. Few Indian films of late have been made with such vision and craft. Wide acclaim It was his previous film, Ee.Ma.Yau , that earned him respect from people outside Malayalam cinema. The dark film about a funeral had won Lijo the Silver Peacock Award for the best director at the International Film Festival of India in 2018. Remarkably, he won the honours again for Jallikattu at last year’s festival, too. Commercial success Lijo’s talent had been noticed by the Malayali viewer long ago.  Amen (2013), a critical and commercial success, established him as a director to watch out for. It didn’t take him long to be recognised as one of the finest directors of his generation in Indian cinema. “Lijo’s growth as a director after Amen has been amazing,” said Pradeep Nair, a National Award-winning director who follows world cinema closely. “I don’t think any other director has brought as much global attention to Malalayalam cinema.”   Jallikattu i s totally a director’s film. It has a promising premise and a fine script.
14 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Chemists’ forum to roll out drugs from Nov. 1||Nearly 90% of the drugs being sold in Kerala are being brought from outside the State. Most of the few pharmaceutical units left here are sinking too. The All-Kerala Chemists and Druggists Association (AKCDA), the largest network of medicine distributors in the State, is planning to tap this market by launching its own drug manufacturing facility. AKCDA president A.N. Mohanan said on Tuesday that high raw material costs and the steps taken to ensure quality, among other things, were affecting the prospects of drug manufacturing units here. “We hope that we can tackle these issues using our industry experience and goodwill,” he said. Ten products, including hand sanitiser, disinfectant, and essential drugs such as paracetamol tablets are expected to be rolled out on November 1 on the occasion of Keralappiravi Day (State Formation Day). In the second year, the company would start manufacturing drugs for lifestyle diseases, he said. The facility The manufacturing facility of the company, Kaino Pharm Ltd., has been set up on the campus of a pharmacy college run by the AKCDA in Ernakulam district. Ravi S. Menon, former State Drugs Controller, is one of the directors of the company, which has tied up with a Thrissur-based pharmaceutical unit for the production of drugs. “The drug sales in the State a year are worth around Rs. 12,000 crore. In the initial year, our target is to have business for Rs. 100 crore,” Mr. Mohanan said. The drugs could be made available at cheap rates as the AKCDA itself was manufacturing and distributing them without the involvement of middlemen, Mr. Mohanan said.
14 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Sarovaram park to be opened in a week||The Kozhikode district administration is planning to throw open all its tourism destinations by the first week of November, and in the first phase, Sarovaram Bio Park in the city will be opened to the public within a week. District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) Secretary C.P. Beena said strict regulations would be put in place at the park to make it safe for the public in the backdrop of the pandemic. “Ticketing will be made online as far as possible. We will set up a QR code for payment at the counters at Sarovaram,” Ms. Beena said. In keeping with the COVID-19 protocol, sanitisers and masks will be made mandatory. “The park will run in two shifts, one from 9 a.m. to noon and another from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. The break in between will be used to sanitise the park,” she added. Only 100 people will be allowed inside the park at a time, while a person cannot stay inside for more than one hour. Groups of more than five persons will not be entertained, as Section 144 is in place. The district administration had a plan to open the Sargaalaya Arts and Crafts Village along with Sarovaram, but it could not be done, as a COVID-19 treatment centre is functioning at Sargaalaya.
14 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Islamic scholars turn to wayside vending||Dozens of Islamic scholars who lost jobs during the COVID-19 pandemic in the wake of the shutting down of mosques and madrasas have turned to roadside vending. Turbaned men in milky white dhoti and full-sleeved shirts are the latest to join the roadside vendor bandwagon across the State. Several of them have been seen selling fried banana chips in solitary corners of State and national highways. Issue of livelihood “I cannot let my family starve any longer. Somehow I managed for three months after I lost my madrasa teaching job in a Palakkad village in June. I started selling chips by the roadside a week ago, and I’m happy I can make a living with this,” said Mohammed Jamsheed Saqafi. Like him, dozens of young Saqafis, Ahsanis, Faizis, Hudavis, and Wafis (scholars carrying surnames linking with their alma mater) have turned to roadside selling for a living. Some are selling baked and fried items, some vegetables and fruits, some floor carpets, some pickles and papad, and some biriyani. And all of them turned to roadside vending as a desperate measure to survive. Some madrasa teachers joined hands and started making banana chips near Kizhisseri. Mr. Jamsheed said he would collect the chips supplied by the teacher group and sell it at a convenient place. He was found near Puzhakkattiri on Tuesday. “I could sell nearly 16 kg of chips a day. Alhamdu Lillah (meaning thank God), I’m happy,” he said. Motorists passing by often find curiosity in these white-clad men. “I’m sure I will get quality stuff. And in a way helping them to make a living as well,” said Mohammed Ali, a businessman who stopped to procure five kg of tapioca from a madrasa teacher at Malappuram. Matter of pride According to Jamal Karulai, a social worker and district leader of th Sunni Yuvajana Sangham, the economic crisis has opened up new vistas of livelihood for young religious scholars. “There’s Izzat (pride) in doing any job,” he said.
14 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||No let-up in Malappuram||As many as 1,139 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram on Tuesday. The number of active cases currently under treatment in the district rose to 9,065. District authorities said 1,040 patients were found to have been infected through direct local contact. There were 62 cases with an unidentifiable source of infection. Among the new cases, 11 are health workers. There were 772 recoveries in the district.
14 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||244 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 244 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday. Of the fresh cases, 231contracted the virus through local contact while 14 cases came from outside. The contact source of 14 persons are yet to be traced. Local bodies Among the local bodies, Thiruvalla led the tally with 22 cases, followed by Pathanamthitta with 21 cases. The disease claimed one more life in Pathanamthitta on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as a 57-year-old man from Thiruvalla, who had been tested positive on October 1. With this, the total number deaths due to COVID-19 in the district rose to 67. With 321 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 3,134 active cases.
14 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Gadkari for steps to reduce cost of NH works||Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari has asked the State to consider the PPP (public-private partnership) model for road development and other steps for reducing the cost of four/six-laning of National Highway (NH) corridors. After laying the foundation stone via videoconference on Tuesday for developing seven NH 66 corridors of 177 km at Rs. 11,571.23 crore, Mr. Gadkari told Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan that adopting the PPP mode for road development and bus ports would bring more capital in building infrastructure. Go for PPP model “The PPP is against your ideology. But, you have to be progressive and liberal. The Centre does not have money and is facing a financial crisis,” Mr. Gadkari said. The Minister sought royalty-free aggregates and sand and exemption for iron, steel, cement from State Goods and Services Tax for reducing the cost of NH development after the Chief Minister put forward the State’s demand. “Work out a package on stamp duty, royalty, SGST and come to Delhi with officials and we will resolve the issues.” The Centre would not discriminate against Kerala for political reasons, he said, lauding the Chief Minister for speeding up land acquisition for NH development. The Minister also wanted the Chief Minister to take the initiative to reduce road accidents in the State as Rs. 40,000 crore was being made available from the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank for road safety. As part of the Mumbai- Kanyakumari economic corridor, 23 projects at a length of 650 km were being developed in Kerala at an investment of Rs. 50,000 crore. The corridor traversing the entire length of Kerala was expected to be a lifeline for the State. In the presence of Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, Mr. Vijayan, Union Ministers V. Muraleedharan and Gen (retired) V.K. Singh, Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran, MPs, MLAs, and officials, Mr. Gadkari also dedicated to the nation the four-lane 26.78-km Reach I Kazhakuttam-Mukkola Bypass of NH 66 in the capital. Mr. Vijayan, in his address, said the NH development works being launched would be a milestone in infrastructure development. The works (The works are six-laning of Thalapady to Changala, Changala to Neeleswaram, Perole to Taliparamba, Taliparamba to Muzhapilangad, Paloli and Moorad bridges, Kozhikode Bypass (all on NH 66) and construction of a high-level bridge over the Cheruthoni river in Idukki on NH 185.)
14 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital posts 777 cases, 815 recoveries||The district reported 777 more COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, but there was also some good news for a change. The rate of transmission of the disease appears to have slowed down in Thiruvananthapuram, according to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The district also did not report any new deaths due to COVID-19 on Tuesday. Stiff challenge “COVID-19 had posed a stiff challenge in Thiruvananthapuram district, but the transmission rate has declined. This can be attributed to the exemplary action jointly taken by various departments. The people of the district also responded on a positive note,” Mr. Vijayan said. That notwithstanding, the response has been disappointing in crowded places such as fish markets, street-side shops and eateries where physical distancing and other Break-the-Chain measures were lax. This was not a good tendency, the Chief Minister said. Of Tuesday’s caseload, local transmission accounted for 680 cases, while the source of infection was vague in 62 cases. 62 children In all, 326 women and 451 men newly tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. This included 62 children below the age of 15 and 137 persons above 60. As many as 24 health-care workers also were diagnosed with the disease on the day. The total number of recoveries stood at 815. A total of 11,475 persons are under treatment for COVID-19 at present. On Tuesday alone, 2,368 persons were newly quarantined in the district.
14 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kani has proved her mettle, time and again||Kani Kusruti has been a presence, on stage and on screen, for around two decades now. Even then, it is in Sajin Baabu’s Biriyani , which fetched her the best actor (female) award at this year’s Kerala State Film Awards, that she is playing a full-length lead role in film for the first time. Yet, she has been very much active in the acting circuit, performing with acclaimed theatre groups abroad or playing notable roles in films and short films. One of those short films The Discreet Charm of the Savarnas , which has garnered much praise when it began streaming in YouTube last week, has her playing the role of a privileged independent filmmaker, who along with two other filmmakers, is looking for an actor who “looks like a Dalit.” Last week, she also won the best actress award at the fifth BRICS festival, which was held along with the 42nd Moscow International Film Festival (MIFF). Dedicated to P.K. Rosy “I would like to dedicate these awards to P.K. Rosy, the Dalit actor who was driven away from the industry for playing the role of an upper caste woman. I still see the same issues around me, of how several brilliant actors are facing discrimination and do not get any offers due to their colour or caste. I am also dedicating this award to the actor who had to face sexual assault and against whom insensitive comments are being made. I have much respect for the likes of Parvathy for standing up for her,” says Kani in an interview to The Hindu . In Biriyani , she plays a woman struggling hard to survive in a deeply religious, patriarchal society. “When Sajin finished viewing the edits, he had told me that it is a performance which could win awards. But I did not take that seriously, as the past year had so many great performances in Malayalam cinema,” she says. Beginnings in theatre Beginning her acting career right from her school days, she began her stint in theatre with Thiruvananthapuram-based Abhinaya. After attending the theatre arts programme at the Drama School in Thrissur, she pursued physical theatre at L'École Internationale de Théâtre Jacques Lecoq in Paris. Kani Kusruthi has acted in several Malayalam films, including Kerala Cafe , Cocktail , Shikkar and North 24 Kaatham . She recently won the second best actress at the Imagine India Film Festival in Madrid and was also nominated for the best actor award at the Tribeca Festival in New York for her performance in Prashant Nair’s Tryst with Destiny . “A television series that I acted in Hindi, Ok Computer , will start streaming soon. Although I get more offers from there, I wish to act in more films in Malayalam,” says Kani Kusruthi.
14 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Court order a respite for govt.||The State government appeared to have received a respite from a season of unfavourable news on Tuesday with the Kerala High Court slapping a two-month stay on the CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) inquiry into the contentious LIFE Mission-UAE Red Crescent contract to build and deliver 140 dwellings for low-income families at Wadakkanchery in Thrissur. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the interim order vindicated the government’s position that the LIFE Mission had no role in the award of the contract to any particular builder. Congress, BJP flayed He dismissed the contention of the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that the High Court had refused to grant the government a clean chit. The High Court had upheld the government’s argument that the CBI had “erred” in registering a case against “anonymous” LIFE Mission officials under the provisions of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010. The court also saw merit in the government’s averment that the LIFE Mission did not accept foreign aid from the sponsor. Mr. Vijayan said the Congress and the BJP were birds of the same feather. They had in tandem attempted to lay down a smokescreen of lies to discredit the government’s flagship programme to provide free housing for the poor. The government had soaked up a seemingly relentless cycle of adverse publicity after court documents revealed that the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case accused had profited hugely from the LIFE Mission project. The Opposition parties had repeatedly accused Mr. Vijayan of using the heft of his office to aid the economic offenders. Left Democratic Front (LDF) convener A Vijayaraghavan welcomed the verdict and hoped it would shut the mouth of the Opposition and their enablers in the mainstream media. However, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said Mr. Vijayan’s sense of victory was misplaced and fleeting. The High Court had rejected the government’s plea to quash the First Information Report filed by the CBI. The judge had given a reprieve to the government merely for technical reasons. BJP State president K. Surendran said the court had allowed the CBI to forge ahead with its probe into the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act violation.  Interim order vindicates the government’s position Pinarayi Vijayan Chief Minister
14 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bypass Reach I commissioned||The 26.7-km Reach I from Kazhakuttam to Mukkola of the 43-km Kazhakuttam-Karode NH 66 Bypass offers hassle-free connectivity to Thiruvananthapuram airport, Technopark, Kovalam, Akkulam tourist village and Shanghumughom. Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari inaugurated the Reach 1 through videoconference on Tuesday. Besides decongesting the city, the project further boosts the prospects of the upcoming Vizhinjam seaport. The road connectivity to the seaport is from the 16.3 km Reach II from Mukkola to Karode. The commissioning of the upcoming 2.7-km four-lane flyover at Kazhakuttam for hassle-free entry to Technopark in April 2021 and the Reach II will further decongest the city. At Rs. 1,120.86 crore  The National Highways Authority of India that executed the four-laning in Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) mode, overcoming several hurdles, including opposition from the local residents, saw the cost of the NH four-laning going up from Rs. 778.41 crore sanctioned for construction and ancillary works in 2015 to Rs. 1,120.86 crore in 2020. Construction of the 1.6-km four-lane flyover in front of the airport at Rs. 142 crore, a two-lane bridge parallel to the existing one at Akkulam and the rail overbridge at Chakka were the main hurdles. In his address, Mr. Gadkari said the bypass project would increase transportation efficiency, decrease transportation cost and enhance the infrastructural development thereby boosting overall development of the region, reducing accidents, providing connectivity to tourist destinations and historical/religious places. The shelving of the overpass at Eenchakkal Junction is going to be a major headache for traffic personnel. As the NHAI has initiated steps to collect toll by setting up toll plaza near Thiruvallam, the response from the motorists is eagerly awaited. The Hyderabad-based KNR Constructions Ltd. executed the work of Reach I.
14 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KIIFB to fund 66 infra projects||As many as 66 infrastructure projects in various sectors at Rs. 2,953.36 crore have got the approval of the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The KIIFB executive committee on Monday cleared 54 projects costing Rs. 1,336.15 crore and the KIIFB Board on Tuesday cleared 12 projects costing Rs. 1,617.21 crore. With this, the projects approved by KIIFB have gone up to 806, costing Rs. 59,813.61 crore. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, Vice Chairman, KIIFB, told mediapersons that Rs. 59,813.61 crore included Rs. 20,000 crore for acquiring land for the National Highway four/six-laning, industrial parks, and the Kochi-Bengalaru industrial corridor. Health and family welfare projects got priority at the KIIFB executive and board meeting. Ten hospitals will together get Rs. 815.20 crore for improving infrastructure. The projects include renovation of the Konni Medical College Hospital, Kottayam General Hospital, construction of surgical, paediatric, and MLT blocks in Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. CNG buses for KSRTC The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation will get funds for procuring 330 CNG buses and funds have been allocated for converting diesel buses into LNG. The KSRTC will sign an agreement with KIIFB. Kerala will be the second State after Delhi to have green transport in the country. The Public Works Department got Rs. 1,369.05 crore for various projects. The four-laning of Vazhiyila-Pazhakutty- Kacherinada-11th Stone got Rs. 279.32 crore, cable-stayed bridge across the Ponnani estuary Rs. 280.09 crore, and Rs. 133.60 crore for the Pettah-Anayara-Oruvathilkotta road. The integrated urban regeneration and water transport system project in Kochi was granted Rs. 106.13 crore. Sustainable development proposal for Sabarimala and Edathavalam Rs. 130.54 crore and development proposals in Sabarimala Rs. 12.64 crore. A sum of Rs. 38.77 crore has been approved for slaughterhouses at Attingal, Punalur, Palakkad, and Kozhikode. As many as 336 schools spread over 24 clusters will get Rs. 1 crore each. The higher education sector will get Rs. 59.66 crore. The Local Self-Government Department has been given Rs. 50.79 crore for constructing new office buildings at Anthoor, Kuthattukulam, and Pattambi municipalities and Kannur Municipal Corporation.
14 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Schoolchildren to be ambassadors||Schoolchildren will now become the ambassadors of the Break-the-Chain campaign that was launched in the initial days of the COVID-19 pandemic. With the recent increase in caseload, the government is turning to students to take the message of disease prevention to their families. Organised by the General Education Department, Health Department and the Kerala Social Security Mission on the directions of the Chief Minister, the initiative will begin on Wednesday. Training videos will be telecast on Victers channel at regular intervals. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja will address the students on the occasion. Handwashing Day On Thursday, Global Handwashing Day, children will take up related activities in their homes. Break the Chain online classes and awareness will be given to all students in the State. Expert opinion KSSM executive director Mohammed Asheel will provide scientific health information to teachers and Student Police Cadets in a video. Magician Gopinath Muthukad will also speak to students. Poster making, shooting of videos, and other creative activities will have to be undertaken at homes. This will be evaluated by school teachers. Works of 10 students have to be sent from the districts to the State level by October 30. The General Education Department will collect these and send them to the Break-the-Chain campaign committee of the KSSM.
14 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Director who petitioned HC wins best film award||Shinos Rahman, one of the directors of Vasanthi , which won the best film award at the Kerala State Film Awards this year, was probably taken by surprise by the declaration. He was one of the three petitioners who had recently filed a writ petition at the Kerala High Court accusing the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy (KSCA) of nepotism. They also alleged that the academy had rushed through the screening process for the awards. Plea dismissed The High Court had dismissed the petition last week saying that the Chairman or the Executive Board of the academy could not influence the outcome of the competition. Jury The court added that jury members were eminent personalities in film and allied fields. To exclude any possibility of bias in the selection of films for award, the regulations mandated that all jury members should submit a signed affidavit in the prescribed format stating non-involvement of them or any of their relatives in the entries.
14 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Checks to be intensified||Sectoral officers appointed to oversee COVID-19 restrictions in the district will carry out inspections at public places, including shops and establishments, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. Non-compliance would invite stern legal action, Ms. Khosa said. Following the imposition of prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Cr.PC, the District Collector had appointed 92 sectoral officers to monitor enforcement activities. The restrictions include a ban on assembly of more than five persons in public spaces.
14 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New containment zones||Several places in the district have been designated containment zones on Tuesday. In the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limits, Muttada (CP Nagar area), Ambalathara (Mithra Nagar Ammachimukku junction, We One Residents Association), Kamaleswaram (Ganga Nagar, Jubilee Nagar), Puthenpalli (Badari Nagar), Muttathara (Vaduvath region), and Shanghumughom (GV Raja A Street, B Street, C Street, Rajiv Nagar, Kannanthura) are the new containment zones. The following panchayat areas have also been declared containment zones: Kalloorkonam in Kadakkavur panchayat; Chettachal, Theviyode, Peppara, Memala and Thalachira in Vithura panchayat; and Kizhuvilam and Koonthalloor in Kizhuvilam panchayat. Curbs lifted Iruvaikonam in Thirupuram panchayat; Velloorkonam and Chavarkode in Navayikulam panchayat; Mannanthala (except SN Nagar, Perapur); and PG Residents’ Association in Perunthanni ward of city Corporation have been taken out of the list of containment zones.
14 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No hasty decision on salary cut, says Isaac||Decisions not acceptable to government employees and teachers will not be enforced on them by the government, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. Speaking to mediapersons here on Tuesday, Dr. Isaac said the government would not take a hasty decision on deducting the salary of government employees and teachers as decided by the Cabinet last month. The decision to defer the salary cut for six months was taken after the CPI(M) State secretariat asked the Finance Minister to take a call after holding discussions. Opposition unions had threatened to go on strike.
14 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Smart mosquito surveillance system for capital city||Mayor K. Sreekumar on Tuesday inaugurated the installation of the Smart Mosquito Surveillance System as part of the civic body’s Smart City project. The system makes use of various technologies to alert the Corporation’s health wing regarding the location, density and type of mosquito population. With this information, the authorities can plan selective fumigation of the areas and then monitor the effect it had on the mosquito population. Smart Mosquito Surveillance System eliminates blind spraying of fumigation and thus enables Smart Fumigation. Sensors The system consists of a number of smart mosquito sensors, located around the city and a dashboard set up in the Integrated command and control centre at the Corporation. Sensors would be located in most susceptible areas where mosquitoes are likely to breed, including waterbodies, hospitals and markets. Areas with a high number of reported dengue or malaria cases in recent years, high human population density, and poor sanitation would be targeted in the beginning. Types and density These sensors capture and identify mosquito types and density. The sensors would report this information over the telecom network to a server on a regular basis. These sensors use artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms to classify mosquitoes using wing beat, circadian rhythm, height of flight and location parameters. The system is expected to become functional by December.
14 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Baby girl at Ammathottil||After a COVID-19-induced gap, the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare at Thycaud here welcomed an infant on Monday evening. The child was left in the hi-tech electronic cradle ‘Ammathottil.’ Council general secretary Shijukhan J.S. and treasurer R. Raju also reached there on receiving word. The six-day-old girl was taken to Women and Child Hospital, Thycaud, and tested for COVID-19. Weighing 2.5 kg, she was declared healthy. The girl was named Jwala in solidarity with the family of the woman who was assaulted and allegedly raped in Hathras, a statement said.
14 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Dams’ shutters being raised||All four shutters of Neyyar Dam will be raised by 7.5 cm more at 10 a.m. on Wednesday. The shutters have already been raised by 12.5 cm each. The second and third shutters of Peppara Dam will be raised by 5 cm each at 9 a.m., District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. People in the surrounding areas should remain alert, she said.
14 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rs. 1,600 relief for midday meal workers||The government has issued an order sanctioning Rs. 1,600 as relief for midday meal workers in State schools. Of this, Rs. 600 is the Union government share and the rest that of the State. With schools yet to reopen in the wake of COVID-19 spread, the hardship experienced by midday meal workers prompted the State to top of its share of Rs. 400 by another Rs. 600 during the pandemic, a statement here said.
14 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM to declare green islets achievement||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will declare online the completion of more than 1,000 Pachathuruthu (green islets) across the State by the Haritha Kerala Mission at 10 a.m. on Thursday. The Chief Minister will also release the review report of the Pachathuruthu project, being implemented in association with local self-governments to check the adverse effects of climate change.
14 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plea for SC-monitored investigation||Activists of the CITU, Karshakasangham,and Karshaka Thozhilali Union staged a Satewide protest on Tuesday against the atrocities on women and Dalits in various pars of the country. The protesters demanded a Supreme Court monitored inquiry into the Hathras gang rape and adequate security for the family of the victim. CPI(M) Polit Bureau member S.Ramachandran Pillai inaugurated the agitation in front of the Accountant General's office here. CITU state president Anathalavattam Anandan presided.
14 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Nursing school publishes provisional list||The Government Nursing School here has published the provisional list of applicants for the general nursing course for the year 2020-21. Complaints are to be sent to the Principal within 10 days with relevant documents.
14 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Organic farming: local bodies get guidelines||The Panchayat Department has issued guidelines for local bodies to take up organic farming and production of pesticide-free vegetables under the Annual Plan. The local bodies have been directed to promote sustainable farming under the Subhiksha Keralam scheme through collectives involving Krishi Bhavans, agricultural research institutions, farmer producers organisations, and other agricultural agencies with sufficient outlay in the Plan programmes. The projects are to be formulated with the objective of achieving self sufficiency in agricultural production, a release here said
14 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Spike continues in Thrissur||As many as 1,010 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Thrissur district on Tuesday, while 650 people were discharged from hospitals. There are 9,269 active cases and 143 people are undergoing treatment at various hospitals. So far 23,785 positive cases have been reported in the district, while 14,341 people recovered. According to official statistics, the entire cases in the district reported were through local contact. As many as 5,789 people are under home observation. 606 cases in Palakkad As many as 606 people tested positive in Palakkad district on Tuesday. When 575 of them were found to have contracted the virus through direct local contact, the source of infection could not be traced in 26 cases. Four cases came from other States and one came from abroad. District officials said there were 385 recoveries. The number of active cases currently under treatment in the district rose to 6,604. Apart from those being treated in the district, 54 people from Palakkad were being treated in Ernakulam, 46 in Malappuram, 17 in Kozhikode, 16 in Thrissur, three each in Alappuzha and Thiruvananthapuram, and one each in Kannur and Kottayam.
14 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Jail superintendent, 2 others suspended||The district jail superintendent and two other prison officers were placed under suspension on Tuesday pending inquiry in connection with the death of an accused in a ganja case at Ambilikala hostel, the quarantine centre of the Jail Department. Superintendent Raju Abraham has been placed under suspension as he should have been more vigilant in avoiding such malpractices in the quarantine centre of the department, according to Director General of Prisons  Rishiraj Singh. Two prison officers A.R. Ramesh and M.S. Arun, who were allegedly involved in the torture of Shemeer, an accused in a ganja case, and a 17-year-old boy arrested for vehicle theft, were placed under suspension. Shemeer later died at the Thrissur Government Medical College Hospital, Two other jail officers, who were on duty on the day Shemeer died, were transferred earlier. The two officers, who have been placed under suspension, were involved in both cases. Mr. Rishiraj Singh has asked to close down Ambilikala, the quarantine centre. Now onwards three blocks in the district jail, which lay vacant, will be used as quarantine centre for prisoners. The disciplinary action was taken on the basis of Mr. Singh’s visit to the Ambilikkala COVID care centre, Viyyur sub-jail and juvenile home at Ramavarmapuram, where the minor boy who was alleged torture was shifted. Mr. Singh collected statements from the other complainants too. Further action in Shemeer’s case will be taken after receiving the post-mortem report, Mr. Singh said.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Awaiting a miracle||
14 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kisan Rail freight to be subsidised by 50%||The Ministry of Food Processing Industries will bear 50% of the freight charges if farmers send their produce via Kisan Rail. A decision to this effect was taken by Secretary Pushpa Subramanyam on a representation given by Anantapur MP Talari Rangaiah. At a press conference here on Tuesday, the MP also announced that the Railway Board had turned the Kisan Rail into a Weekly Time-Tabled train between Anantapur and Adarsh Nagar in Delhi. The major advantage of this will be the booking of part consignments in a 23-tonne bogie. Initially, the train will leave Anantapur on Saturday night so that by Monday afternoon, the fruits reach Delhi when the markets are open. The normal freight from Anantapur to Adarsh Nagar is Rs. 5,136 per tonne, which will be now charged at Rs. 2,568 per tonne. This scheme is being run as a pilot project for six months with a promise to extend it further if needed. The Food Processing Industry has initially set aside Rs. 2.9 crore as subsidy for such transport of agriculture and horticulture goods through this train, and as and when the Railways sends the bills, it would be automatically transferred to their account from this fund. “If a further amount is needed, it will also be sanctioned by the Food Processing Industries Ministry,” Mr. Rangaiah added. Collector Gandham Chandrudu, who was present on the occasion, said the next train is likely to be sent on October 17 from Anantapur railway station. A passenger bogie is also attached to the Kisan Train so that farmers or their representatives can buy a ticket for Rs. 800 and travel along with the produce to the mandi. Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy, appreciating the role of the Horticulture Department and District Collector in making the Kisan Rail a success, said that the services of the Agriculture Marketing Department would also be utilised to make this facility reach more farmers. Hindupur MP Gorantla Madhav was also present.
14 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||NMG rake with 100 KIA cars flagged off||South Western Railway transported 100 KIA Seltos SUVs from Penukonda Railway Station in Anantapur to Farukh Nagar in Haryana on Tuesday. SWR General Manager Ajay Kumar Singh formally flagged off the train from Hubballi through video link. The train was loaded with 100 cars in 25 Network Management Gateway (NMG) wagons. During the 2020-21 financial year, 10 NMG rakes per month were sent from Penukonda on average. Till date, a total of 4,980 cars (including 100 cars sent on Tuesday) have been transported to Farukh Nagar. The Railways has set up a siding at Penukonda exclusively for the transportation of these cars. The cars were loaded by IVC Logistics Ltd, who are the logistic partners for Railways and KIA Motors. The NMG wagons have been modified to facilitate easy movement of automobile goods. This was the 50th such rake to be sent from Penukonda, which is in the jurisdiction of the Bengaluru Division of South Western Railway. Principal Chief Operations Manager H.C. Verma, Principal Chief Commercial Manager Anil Pavithran, Principal Chief Engineer Vipul Kumar, were present.
14 October 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Only a few cinemas in city likely to reopen from tomorrow||Though the State government has given the green signal to cinema exhibitors to screen films from October 15, not many exhibitors in the city are in a hurry to reopen their theatres. The non-availability of big banners and new films seems to be the main reason as hardly any new films had been made during the last six months in view of the pandemic situation. The few films, which were made, were released on Over the Top (OTT) platforms. Most exhibitors feel that screening old films would not draw audiences to the cinemas after the long shutdown. They are also bothered about the lack of permission to exhibitors in Telangana for the screening of films. The film makers would like to release new films in both the Telugu States simultaneously. “It is highly unlikely that they will give us (exhibitors in Andhra Pradesh) new content now. We have submitted a memorandum to the Chief Minister seeking reduction in power tariff,” said an exhibitor. Jagadamba theatre proprietor Jagadish Kumar plans to screen the English film ‘Viking’ from October 16. He, however, has not made any plans to screen films at his other two theatres in the complex. October 15 is Amavasya, which is considered inauspicious by some exhibitors. “We will start screening after the Telangana government gives its nod for screening of films in that State. We hope that it happens before the Dasara festival,” says Vamsi Kishore, who owns three theatres at Gajuwaka. Sangam and Sarat theatre are unlikely to reopen till new films are ready. “We will not open until new films are released,” says Prasad Reddy, manager of Sarat theatre. It’s learnt that CMR and Varun INOX theatres are scheduled to open on October 15. Meanwhile, Kalabharathi Auditorium, which has remained closed due to COVID-19 since March 22, 2020, will be reopened from October 18. Harikatha Bhagavatarini Kalla Nirmala of Vizianagaram will render ‘Sri Sitarama Kalyanam’ Harikatha on the opening day. She will be supported by P. Dakshina Murthy (Vijayawada) on the violin and Sivasankar (Vizianagaram) on the mridangam. Kalabharathi secretary Rambabu says, “Wearing masks and sanitisation of hands before entering the auditorium is compulsory to check possible spread of the coronavirus.”
14 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flood situation under control, says Collector||Flood situation continues to be alarming, but under control, as copious outflows from Dr. KL Rao Multi Purpose (Pulichintala) Project are keeping the district administration on edge. Areas upstream of the Prakasam Barrage continue to be under a sheet of water. The area surrounding the 126 feet tall Dhyana Buddha statue were inundated due to overflowing of the River Krishna. The road links from Guntur to Amaravathi were snapped as water from Kondaveedu Vagu was overflowing the causeways. Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said that the Prakasam Barrage was receiving inflows of 2.75 lakh cusecs and level one warning would be issued on Wednesday morning. Control rooms were opened in Guntur (0863-2324014), Tenali Sub-Collector office (0864-4223800), Guntur RDO office (0863-2240679). “The flood situation is under control and we have placed revenue, police and NDRF teams on high alert. We will be monitoring the releases downstream of the Prakasam Barrage every hour and take a decision on evacuating people,’’ said Mr. Samuel Anand Kumar.
14 October 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders dump found in tank bed||The Red Sanders Anti Smuggling Task Force (RSASTF) sleuths stumbled upon logs hidden in a water body Raja Cheruvu in Kadapa district. A combing team led by reserve inspector Krupanandam unearthed it in the early hours of Tuesday. The task force police and the forest sleuths had a tough time fishing out the logs from the bed of the tank near Botimeedapalli village of Rajampet mandal. The Pullampet area of the Seshachalam forest is known to have some of the finest varieties of red sanders trees, symbolised by the attractive lines and rings on the trunk, and hence is believed to be of higher value in the international market. As the news broke, the task force Superintendent of Police Anjaneyulu and Deputy Superintendent Venkataiah rushed to the spot around dawn. The personnel were still retrieving the logs from the stream when reports last came in.
14 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APRS opposes GMR tie-up move with Aurobindo||Andhra Pradesh Rythu Sangham (APRS) State vice-president P. Narasimha Rao has appealed to farmers not to allow the change of the ownership of the Kakinada Special Economic Zone (KSEZ) as GMR group has recently declared to sell its 51% stake in the KSEZ to the Aurobindo group in the Rs. 2,160-crore deal. Speaking to the media here on Tuesday, Mr. Narasimha Rao said: “The GMR-Aurabindo deal should not be allowed to materialise until justice is done to every farmer who parted with their land for the KSEZ. The State government should ensure that farmers are paid the compensation as per the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 as the said land remains idle without any activity for over five years.” “Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had demanded a compensation of Rs. 75 lakh per acre in the KSEZ during the tenure of N. Chandrababu Naidu as Chief Minister. However, Mr. Reddy has appointed a committee on the KSEZ but it never met farmers till date. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy-led government should rethink how the GMR-Aurabindo deal is being allowed without addressing the issues of farmers,” said Mr. Narasimha Rao. Mr. Narasimha Rao appealed to the Chief Minister not to follow the strategy which was adopted by Mr. Naidu to suppress the KSEZ movement. Call to farmers APRS activists, including East Godavari APRS district president Tirumalasetti Nageswara Rao, gave a call to farmers to brace for mounting pressure on the State government to stall the deal of transferring the ownership.
14 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman dies in wall collapse, crops in 30,149 ha damaged||A 45-year-old woman died in wall collapse at Bommuru village in the Rajamahendravaram rural mandal, while standing crops in 30,149 hectares have been damaged and 238 houses were partially collapsed due to incessant rain of East Godavari district. The woman, identified as Bommuru Lakshmi, died on the spot after a wall came crashing down on her. She died on the spot. More than 100 mm rainfall was recorded in 22 mandals under the influence of deep depression, which crossed the coast close to Kakinada on Tuesday morning, resulting in heavy rain across the district. I. Polavaram mandal received the highest rainfall of 265.4 mm since Monday night. The Konaseema area experienced heavy rainfall —Katrenikona mandal (228.2 mm), Mummidivaram (173.6) and Amalapuram (195.2 mm), a release quoted East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy as saying. Kakinada received 135.4 mm rain, leading to water logging in the low-lying areas including Recharlapeta, Srinagara Colony, dairy farm, Ayodhya Nagar and Kacheripeta from where the civic body staff evacuated the affected people to relief camps. Meanwhile, Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, in a release, said horticulture crops in 1,619 hectares were damaged by Tuesday evening and the enumeration of crop loss was in progress. In Kakinada revenue division, 71 houses were damaged partially and majority of them are on the Uppada coast.  3,780 people evacuated As many as 3,780 people have been evacuated to the relief camps. A total of 2,876 people of them are in the Kakinada city and rural areas where low-lying areas remain under the sheet of rain water. Speaking to newsmen after inspecting the Uppada coast, Mr. Muralidhar Reddy said special teams were constituted to enumerate agriculture and horticulture crops. Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha also inspected paddy fields.
14 October 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 22.9 cr. for Pushkar ghats in Kurnool||The State government has accorded administrative sanction for the construction of 20 Pushkar ghats along Tungabhadra river at a cost of Rs. 22.91 crore in Kurnool district in view of the Tungabhadra Pushkaralu to be organised from November 20 to December 1. The proposed ghats are at the pumphouse near Masamasid village, Sankalgab in Kurnool, near Naga Sai Temple Kothapeta, near Rambotla temple (all on the right bank), near Raghavendra Mutt(near Kurnool town), near Sri Sai Baba Temple, Kothapeta, at Nageshwara Swamy temple, at Gangamma temple of Gundrevula, downside of Sunkesula barrage, in Kodumur Assembly Constituency. Renovation and Extension of Existing Pushkaraghat will also be taken up at Gangamma temple, Panchlingala, on the left bank of Tungabhadra River in Kurnool. A Pushkar ghat will come up upstream of Road Bridge on NH - 44, near Munagalapadu, at Sivalayam of Gondiparla on left bank. In Mantralayam Assembly Constituency, a ghat will come up near NAP pumphouse, near Santha Market; near Vinayaka Gha, near Ramalingeswara Swami temple in Rampuram (V) in Mantralayam mandal and near Ramalingeswara Swamy temple in Myaliganur. Construction of a Pushkar ghat is proposed near Railway Bridge in Kachapuram in Mantralayam mandal, one near Nagaladinne Bridge at Nagaladinne in Nandavaram mandal and another one near Ramalingeswara Swamy temple at Gurujala Village, in Nandavaram mandal.
14 October 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die in accident||Two persons died in a road accident on the National Highway-44 at Peddatekuru in Kurnool district in the early hours of Tuesday. The Ulinakonda Sub-Inspector of Police said the two, identified as Govardhan(40) and Sujith Kumar(39), both hailing from Anantapur district, were returning home when at around 1.30 a.m., they found something in front of their car and to avoid crashing against it, veered to their right. When the car, climbing the median, landed on the carriageway of the opposite road, a trailer-lorry hit it and pushed it for about 50 meters before the car fell in the bushes on the roadside. Bodies retrieved The inmates of the car died on the spot and their bodies had to be retrieved from the mangled remains of the vehicle as it got attached to the front cabin of the lorry.
14 October 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pat for agri. assistant from Mekapati||A Village Agriculture Assistant(VAA) attached to the Dr. YSR Rythu Bharosa Kendra in Boyapatti village has been selected the best VAA in Nellore district. State Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy patted the functionary, A.Mamata, for rendering yeoman service to farmers and ensuring that all the benefits, including capital subsidy and farm inputs envisaged under the Farmer Assurance Centres, reached the farmers in the village in Atmakur Assembly segment and wanted other VAAs to emulate her. Overwhelmed, the VAA said she would continue to dedicate herself to provide improved services to farmers.
14 October 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toll climbs to 1,014 in south coastal Andhra||The toll due to coronavirus marginally increased to 1,014 in south coastal Andhra Pradesh with six more patients succumbing to the pandemic in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts in the last 24 hours. The toll rose to 540 in Prakasam district, where four patients died of the viral disease during the period while in Nellore district, the toll went up to 474 as two more patients died of the virus, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Tuesday night. After several days, the gap between fresh admissions and the number of recoveries narrowed down in the two districts to 22 during the period. As many as 670 persons contracted the dreaded disease in the last 24 hours, taking the number cumulative confirmed cases in the two districts to 1.13 lakh so far. The total number of positive cases went up to 55,100 in Prakasam district as 442 persons got infected in the last 24 hours. In SPSR Nellore district, 228 patients contracted the infection taking the total number of positive cases to 58,638. Meanwhile, 692 patients, including 431 in Prakasam district, returned home getting cured of the disease. With this, the number of active cases came down to 2,865 in Nellore district and 3,752 in Prakasam district. So far, 1,06 lakh patients in the two districts, including 55,773 in SPSR Nellore district, have recovered from the respiratory disease.
14 October 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain to help ease drought-like situation in Srikakulam district||The heavy downpour under the influence of depression, which lashed Vizianagaram and Srikakualm districts disrupted the normal life temporarily for sure, but it has brought the much needed relief to the region which recorded a rainfall deficit during the monsoon season. The deficit rainfall in the last three months has created a drought like situation in 16 of the total 38 mandals in Srikakulam district. Despite the heavy rains, the district is still under the deficit rainfall category. The district has received rainfall of 604 mm when compared to the normal of 705 mm, recording a nearly 22% deficit. Paddy, maize and other crops were badly damaged owing to the lack of rains during the crucial period. However, the recent rainfall is expected to help paddy crop though maize crop was damaged a little. Amadalavalasa, Burja, Gara, Narasannapeta, Laveru, G. Sigadam and other mandals recorded a rainfall deficit of 40 % even after the downpour in the last three days. Heavy inflows The Nagavali, Vamsadhara and other rivers whose streams were reduced considerably owing to the lack of rain between June and September received significant inflows on Tuesday. The Vamsadhara received 8,997 cusecs of water and the irrigation officials released the excess water from the barrage in anticipation of more inflows from the catchment areas of Odisha. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas asked the irrigation and revenue officials to monitor the situation cautiously as rain continues to lash the catchment areas in Odisha. Roads damaged Meanwhile, the heavy downpour caused flash floods in the Champavati river and Upputeru in Pusapatirega mandal of Vizianagaram district. Road communication to several villages including Konda, Tippalavalasa and others was snapped in the early hours of Tuesday. However, the situation improved with the receding of water from the paddy fields nearby. The revenue officials visited the affected villages in boats. They informed Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal that the situation was under control and all the residents were safe. Many trees in the Cantonment area of Vizianagaram town were uprooted due to heavy gales on Monday night. Traffic was disrupted in the Visakhapatnam-Rayapur route near Parvatipuram as the roads were damaged.
14 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain throws life out of gear in Krishna||Heavy to extremely heavy rains, triggered by the deep depression that crossed the coastal region, battered the district. Continuous rainfall from Monday night threw life out of gear in most of the mandals including Vijayawada. Rainfall occurred throughout the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. The 50 mandals in the district experienced heavy rain in past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday, according to the district administration. On an average, the district received 97.1 mm rainfall in the past one day. The previous day only 11.7 mm average rainfall was recorded. During the same period, mandals of Vissannapeta (192 mm), Nuzvid (184 mm), Penugranchipolu (175 mm), Vatsavai (172 mm) and Bapulapadu (167 mm) and several others including Vijayawada received a huge amount of rainfall. Later in the day, mandals of Nandigama and Jaggaiapeta received over 100 mm rainfall, while Chatrai and Kalidindi reported around 60 mm rainfall. Meanwhile, the continuous rainfall also caused landslides at two locations on Indrakeeladri in the city. A man, T. Siva Shankar Rao (53), was killed when his house collapsed following a landslide. Rao was buried alive under the debris and was pulled out alive by the Bhavanipuram police and State Disaster Response Force teams who rushed to the spot. However, he breathed his last while being taken to hospital that declared him brought dead. More than two houses were damaged in the incident and two others were injured. Meanwhile, at Kankadurga temple on Indrakeeladri, a minor landslide occurred. However, there was no loss of life or property. Boulders fell beside the makeshift queue lines on the ghat road leading to the temple. Waterlogged Most of the roads in Vijayawada were waterlogged. Pedestrians had to wade through knee-deep water-filled roads to commute. Bhavanipuram, Urmila Nagar, Rotary Nagar and several other areas were inundated. District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz inspected the areas in the evening and said that 35 motors were being used to remove water. VMC chief V. Prasanna Venkatesh also inspected inundated areas.
14 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flood level in Krishna rising as inflows swell with rains||Heavy to extremely heavy rains, triggered by the deep depression that crossed the coastal region, battered the district. Continuous rainfall from Monday night threw life out of gear in most of the mandals including Vijayawada. Rainfall occurred throughout the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. The 50 mandals in the district experienced heavy rain in past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday, according to the district administration. On an average, the district received 97.1 mm rainfall in the past one day. The previous day only 11.7 mm average rainfall was recorded.  District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz said that flood would further increase and by Wednesday morning first flood warning would be issued based on the situation. The first flood warning at the barrage would be issued when outflow crosses 3.96 lakh cusecs. Recently the first warning was issued twice. Mr. Imtiaz asked the public in vulnerable areas to cooperate with the officials and move to safer places as the flood level may increase gradually. Most of the roads in Vijayawada were waterlogged. Pedestrians had to wade through knee-deep water-filled roads to commute.
14 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power restoration works on war-footing, says official||The Electricity Department has initiated immediate measures to restore power infrastructure in the flood-hit areas of East and West Godavari districts, where substations and other facilities were affected by incessant rain. According to the officials, three 33KV substations and one 132 KV substation in the Godavari districts were flooded and several 33KV and 11KV feeders, distribution transformers (DTRs) and leaning poles were damaged. Energy Secretary Srikant Nagulapalli said all feeders, poles and failed DTRs would be fixed. “Despite inundation, the power supply is on in the Godavari districts. Also, all districts are getting 100 % power supply,” he said. With the IMD forecasting heavy rain and strong winds in the coastal districts, the department has put the officials on high alert and is prepared for any eventuality. In a tele-conference on Tuesday, Mr. Srikant asked AP-Transco Joint MD K. Sreedhar Reddy, Grid and Transmission Director K. Praveen Kumar, Managing Directors and Chairpersons of the eastern, southern and central power distribution companies Nagalakshmi Selvarajan, H. Haranatha Rao and Padma Janardhan Reddy respectively to take all precautionary measures to avoid any untoward incident. “Officials should act swiftly to restore power supply in flood-hit areas,” he said. Minister briefed Mr. Srikanth briefed Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy on the preparedness of the department. The Minister said the situation needed to be monitored. In case of any problem, the government should be informed about it, he said.
14 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NTSE for Class X students on Dec. 13||Director of Government Examinations A. Subbareddy has notified that the State-level (Stage-I) National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) for students of Class X will be conducted on December 13. In a statement, he said Paper-I exam would be conducted from 9.30 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. and Paper-II from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. in Telugu, English, Hindi and Urdu mediums in all the 13 district headquarters in the State. Students studying Class X in the current academic year (2020-21) in any recognised school, and students studying in open distance learning mode under the age of 18 years (as on July 1, 2020) and appearing in class X examination for the first time, including Kendriya Vidyalayas, Navodaya Samithis and schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE), New Delhi, are eligible to write the exam. In the morning session, the students will write Mental Ability Test (MAT) for 100 marks and in the afternoon, Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT), also for 100 marks, based on social studies, science and mathematics. Uploading of applications Students can submit their online applications and make payment of Rs. 200 examination fee from October 13, and the last date for uploading of the application by the headmaster concerned is November 6, while the last date for payment of exam fee is November 9. The school headmasters concerned should submit the printed nominal rolls along with other enclosures in the office of the District Education Officer (DEO) latest by November 12. The DEOs, after a thorough scrutiny of the printed NRs with original income and caste certificates and certify the NRs with a stamp, should submit them in the office of the Director of Government Examinations in Vijayawada by November 11. The fee (Rs. 200) should be paid through AP CFMS (Comprehensive Financial Management System), generated after submission of online application. The applications should be uploaded in the websitewww.bseap.organd printed application forms should be submitted in the DEO’s office. NTSE is conducted in two stages – Stage I and II. The first one is a State-level exam and students who clear the exam, qualify for Stage II. The scholarships are awarded based on the students’ overall performance in both the stages of the exam.
14 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers oppose merger of model schools||Progressive Democratic Front MLC K. S. Lakshmana Rao on Tuesday demanded that the government drop the proposal to merge model schools in the Andhra Pradesh Residential Educational Institutions Society. Addressing the gathering at a protest (satyagraha) staged by members of Andhra Pradesh Model School Teachers Federation (APMSTF) at Dharna Chowk, Mr. Rao said there was a need to protect these model schools that have been imparting quality education to students in the rural areas. The protesting teachers urged the government not to debilitate model schools and also pay their salaries through treasuries under 010 salaries head of account. United Teachers’ Federation (UTF) State president Shaik Sabji said even after eight years of establishing the model schools, the teachers were deprived of minimum benefits. APMSTF State president S. Muralimohan said the federation had been requesting for last four years that the government should take over the model schools and the teachers be paid salaries under 010 head of account. He said the decision to merge these schools was unfortunate. Federation general secretary Bose Babu said the authorities had also turned down their plea to appoint the kin of seven teachers who had died, on compassionate grounds. He demanded release of service rules, upgradation of posts and allocation of Hindi primary grade teacher post.
14 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man succumbs to burns||A 25-year-old man who allegedly set ablaze and killed a nurse died of burns at a hospital on Tuesday. Gurajala Nagabhushanam, 25, died hours after C. Chinnari, 24, who was working in a private hospital, died on Monday due to severe burns at her room in Hanuman Pet of the city. The duo belongs to same community and village of Sriramapuram in Reddigudem mandal of Andhra Pradesh and were reportedly in a relationship in the past, according to the Governorpet police. In his police complaint, Chinnari’s uncle C. Pullaiah said Nagabhushanam was warned not to “trouble” Chinnari and the latter agreed to the same in the presence of elders. As Nagabhushanam allegedly continued to trouble Chinnari after coming to the city for work, Mr. Pullaiah, on behalf of Chinnari, lodged a complaint on October 5. However, no FIR was registered as the case was withdrawn a few days later. Reportedly upset over Chinnari complaining to the police, Nagabhushanam came to her place with kerosene and allegedly set her ablaze after an argument, police said. Nagabhushanam, who suffered 80% burns, said in his dying declaration that he set himself ablaze, the police said.
14 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bangladeshi ship runs aground at Vizag beach||A 3,000-tonne Bangladeshi cargo vessel, MV Maa, drifted from its anchorage point and ran aground near Tenneti Park in Visakhapatnam, in the wee hours of Tuesday. The empty ship which came to Visakhapatnam Port to load fly ash cargo had been waiting near the anchorage point since September 19 for the berthing itinerary. As per the initial findings by the authorities of Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) , the ship had one functioning anchor, which was not informed to the port officials. Every ship is built with at least two anchors on each side of the bow. Due to the heavy swell owing to the deep depression over the Bay of Bengal, the sea had been very rough for the last two days which made the ship lose its only anchor. The wind speed also touched the 65 km per hour mark on Tuesday. As the wind was very strong, the 80-metre-long ship with about 15 crew members on board drifted towards the shore and ran aground near Tenneti Park on the northern edge of the port limits. It is learnt that around 11.45 p.m., the master of the ship sought tug assistance from the VPT authorities as the vessel was drifting towards the shore. By by the time, the tug could reach the ship, it already ran aground. Damage assessment The VPT authorities said the Protection and Indemnity authorities had been informed and an initial damage assessment would be made. Based on the assessment, it will be decided whether or not the ship could be towed out. A team from the Director General of Shipping will assess how the ship drifted. Experts and former captains feel that the engine of the ship might have failed, as they say that the master of the ship would have manoeuvred the ship to safety, if the engine was alive. The port authorities said all ships waiting in the anchorage were informed about the bad weather and advised either to sail out into the deep sea or come inside the port. But, the MV Maa vessel chose to stay put at the anchorage point. No oil spill The port authorities have informed the police, Coast Guard, shipping agents for the ship and other authorities concerned for necessary action. Preliminary investigation suggest that no damage was done to the ballast tank of the vessel and it is still in stable position. But, it may take time to pull it out as the area is said to be dotted with huge rocks. It is learnt that the ship master is confident that the ship can be towed out by two or three tugs, if the tide is high. After a coordinated rescue effort by the Coast Guard and the VPT, the officials confirmed that there was no oil spill and efforts were on to drain out 40 tonnes of diesel the ship is carrying. “As of now, there is no danger of marine pollution. Once the oil is removed, efforts will be made to tow out the ship. We wanted to disembark the crew, but the ship master insisted that they would like to stay on board as the ship is in stable condition,” said Coast Guard DIG B. Ranjan. This is not the first such incident to be reported from Visakhapatnam. A Chinese ship ran aground near the RK Beach in 2005. As the news spread, thousands of people made a beeline for Tenneti Park to see the vessel. Many people were seen clicking pictures on their mobile phones and professional cameras.
14 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One killed as heavy rain lashes district||A 60-year-old woman died after a car was swept away in a stream even as rain accompanied by gusty winds lashed the district till wee hours of Tuesday, as the deep depression crossed the A.P. coast in the early hours near Kakinada. Most parts of the city witnessed power cuts for several hours on Monday night and many localities in the city and also several villages in the district were flooded. Many people were shifted to relief camps. Crops suffered extensive damage. According to the police, 60-year-old Bogula Uma Maheswari got stuck in a car that was swept away near Gannavaram Metta in Nathavaram mandal on Monday morning. Three others of the family, who were on their way to Tirupati from Narsipatnam town, were rescued by local people. Later the car was retrieved from the stream along with the woman’s body inside. This takes the death toll due to the deep depression to three in the district. A woman and her daughter died in a landslide at Gjuwaka on Sunday night. In the city, a number of roads were seen flooded in the morning. A number of trees and electric poles fell on road disrupting traffic at MVP Colony, Akkayyapalem, Tenneti Park, Gajuwaka and several other areas. A wall near a theatre collapsed at Gopalapatnam. The boundary wall of All Abilities Park on Beach Road collapsed on Monday evening. The civic staff were seen clearing the debris on the road on Tuesday morning and taking up restoration activities in low-lying areas. Clogged drains were cleared at several places. Municipal Commissioner G. Srijana said that till Monday night, the municipal corporation had suffered a loss of about Rs. 7.7 crore. APEPDCL staff were also seen checking the damages. 40 villages affected People from a number of villages in Anakapalle, Narsipatnam and Yelamanchali mandals and a few other areas were affected due to overflowing rivers and streams. Several salt stocks in Pudimadaka area were completely washed away. Agricultural fields were flooded at Kotauratla, Parawada, Pendurthy, Ravikamatham, Butchayyapeta, Munagapaka, Anandapuram and other mandals. Officials are yet to estimate the loss. Assistant Superintendent of Police, Narsipatnam, Tuhin Sinha and the Narsipatnam Sub-Collector monitored the restoration activities at various places in the district. Aout 900 families from the city and rural areas were shifted to four relief camps set up in Narsipatnam mandal.
14 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. revokes permit for mining at Kalyanapulova reservoir||The government has revoked the permit accorded to Stone Plus company for mining granite from the reserve forest and the catchment area of the Kalyanapulova reservoir in Visakhapatnam district. The decision was taken in response to the demands of tribal people and farmers of Cheemalapadu village in Ravikamatam mandal, announced Joint Collector Venugopal Reddy late on Monday night. The tribal people and the farmers have been agitating since months, demanding the revocation of the mining permit, alleging that it was causing damage to the reserve forest and the catchment area of the reservoir. Tribal people, farmers and the members of All India Agricultural Rural Labour Association (AIARLA) and Save Kalyanapulova Movement urged the government to revoke the licence issued to Sai Kapil company too, saying that the mining area adjoins the primary school at Z. Jogumpeta village, which also falls in the catchment area. “Both the mining companies have been mining granites from the hills adjoining the reservoir catchment area that has been declared a reserve forest by the Forest Department,” said P.S. Ajay Kumar of the AIARLA. ‘Drop cases against tribals’ He demanded that the reservoir area be declared as a ‘no mining zones’ and cases registered by the Kotakotha police against the tribal people of Kalyanapulova, who took up the agitation, be dropped. Officials blamed “Criminal cases should be registered against the officers of the land survey and land records department who allegedly created fake revenue survey numbers in Somalamma Konda hill to mislead the administration,” said Mr. Ajay Kumar. Foundation stone for Kalyanapulova reservoir was laid some 40 years ago and it has been catering to the irrigation needs of the farmers from 10 panchayatas in Ravikamatham mandal, covering over 5,000 acres. Irrigation source Mining permits have been issued in the reservoir catchment area since 2016, and farmers and tribal people have been sending petitions to the irrigation and mining departments, seeking cancellation of the leases from 2017. Stone Plus company has been mining granite from the reserve forest areas of Somalamma Hill and dumping the waste along the hillsides. In May this year, the Forest Department halted the mining activities and confiscated the machinery and the granite mined from the area. The tribal people opposed when the mining company tried to move the confiscated material last month, without obtaining the required permits. Criminal cases were registered against tribal people who objected to it. However, they continued the agitation. The authorities concerned took note of it and the mining leases were revoked after an inquiry, added Mr. Ajay Kumar.
14 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rescue people in rural, tribal villages, CPI(M) urges officials||The Communist Party of India(Marxist) district committee has said that the authorities concerned should immediately go to the rescue of people of rural and tribal areas of the district, which were battered by heavy rains during the last few days. District committee secretary K. Lokanadham said that Sarada, the Varaha and the Thandava rivers were getting heavy inflows with streams and other water bodies overflowing due to the downpour as a result of the deep depression in the Bay of Bengal. The construction of the bridge on the Sarada River was stopped halfway and the lifting of the two gates of the Raiwada reservoir led to the inundation of the pathway to the Agency villages, preventing the movement of people to the Agency mandals. The villagers were unable to get their stocks of essential commodities. Mr. Lokanadham demanded that the officials identify the affected areas and shift the affected people to safer place and provide them food and accommodation.
14 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State will help rain-hit farmers: Minister||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu, who is also the District in-charge Minister for Visakhapatnam, has said that enumeration of crop loss will begin after the rains subside. Interacting with the media here on Tuesday, the Minister said that there were heavy rains in the State during August and September and crop damages were more in West and in East Godavari, and Visakhapatnam districts. Seeds would be provided on subsidy to groundnut farmers and the farmers, who had lost their crop, would be compensated by the government. He asked the farmers not to panic. Mr. Kannababu conducted a coordination meeting with officials and people’s representatives. Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, Rajya Sabha Member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, MPs M.V.V. Satyanararyana and B. V. Satyavathi, District Collector V. Vinay Chand, DIG (Visakha Range) K. Ranga Rao, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha, SP B. Krishna Rao and MLAs from the city and district were among those who attended.
14 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online counselling begins||The process for admission of students into first-year, at Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University (DSNLU), for the academic year 2020-21, completed by 97% on Tuesday.  Certificate verification The admission process was started on Saturday. Vice-Chancellor S. Surya Prakash inaugurated the online counselling and certificate verification process. On the first day, 90% of the students confirmed their admissions out of 120 seats. The admission process was conducted on Tuesday for those allotted to DSNLU by sliding who got admission in the second merit list. This completes 97% of the admission process. Prof. Surya Prakash interacted with some of the newly-admitted students. Registrar C.M Rao, Academic Advisor Bhavani Prasad Panda and Academic Director Dayananda Murthy participated.
14 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMRDA asks designer to submit DPR for planetarium by Dec.-end||Commissioner of Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) P. Koteswara Rao has requested Managing Director of Creative Museums Subratha Sen to submit the Detailed Project Report (DPR) of proposed Planetarium Museum at Kailasagiri here by the end of December. He along with Additional Commissioner Jeelani and the Managing Director of Creative Museums and a few other officials visited Kailasagiri and held a meeting here on Tuesday. Mr Koteswara Rao discussed about the seating, dome structure, design and a few other aspects of the project. He said that the responsibility of the project has been given to the National Council of Science Museum (NCSM), Ministry of Culture, Kolkata.
14 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Light rain likely today||The deep depression crossed the A.P. coast close to Kakinada on Tuesday morning with a wind speed of 55 to 65 km per hour. Moving west northwestards, , it lay centred about 15 km off Kakinada and 200 km off Khammam in Telangana in the morning. The weather system is very likely to weaken into a depression during the next six hours and further weaken into a well-marked low pressure area over the subsequent 12 hours, according to the IMD. Light to moderate rain or thundershowers is likely to occur over the coastal A.P. and Rayalaseema.
14 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Start admission process for Intermediate and degree colleges: SFI||The Students Federation of India (SFI) Greater Visakha City Committee has demanded immediate conduct of admissions into Intermediate and degree colleges in the State. In a statement on Tuesday, SFI city committee president K. Prabhudas and secretary L.J. Naidu said that both the Central and the State governments had finalised the dates for opening of colleges, while directing the managements to ensure COVID-19 protocol was strictly implemented. The SFI leaders alleged that the State government had failed to ensure that the admission process was started. Students were going to the colleges, from far-off places, and returning home disappointed on being told that the admission process is yet to begin. This was creating confusion among the students. The University Grants Commission (UGC) had directed that the admission process has to be completed by October-end. But, the process is yet to begin in the State. Demanding immediate starting of admissions, they threatened to launch an agitation otherwise.
14 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AUCET, AUEET register 80.85% attendance on the first day||Andhra University Common Entrance Tests (AUCET/ AUEET-2020), conducted for admission into P.G courses in science, arts, engineering courses and 6-year B.Tech.+M.Tech. dual degree programmes in engineering registered 80.85% attendance on the first day on Tuesday. The examination conducted in 19 centres across the State. Director, Directorate of Admissions, Andhra University, D.A. Naidu, said that out of 5,196 candidates registered for the examination, 4,201 candidates appeared. He said that all COVID-19 precautions followed while conducting the examinations. AU Rector K. Samatha has visited the examination centre at MVP Colony here. On October 14, the entrance tests will be conducted for Chemical Sciences, Telugu, Physical Sciences and M.Com.
14 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ministers criticise Naidu over Amaravati stir||Minister for Agriculture K. Kannababu said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has taken decision on three capitals after recommendations submitted from committees. He also reiterated that the State government was not neglecting Amaravati at all and would develop it. Speaking to the media here on Tuesday, he alleged that TDP leader N. Chandrababu Naidu had not shown even one per cent of love on Visakhapatnam, which he showers on Amaravati. Mr. Kannababu questioned that if Mr. Naidu really had love for Amaravati, why did he not conduct any summit or important meetings in Amaravati. He also said that the CPI leaders are speaking what Mr. Naidu is instructing them to do. He questioned why the CPI did not form an alliance with TDP for the elections. Minister for Tourism M. Srinivasa Rao said that as part of decentralised development, all areas of the State, including Amaravati, will be developed. It is Mr Naidu alone, who wants Amaravati as the only capital for the State, he said. Mr. Srinivasa Rao also said during united Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad was alone developed in all aspects, due to which, the State was divided. The same mistake should not be repeated, he added.
14 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two arrested in rape, sexual assault case||The city police on Tuesday arrested two persons in connection with the alleged rape and sexual assault on two minor girls, which was reported at Duvvada area here on Monday. The arrested were identified as R. Manendra (24) of Chinagantyada and U. Swamy (28) of Kurmannapalem, both working as carpenters. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (In-charge) (Zone-II) V. Suresh Babu said on October 10, a 14-year- old girl (victim 1) from Gajuwaka area went to one of her friends’ (victim 2) home, who is also a minor. Both Manendra and Swamy, known to the victim 2, came to her house. They allegedly took the girls to a house at Rajeev Nagar, Kurmannapalem. Complainants alleged that while Manendra raped victim 1, Swamy sexually assaulted victim 2. Later, escaping from their clutches, the girls reached home. On October 11, the minor girls narrated the incident to their parents, who lodged a complaint. Based on a complaint, Inspector of Police, Duvvada police station, T Lakshmi, registered a case and transferred it to Disha Police Station. Accused sent to remand Inspector of Disha police station G. Nirmala took up the case and arrested the accused. Cases under relevant sections and the POCSO Act were booked. The arrested persons were sent to remand.
14 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 168 new cases, three deaths||The district reported 168 new COVID-19 infections and three deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the bulletin released on Tuesday. The new cases take the cumulative tally to 53,331 and the death toll to 446. As many as 468 persons were discharged or recovered from the coronavirus. The recoveries have increased to 50,565 further reducing the active cases to 2,320. Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar said that out of 318 clusters in the district, nine are very active and 65 are active. As many as 627 clusters were already de-notified in the district.
14 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railway boxer feted for bagging Dhyan Chand award||Railway boxer Usha Nagisetty, who has been conferred with Dhyan Chand award, was felicitated by the Divisional Railway Manager, Waltair, Chetan Kumar Shrivastava. The 2008 Asian Boxing gold medallist, Usha was the six-time senior national champion from 2004- 2010 with 11 international and 12 national medals to her credit. She bagged 13 gold, 5 silver and 5 bronze medals at the national and international events, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi of Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (E Co R).At present, she is employed at Diesel Loco Shed, Visakhapatnam. She also trains the young talents as coach of Indian Railways Women’s Boxing Team. ADRM (operations) P. Ramachandra Rao, ADRM (Infra) Akshay Saxena, Sports Officer Pradeep Kumar Yadav and other officers were present on the occasion.
14 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kin of scribes who die of virus to get Rs. 5 lakh||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has agreed to extend financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakh to the kin of journalists, who died due to COVID-19, in Andhra Pradesh, Press Academy Chairman Devireddy Sreenath has said. Addressing a media conference here on Tuesday, the A.P. Press Academy Chairman said that along with other frontline warriors like doctors, medical and health workers, sanitary staff and police, journalists had faced several difficulties in the discharge of their duties during the pandemic, many of whom had lost the battle against the coronavirus. The academy on its own and on behalf of journalists in the State had appealed to the Chief Minister seeking compensation to the bereaved families. Mr. Sreenath expressed his gratitude to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy on behalf all journalists in the State. Journalists in the State, who tested positive, were being given free treatment by the government under Arogyasri.
14 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Random testing in Vizianagaram||Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal on Tuesday said that COVID-19 tests would be conducted randomly at public places in the district. Along with A.P. Press Academy chairman Devireddy Srinath, Mr. Jawaharlal felicitated COVID-19 warriors in a function organised at the Collectorate. “The number of COVID-19 cases is declining in the district. Earlier, nearly 500 cases were reported each day but the number has now come down to 130 per day. Although the situation is improving, we have decided to conduct tests randomly to prevent the spread of the virus in the district,” he said. Mr. Srinath thanked the Chief Minister for announcing Rs. 5 lakh compensation for family members of journalists who lost their lives due to COVID-19. Vizianagaram District Public Relations Officer Dunna Ramesh, Integrated Rural People Welfare Association director P.K. Prakasha Rao and Vizianagaram Citizen Forum president M. Venkateswara Rao were present at the meeting.
14 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MR College row: SFI members held||As many as 17 members of Students of Federation of India (SFI) were arrested on Tuesday when they tried to organise protest at the residence of Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botsa Satyanarayana over the issue of MR College’s privatisation. The leaders of SFI K. Suresh, P. Rammohana Rao and others led protest rally from MR College up to Minister’s house in spite of the repeated objection from police personnel. When the students tried to move forcibly towards the residence, the personnel arrested them. A mild tension prevailed with the tussle between students and policemen. SFI leaders vowed to continue the fight and give a call to boycott exams which would begin on October 16.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State registers over 3 lakh cases in the last one month||Seven months since the first COVID infection was reported in the State, the overall tally has increased to 7,63,573 with 4,622 new infections and 35 deaths in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The toll went up to 6,291. As many as 5,715 patients have recovered during the period and the recovery rate increased to 93.56%. So far, 7,14,427 patients have recovered . Lesser cases In the first month since March 12, only 420 infections were reported and the number increased gradually. In the first four months, only 29,168 cases were reported and in the fifth month, 2.24 lakh cases were reported. Later in the sixth month 3.03 lakh and in the seventh and the last month 2.01 lakh cases, which is one lakh less than the previous month’s tally, were reported. As many as 72,082 samples were tested and their positivity rate was 6.41% while the overall positivity rate for 67,02,810 samples tested was 11.39%. The tests per million ratio increased to 1,25,520 and the cases per million ratio also increased to 14,299. There was a slight rise in new cases reported from Godavari and Chittoor districts which have been reporting a larger share of infections of late. West Godavari reported the highest infections at 752, while Chittoor reported 705 cases. East Godavari reported 691 infections. Rest of the districts less than 500 new cases. Prakasam reported 442, Krishna 416, Guntur 391, Kadapa 317, Nellore 228, Visakhpatnam 168, Anantapur 164, Vizianagaram 159, Srikakulam 101 and Kurnool 88 cases. Chittoor reported the highest number of deaths at seven , and Krishna’s toll crossed the 500-mark. The district-wise toll and new deaths are as follows: East Godavari (573 and 2), Guntur (567 and 3), Prakasam (540 and 4), Anantapur (530 and 3), Krishna (503 and 5), Kurnool (478 and 0), Visakhapatnam (477 and 3), West Godavari (475 and 1), Nellore (474 and 2), Kadapa (404 and 4), Srikakulam (332 and 1) and Vizianagaram (224 and 0). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,07,281), West Godavari (76,241), Chittoor (71,320), Anantapur (61,320), Guntur (60,612), Kurnool (58,329), Nellore (57,072), Prakasam (55,100), Visakhapatnam (52,819),Kadapa (48,526), Srikakulam (41,932), Vizianagaram (37,674) and Krishna (32,452).
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain or shine!||
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pensive pose||
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Roaring thunder||
14 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Incessant rain throws traffic out of gear||Traffic flow was disrupted due to incessant rain in the city on Tuesday, both during the morning and evening rush hour. Waterlogging, sand bars on roads, potholes and cracked manhole covers added to the chaos. The road stretch near Ravindra Bharathi was closed during morning hours affecting traffic flow from Tank Bund to Nampally area. In many places including Masab Tank, Mehdipatnam, and Attapur, concrete manhole covers were damaged, forcing commuters to take evasive measures affecting traffic flow. While a number of flyovers that dot the city provided temporary rain shelter to two-wheeler riders, it didn’t help moving traffic. “Notice the rainwater discharge pipes on the flyover? None of new SRDP flyovers built by MVR have good quality drains. Don’t even know how they keep getting contracts for all new flyovers,” posted one user on Twitter as others shared images of heavy outflow of water from the flyovers onto the roads. Gachibowli in western Hyderabad received heavy rain since evening, resulting in waterlogging on roads and many pockets plunging into darkness as power supply was disrupted. Tall trees in some areas swayed dangerously as vendors packed up early for the day. For most part of the day, however, the rain, often a steady drizzle, ensured people went about work as usual. With many IT campuses shut and the bustle missing at many commercial establishments, traffic remained nowhere near the pre-COVID levels, thus posing limited trouble to road users. Making it easier for the residents were also some of the new infrastructure developments such as the flyover and underground drains. Tree falls Parts of Secunderabad Cantonment areas were under a sheet of water. Traffic was disrupted from New Bowenpally to Tarbund Cross Roads as rain water overflowed near the Muslim graveyard. Bumper to bumper traffic was witnessed from New Bowenpally to Tarbund. A tree got uprooted near Tarbund throwing traffic out of gear. Similarly, rainwater was overflowing near Old Bowenpally checkpost. Traffic police personnel were deployed to clear the traffic snarl. Similar scenes were witnessed on the Suchitra Cross Roads to Old Alwal. An overflowing nala near Father Balaiah Nagar made it difficult for the motorists to drive on the flooded road. A big tree fell on the road in front of Begumpet traffic police station bringing traffic on the Begumpet to Paradise road to a grinding halt. Padma Colony behind Shanker Mutt was completely under water. Kothi, Kachiguda and Narayanguda areas went without power from 7.30 p.m. Several colonies in Gachibowli were without power while gated community dependence on diesel generator backup was high. Traffic police on toes Traffic police stayed on their toes for most part of the day, clearing waterlogging points and sending out information about affected areas: “Slow movement of traffic from CTO Junction, Paradise Junction, Rocha Bazar, Ranigunj towards Karbala Maidan Road”; “Slow movement of traffic from Rasoolpura, Chutneys Begumpet, Fire Station towards Paradise X Road,” and “Waterlogged at Chitra Dargah Mahankali commuters kindly note and take alternate routes to reach destinations.” The struggle with blocked drains didn’t stop even in the evening as Bahadurpura police pitched in to help DRF and GHMC teams to clear water pathways in the Puranapul area. Twitter user Gulam Amer posted: “The Traffic Police in Hyderabad always help people. In rainy season I feel that they do more than GHMC.”
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Non-stop rains disrupt power supply||Incessant rains almost across the State throughout the day on Tuesday has caused disruptions in power supply mostly due to minor problems and it was restored within one to three hours in many cases. However, no major problems have been reported till evening. According to officials of the two power distribution companies, major reasons for interruptions in power supply were insulation bursting/damage, loose contact of service cables, rust and dust in conductor joints and fall of tree branches on the transmission and distribution conductor. “As there was no heavy wind for most part of the day, problems were fewer,” a senior official said adding that supply at feeder level was stopped as a precautionary measures at a few places when there was good wind velocity but was resumed after checking of transmission lines at key points. In Hyderabad, there were instances of tree falls on transmission lines and bending of electrical poles in Mehdipatnam, Indira Park and Begumpet sections but the power supply was restored within hours either by restoring the affected lines or through alternative lines. Chairman and Managing Director of Southern Discom G. Raghuma Reddy stated that teams of 25 skilled personnel were kept on emergency duty in every section for attending to any emergencies in power supply. Power supply interruptions due to minor reasons such as fusing at distribution transformers, insulation bursting and others were attended from time to time to restore the supply within a couple of hours of interruption at several places in the City, Southern Discom officials said. There were no instance of feeder failures in the Metro Zone but the Cyber City and Rajendranagar feeders were affected for a few hours in the Rangareddy Circle. Mr. Raghuma Reddy asked people to contact phone numbers 1912, 100, local fuse call office, 7382072104, 7382072106 or 7382071574 for any power supply related issues including fluctuation in voltage, electrical poles and distribution transformers in pool of rainwater, snapped electrical conductor or any other problem. Residents of apartments with cellars have been told be cautious about rainwater storming of cellars. Meanwhile, the power demand has slipped to less than 4,500 MW during the day on Tuesday from nearly 9,800 MW a week ago. Chairman and Managing Director of Transco/Genco D. Prabhakar Rao has instructed the engineers at load despatch centre to keep tab on demand fluctuation round the clock to maintain the grid frequency. He explained that generation at all thermal units was backed down and only hydel generation was going on at major hydel stations.  Power‘less’? Call for any power supply related issues 1912; 100; local fuse call office; 7382072104; 7382072106; or 7382071574
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Agriculture card’ from next year||The State Government is planning to introduce “agriculture card” with “dos and don’ts” for farmers from the next agricultural year. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asked the officials of the Agriculture department to prepare the agriculture card with advisory to the farming community as to which crops they could cultivate keeping the market conditions in mind and which crops they could not raise from the next agricultural year. At a review meeting held with senior officials of the department, including District Agriculture Officers (DAOs) here on Tuesday, he said the time had come wherein the employees of the Agriculture Department were expected to act as companions of farmers to make the livelihood-cum-economic activity profitable. Minister for Agriculture Singireddy Niranjan Reddy, Rythu Bandhu Samithi (RBS) chairman Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, MPs G. Ranjith Reddy and B. Lingaiah Yadav, legislators Seri Subhash Reddy, A. Jeevan Reddy, Guvvala Balaraju, Balka Suman, K. Bhupal Reddy, B. Shankar Naik, Ch. Lingaiah, Chief Advisor Rajeev Sharma, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, and Agriculture Secretary B. Janarthan Reddy attended the meeting. The Chief Minister made it clear at the meeting that farmers could raise maize crop at their own risk and if they were ready to sell the product only up to Rs. 900 per quintal as the prevailing marketing conditions would leave no scope for the crop to get better price. Stating that the farmers were getting accustomed to regulated farming with the experience of just one season, he said it was the responsibility of the officials to guide them from time to time to get better yields and better marketing practices. He asked the agricultural officials at field level to educate farmers about the facts surrounding maize cultivation so that they could voluntarily decide on not cultivating the crop in Yasangi season too. He asked the officials not to take their job as 10-am-to-5-pm work but a continuous process and instructed them to complete Rythu Vedikas by Dasara. Further, the Chief Minister instructed the officials to fill the vacancies in the department, stating that it was the most dynamic and happening department in the State machinery now.
14 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Activists blame Golconda bastion collapse on ‘unscientific’ upkeep||The collapse of Golconda Fort’s Majnu Burj has triggered a wave of anger among civic activists and citizens. “This is a result of unscientific, unsystematic and ignorant upkeep of monuments. Who is supervising the structure that is classified as a national monument? What action will the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) now take,” asked Anuradha Reddy of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage. The collapsed portion of the bastion fell on the golf course, pointed out Lubna Sarwath of Save Our Urban Lakes. “Why was the norm of 100-metre buffer zone ignored? This is a result of criminal negligence which will affect Hyderabad’s case for a World Heritage Site status,” she said. “Earlier when I visited the site, there was no access to the cannon. Later, the steps of the bastion were cleared of thorny bushes and a cement plastering was done on the steps leading to the top,” she informed putting into focus the nature of conservation effort at the monument that dates back to 1656. The Majnu Burj and other structures were built after the Mughal attack on Golconda Fort in 1656. The raised rocky surface overlooking a lake was turned into a walled in bastion by the Golconda regime of Abdullah Qutb Shah. The collapsed portion was cordoned off by the ASI officials on Tuesday. “We noticed the cracks in the bastion in the last week of September; there was a site inspection and a report was sent to Director-General office on October 7. Meanwhile, this happened,” said an ASI official. The cracks were noticed by ASI officials as part of routine inspection following heavy rainfall in September. “We will have to first stabilise the structure before taking up repair work. It will be complicated as a part of the cannon has no support now. We have to consider the safety of the workers too,” said the ASI official.
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Land conversion to be made online||Continuing its spree of reforms in the Revenue administration, the State government has decided to make the entire process relating to conversion of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes online. Accordingly, applicants should forthwith file applications for conversion online and the conversion process would be carried out seamlessly through the Dharani, the integrated land records management system portal. On completion of conversion, the land would instantly be entered electronically into Dharani non-agricultural portal. The Legislative Assembly passed the Telangana Agricultural Land (Conversion for non-agricultural purposes) (Amendment) Act, 2020 on Tuesday. Legislative Affairs Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy, who piloted the Bill on behalf of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in the House, said the amendments were aimed at increasing transparency in revenue administration. The changes would ensure hassle-free revenue administration public interest and result in evolving good practices to end corruption. The Bills were contemplated in view of the problems encountered in the conversion process which left discretionary powers with officials. Discrepancies The Revenue Divisional Officer who was competent authority received the applications and discrepancies were noticed in the collection of conversion charges. There was huge pendency of applications as well as dues to the tune of Rs. 826 crore payable on account of conversions pending to the government. The existing laws mandated effective coordination between the Revenue, Panchayat Raj and Municipal Administration departments and this was resulting in delays in effecting conversions. There was no mechanism to check these aspects in the past and hence, it was decided to simply the provisions in the Act and make it more transparent. The government had therefore decided to ensure time-slot based conversions by hosting the entire process online. Accordingly, the conversion process would be completed the same day along with mutation and the document of ownership would be handed over to the parties concerned. The government had already posted data pertaining to 95% of the lands, 1.48 crore acres on Dharani portal. Mallu has doubts Congress member Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, however, expressed doubts over the veracity of the records entered into Dharani portal, claiming that allowing wrong entries would result in chaos in the coming days. The State government should therefore complete the survey and settlement of the entire land across the State before making the processes online, the Congress leader said. “Entry of wrong information will lead to issuance of wrong certificates more than once. This needs to be avoided,” he said. Mr. Prashanth Reddy, however, said since the survey and settlement process would take more than a year, the government had decided to ensure the data was hosted online in the land administration processes.
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Restore alternate week quarantine: junior doctors||Following an order revoking alternate week quarantine for healthcare professionals in government hospitals where non-COVID services are provided, members of the Telangana Junior Doctors Association-Osmania Medical College (TJUDA-OMC) have requested Health Minister Eatala Rajender for restoration of the provision. In the past few months, healthcare staff were allowed to quarantine for a week followed by one week of work. The current staff was divided into batches to work on alternate weeks. As non-COVID services too were resumed at government hospitals, Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy issued orders on October 9 stating that the quarantine provision had been withdrawn. However, the provision continues at Gandhi Hospital, District Hospital in King Koti, and Tata Institute of Medical Sciences, Gachibowli. Rise in cases TJUDA-OMC members said COVID-19 cases among them are continuing to rise and that around 294 Post Graduate students and resident doctors had tested positive until Monday. They stated that if the alternate week of quarantine is not provided, there is a greater chance of cross infection and reinfection of all post graduates which may lead to sudden shutdown of all departments of the hospital. “We have worked hard in this pandemic by risking our lives and managed all the cases while having alternate week quarantine. We request you to consider risk to our health and allow continuation of alternate week quarantine for all doctors till this pandemic ends,” the junior doctors requested. Besides, OMC junior doctors requested provision of permanent operation theatres (OT) for General Medicine department. Though temporary OTs were provided, the department is able to perform only four to five surgeries a day. “We usually perform 10-12 surgeries a day. If a permanent OT is provided, it will reduce inconvenience to patients in need of surgery,” a junior doctor said.
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Paramilitary forces to be ready: Kishan||Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy said on Tuesday that if need arises, the MHA was ready to rush paramilitary forces, including CISF and CRPF, to assist the local authorities in relief activities. In a statement issued late on Tuesday night, he said that IMD has issued warning to Hyderabad and nearby areas of heavy rains for the next two days. It has been raining relentlessly for the past few days in Telangana State and low lying areas have been flooded due to heavy rains. “I request all citizens in low lying and flooded areas to stay alert and ensure no one goes out unless absolutely necessary in these rains,” he said. He requested volunteers and citizens to assist officials in this critical times. “We should make sure any previous incidents like people falling into manholes and losing their lives do not happen. I have personally spoken to NDRF, DGP and kept a team ready for flood assistance. Two more teams will be reaching Hyderabad by tonight to assist in relief programmes across Hyderabad and Telangana State,” he pointed out. He urged everyone to stay indoors and stay strong. In case of any emergency, please do reach out to officials and they shall ensure all the assistance to citizens, he added.
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL workers to get about Rs. 60.5K bonus before Dasara||Workers of the Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) will be paid bonus of Rs. 60,468 each, on an average, 28% of the company’s profits in 2019-20 as announced by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao already, on October 23 as part of the festival bonanza that includes payment of salary cut in March due to COVID-19. Before the payment of bonus and salary deducted in March, the employees would also be paid festival advance of Rs. 25,000 each on October 19. It will be credited directly to their bank accounts. Chairman and Managing Director N. Sridhar stated on Tuesday that of the Rs. 993.86 crore profit earned by Singareni during 2019-20, the workers would be paid Rs. 278.28 crore and it worked out to an average of Rs. 60,468 each to the over 46,000-strong workforce. Both bonus and the salary cut in March would be credited to the bank accounts of the workers on October 23. In spite of COVID-19 pandemic impact on the company’s finance due to slowdown in sales, the State government had decided to pay the bonus at the same percentage of 28 as they were paid last year, keeping in mind their welfare and well-being, Mr Sridhar said. Mr. Sridhar said the bonus paid to the company’s workers was being increased every year after formation of Telangana state. The bonus paid to workers for 2012-13 was 18% of the profits and it was increased to 20% (Rs. 83.65 cr) for 2013-14, in the first year of Telangana formation itself. Further, it was increased to 21% (Rs. 103 cr) in 2014-15, to 23% (Rs. 245 cr) in 2015-16, to 25% (Rs. 98.85 cr) in 2016-17, to 27% (Rs. 326.25 cr) in 2017-18 and to 28% (Rs. 479 cr) in 2018-19.
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Homeless struggle to find safe spaces||As rain continued to batter the city, people who could afford the luxury of being cooped up at home thanked their stars. However, for those who had to venture out, it was a nightmarish experience. The worst-affected were the homeless who huddled together under trees or in peripheries of buildings as the rain beat down throughout Monday night. Social workers, who work for the welfare of the homeless, feared that they might suffer the same fate on Tuesday night too. “Many people live on footpaths in Nampally and Secunderabad. They search for work at ‘addas’ there. Since it rained incessantly, three to four of them huddled together under trees, and the others scouted for locations wherever they thought would be dry and safe. They could not sleep throughout the night as it got cold and the direction of rain kept changing,” said a social worker seeking anonymity. He said though shelter homes exist in some parts of the city, more such are needed in other localities such as Secunderabad, and Nampally.  Many people live on footpaths in Nampally and Secunderabad. They could not sleep throughout the night as it got cold and the direction of rain kept changing. A social worker
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flood discharge from Srisailam, Sagar crosses 4 lakh cusecs||With constant increase in the inflows, the discharge of flood at Srisailam dam crossed 4 lakh cusecs on Tuesday evening and it is expected continue through Wednesday forenoon with heavy inflows likely to continue further with the impact of rains in the catchment areas of Krishna and many of its tributaries. According to an advisory of the Central Water Commission (CWC) for the entire Krishna Basin and the Bhima sub-basin, heavy inflows are expected to continue further due to heavy rainfall warning for central Maharashtra and heavy to very heavy rainfall for north interior Karnataka, Marathwada, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Due to the forecast rainfall, inflows into all dams in Krishna Basin are likely to increase rapidly, including Narayanpur and Tungabhadra dams. In the lower Krishna basin, very heavy rainfall in the catchment area of the rivers Paleru, Munneru and Wyra was leading rise the flood levels. Besides, flood level to Musi and its tributaries is also likely to rise rapidly. As the inflows into crossed 3.8 lakh cusecs from 5 p.m. on Tuesday, the dam authorities have increased the discharge of flood to nearly 3.8 lakh cusecs from the spillway by lifting 10 crest gates for 15 feet height each. Another 26,000 cusecs water was also being let into the river after power generation in the right bank hydel station of A.P. At Jurala, the inflows were around 1.9 lakh cusecs and the discharge of flood from the spillway was over 1.73 lakh cusecs from 25 crest gates and another 26,000 cusecs from the power house. As a result, the discharge of flood to river at Nagarjunasagar was also increased to over 4.15 lakh cusecs from 8 p.m. on Tuesday against the inflows of over 4.23 lakh cusecs. The dam authorities have lifted 18 crest gates for 15 feet height each to release over 3.91 lakh cusecs from the spillway. In the Godavari Basin, the inflows into Sriramsagar crossed 1.36 lakh cusecs and to Lower Manair dam they were nearly 50,000 cusecs.
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Permission for prosecution legal’||The approval given by Union Finance Minister to register a case against B. Srinivasa Gandhi, superintendent in GST Hyderabad office, was legal, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) said in Telangana High Court on Tuesday. In a counter affidavit to Mr. Gandhi’s writ petition questioning the Union Minister’s approval for Central Bureau of Investigation investigation against him, the Central Bureau of Investigation authorities said the approval was justified. The CBI officials said in the counter-affidavit to the HIgh Court that Mr. Gandhi claimed that he was a Group-B officer and Central Tax Commissioner was his disciplinary authority. Only the latter can approve a case of corruption against him under service rules, Mr. Gandhi stated in his petition. ‘Principle of law’ It was a settled principle of law that an authority higher to the disciplinary authority can exercise the latter’s power. In Mr. Gandhi’s case, the Union Minister is a higher authority to Central Tax Commissioner and has the power to approve the investigation, the Central Bureau of Investigation officials said their counter-affidavit to the High Court.
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Waterlogging woes and overflowing drains discussed in Assembly||Frequent waterlogging and overflowing drains in the twin cities even with small amounts of rain figured in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday. Raising the issue during the discussion on passage of amendments to GHMC Act, MIM member Ahmad Bin Abdulla Balala expressed concerns over the overflowing drains that were causing severe inconvenience to people, especially those in low lying areas. Congress member Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka lamented that deaths were reported after people fell into overflowing nalas and said that one of the main reasons behind the situation was frequent obstructions being erected avoiding free flow of water. There was a need to evolve a permanent mechanism to prevent such incidents. Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao assured the members that he would convene a meeting of legislators concerned soon, to discuss the issue and prepare an action plan. Though it was planned to convene a meeting in the past, it could not materialise as they could not arrive at mutually acceptable dates.
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Slot booking mandatory for registering property||The State government has decided to reduce discrepancies in the collection of stamp duty charges by removing discretionary powers of the officials concerned. The Legislative Assembly passed the Bill — the Indian Stamp (Telangana Amendment) Act, 2020 — during its special session on Tuesday. The Bill envisages making time-slot booking for registration of documents by the sub-registrar mandatory. “Time slots will be allotted after payment of full amount of stamp duty,” the Bill said. Introducing the Bill on behalf of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, Legislative Affairs Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy said the recently passed Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act made it mandatory for the citizens to apply for registration through Dharani portal and select a time-slot after paying full stamp duty. Section 47-A It was accordingly decided to make time slot booking mandatory for the non-agricultural properties too. Section 47-A of Indian Stamp Act in its present form gave discretion to the registering officer and option to the citizen to pay lesser duty disputing the market value fixed by the committee. Documents were being referred to the Inspector General of Registration and Stamps for determination of market value and the process gave discretionary powers to the registering officers. This provision of the law was not completely consonant with the new system of time-slot booking through Dharani portal and there was also need to remove the discretionary powers of the registering officers. It was therefore decided to amend Section 47-A of the Indian Stamp Act suitably so as to bring it in conformity with the legal framework under the recently passed Act. “The Bill is aimed at preventing under-valuation of properties and in turn causing a loss to the government,” Legislative Affairs Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy said. Replying to queries, the Legislative Affairs Minister said citizens could make an appeal to the committee headed by the district collector comprising the district registering officer and others as members in case of grievances. “The committee rather than individuals will look into the grievances,” he said.
14 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘TRS encouraging defections in Dubbak’||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy claimed that the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) feared losing Dubbak byelection and asked if it was so confident why was it encouraging defections from the Congress. Addressing a press conference here through Zoom, he said it had become a practice for both Chief Minister K. Chandrashkhar Rao and Finance Minister T Harish Rao to encourage defections and pump in huge money in every election. “Appointing an incharge for every 100 voters and inducing them with money and sops itself reflects the unfair practices started by the ruling part much before the elections,” he claimed. “If CM KCR or Harish Rao seriously believes that their government was serving people honestly, why are they spending crores of rupees,” he asked. He said Mr. Harish Rao was asking people to trust him and vote for the TRS clearly meant that people did not want to vote for KCR any more. “He is indirectly asking people to trust him if they don't want to trust KCR any more,” he said. Expressing confidence that Congress candidate Ch. Srinivas Reddy would win the election with a huge majority, he appealed to people to vote for Congress even if they were forced to take cash and liquor by the TRS. The Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee chief said that standing crops suffered heavy damage due to recent rains and floods. He said paddy, maize and cotton crops were badly hit due to the heavy rains. He said Telangana farmers, in the last seven years, never got compensation for the crop loss due to natural calamities and demanded that the State government pay compensation to farmers who lost their crops due to rains. He said the farmers must be paid compensation as per G.O. No. 1 of the Central government and urged the CM to pay compensation of Rs. 20,000 per acre for paddy and Rs. 30,000 for cotton. All India Kisan Congress vice-president Kodanda Reddy and Telangana Kisan Cell president Anvish Reddy were also present.
14 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Song to encourage plasma donation||Rajya Sabha member Joginapally Santosh Kumar and Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar released a song promoting plasma donation at the latter’s office on Tuesday. The song raises awareness on how plasma can help save lives. It was dedicated to the late music legend S.P. Balasubramanyam. Mr. Santosh Kumar said doctors have been suggesting that one individual can donate plasma 24 times a year and save 48 lives. He also urged COVID-recovered persons to convince their family members to donate plasma as well. He appreciated the efforts of Cyberabad police for spreading awareness during the pandemic. Mr. Sajjanar hoped that the Green India Challenge started by Mr. Santosh Kumar would spread not just in Telangana but across the country. “Planting trees should be a continuous process and the practice of presenting a sapling instead of a gift is a good one,” he said.
14 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Chalo Assembly’ is a success: Bandi Sanjay||The Bharatiya Janata Party has condemned the house arrest of their leaders and alleged police high-handedness at several places while preventing them from participating in the ‘Chalo Assembly’ call given on Tuesday. The call was given alleging that the government was busy pleasing Muslims for votes, failure to construct two bedroom houses and also ‘fleecing’ people through the Land Regularisation Scheme (LRS). In a statement here, Mr Bandi Sanjay, president of Telangana BJP, said despite the police arresting their leaders and the cadre across the State, the Chalo Assembly call was successful. Tall promises during the elections and forgetting them conveniently later had become a habit with the TRS government, he said, adding that two lakh double bedroom houses were promised. But so far not more than 1,000 houses had been given to beneficiaries.
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Chief Secretary keeps officials on high alert||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed all Collectors, CPs and SPs and entire district administration be on high alert. “Heavy rains have lashed the State. In Hyderabad, many areas have 20 cm rains in the last 24 hours. A number of untoward incidents have been reported,” he said in a message to officials late on Tuesday night. “Myself and DGP are having a telecon with senior officers related to GHMC areas. You should conduct teleconference with your district and mandal officers. Massive flooding and waterlogging are likely to occur in low lying areas,” he pointed out. Collectors and SPs were requested to put the district administration on alert and strictly follow the flood protocol. Special attention needs to be paid to low level bridges and causeways. Traffic and pedestrian movement has to be strictly prohibited.
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tsunami mock drill on East coast||Indian Tsunami Early Warning Centre (ITEWC) of Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) located in the city had simulated an earthquake with a magnitude 9.2 in Andaman Islands and issued four dummy bulletins during 9.30 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. to both national and regional stakeholders through global telecommunication systems, e-mail, fax, SMS as well as on website as part of a mock drill on Tuesday. In this mock drill, disaster management authorities participated along with other 25 countries in the Indian Ocean. Officials of coastal States of Andaman & Nicobar Islands, West Bengal, Odisha, AP, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry participated. Indian Navy, Coast Guard, NDRF, Port and harbours also participated in the exercise which is expected to identify and fix gaps in communication channels and the standard operating procedure of stakeholders, a press release said.
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Awards for RGIA||GMR Hyderabad International Airport received the trophies of the Airports Council International (ACI) Airport Service Quality (ASQ) Departures Awards for being ‘Best Airport by Size and Region’ and its first ever ‘Best Environment & Ambience by Size’, recently. It received these awards in the Asia-Pacific region in 15-25 million passengers per annum (MPPA) category. In March 2020, ACI had announced the winners of the coveted ASQ awards for 2019. The award trophies were dispatched to the winner airports. CEO- GHIAL Pradeep Panicker received these prestigious awards in the presence of airport community members at a formal ceremony organised at the airport.
14 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CPI leader passes away||Senior CPI leader and former MLA Gunda Mallesh passed away on Tuesday. The 76-year-old leader was admitted to the Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences, following illness, and he breathed his last this afternoon while undergoing treatment. A four-time MLA, Mallesh championed the cause of the poor during his decades-long political career. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao condoled the death of Mallesh and recalled his association with the latter. The Chief Minister conveyed his condolences to the members of the bereaved family.
14 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Tagore fetes Congress leaders||AICC Incharge for Telangana Manickam Tagore felicitated 68 Congress workers who were arrested for holding dharna at Home Minister's residence in protest against rise in atrocities against women, especially the Moinabad and Khammam incidents. He said they should feel proud that they had gone to jail fighting for people. Once the Congress came back all the cases would be withdrawn, he said, adding that such fight would take the party more closer to people. All India Congress Committee secretary A. Sampath Kumar, TPCC Minorities Department chairman Shaik Abdullah Sohail, Youth Congress president Anil Kumar Yadav, NSUI president B. Venkat and SC Cell chairman Preetam were among the leaders who were felicitated. Later, Mr Tagore and Mr Uttam Kumar Reddy held meetings to review preparations for Dubbak and MLC elections.
14 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rain forecast for today||The Met Department has predicted thunderstorm accompanied with lightning very likely over Telangana, and heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places on Wednesday too. Deep depression over north coastal Andhra has moved further west-northwest wards, and weakened into a depression and lay centred over Telangana, about 140 km east-southeast of Khammam and 90 km west-northwest of Kakinada, a release from the department said. It is very likely to move west-northwest wards and weaken into a well-marked low pressure area during the next 12 hours, it said.
14 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||P3-bit||A local court awarded three years rigorous imprisonment to a 39-year-old man and imposed fine of Rs. 1,000 for sexually assaulting a seven-year-old girl.
14 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BRF||All examinations under the jurisdiction of Osmania University, scheduled for October 14 and 15, are postponed due to torrential rains. Examinations from October 16 will be conducted as per timetable. The schedule of postponed exams will be given shortly.
14 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||PAGE 3 - BRIEFS Certificate courses from Women’s College, Koti||University College for Women, Koti, is offering two certificate courses — Basics of Forensic Sciences and Basics of Pharmaceutical Sciences. Both are approved by the University Grants Commission. Any student who has passed Intermediate or even ITI and Polytechnic are eligible for the course and the fee is Rs. 10,000. The last date for submission of application forms is October 26 and classes commence from November 2. Details can be had from Aliya Begum on 98491-70130. Check www.oucwkoti.ac.in.
14 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Boulders roll into house in Hyderabad||Large slabs of rock rolled into a house at Dilawargunj, a neighbourhood at Mangalhat, in the early hours on Tuesday, and damaged the kitchen and pooja room. There were no casualties. According to Mangalhat police, the incident took place around 10 a.m. The four inmates of the house had a miraculous escape. “We heard a loud noise and saw that large boulders had crashed into the house. We request the government to ensure that people of the locality are safe,” Rajesh Singh, one of the inmates of the house, told the media. Mangalhat police said that the rains washed away the soil after which the rocks moved.
14 October 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Lucky escape for six persons||Six persons, including two children, had a miraculous escape from drowning after the car they were travelling in was trapped in a swollen stream at a culvert on Khammam-Patharlapadu main road in Chintakani mandal late on Tuesday evening. Timely response of three local youths helped them come out of the vehicle stranded in the strong undercurrents of flooded Bandirevu stream. The car that had two women and two children swept away by the floodwaters of the stream after the driver lost control while negotiating a low-level road point abutting the overflowing Bandirevu stream. Three youths including a trainee constable of Patharlapadu, who were standing nearby, noticed the vehicleand brought all the occupants to safety.
14 October 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Nalgonda inundated||Daylong heavy to very heavy rains pounded erstwhile Nalgonda district on Tuesday. Several colonies, markets and bridges in low-lying areas, including several towns, were inundated in the heavy flood forcing normal life to a grinding halt. Most gates of the three projects — Nagarjunasagar, Musi and Pulichintala — were kept open to let out water as they continued to receive heavy inflows. According to rainfall distribution monitored by the Development Planning Society till 7 p.m., Nalgonda, Chandur, Madgulapally, Haliya and Adavidevulapalli received very heavy rainfall and all other mandals, except four, received heavy rainfall (up to 115.5 mm). Verkatpalle of Valigonda, recorded the maximum 250.3 mm rainfall and was categorised under extremely heavy rainfall. Excluding Bommalaramaram mandal, all the others received heavy or very heavy rainfall. Situation in Suryapet was comparatively less intense, with only four mandals in Thungathurthy and Huzurnagar receiving the most rainfall, while others received moderate or light rainfall. Vehicular movement on the Narketpalle-Addanki State highway and in a few spots on NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) slowed down as the main ways witnessed flood flow. Nalgonda police advised motorists to avoid routes to Nagarjunasagar, Haliya, Peddavoora and Devarakonda via Miryalaguda, as the bypass near Nidamanuru was broken.
14 October 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Heavy rains in Medak, officials put on alert||Erstwhile Medak district — Medak, Siddipet and Sangareddy — has been receiving incessant rains since Tuesday morning, with several low lying areas getting flooded and tanks overflowing. For the first time in more than a decade, Mahabubsagar, in the outskirts of Sangareddy district headquarters, has been overflowing. Officials have warned of heavy to very heavy rains for the next 48 hours and people were asked not to venture out till the rains subside. District officials have been on high alert and keeping the Revenue staff and police officials on guard. Siddipet Collector P. Venkatrami Reddy warned people to be careful in view of the heavy rains. In a release here on Tuesday, he said that all tanks were full and hence officials should observe the condition of bunds. Officials have been directed to shift to safer places and be available round the clock. Even Commissioner of Police Joyal Davis interacted with police personnel in both Siddipet and Medak districts, and asked them to be on high alert.
14 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Harish challenges BJP on pensions||Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao dared BJP to an open debate on pensions being distributed to the beneficiaries. He said that the amount being released by the Centre is peanuts compared to what is being paid by the State government. “We are spending about Rs. 11,720 crore on pension every year while the Centre releases only Rs. 210 crore. The BJP leaders are saying that pensions are being distributed by the Centre. We are ready for an open debate on the subject,” he said at a function where BJP district secretary Bal Lakshmi and her associates joined the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi here on Tuesday. BJP Indupriyal village president Suresh also joined the party. He alleged that the BJP leaders have been trying to take the total credit for pensions and demanded that the actual figures of the Central and State government share be made public. He said that the new laws on deregulation of agricultural markets, introduced by the Centre, would harm the interests of farmers. “Think about the leaders coming in large cars from Hyderabad to Dubbak for election campaign and they will be here only till elections are over. After the elections none of them will be seen here. Vote for TRS candidate Ms. Sujatha. I will be here and it is my responsibility to develop Dubbak assembly constituency,” Mr. Harish Rao said. He claimed that both Congress and TDP did nothing while it was only Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao who came to the rescue of people who suffered during lockdown. Meanwhile Telangana Rashtra Samithi candidate participated in election campaign in several villages despite the heavy rains. Party activists used umbrellas to protect themselves from heavy rain and went around house-to-house campaigning for the party.
14 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Parties focusing on youngsters||As the date of polling is fast approaching in Dubbaka, the political parties are focusing on youth in the constituency. There are about 1.97 lakh voters out of whom about 87,000 are youths. They are going to play a key role in the election campaign as well as on the day of polling in bringing voters to the polling booths. “Youth are the strength of the party. We will welcome them and give them right position in the party,” said Mr. Harish Rao while inviting some youths into the party recently. “Youth should come into the (Congress) party and must be in the forefront in fighting against the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and its anti-people policies. We welcome T Karunakar Reddy into the party,” said Malkagiri Lok Sabha member A. Revanth Reddy while meeting Karunakar Reddy at his residence in Mirdoddi on Monday. These are two examples on how the political parties are trying to attract the young voters into their fold. Local leaders are playing crucial role in getting them into the party by promising them different offers like jobs. Youth organisations become the target of the leaders.  Youth should come into the party and must be in the forefront in fighting against the TRS and its anti-people policies. A. Revanth Reddy, Congress MP
14 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Six nominations filed||As many as six nominations were filed on Tuesday for Dubbak Assembly seat which would go to elections on November 3. Those who filed nominations are M. Raghunandan Rao from BJP, L Ramesh from Bahujan Rashtra Samithi (BRS), Karrthika BRM from All India Forward Block and three independents – P. Mahipal Reddy, D Venkatesham and Kolkuri Prasad.
14 October 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Three women jailed for theft||Principal Junior Civil Judge at Kodad court A. Sreedevi on Tuesday convicted three women of theft and awarded them one-year rigorous imprisonment and imposed Rs. 100 fine each. Kodad police said the women Jadav Roopa and Mamidi Nagamani of Khammam town, along with Jadav Jyothi of Huzurnagar, had stolen the money purse of Madhavi Latha at Kodad bus station in August 2019.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Woman, son killed as their bike collides with SUV||A woman and her son travelling on a motorcycle were killed in an accident involving a SUV on Nagarjunasagar highway in Chintapally police limits in the district on Tuesday. Police said the victims were identified as Gorantla Alivelu, 45, and G. Harish, 18, an Intermediate first student. According to Chintapally police, the accident occurred around 9.30 a.m., when the motorcycle and the SUV had a head-on collision near Polepally village stage. The mother and son were at Mall village with their relatives, and on Tuesday morning they were heading back home to Bairapuram. While Harish died at the spot, Alivelu breathed her while being rushed for emergency treatment. Driver of the Delhi-registered SUV was taken into custody.
14 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Municipal panel members booked for embezzling Rs. 9 lakh from govt.||The chairman and the secretary of a municipal committee, and four others, have been booked on charges of cheating and criminal conspiracy under the Prevention of Corruption Act. They allegedly embezzled funds to the tune of Rs. 9 lakh for building a road but did not carry out the construction work. A Sub-Inspector has also been named in the FIR for not acting on the complaint in the matter. The case was registered at Pataudi police station in the wake of the order of Additional Sessions Judge Ashwani Kumar on a plea by Ramesh Kumar, an RTI activist. According to the FIR, Haileymandi municipal committee chairman Suresh Kumar, secretary Sushil Kumar and engineer Hemanth Kumar allegedly colluded with a construction firm and others to withdraw government money against the payment for the construction of a 500-metre road from Mata Mandir to the house of one Laxmi Narain in ward no.2. Fraud entries The road was not constructed and the accused persons prepared fraud entries in the measurement book, causing loss to the government. The FIR said that Gurugram Additional Deputy Commissioner, in his letter to the Deputy Commissioner, on December 27 last year confirmed the crime. Ramesh said he gave a complaint to Haileymandi Police post in-charge seeking registration of FIR on March 9 with reference to the probe by the ADC, but the police officer concerned did not register the case. “It is mandatory for the police to register an FIR for a cognisable offence or inform the complainant in case the complaint is rejected. But the police officer concerned neither registered the case nor informed me,” said Ramesh
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi, Gurugram air quality dips||The air quality of Delhi and Gurugram deteriorated on Tuesday and nearly touched the ‘very poor’ category. According to government-run monitoring agency SAFAR, the air quality of Delhi is likely to be in the ‘poor’ to ‘very poor’ category for the next two days. North body fined Meanwhile, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has imposed a fine of Rs. 20 lakh on the North Delhi Municipal Corporation for flouting dust control norms at Bhalswa landfill. Environment Minister Gopal Rai conducted an inspection of the landfill and found “large scale violations” of the guidelines issued by the Delhi government. “The incompetence of certain departments in tackling the problem of pollution in Delhi is visible. We have directed the DPCC to take adequate and strict action in the matter,” the Minister said. The Air Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi on Tuesday was 300 — on the verge of ‘very poor’ category, up from 261 (poor) on Monday, as per Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The AQI in Gurugram was 288 (poor) on Tuesday, slightly up from 259 (poor) on Monday. The AQI in Noida was 286, up from 274 on Monday. The AQI for the three cities are the average values of the past 24 hours, which is released by the CPCB at 4 pm every day, and treated as the official figure. In Delhi, 19 out of the 34 monitoring stations were showing ‘very poor’ air quality at 8 p.m. on Tuesday, according to the CPCB. The stations with ‘very poor’ air included ITO, IGI, Wazirpur, Mundka and others. Surface winds Delhi’s air quality was expected to improve on Tuesday, but a drop in speed of local surface winds is one of the reasons for the air quality worsening. “Though boundary layer wind direction has changed from north-westerly to easterly as predicted, the impact of disturbed wind circulation due to deep depression over west-central Bay of Bengal could not be realised in Delhi as it was expected, SAFAR said in a statement. “In Delhi, temperature and wind speed decreased on Monday night. Also, mixing depth [the height of the atmosphere from the ground in which pollutants can be dispersed] also reduced. Due to this, the pollutants could not disperse and they accumulated,” said a SAFAR official, explaining the increase in air pollution. “There was an increase in stubble burning fires observed on Monday around Punjab, Haryana, and neighbouring border regions with 675 fires. But the transport wind direction is not favourable and hence only marginal stubble contribution in PM2.5 is expected,” SAFAR a.
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||Car mows down minor sisters||A seven-year-old girl and her four-year-old sister were killed when they were hit by an unidentified car while they were crossing a road in north-west Delhi’s Model Town. A 55-year-old man and a six-year-old boy — brother of the deceased — were also injured. The accident took place on Monday night near Gurdwara Nanak Piao on G.T. Road, the police said. Initial probe revealed that one Jaspal Singh, along with his wife and three children, and friend Milap Singh were on their way to visit an acquaintance in the area. On the way, Jaspal stopped his car at a CNG station opposite Gurdwara Nanak Pio. Milap got out of the car along with Jaspal’s three children and were crossing G.T. Road when they were hit by a car. Hunt on for driver, car Neither the offending vehicle nor its driver have been traced yet, the police said, adding that they are scanning CCTV cameras in adjoining areas. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North-West) Vijayanta Arya said, “We got a PCR call at Model Town police station around 11.49 p.m. about an accident near Gurdwara Nanak Piao by some unknown vehicle. On enquiry, it surfaced that the accident happened while Milap Singh was crossing the road with the three children of his friend Jaspal Singh on G.T. Road. All four persons were injured in the accident.” During treatment, the seven-year-old girl undergoing treatment at AIIMS Trauma Centre and her four-year-old sister undergoing treatment in Safdarjung Hospital succumbed to injuries, the officer said, adding that Milap and the boy are still hospitalised. A case under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304A (causing death by negligence) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC has been registered and efforts are being made to trace the offending vehicle, the police said.
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||One more arrest made in Rahul Rajput case||An 18-year-old youth has been arrested in connection with the killing of a Delhi University student in north-west Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar, the police said on Tuesday. The accused, Shubham Bhardwaj from Jahangirpuri, was involved with his friends in the killing, said the police, who have already arrested two people and apprehended three others in connection with the case. Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday alleged that the Delhi Police, which comes under the jurisdiction of the Centre, is harassing an eyewitness in the murder of Rahul Rajput. “In The Hindu’s article, a reporter had said that in a video call, the eyewitness said at 8 p.m., three police officers came to meet her in plain clothes and a woman officer took her SIM card and damaged it,” said AAP chief Spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj at a press meet. The AAP leader added that the police is harassing the eyewitness because she has claimed that despite repeated requests, the officers remained silent at the time of the incident. “On one hand, the BJP says that Hindus are in danger and on the other hand, in front of the Delhi Police, a Hindu boy was beaten to death. Why didn’t the police stop them?” he asked. “The most shameful thing here is that an official eyewitness, who is giving a statement against her own brothers, and who is under police protection in Nari Niketan, had her SIM card changed by a woman officer and the police say they know nothing about it,” the AAP leader said. Rajput, 18, was allegedly beaten to death by a girl’s family members, who objected to their friendship as they belonged to different religions.
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal kick-starts use of bio-decomposer solution||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday visited the Hiranki village in Narela to kick-start the process of spraying of the newly developed bio-decomposer solution on 700-800 hectares of paddy fields in Delhi. Mr. Kejriwal said that the solution has been developed under the guidance of the Pusa Institute. He said that all the governments have to work in tandem to address the issue of stubble burning in northern India. Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai was also present at the launch of the process. “To get rid of the issue of stubble burning, the process of the production of this liquid solution was started in Delhi around 10 days ago,” he said. “The tractors as well as all the arrangements for its spraying have been made by the Delhi government and the farmers do not have to bear the cost of it. The solution will be sprayed on the entire 700-800 hectares of land in Delhi in the next few days. The stubble will convert into manure and the land will be ready for sowing in the next 20-25 days,” he said. Land productivity Stubble burning, Mr. Kejriwal said, also destroys the useful bacteria on the farmlands. Due to the spraying of the solution, the farmers would need fewer fertilisers and it will also increase the productivity of the land. He said that he was worried because stubble burning in the neighbouring States had started reaching Delhi. He said pollution was in control in the Capital for the last 10 months but now he was concerned for residents of Delhi, Punjab and Haryana.  “We do not have to blame each other, every government has to work with one another to resolve the issue. If the Delhi government can do it, so can other State governments,” he said.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||3 arrested for beating, stabbing youth||Three men have been arrested for allegedly beating and stabbing a 20-year-old youth to teach him a lesson for allegedly annoying their friend’s girlfriend, the police said on Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) R.P. Meena said that the injured has been identified as Rahul, resident of Taimoor Nagar. He is undergoing treatment but is said to be out of danger. The police said the three accused identified as Ankush (19), Shahid (20) and Nikhil (19) have been arrested in connection while efforts are being made to nab prime accused Alex Thomas who stabbed Rahul and fled from the spot on October 9 at Kilokari Road. During investigation, the accused allegedly told the police that they are friends of Alex Thomas and a few days ago, Alex told Ankush and his accomplices that Rahul was troubling his girlfriend. Therefore, they decided to teach Rahul a lesson, the police said. On October 9, when the four accused saw Rahul at a juice stall, they caught him and beat him before Alex stabbed him before fleeing away.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||DMRC to conduct survey to reduce overcrowding||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Tuesday said that an online survey will be conducted to study the possibility of commuters planning their travel in flexible timings to avoid overcrowding. DMRC officials said that the aim behind the survey was to assess whether commuters can schedule their travel in off peak hours to avoid the rush. Cover basic aspects “The questions of the survey are designed to cover basic aspects of metro travel such as the timings of travel, line utilisation, flexibility of planning the travel in non-peak hours and whether the commuters have an option of working from home. The inputs provided by commuters will help Delhi Metro to understand the commuters’ requirements better and to improve the services,” the DMRC said. The link to the online survey will be available on the Delhi Metro’s social media platforms till October 27, it added. “With new guidelines and social distancing in place, the occupancy on the metro has been limited. However, it has been observed that certain sections of the network have witnessed 100% occupancy during the peak hours. In view of this, the commuters are requested to break the peak by staggering the travel timings,” the public transporter said.
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||Sisodia accuses Centre of doing nothing to stop crop burning||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday attacked the Central government over air pollution due to stubble burning and accused it of doing nothing throughout the year to control it. “The Centre has completely failed to save north India from pollution. While the Delhi government works continuously to stop pollution throughout the year, the Centre sits idle,” Mr. Sisodia said, adding that increased pollution caused by stubble burning and the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic make for a “dangerous combination”. “North India is suffering from the adverse consequences of Centre’s inaction. Why does the Centre not take any steps to save the lives of the residents of north India?” he said. Punjab villages Mr. Sisodia said that pollution from stubble burning is not only a problem for Delhiites but also a matter of great concern for people living in Punjab villages the stubble is set on fire. “I request the Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority to look into why the Centre and other State governments do not do any work to control pollution around the year. Has the EPCA also failed to make these governments take action to control pollution? Now it seems like that,” he said. Mr. Sisodia added that the Centre will have to take responsibility for preventing pollution throughout north India.
14 October 2020||Bhopal,||Jabalpur doctor calls out fake news over Hathras visit||A doctor at the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Medical College, Jabalpur, has said that she was moving the courts against an attempt by some sections of the media to defame her and hurt her dignity after she visited the family of the Hathras victim. A Demonstrator in the Pharmacology Department, Rajkumari Bansal earlier this month visited the family of a 19-year-old Dalit girl, who died at a Delhi hospital while undergoing treatment after being allegedly raped last month. Later, sections of the media levelled unsubstantiated allegations against the doctor — that she had Maoist links; that she falsely claimed to be the victim’s sister-in-law; and that she was part of an international conspiracy to defame and destabilise the U.P. government. Dr. Bansal has denied all these charges. Claiming a “big conspiracy” was being scripted against her, Dr. Bansal told The Hindu , “I am being framed. Those making such baseless allegations have to supply the proof backing them.” Meanwhile, college Dean P.K. Kasar said they had not served a notice on Dr. Bansal as claimed by the media.
14 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||Missing businessman found dead||The body of Ghaziabad businessman, Panchal Tyagi, who went missing on Monday, was found in the Sahibabad area of the city on Tuesday morning, police said. “His body has been found lying alongside Link Road. There are no obvious signs of injury on the body. His mobile and wallet are missing. The body has been sent for post-mortem,” said Keshav Kumar, Circle Officer, Sahibabad, denying reports that suggested strangulation marks. According to the complaint lodged by the deceased’s brother Kuldeep Tyagi at the Sahibabad police station on Monday, Panchal, 38, who runs a cable wire factory in the Rajendra Nagar Industrial Area, went missing on Monday when he was purportedly going home from the factory for lunch. When he did not reach home, his wife called him but his phone was switched off. She called the factory, where she was told that he had left around 1 p.m. When he could not be traced till evening, Mr. Tyagi approached the police. “An FIR was registered against unknown persons under Section 364 of the IPC. Later in the evening, his car was found near the Haj House,” Mr. Kumar said.
14 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||Three killed in cylinder blast||Three persons died and six were seriously injured in a cylinder blast in a house in the Delhi Gate area of Aligarh on Tuesday, the police said. Sources said an illegal toy pistol factory in Mohalla Khatikan was being run in the dilapidated building owned by Surendra Singh. A part of the building came down due to the impact of the blast. An adjoining house also suffered damage. Fire tenders and ambulances were rushed. The DM has ordered a magisterial inquiry into the blast.
14 October 2020||Guwahati,||Court convicts 25 for lynching Assam doctor||A court in Assam’s Jorhat convicted 25 people for lynching a 73-year-old doctor more than a year ago. A mob had assaulted and killed Deben Dutta, senior medical officer of a dispensary in Teok Tea Estate on August 31, 2019, for allegedly delaying the treatment of a plantation worker named Somra Majhi. Dutta died on the way to the Jorhat Medical College and Hospital. Six acquitted The police had filed a chargesheet against 32 people but Jorhat district and sessions judge Robin Phukan acquitted six while one had died during the trial. The quantum of punishment against the 25 convicted on Monday would be pronounced on October 19. Sections dealing with murder, wrongful confinement, rioting, use of criminal force to deter public servants on duty and unlawful assembly of people with common objective had been slapped on the accused. Relevant Sections of the Indian Penal Code were read with those of The Assam Medicare Service Persons & Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence & Damage to Property) Act, 2011. IMA’s threat The lynching had triggered a series of protests, with the Indian Medical Association threatening to withdraw doctors from tea estate hospitals if prompt action was not taken against the guilty. A four-member special investigation team headed by Siva Prasad, Deputy Inspector-General of Eastern Range, had probed and concluded the case in a “record” time of 21 days and filed a 602-page chargesheet on September 21, 2019.
14 October 2020||Mumbai,||Don’t test the patience of devotees: BJP to MVA govt.||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday held a Statewide agitation demanding the reopening of temples across Maharashtra. BJP State president Chandrakant Patil said the Maha Vikas Aghadi government should not test the patience of saints, priests and devotees. He said, “The government must immediately reopen temples and other places of worship. Don’t wait for the situation to arise where all these people will forcefully barge into temples.” Mr. Patil said it is beyond understanding that at a time when businesses are reopening, the government is reluctant to reopen temples. The Thane unit of the party led by MLAs Niranjan Davkhare and Sanjay Kelkar rang bells as part of a “ghanta naad” protest in front of Ghantali temple, while BJP workers led by party MLA Atul Save performed a puja and sang bhajans outside Gajanan Maharaj temple in Aurangabad city. “The government didn’t give a single rupee to these people. Hence, we want to make the government aware of these facts,” Mr. Save said. Tushar Bhosle, leader of the BJP’s spiritual wing, said though the Centre has given the go-ahead, the State government is only allowing bars to open, but not temples. “Last month, we organised a ‘ghanta naad’ agitation, but the government cannot hear and see us,” Mr. Bhosle said. Actor Kangana Ranaut, who had a tiff with the Shiv Sena and the State government after she compared Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, welcomed Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s letter to the CM, calling for the reopening of temples. She tweeted, “Nice to know Gunda government is being questioned by Honourable Governor sir, Gundas have opened bars and restaurants but strategically keeping temples shut. Sonia Sena is behaving worse than Babur Sena.”  (With PTI inputs)
14 October 2020||Mumbai,||8,522 new COVID-19 cases, 15,356 recoveries in State||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra remained below 10,000 for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. A day after reporting a case surge of 7,089, the State recorded 8,522 new infections, taking its total case tally to 15,43,837. With 187 more fatalities, the cumulative death toll went up to 40,701, a State Health Department official said. A total of 15,356 patients were discharged on Tuesday, taking the tally of recoveries to 12,97,252. There are now 2,05,415 active cases in the State. With 1,325 new cases, the total case load in Mumbai rose to 2,32,391, while its death toll increased to 9,507, with 38 fatalities. Surge in Mumbai division The Mumbai division, which consists of Mumbai city and its satellite towns, added 2,660 new infections, raising its total case tally to 5,35,214. A total of 17,060 people have succumbed to the virus so far in the region, the health official said. Pune city reported 490 cases, raising its total case load to 1,65,839, while 13 more deaths took its cumulative toll to 3,749. The number of cases in the Pune division stood at 4,01,395, while its death toll touched 8,848, the official said. The number of cases in the Nashik division reached 2,08,167, while the death toll mounted to 4,028, the official said. Kolhapur division has reported 1,03,313 cases and 3,283 deaths so far, while Aurangabad division’s tally is 57,384 and death toll stands at 1,465. Steady spike in cases The number of cases in Latur division increased to 63,588, while it recorded 1,088 fatalities, the official said. Akola division has 47,432 cases, while 1,088 people have succumbed to the infection until now. Nagpur division has so far recorded 1,25,519 infections and 2,959 fatalities. A total of 23,37,899 people are under home quarantine in the State, while 25,857 others are placed in institutional quarantine facilities. A total of 77,62,005 samples have been tested in the State so far.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||‘U.S. aiming to build an Indo-Pacific NATO’||China’s Foreign Minister on Tuesday said the United States was aiming to build an “Indo-Pacific NATO” that would be founded on the four-nation India, U.S., Japan and Australia grouping, in Beijing’s most high-profile criticism so far on the “Quad”. Wang Yi’s remarks, during a visit to Malaysia, underline how Chinese officials who once sought to downplay the Quad as an over-hyped idea are now highlighting it prominently, describing it as part of a broader American effort in the region to “contain” China, as ties continue to worsen between Beijing and Washington. Mr. Wang had, in 2018, dismissed the then recently-revived Quad and the Indo-Pacific concept as a “headline-grabbing idea” that would “dissipate like sea foam”. On Tuesday, he hit out at the U.S. approach to the region during his visit to Malaysia, the second stop on his five-nation tour to Southeast Asia. He arrived there following a visit to Cambodia, and will later travel to Laos and Thailand, and stop in Singapore. “In essence, [the Indo-Pacific strategy] aims to build a so-called Indo-Pacific NATO underpinned by the quadrilateral mechanism involving the U.S., Japan, India and Australia,” he said, reported the South China Morning Post . Hegemonic system “What it pursues is to trumpet the Cold War mentality and to stir up confrontation among different groups and blocs and to stoke geopolitical competition. What it maintains is the dominance and hegemonic system of the U.S.” “In this sense, this strategy is itself a big underlying security risk. If it is forced forward, it will wind back the clock of history,” he added. Last week, following the October 6 Quad ministerial meeting in Tokyo, China said it was opposed to “organising closed and exclusive cliques”. At the Tokyo meet, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo singled out China as a threat to the region, although the three other Foreign Ministers, including External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, did not directly mention China. They did, however, express broad concerns about maintaining a rules-based order, freedom of navigation and the peaceful resolution of disputes in the region. “As partners in this Quad, it is more critical now than ever that we collaborate to protect our people and partners from the Chinese Communist Party’s exploitation, corruption, and coercion,” Mr. Pompeo said. “We’ve seen it in the South China Sea, in the East China Sea, the Mekong, the Himalayas, the Taiwan Straits. These are just a few examples.”
14 October 2020||Sanford,||President Trump back on campaign trail with a roar||“Here we are!” President Donald Trump announced with a triumphant roar — made slightly hoarse by his bout with COVID-19 — at the opening of a rally in Sanford, Florida, on Monday. Just a week after getting out of hospital with the coronavirus, Mr. Trump strode onto the stage, tossing out face masks, like a rock star handing out autographs. Defying the pandemic But he wasn’t wearing a mask himself. And neither was anyone else, barring a small minority, in the crowd of several thousand, who were jammed cheek by jowl to witness the Republican’s return to the campaign trail. Which was the whole point. Mr. Trump wanted to show he can defy the pandemic and his seemingly plummeting chances of beating Democratic candidate Joe Biden alike. Loud, coarse at times, diving into his well-worn jokes, and freely insulting opponents and journalists, Mr. Trump didn’t sound like a clinically obese man of 74 who only a few days ago was being administered oxygen by doctors. “They say I’m immune,” he boasted. “I feel so powerful.” From ditching his mask to parking the iconic Air Force One jumbo right behind the podium, this was a rally stage-managed to push Mr. Trump’s image as freak of nature unbound by the laws governing ordinary folks. Maybe he wasn’t wearing a Superman shirt under his suit, as The New York Times reported he considered doing on being discharged from hospital October 5, but the crowd wouldn’t have been fazed had he done so. “We love you, we love you,” they cheered. Mr. Trump talks of enjoying a “protective glow” after getting over COVID-19. The way Mr. Trump tells it, his special powers make him invincible against Mr. Biden too. Since reemerging from heavy treatment for the coronavirus he has mocked the Democrat’s travel schedule, his mask wearing and coughing. “He’s got no strength left, he’s got no power left,” Mr. Trump told Monday’s crowd. “He may be the worst presidential candidate in history and I got him,” he scoffed. The polls do not bear this out.
14 October 2020||Washington,||Pakistani dissidents blame military for country’s crises||Terming Prime Minister Imran Khan as a “military puppet,” prominent Pakistani dissidents, including former and current members of Parliament, have blamed the powerful army for the country’s fragility, insecurity and inability to get along with its neighbours. “Pakistan is under unannounced martial law,” Pashtun leader and former Senator Afrasiab Khattak told the fifth annual conference of South Asians Against Terrorism and for Human Rights (SAATH). SAATH is a group of pro-democracy Pakistanis co-founded by former Pakistan Ambassador the U.S. Husain Haqqani and U.S.-based columnist Dr. Mohammad Taqi. Previous annual conferences of SAATH have been held in London and Washington but this year participants met virtually, according to a statement. The participants termed Prime Minister Khan as a military puppet”, the statement said. Members of the group include politicians, journalists, bloggers, social media activists, and members of civil society, many of whom have been forced to live in exile in various countries. Pakistan’s security services have tried to disrupt SAATH meetings in the past and banned its members living in Pakistan from travelling abroad, but this year, the virtual format enabled several prominent dissidents still in the country to participate, the statement said. ‘Minorities oppressed’ “This is the most dangerous martial law in Pakistan because it has vulgarised and distorted constitutional institutions,” Mr. Khattak said. Several speakers — including Rubina Greenwood of the World Sindhi Congress, Tahira Jabeen from Gilgit-Baltistan, Shahzad Irfan of the Seraiki Movement, and Rasool Mohammed of Pashtun Council of America — emphasised that various minorities in Pakistan were being oppressed and denied their rights.
14 October 2020||Washington,||Trump has tested negative: doctor||Donald Trump has been found negative for COVID-19 using a rapid test, his White House physician said on Monday, 10 days after the President announced he had contracted the potentially-deadly illness. “I can share with you that he tested negative, on consecutive days, using the Abbot BinaxNOW antigen card,” White House physician Sean Conley said. The doctor said the negative determination had taken into account a number of measurements, and not just the rapid test alone. Antigen tests are less sensitive than the more traditional PCR diagnostic test to low levels of virus. Dr. Conley, who does not specify the days on which the tests were performed, nevertheless added that the data allowed the medical team to conclude “that the President is not infectious to others.” This statement was issued while the President was en route to Florida for a rally.
14 October 2020||Beijing,||9 million to be tested in Chinese city||More than four million coronavirus test swabs have been taken in a matter of days in Qingdao, the Chinese port city where a minor outbreak elicited a sweeping health response. Authorities detected six virus cases on the weekend and swiftly swung into action to head off a wider outbreak. The city is aiming to test its entire population — around 9.4 million — within five days of the detection of the first cases at a hospital on Sunday.
14 October 2020||Geneva,||Geneva, Oct 13, 2020 (AFP) -||The World Trade Organization authorised on Tuesday the European Union to impose $3.99 billion in retaliatory tariffs on U.S. goods and services over U.S. aid for Boeing, a year after permitting Washington to sanction Brussels for its support of Airbus.AFP
14 October 2020||San Francisco,||San Francisco, Oct 13, 2020 (AFP) -||Apple announced on Tuesday it was launching new iPhones using 5G, the latest smartphone maker to adapt to the new-generation, high-speed wireless networks. “We are going to introduce 5G across our entire lineup of iPhone models,” Apple chief executive Tim Cook said.AFP
14 October 2020||Terter,||Terter, Azerbaijan, Oct 13, 2020 (AFP) -||Armenian and Azerbaijani forces engaged in new fighting on Tuesday over the Nagorno-Karabakh region despite pleas to observe a ceasefire. U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo urged both sides to observe a truce agreed only four days ago in Moscow. The fighting has claimed 600 lives so far.AFP
14 October 2020||TAIPEI,||Taiwan dismisses latest China spying accusations||Taiwan on Tuesday dismissed new spying allegations by China as a further attempt to smear the government of the island that Beijing claims as its own territory. On Sunday, CCTV broadcast a confession by a man who said he had been working to destabilise China and harm the Communist Party’s reputation. CCTV claimed security personnel had solved more than 100 spying cases.AP
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Ferment in the heartland||In 2019, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 62 of the 80 Lok Sabha seats in Uttar Pradesh, and in 2014, 71. U.P. elects 15% of the Lok Sabha members, but it contributed 20% of the BJP members in 2019 and 25% in 2014. The concentrated support in regions above the Vindhyas, the Hindutva heartland, enabled the BJP to win 56% of the Lok Sabha seats with 38% votes in 2019. In U.P., the Congress won two seats in 2014 and one in 2019. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi lost his own heartland seat of Amethi in 2019; to enter the Lok Sabha, he chose a seat in the geographical and social periphery of Hindu nationalism — the minority-majority Wayanad seat in Kerala. Mr. Gandhi has now sought to bring the battle back to the heartland, in Hathras in U.P., by rallying public opinion against caste violence, and in Punjab and Haryana, by spearheading farmer protests. He managed to put the spotlight on oppressive caste violence often invisibilised by slogans of Hindu unity as well as on the political self-quarantine of two champions of social justice, former Chief Ministers Akhilesh Yadav and Mayawati. Further turns in U.P. will depend on whether Mr. Gandhi remains consistent and whether the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) intervenes to enforce order in its tent. Threatening the BJP’s pre-eminence in U.P. is not so much the upper caste violence against Dalits as the intensifying rivalry between two upper caste groups that form the social core of Hindutva in its geographical core — the Thakurs and the Brahmins. The Yogi model Affinity, privilege and dispossession linked to caste are not uncommon anywhere, but in U.P. politics, they are all uniquely intense. Caste has been a major obstacle to Hindu unity. Rejection, at least in theory, of untouchability, remained a common thread across all attempts of Hindu unification in history, but the question of inequality was rarely confronted. In the 1980s, when the Sangh Parivar ramped up its efforts to reach out to the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) and Dalits, it consciously chose the word samrasta (harmony) over the word samata (equality). Harmony does not reject or preclude hierarchy. Narendra Modi’s rise marked Hindutva 2.0 — political Hinduism contoured to demands of the market and Mandal aspirations — which created a national Hindu majority, concentrated in the heartland. The Vishva Hindu Parishad captured the ongoing process in a statement following the acquittal of Parivar leaders in the Babri Masjid demolition case thus: “We call upon the society to now look forward to the urgent tasks at hand, the completion of a Grand Temple at Shri Ramjanmabhoomi, the eradication of social inequalities and establishment of samrasta , to bring about social, educational and economic upliftment of the Scheduled Castes, Tribes and other economically backward sections of the society as also to build a strong and stable Bharat; capable of fighting the attacks and challenges from within and at the borders” (emphasis added). The BJP has been far more open and successful in accommodating marginalised castes than the Congress in the heartland. The Parivar also overlooked, sidelined, or confronted autonomous intermediary and Dalit groups, as has been the case with the Marathas in Maharashtra, the Patels in Gujarat, the Yadavs in Bihar, and the Yadavs and Jatavs in U.P. It chose upper caste leaders only in non-threatening environs for the rest — a Thakur in Chhattisgarh or a Brahmin in Maharashtra. The appointment of Yogi Adityanath as Chief Minister of U.P. in 2017 marked a change in this pattern. It also coincided with an upper caste impatience to reclaim their marginal losses during the Mandal surge. Mr. Adityanath’s strident commitment to Hindutva was a factor that endeared him to the Parivar. If his Thakur background was deliberately overlooked, it may have been motivated by a belief — which now stands challenged — that being a priest in saffron, his identity was solely Hindu. The Parivar’s preferred instrument for Hindu unity is hegemony as opposed to domination. Domination is used occasionally, for instance, against Ambedkarites. The disproportionate association of negative attributes such as inefficiency, corruption, nepotism and policy paralysis with OBCs, Dalit and minority leaders in public debates is not accidental but often an outcome of curated hegemonic discourses. The 2007 slogan that heralded the Jatav-Brahmin social coalition that catapulted Ms. Mayawati to power in U.P. creatively linked the emergence of any fresh political narrative to caste hierarchy — ‘Brahmin Shankh Bajayaenge Tho Haathi Badta Jaayega (If the Brahmin keeps blowing the conch, the elephant will keep moving forward)’ . The Brahmins, estimated to be above 10% of the U.P. voters, are the most impactful swing voters anywhere in India at the moment. In 2007, their support brought Ms. Mayawati to power; in 2012, they moved en masse to Akhilesh Yadav who became the Chief Minister; and in 2017, they moved en masse to the BJP that won. Though Brahmins remain loyal to the BJP generally speaking, they feel sidelined and threatened in U.P. The social media chatter following the killing of gangster Vikas Dubey in July was instructive of how the community perceives its ties with the Yogi administration. If the Thakur-Brahmin rivalry is settled amicably by the RSS leadership, the current turmoil in the State could recede and its memory will fade. Rahul’s second coming? Mr. Gandhi is one leader who is beyond caste and even religion. While this could be his biggest advantage in a society reeling from sectarianisms of various types, this could be his biggest disadvantage too. He belongs to a cohort that is ‘truly Indian,’ in the sense Ashis Nandy describes as one who “cannot be easily identified with any specific regional culture in India.” “You cannot fit them into anything local. They can only be called Indians... They are partly deracinated.” These ‘true Indians’ are hence also disconnected from the rural, communitarian milieu. In an overwhelmingly Hinduised political climate, being disconnected from particularities is a double-edged sword. Mr. Gandhi’s grandmother and father had to assert their Hindu identity. He is evidently conflicted over the question — he is unsure of his tilak and rudraksh . The disconnect from the local and the sectarian is also the reason why the Congress remains insular to the aspirations of backward and Dalit politics. To be fair, it has been responsive in policy — the expansion of Mandal to higher education during the United Progressive Alliance regime is instructive. The challenge is in representation. The Congress has no Dalit or OBC leader in the heartland who is identified as such. Mr. Gandhi and his sister Priyanka Gandhi forced a rethink among their critics through their tenacious intervention in Hathras, but the exclusion of U.P. Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, himself an OBC, from the scene was inexplicable. What Mr. Gandhi lacks is not courage or conviction, but attention to detail and consistency, which are more important. The caste rivalries in U.P. at the moment are a strictly regional housekeeping challenge for Hindutva, with no immediate implications for Mr. Modi’s politics. However, their inherent contradictions have resurfaced more violently than any time in at least a decade and this potentially opens a fresh opportunity for Mr. Gandhi in the heartland. varghese.g@thehindu.co.in
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The Arab World and the elusive two-state solution||Words have meanings that are used and misused. A few weeks ago, someone with evident limitations fulminated against a category of faiths depicted as ‘Abrahamic’. Around the same time, the global media gleefully proclaimed the newly minted ‘Abraham Accord’ to describe a happening of political significance. Both expressions sought to trace it to the proper name, Abraham, a patriarchal entity who flourished in the Second Millennium BCE, is revered by three religions — Judaism, Christianity and Islam — and whose followers today account for a little over 55% of the world’s population. Mention is also made alongside of a group of languages as Semitic — principally Arabic, Hebrew, Amharic and Aramaic. Language as fulcrum Till the end of World War I, most of the Arabic-speaking lands of West Asia and North Africa were ruled directly or indirectly by the Ottoman Empire. Today, thanks to geopolitical cartography, they constitute the ‘Arab World’ whose 22 members are members of the UN. The point of commonality is the language. The seeds of Arab nationalism were sown in the 19th century. The classic work of George Antonius, published in 1938, records the origins: ‘It was at a secret gathering of certain members of the Syrian Scientific Society that the Arab national movement may be said to have uttered its first cry.’ A poem by one of its members gave it the battle cry: Arise, ye Arabs, and awake! The poem, viewed as seditious by the Ottoman rulers, did much to foster the national movement in its infancy. A critique In 1945 and reportedly on British prompting, the League of Arab States was formed to ‘draw closer the relations between member states and co-ordinate their political activities with the aim of realising a close collaboration between them, to safeguard their independence and sovereignty, and to consider in a general way the affairs and interests of the Arab countries’. It has achieved none of its objectives and its hopes have been ‘worn down to disillusion and cynicism’ emanating from what Bassam Tibi has called ‘the duality of words and deeds’. The critique of mystifications of Arab nationalism was a promise; but the promise of getting light at the end of the tunnel did not bear the expected results. This was attributed by a UNDP Human Development Report many years ago to deficits of knowledge, freedom and empowerment of women. Thus, absence of participatory governance and its institutions, disregard for individual freedoms, and the prevalence of one-person rule resulted in what Abdullah Laroui characterised as ‘living in Infra-historical rhythm’. Admittedly, sectional though uneven progress was made, but as the experience of the Arab Uprising of 2011 showed, deep disagreements prevented the emergence of an Arab order and its impact on ‘Arab unity’. It was most evident in their responses to regional and global problems. The Palestine issue The one problem on which Arab states professed unity of opinion, but not necessarily of approach, related to Palestine and to the demand for a Palestinian state. After multiple resorts to war and popular uprisings, the tenacity of Israel and its American backers forced the Arab states and their international supporters to accept the Camp David and Oslo Accords and finally the Saudi-sponsored 2002  Arab Peace Initiative. It involved a de facto recognition of Israel and the latter accepted it with 14 reservations. The truth behind this Saudi initiative has now been made public in a series of television interviews on Al-Arabiya channel on October 5 by the former Saudi Ambassador to the United States and later intelligence chief, Prince Bandar Bin Sultan. It is candid and revealing and sheds much light on the Saudi suspicion of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) leadership, beginning but not ending with Yasser Arafat. The ostensible reason for this, according to some Arab-American commentators, is ‘perceived threat from Iran, the spread of regional terrorism and the rise of Islamism’. The take-off occasion, according to them, was the conference in Warsaw in February 2019 that was hailed by Israel Prime Minister Netanyahu as ‘a breakthrough in Arab-Israeli relations’. This could be seen as a stage in the success of Israel’s grand strategy candidly spelt out in Yossi Alpher’s 2015 book, Periphery , aimed to outflank the hostile core that surrounds it and gain the major political-security goal of countering Arab hostility through relations with alternate regional powers and potential allies. It has been furthered by post-2011 developments in individual Arab countries and the aura bestowed on ‘political Islam’ or Islamism presented by its protagonists such as Fahmy Howeidy who argued that Arab nationalism is a stage towards greater Islamic unity. Public opinion vs. policy Do these failures to jolt the system at the individual-country and regional levels have an impact on perceptions of the Palestinian problem? The Arab Center Washington DC and its Arab Opinion Index for 2019-2020 published last week concluded that 79% of the respondents felt ‘the Palestinian cause concerns all Arabs and not the Palestinian people alone’. This figure in 2012-2013 was 84%. It is thus difficult not to conclude that opinion at the public/respondent level is not in step with official policy orientation on this question. Does this in any manner further the Palestinian cause, more so because the direction of Israeli policy premised on incremental creation of facts on the ground together with furtherance of practical cooperation with individual Arab countries would inevitably result in de facto annexation of most parts of the West Bank even if a formal annexation is deferred? A way out The PLO leadership has been left high and dry even if not yet disowned by its own people. Would the new situation propel it to recraft its policies? The promised Two-state solution is nowhere in sight except for some variants of Bantustans. Would it not be better to explore a One-state solution even if involves a South Africa-like apartheid that would sooner or later prick the conscience of world opinion and their governments and allow a Palestinian-Mandela to use Gandhian principles to seek justice? So the Arab World in a geopolitical sense no longer exists. It will retain its focus on linguistic homogeneity and attendant cultural glory. As for the Palestinians and in the event of hard tactical options being forsaken, they might even explore the creation of a Palestinian point of lamentation, a ‘wailing wall’, hoping that divine justice would eventually be forthcoming as has been with their Abrahamic cousins. Hamid Ansari is the former Vice President of India, 2007-2017
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Outline of a pandemic fight, by and for citizens||There needs to be a paradigm shift in the war against COVID-19; a war that has to be and can be fought with success mostly by citizens hereafter. If there is a wider awakening, the novel coronavirus can be handled by citizens. But how is one to raise that level of civic sense is the moot question. Initially, we never thought that a calamity in Wuhan, China would reach our doorstep. Though the bad news was confirmed as an international emergency since the middle of January, it was only on March 11 that the World Health Organization (WHO) declared it a pandemic. Initially, all nations looked to WHO to be the technical lead, but once there was a reluctance to admit the droplet and aerosol mode of transmission, WHO lost its credibility. Even as doctors and scientists were getting to know the enemy virus, it landed in their midst. Gradual change Using memories and experiences of conquering earlier viral outbreaks such as bird flu, Ebola, the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome and the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, technocrats were using a mix bag of approaches. Gene sequences were shared and testing methods and kits developed and shared. Epidemiology is now better understood, with treatment modalities and experiences in reducing morbidity and mortality getting published. New approaches are being tried. No scientific tool has gone unutilised in the quest for answers. The war is on to save the infected. Myths and misconceptions prevail despite WHO’s campiagn against “infodemics”. But we do have a better understanding of the virus and how it spreads. Governments have been blamed for lapses such as having delayed stopping international flights, for the dynamics of the lockdowns, for job losses and poor management of migrant workers returning home, for a plummeting economy, for inadequate testing and contact tracing, and for lack of transparency in reporting of cases and deaths. Helping governments In all this, people have learned one big lesson — of the need to look after and take care of themselves. We cannot depend on the government to do everything. We cannot rely on the predictions of technocrats. And, we should be able to interpret the assurances that politicians make. The novel coronavirus is still peaking in India and there is no evidence of the flattening of the epidemic curve in sight promised a few months ago. We need to be objective about debate on testing strategy, the accuracy of reporting deaths, the case load and the recovery rate, and the claims of success in the race for vaccine development. We need to focus on what to do by ourselves. What matters to all of us is to stay away from the virus as far as possible and prevent it from infecting us. This responsibility lies squarely on us; not on the government. Such a realisation will not only aid us but also the government in the overall fight against COVID-19. The government can then concentrate on strengthening the health system to test and diagnose the infection and take care of those who are infected. The government can concentrate on hospitals and the related infrastructure. Our individual responsibility begins with self-protection. Mask wearing is the most important protection shield we have. In the fight against tuberculosis for example, doctors have been advocating its use for TB patients to minimise droplet spread of the TB bacteria. But very few have taken this advice seriously. In some areas, the police check two-wheeler riders for helmet-wearing and also for face masks. Our newly acquired cough and sneezing etiquette is going to stay as a habit to stop aerosol transmission. We are not going to clear our throats and spit anywhere, including from the windows of a moving vehicle. We have also been educated on washing our face and exposed areas of the body once we reach home and before we sit on furniture. People are now observing handwashing. They even use sanitizers which are expensive. But in all this, not only can the spread of COVID-19 be stopped but also that of water-borne diseases such as diarrhoea, dysentery, jaundice, typhoid and even cholera. The novel coronavirus has taught us how to stand in a queue patiently. Physical distancing is now new social behaviour. We avoid crowding, festivals and processions, air-conditioned malls and shopping arcades, movie halls, displays and exhibitions. Even if all of these are allowed as an unlocking step, it is better we observe caution. We can go on a holiday or tour once it is safe to do so. Community vigil Though we were compelled to close places of worship, our attitude has changed to one of caring for the needs of others. But there is a need for changed behaviour by neighbourhood and social groups to prevent transmission. Virtual platforms must be used frequently to discuss the technical and administrative aspects of pandemic control by community groups. Volunteering for such community initiatives must be encouraged by elected representatives and members of local self government bodies. Self-administered and monitored epidemic prevention and community vigilance must be sustained. Monitoring of ground realities and learning from overseas experiences using smartphones, web connectivity and use of need-based new apps will all enhance the efficiency of this community empowerment. Kerala had 45,000 registered community volunteers to run information desks and carry out screening at airports, railway stations and bus terminals and border check posts apart from carrying out contact tracing, and monitoring quarantine centres, running community kitchens and sanitation facilities. Odisha has its Gaon Unnayan Samitis and Andhra Pradesh its health link workers at the ward level. More States must emulate such initiatives to rope in the community. Reverse quarantine and the protection of the elderly, cancer patients and people with co-morbidities need to be exercises with more community involvement than of enforcement by health, revenue and police authorities. It is high time policymakers and officials realise the potential of such an approach of decentralised pandemic control. What we have now is patriarchal and technocentric, with unilateral information dissemination and enforcement of strategies either through health staff, the administration and the police. Now, the import of cases has been reduced and nearly 90% cases are through contacts. Finally, enable communities to take control of their own protection and stop community transmission. Invest time and budget for this process. Let their civic sense be the biggest armamentarium to flatten the pandemic curve. Dr. K.R. Antony is an independent Public Health Consultant from Kochi who has served UNICEF, the State Health Resource Centre, Chhattisgarh and the National Health Mission. The views expressed are personal
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||A concerted attack on RTI||This year marks 15 years of the enactment of the Right to Information (RTI) law, which has empowered millions to assert their citizenship and show truth to power. It was a vibrant grassroots movement, led not just by the educated elite but the working poor across the country, that eventually resulted in the passage of the historic law in 2005. The right to information has been upheld by the Supreme Court as a fundamental right flowing from Article 19 of the Constitution, which guarantees every citizen the right to free speech and expression. Without access to relevant information, people’s ability to formulate opinions and express themselves meaningfully is curtailed. Since its enactment, the RTI law has been used by people to seek information to actively participate in decision-making processes and hold governments accountable. The potential of the law Every year nearly six million applications are filed under the RTI Act, making it the most extensively used transparency legislation in the world. National assessments have shown that a large proportion of these are filed by the poorest and the most marginalised who have understood the tremendous potential of the law to empower them to access their basic rights and entitlements, especially in the absence of effective grievance redress mechanisms to address service delivery failures. During the COVID-19 crisis too, the law has been widely used to seek information about availability of medical facilities, like ventilators and ICU beds, and to hold government departments accountable for delivery of foodgrains and social security benefits meant for those in distress, including migrant workers. The RTI Act has also been put to effective use by public-spirited citizens to shine the light on corruption and arbitrary abuse of power by the state. People have used it to question the highest offices. Information has been accessed about the anonymous electoral bonds though which thousands of crores have been channelled into political parties. The Prime Minister’s Office has been queried about the expenditure of the PM CARES Fund set up to provide relief during disasters like the current pandemic. By giving every citizen of India the right to access government files and records, the law has potentially created 1.3 billion whistleblowers and auditors. It has empowered citizens to question those who govern and hold them to account. Consistent attempts by governments to denigrate the law bear testimony to this tilting of the balance of power. Attack on the transparency watchdogs The worst blow to the RTI regime has come in the form of a persistent and concerted attack on the transparency watchdogs set up under the law. Information Commissions at the Centre and in the States are the final adjudicators empowered to act against violations of the legislation. In 2019, regressive amendments were made to the RTI Act which did away with statutory protection of fixed tenure and high status conferred on the commissioners. Despite stiff opposition within and outside Parliament, the government pushed the RTI (Amendment) Act which allows the Central government to determine the tenure and salaries of all Information Commissioners, signalling that directions to disclose inconvenient information could invite adverse consequences. The functioning of commissions has been severely impeded by governments not appointing Information Commissioners in a timely manner. Vacancies in Information Commissions lead to large backlogs of appeals/complaints and long delays in the disposal of cases, effectively frustrating the people’s right to know. The track record of the BJP-led government at the Centre has been particularly abysmal. Since May 2014, not a single commissioner of the Central Information Commission (CIC) has been appointed without citizens having to approach courts. Despite Supreme Court orders to fill all vacancies, six out of 11 posts of commissioners are currently vacant in the CIC, including that of the chief. The CIC is headless for the fifth time in the last six years! State governments appear to have adopted a similar strategy. Eight State Information Commissions are functioning without a chief. Two commissions — Tripura and Jharkhand — are totally defunct with no commissioners. The right to question is the hallmark of a democracy. Any attack on the RTI law, which has empowered citizens to question those in power, is an attack on the foundation of our democratic republic. It is a clear reflection of the lack of political will of governments to be answerable to the people of the country. As the RTI law completes 15 years, it is again time for those whom it empowers — the citizens — to assert themselves and protect their fundamental right to information, which they attained after a long struggle. Anjali Bhardwaj and Amrita Johri are members of the National Campaign for Peoples’ Right to Information
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Quadrilateral home truths||Regardless of how or when China’s misbegotten military adventure is going to wind down in Ladakh, one thing is clear: it has breathed fresh life into the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue as a loose, consultative entente of like-minded democracies in the Indo-Pacific. On October 6, the foreign ministers of Australia, India, Japan and the U.S. held a standalone meeting in Tokyo. If the Quad is to prosper as a geopolitical construct, it would do well to heed four lessons drawn from the long arc of Asia’s history and geopolitics. No Indo-Pacific system First, there is no such thing as an ‘ Indo-Pacific system’. There has never been one, as such, ever since the rise of the port-based kingdoms of Indochina in the first half of the second millennium. Rather, there were two Asian systems — an Indian Ocean system and an East Asian system — with intricate sub-regional balances. The sprawling British empire never managed to combine the Indo and the Pacific into a unitary system and the effort by a U.S. in global retreat and relative decline to artificially manufacture one to encircle China will be no more successful. Second, the Indo-Pacific region possesses no prior experience of enduring peace, prosperity and stability engineered from its maritime fringes. Rather, dynamic long cycles of Chinese influence radiating outwards have alternated with sharp periods of centripetal turmoil as China and the Asian system collapsed upon itself. The emerging practice of ASEAN-centred multilateralism is more in tune with regional tradition and historical circumstance than the post-18th century European ‘balance of power’ system, where the ‘flanking powers’ (Britain and Russia) resisted revisionist challengers to periodically restore the continent’s equilibrium. For their part, the Indo-Pacific’s ‘flanking powers’, India and Japan, have never balanced Chinese power throughout their illustrious histories. Third, the sea lines of communication constitute the connective tissue that links the Indian Ocean to the Western Pacific. It is also a valuable arena of leverage vis-à-vis Chinese shipping and resource flows. This leverage must be wielded judiciously on India’s terms, not on the Quad’s terms. The latter, after all, has little to offer materially with regard to New Delhi’s continental two-front dilemma but ceding this chokepoint leverage will invite overwhelming Chinese pressure against the full range of India’s South Asian interests — to which the other Quad members possess neither will nor desire to answer. For the threat of interdiction to be credible furthermore, it must not be brandished off-handedly. Except during a general war, no sustained and significant campaign to interdict the maritime trade of a major power has ever been successfully mounted since the Napoleonic Wars of the 19th century.  A check on China’s ambitions Finally, the Quad has a valuable role to play as a check on China’s Indian Ocean ambitions. India must develop ingrained habits of interoperable cooperation with its Quad partners and, thereby, pre-emptively dissuade China from mounting a naval challenge in its backyard. On the other hand, it will be more than a decade or two before the People’s Liberation Army Navy will be credibly capable of projecting power in these waters. The shores of the Indo-Pacific littoral are strewn with the bones of Cold War-vintage, pan-regional architectures that were divorced from the underlying security dynamics. The Quad must resist this temptation for precipitate design over purpose. In 2018, in his keynote address at the Shangri La Dialogue, Prime Minister Narendra Modi noted that India would “work with [its friends] individually or in formats of three or more for a stable and peaceful region, but [that these] friendships are not alliances of containment”. Reconciling this capacity to resist armed revisionism while nudging the region’s geopolitics towards cooperation as opposed to conflict should be India’s, and the Quad’s, priority. Sourabh Gupta is a senior fellow at the Institute for China-America Studies in Washington, D.C.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||A slim stimulus||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s fresh set of measures, on Monday, to spur consumer demand and capital expenditure include an interestingly designed tweak to the LTC allowances of government employees. Her reckoning is that these would lend a Rs. 73,000 crore demand spurt to prop up the ailing economy in the second half of this year. This could rise beyond Rs. 1-lakh crore if private sector employers offered similar LTC incentives. With industrial output slipping for the sixth month in a row in August, the clamour for new stimulus measures had been growing ahead of a particularly bleak festive season. But this package, which will cost the exchequer about 0.2% of GDP, taking overall fiscal support through the pandemic to 1.7% of GDP, may not be as persuasive as may have been envisaged. Enhancing the Centre’s capital expenditure in specific sectors by Rs. 25,000 crore from the extant level of Rs. 4.12-lakh crore is laudable. But pandemic restrictions have affected the ability to get new projects going. Till August, just about Rs. 1.34-lakh crore of the budgeted capex had been spent. The same problem plagues the Rs. 12,000 crore offered as an interest-free 50-year loan to States for capital spending over the next six months. While States have been allowed to use these loans to pay off existing contractors’ dues, the amounts on offer are unlikely to have an impact; Rs. 2,000 crore has been set aside for States that manage to complete three of four reforms mandated in the earlier Atmanirbhar Bharat package, in order to get additional borrowing leeway. Only some States may qualify for this. Too many conditions also pervade the consumption push. Linking LTC perks of government staff who have not availed them yet due to restricted travel during the pandemic to spending on non-travel items is an innovative nudge. But requiring them to spend three times their return ticket fares under LTC on goods and services attracting at least 12% GST from GST-registered vendors, may be too prescriptive and overlooks the reluctance towards discretionary spending due to low visibility on the economy’s prospects. Eligible employees may find the scheme complex and too expensive to avail. One hopes the government has more in its quiver to expedite recovery. Waiting too long for the pandemic to ease before loosening the purse strings further could extend the pain. The focus should not just be on conjuring a trickle-down stimulus from those with their jobs and savings intact but also on relief measures for those without. Even the IMF has been urging countries to spend now to diminish the damage. Avoiding spending now to maintain fiscal discipline and prevent a rating downgrade seems sensible, but if the underlying edifices of the country’s growth story crumble in the process, a future downgrade will become inevitable.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Crisis in Caucasus||The ongoing fighting between Armenian rebels and the Azerbaijani Army in Nagorno-Karabakh, a self-declared republic within Azerbaijan, risks becoming a wider regional conflict. Though Armenia and Azerbaijan agreed to a Russia-mediated ceasefire last week after days of fighting, the truce crumbled immediately amid a blame game. Whatever the truth is, an emboldened Azerbaijan, backed by Turkey, seems determined to press ahead with its offensive. The conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh is decades old. The region, largely populated by ethnic Armenians, is located within the international boundaries of Azerbaijan. Under the Soviet Union, it was an autonomous province that was part of the Azerbaijan republic. In 1988, when the Soviet power was receding, the regional assembly in Nagorno-Karabakh voted to join Armenia, triggering ethnic clashes. After the Soviet disintegration in 1991, Armenia and Azerbaijan went to war over this largely mountainous, forested enclave. By the time a ceasefire was reached in 1994, the rebels, with support from Armenia and Russia, had established their de facto rule and extended their influence to the Armenian border. Ever since, the border has remained tense. What makes the clashes now far more dangerous is the external intervention. Turkey has called Armenia a threat to peace in the region; the Azeris and Turks share ethnic and linguistic bonds. Also, the pre-Soviet Azerbaijan was a local ally of the Ottomans when they invaded Transcaucasia in the last leg of World War I. For Turkey, which, under President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, is trying to expand its geopolitical reach to the former Ottoman regions, the conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh is an opportunity to enter the South Caucasus. Turkey also has a particularly bad relationship with Armenia. But its problem is that Armenia is a member of the Russia-led Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO). Russia enjoys good economic and defence ties with both Armenia and Azerbaijan. But Armenia, as a CSTO member and host to a Russian military base, has more weight. In a wider conflict, Armenia could trigger Article 4 of the CSTO treaty and ask for Russian help. And if Moscow responds favourably, that would pit Russia against Turkey, a NATO member. Russia, already involved in military conflicts in Syria, Ukraine and Libya, may not like opening another front. That is why it has re-emphasised its neutrality and hosted talks in Moscow for a truce. But it will be forced to take sides if the conflict spills into Armenia. Both sides should understand the volatile situation and call off the hostilities. Nagorno-Karabakh has in the past witnessed large-scale ethnic violence. Instead of risking a regional war, Azerbaijan, Armenia and the Karabakh rebels should go back to the ceasefire and open up diplomatic channels.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Ireland (From an Editorial)||The problem of Ireland is intensifying to an acute, desperate stage. Sinn Fein is as busy as ever with its two-fold method of organising republican institutions and of waging a guerilla warfare on the agents of Government. Amazing success still attends its moves and the movement reveals no sign of break-down, hesitancy or perturbation. On the side of Government, however, the trend of events seems to cause a self-blinding panic. Chafing at the uncontrollable triumph of Sinn Fein, and lacking courage to take the only remedy suggested by the logic of the situation, the Government have decided on a policy of reprisals, tooth for tooth, nail for nail. Murders and loots from the Sinn Fein side are answered with loots and murders by the Government police; the insurgents reply with counter-reprisals and provoke Government afresh; and the chain of bloodshed and anarchy thus lengthens out to an unforeseeable end. The Government’s drift into such a policy has already been the subject of severe comment, but Mr. Lloyd George appears to think it all perfectly right.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Chances of accord on Cauvery remote||The chances of an accord on the Cauvery waters dispute, principally between Mysore and Tamil Nadu, at the next inter-State conference in Madras on October 27, are considered difficult in view of the basic differences in the approach of the two States. This was the assessment of knowledgeable people after yesterday’s inter-State talks in New Delhi. Tamil Nadu swears by the 1924 agreement on sharing the waters. Mysore, without repudiating that agreement, has reservations on its application to Mysore following reorganisation of States in 1956. The Mysore Chief Minister, Mr. Veerendra Patil, who returned today [October 13], is understood to have done some “plain-speaking” at the Delhi talks about the Centre’s attitude all these years to the dispute. On a number of previous occasions, Mr. Patil has criticised the Centre for not adopting a helpful attitude towards Mysore’s rights under the 1924 agreement, even as the Government of India had been reportedly insisting on Mysore to keep to the “limit flows” theory. This, it is pointed out here [Bangalore], took away Mysore’s rights to utilise its share of 45 t.m.cft. of the Cauvery waters.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Centre may provide further stimulus’||The government could announce more relief and stimulus measures to pump-prime the economy in the months to come, with senior government sources stressing that the mini-stimulus package announced on Monday did not mean that the Centre had closed the option for more steps going forward. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced a package on Monday to spur consumer demand and capital spending, with estimated benefits in the range of Rs. 73,000 crore to Rs. 1 lakh crore. The package, estimated to have a fiscal cost of 0.2% of GDP, includes incentives for government employees and formal sector employees to buy consumer goods and other services by using cash vouchers linked to their leave travel allowances. “We are not saying that this is the last stimulus package that we are offering to counter the pandemic’s effects on the economy,” a senior government source said, in response to queries if any further measures could be expected to boost consumer demand in the upcoming festive season. “All options are still open… we have several ideas on the table from the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, the NITI Aayog, corporate India. We are open to ideas from anybody,” the official said. ‘Vodafone appeal’ The government is yet to take a final call on moving an appeal against Vodafone’s victory in an arbitration over a long-pending tax dispute that involved a retrospective amendment to the country’s tax laws. “We are not in favour of retrospective taxation amendments, but we also don’t believe that a tax claim can be invoked under a bilateral investment protection pact (BIPA),” another senior government source said. “How can the sovereign right of a country to raise taxes be part of a bilateral investment pact… Those are only supposed to protect investments made by either country's firms into each other’s markets. BIPAs are about protecting investments, not avoiding taxes,” the person said, requesting anonymity owing to the sensitivity of the matter. The merits and demerits of filing an appeal against last month’s arbitration award to Vodafone are still being evaluated, the source said. One option being considered is that no appeal may be filed in this particular case, but India’s right to tax will be asserted in an appropriate manner to pre-empt such incidences in the future.  We are not saying that this is the last stimulus package that we are offering
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID-19-specific health policies to get longer run||Insurance regulator IRDAI has allowed renewal, migration and portability of standard COVID-19 specific health policies Corona Kavach and Corona Rakshak. Giving insurers, and by extension policyholders, the choice to renew, migrate and port the policies, the regulator said Corona Kavach and Corona Rakshak of any tenure can be renewed for further terms of 3.5 months, 6.5 months or 9.5 months. The policies can be renewed till March 31 and the renewal has to be done before expiry of the existing contract for ensuring coverage is continued seamlessly. The regulator also advised insurers against imposing additional waiting period of 15 days on renewal. At the time of renewal, policyholders can change the sum insured, but there will be a waiting period for the enhanced portion. IRDAI said insurers can migrate Corona Kavach individual policies to any other indemnity based health insurance product as desired by the policyholder. In case of Corona Kavach Group policies, it gave insurers a choice to provide migration to any other individual indemnity based health policy at the point of exit from the group policy or cessation of coverage of the underlying group policy. Gurdeep Singh Batra, head, Retail Underwriting at Bajaj Allianz General Insurance said the norms on renewal, portability and migration were “a welcome move as the COVID-19 vaccine is yet to come out.”
14 October 2020||MUMBAI,||EV maker Ather to set up 135 charging stations||As part of its plans to provide fast-charging infrastructure for electric vehicle (EV) adoption in the country, EV manufacturer Ather Energy has announced it would set up charging stations at an additional 135 locations in 11 cities by December 2020. The infrastructure is being laid by Ather Grid, which has created charging facilities in Bengaluru and Chennai. Now, fast-charging stations will be set up in nine new markets besides these two, the firm said. Ather Energy has 37 fast-charging stations in Bengaluru and 13 in Chennai, and now the total would be 150 charging stations across India, the company added. The installation of grid points will begin before deliveries of its e-scooter Ather 450X in November 2020, it said. Ather Grid fast-charging network can be used by all electric two-wheelers and electric four-wheelers. As part of Phase 1 of the rapid expansion, the company will install about 5-10 fast-charging points before delivery in each of the new markets it will expand to.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre allows additional borrowing by 20 States||A day after the GST Council failed to arrive at a consensus on the mode of borrowings to meet compensation shortfalls facing the States, the Finance Ministry permitted 20 States, including Maharashtra, to raise Rs. 68,825 crore through open market borrowings. These 20 States, the expenditure department said, had conveyed their acceptance of the first borrowing option offered by the Centre to meet GST compensation shortfalls. Under this, States could borrow Rs. 1.1 lakh crore from the market with principal and interest payments to be paid out of GST cess collections whose levy has been extended beyond 2022. While all BJP-ruled States had acceded to this option, several opposition-ruled States had sought that the Centre borrow from the market and pay them. Maharashtra’s Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government is the first to break ranks with the Opposition in opting for the market borrowing, and has been permitted to raise Rs. 15,394 crore, the highest among these 20 States. Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala, Chhatisgarh, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Punjab and Delhi are yet to communicate their choice.
14 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Wipro net dips 3%, to buy back Rs. 9,500-cr of shares||IT services firm Wipro Ltd. on Tuesday announced a share buy-back proposal worth Rs. 9,500 crore even as the second-quarter net profit dipped 3% to Rs. 2,484 crore on higher taxation and lower other income. The company has fixed the buy-back price at Rs. 400 an equity share, Wipro said. This is the firm’s fourth buy-back exercise, the previous occasions being 2019 ($1.7 billion), 2017 (Rs. 11,000 crore) and 2016 (Rs. 2,500 crore).  “The net profit is lower owing to a higher effective tax rate and lower other income as we completed a large buy-back in September,’’ said CFO Jatin Dalal. Meanwhile, consolidated revenue dipped 0.1% to Rs. 15,115 crore from the year-earlier period. The consolidated IT services revenue stood at Rs. 14,768 crore. “Wipro had a good quarter with growth [q-o-q] in revenue, expansion of margins, lower employee turnover and solid growth of operating cash flows,” said CEO Thierry Delaporte. The revenue growth of 3.7% in reported terms and 2% in constant currency terms was broad-based and led by a robust pick up in volumes, he added. ‘IOT, 5G to drive wave’ He further said, “The context for our customers has changed enormously through the pandemic. “While the traditional IT services will continue to be essential, the next big wave of opportunity will be driven by next generation services of cloud, digital transformation, IOT and 5G.’’  Wipro has set its priorities as gowth, sales, offerings, talent and simplification of operating model. Wipro expects revenue from its IT services business to be in the range of $2,022 million to $2,062 million. This would mean a sequential growth of 1.5% to 3.5%. Wipro also said it would hand out promotions to high performers in December. Some 80% of the staff would be covered under this year’s promotion plan. Firm to buy Eximius Wipro has also entered into a definitive agreement to acquire U.S.-based Eximius Design, an engineering services company with expertise in semiconductor, software and systems design, for $80 million. Wipro has made three small acquisitions after Mr. Delaporte took over in July. “We want to play a key role in M&As. We will be active and do acquisitions in areas that we consider as strategic and size will not be a limit for us,” he said. “Wipro’s revenue, though not stellar, are strong given the present circumstances,” said Hansa Iyengar, senior analyst, Ovum, a U.K.-based research firm. “Wipro needs to continue sharpening its focus on the services and technologies that can carry it through the next decade and beyond namely IoT, 5G/Edge, AI/ML and cybersecurity,” she added.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Work-from-home spurs Espon India printer sales||Printer maker Epson India has reported a surge in sales during the second quarter of FY21, triggered by high demand for its EcoTank printers from work-from-home (WFH) and e-learning consumers, said a senior official. “After witnessing a decline in the first quarter sales due to COVID-19 and stoppage of billing from March 15, we are seeing fast recovery,” said Siva Kumar, senior general manager, inkjet printers, Epson India said in an interview. “The demand is coming from WFH consumers and e-learning segments,” he said. “In the April to June quarter, we sold 53% of last year’s volume, while it rose to almost 90% in the second quarter. The recovery in the second half will be greater than last year due to continued demand and stabilisation of supply chain,” he said. According to him, home consumers preferred high-capacity ink-tank inkjet printers (now known as EcoTank printers) due to high yields and low cost.
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||SIP inflows drop for sixth month in September||Investments in mutual funds via SIPs dropped for the sixth consecutive month to Rs. 7,788 crore in September, in a challenging economic environment. The trend is expected to reverse only gradually after investors gain confidence once their own incomes stabilise, said Primeinvestor.in co-founder Vidya Bala. However, the industry added 7.37 lakh folios last month compared with 4.5 lakh in August, data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India showed. Funds via SIPs last month compare with the Rs. 7,791 crore garnered in August. Investments in September 2020 hit the lowest since September 2018, when fund collection through the route stood at Rs. 7,727 crore. “Investments via SIPs have dropped because investors want to maintain some liquidity at their end at present as the situation is uncertain when it comes to their jobs and businesses,” said Harshad Chetanwala of MywealthGrowth.com. Ms. Bala said SIP inflows were lacklustre as many retail investors stopped SIPs in the lockdown. With markets at a high, those who stopped hesitate to start now, expecting correction.  With many retail investors pausing SIPs during the lockdown, inflows stayed lacklustre Vidya BalaCo-founder, Primeinvestor.in
14 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Vimal Agro to tap more local, global markets||Processed food manufacturer Vimal Agro Products plans to tap more domestic and global markets to further grow the range of products under the SWAD brand, especially its mango pulp range for mango lassi. The company has been catering to the Indian food needs of customers for over three decades. While it has started looking for more export markets, in the domestic market, it is expanding its retail-distribution presence to boost volumes, a top executive said. “We shall continue to augment our range and enhance products to satisfy an ever-increasing demand, said Subhashchandra Nemani, chairman.
14 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Sterling Group buys PC firm iLife Digital||U.S.-based private equity firm Sterling Group has announced the acquisition of iLife Digital Technology, a personal computer manufacturer, for an undisclosed sum. Sterling Group said the move would help iLife Digital accelerate growth. Based in Dubai, iLife Digital plans to enter new channels such as large format retailers, dealers and the enterprise segment with prime focus on the growing education sector. “With a rapid spread of COVID-19, there has been a surge in consumers buying devices to work-from-home. Hence, partnering Sterling was a strategic move,” said Anees Mian, co-founder, iLife Digital.
14 October 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Keeping it simple has worked: Washington||Washington Sundar has stifled batsmen at this IPL. He has an economy rate of 4.9, after sending down 22 overs of off-spin in seven matches. He may have taken only five wickets so far, but he has done his bit in Royal Challengers Bangalore’s rise to the third spot at the half-way mark. In the 82-run victory against Kolkata Knight Riders on Monday, he took two wickets, including that of the dangerous Eoin Morgan. After the match, the 21-year-old revealed the reason why he had been so good. “I have just wanted to keep things simple and hit the hard length,” he said. “That is something that has worked for me this season. I didn’t want to try too many things because we were playing in Sharjah.” Washington said the team management felt the spinners would get assistance from the wickets in the UAE. About Sharjah, he said: “The wicket slowed down a bit. We felt it would before the start of the game.” Stunning knock He added that the stunning knock of A.B. de Villiers made all the difference against KKR, when RCB was thinking a score of 160 would be very good. But the South African’s 73 not out (33b) gave the team much more. “The way he batted any (bigger) ground would not have made the difference,” said Washington.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Chennai Super Kings’ bid to get campaign back on track begins well||Chennai Super Kings, batting first for the first time in the tournament, scored 167 for six against Sunrisers Hyderabad at the Dubai International Stadium on Tuesday. The highlight of the innings was the 81-run stand between Shane Watson (42) and Ambati Rayudu (41) for the third wicket before M.S. Dhoni and Ravindra Jadeja gave it the final push. With just two wins in seven matches, the Super Kings, after winning the toss, promoted Sam Curran to open the innings. Paying off The move paid dividends as the England all-rounder sparkled with a 21-ball 31 (2x4, 3x6). Curran, who had most of the strike in the first two overs, initially struggled with his timing, especially against Sandeep Sharma. In the fourth over of the innings, Curran freed his arms, pulling Khaleel Ahmed for two boundaries and also smashed two sixes down the ground, punishing the bowler who pitched short regularly. Sandeep, at the other end, was miserly and accurate for Sunrisers in the PowerPlay overs. He removed Faf du Plessis for a golden duck, having the South African caught behind by wicketkeeper Jonny Bairstow. Sandeep then pegged back Curran’s middle-stump, bowling around the wicket and making the delivery hold its line. Watson and Rayudu rebuilt the innings, being circumspect against Rashid Khan and Shahbaz Nadeem initially. Getting lucky After making 44 in the first six overs, Super Kings failed to maintain the tempo as only 15 runs came off the next four overs. The two batsmen were lucky too as they were dropped when on nine and 20 respectively. While Bairstow dropped Rayudu off Nadeem, Rashid could not hold on to a caught and bowled chance offered by Watson. Attacking Rashid Watson and Rayudu looked like they would make the Sunrisers pay for the lapses as they waded into Rashid in the leg-spinner’s final two overs. Watson slammed two sixes down the ground while Rayudu slog-swept him over midwicket for the maximum. With the scorecard reading 116 for two after the 15th over, the two looked all set to move up a gear. However, both Rayudu and Watson, in that order, mistimed full tosses from Khaleel and T. Natarajan, hitting the ball straight to the long-off fielder off successive overs. Dhoni’s 13-ball 21 (2x4, 1x6) and Jadeja’s unbeaten 25 (10b, 3x4, 1x6) helped Super Kings regain the momentum in the final overs as the final five overs produced 51. However, Super Kings would rue the fact that their key batsmen, including Dhoni, fell tamely to full tosses and fell a little short of what they would have liked to finish with. The Chennai side would be happy with the fact that it chose an extra bowler Piyush Chawla instead of batsman N. Jagadeesan.   Sunrisers 109 for four  Sunrisers were 109 for four in 16 overs, with Williamson (47) and Vijay Shankar (5) at the crease. Warner (9), Manish (4), Bairstow (23) and Garg (16) were the batsmen dismissed
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Lessons from the master for India’s talented youngsters||It’s always interesting when an expert slips out of his ‘professional’ garb and allows a child-like excitement to infiltrate his comments. Such a moment occurred when the great Sunil Gavaskar, in the midst of the artificial enthusiasms all around at the IPL, spontaneously exclaimed while watching A.B. de Villiers strike a six: “Look at his follow-through! Look at the way his bat finishes above his left shoulder!” The six was arresting enough, but what caught Gavaskar’s fancy was the technical purity of the shot. Cricket has always had an element of the Gita about it: the batsman’s job is to do his duty (by getting everything right) and leave the result to take care of itself. If you play correctly but no run is added to the score, that’s a part of the game. If your feet and hands and head and body mimic the textbook and you score six, then that is perfection. You are hailed both for the process and the product, and there can be no higher praise. Definition of perfection Such moments do not come often in a T20 game where the definition of perfection is different: perfection in batting is a six, or a score of 720 off the 120 deliveries bowled. It doesn’t matter if that six comes off the edge of the bat, when an attempted on-drive sees the ball end up at third man, or, as in the case of a Virat Kohli special recently, comes off the back of the bat. The ends justify the means. Looking good is not an option when scoring fast is the alternative. Two batsmen, Kohli and K.L. Rahul, look good while scoring runs, but already there is a debate about whether Rahul, the highest aggregate scorer (as of Oct. 12), is doing it quickly enough. Another quirk For this is another quirk of the format. You work backwards from the result to decide whether an innings is good or not. This is a departure from the old thinking where an innings stood by itself regardless of the result. Batsmen sometimes prided themselves on a lotus-like approach, their innings blossoming above the mess the rest of the team might make. A chanceless century in a lost cause is lauded in First Class cricket; in T20 it brings out the critic in even the casual viewer. Rahul might have made a century and three 50s in seven games at a strike rate of 135, but his team Kings XI Punjab are struggling at the bottom. Such is the cruelty of the game. He and Kohli are probably the two players least drawn to what might be considered ‘ugly’ strokes. It doesn’t matter. Was the match won or lost? That is the only question T20 asks. Everything else is a bonus. A.B. de Villiers’ unbeaten 73 off 33 balls (strike rate 221) must count as the innings of the tournament so far, and a wonderful lesson in adapting to surfaces for youngsters whether playing or watching. Sharjah was slow, and batsmen who went out to meet the ball, as Kohli discovered, often ended up in a tangle. de Villiers let the ball come on to him, and seemed to have all the time in the world to send it screeching or soaring to any part of the ground. Putting it in context One of the problems with traditional cricket statistics is that they don’t give us the context. Newer methods place de Villiers’ effort in perspective. His strike rate was more than twice that of the batsmen in either team combined. He even made Kohli look out of sorts, causing his skipper to cheer when an edge ran down for his only boundary. At the halfway stage of the league phase, even if some franchises haven’t done too well, India have done well. A generation of young batsmen, bowlers and wicketkeepers is being honed to perform at the international level. This was high on the organisers’ wish list when the tournament was being sold to the public in its inaugural year. It was put about that the IPL would ensure India had ready-made players for international white ball tournaments, maybe even Test cricket. The next T20 World Cup is in India about a year from now, and it is sobering to realise that India haven’t won the tournament since 2007 when they surprised the world (and themselves) by winning at first attempt. Talented youngsters with confidence and style like Shubman Gill, Devdutt Padikkal, Ravi Bishnoi, Priyam Garg, Ishan Kishan, Riyan Parag, T. Natarajan, Kamlesh Nagarkoti — many born in this century — can add their names to those who have been around for a while and push for selection. It is a good place for India to be in.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||My role changes frequently in IPL, says Maxwell||Australia’s Glenn Maxwell has attributed his inconsistent run in the IPL over eight seasons to frequent changes in his role, something that is very clear to him when playing for his country. The 31-year-old Kings XI Punjab (KXIP) batsman came to the IPL on the back of a successful tour of England. Speaking to PTI from Dubai, the Maxwell explained why he has realised his potential while playing for Australia and the reason for his inconsistent run in the IPL. “I probably would not compare IPL and Australia career. The way I have played international cricket, it has been more of a clearer role. I know exactly how the guys will bat around me,” he said. Maxwell has scored 58 runs at 14.50 in seven games so far.  “My role in IPL changes probably for most games. In IPL, teams change their sides a lot. In the Australian set-up, we have the same eleven for most of the games” said Maxwell. Support He is batting at No. 5 for KXIP this season and said his role is to support the top-four. “When you are only together for two months in the year with IPL, there is going to be chopping and changing. You are always looking for that right team balance. We feel we are getting closer to that (team balance). I have have had different experiences (in the IPL) where I have not quite performed to the level people expect but there has been no lack of trying or putting the effort in training.”  With the top-four facing most of the balls, Maxwell feels he has not got enough time in the middle to make an impact. On the bowling front, he has got the opportunity to roll his arm over only thrice in seven games “This year has been a different role (batting at five) and I am trying to get used to it. I would like to think that I have tried to do my role as well as I can.”  Would he want to bat higher up the order? “With the way the team is set up, there is no position there for me. My role at the moment is to put the icing on the cake and help our guys in the top four.”   My role at the moment is to put the icing on the cake and help our guys in the top four
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Knight Riders cave in meekly||A.B. de Villiers’ blistering unbeaten 73 (33b, 5x4, 6x6) and a superb bowling performance powered RCB to an 82-run victory over KKR on Monday. Chasing a target of 195, KKR would have appreciated a solid start from Shubman Gill and Tom Banton, who was making his IPL debut. It didn’t prove a particularly memorable beginning for the highly rated 21-year-old who was bowled by a Navdeep Saini delivery clocked at 148.1kmph. Nitish Rana was then beaten and castled in his attempt to slog-sweep the impressive Washington Sundar. Watching all this from the other end was Gill (34, 25b, 3x4, 1x6). He was dropped on 31, but failed to capitalise on it; he was run out. Udana gets Russell Only a series of mighty sixes from Andre Russell could have revived KKR’s hopes, but he only managed one before holing out to extra cover off Isuru Udana.   69 for five  KKR was 69 for five in 12 overs, with Russell (1) and Tripathi (4). Banton (8), Rana (9), Gill (34), Karthik (1) and Morgan (8) were out
14 October 2020||KOLKATA,||Md. Sporting files police complaint against Law||A day after terminating head coach Yan Law’s contract, Mohammedan Sporting club filed a police complaint against him for colluding with Ranjit Bajaj of Minerva Academy to indulge in anti-club activities. The three page complaint listed a number of offences against Law and Bajaj. The complaint, signed by the Mohammedan Sporting secretary Sk. Wasim Akram, requested the relevant police authority to “register an FIR” against the duo for “the offence of criminal intimidation, conspiracy, promoting enmity between different groups on the grounds of place of residence, language etc, and doing acts prejudicial to maintaining harmony…” The complaint came after Bajaj threatened to file a “defamation case and FIR” against Akram and Dipendu Biswas, a former player, who is also a serving MLA of the ruling Trinamool Congress. In an effort to substantiate its allegations, the club said that Law disregarded the club management and selected his own team at the behest of his former employer Bajaj. The latter was staying at the same hotel where all the teams playing the I-League qualifiers are accommodated in a bio-secure atmosphere. Sporting’s complaint also alleges match-fixing, saying that Law shared information about the playing eleven and team strategies with Bajaj,.
14 October 2020||KOLKATA,||Odisha Government to sponsor National rugby teams||The Indian Rugby Football Union (IRFU) has roped in the Odisha Government as its sponsor till 2023, paving the way for the National rugby players to get paid for their services. The sponsorship will be extended towards training, conditioning and incentivising the Indian rugby teams (men and women) participating in international events, said a statement from the Odisha government following the signing of an agreement in Bhubaneswar on Tuesday. International player Rahul Bose welcomed the development. “This is a historic day for Indian rugby. Thanks to this sponsorship, National rugby players (women and men) will, for the first time ever, be paid for their services to the Indian teams,” said Bose. Odisha Sports Minister Tusharkanti Behera said the partnership would not only develop the sport, “but also support and strengthen high performance training of Indian National rugby teams.” Odisha is also sponsoring the National hockey teams.  This is a historic day for Indian rugby. Thanks to this sponsorship, National rugby players will, for the first time ever, be paid for their services Rahul Bose International player
14 October 2020||KOLKATA,||de Villiers made the difference: Karthik||A.B. de Villers’ belligerent unbeaten knock of 73 off just 33 balls for Royal Challengers Bangalore made the difference at Sharjah on Monday, said Kolkata Knight Riders captain Dinesh Karthik.  “Sometimes he (AB) is a really hard batsman to bowl to because of the way he moves around the crease. “But today he stood still and made sure that he cleared his left leg and got a lot of balls outside the ground. “It was not that easy to bowl to him, but kudos to him for the way he batted,” said Karthik at the post-match press conference. “de Villiers showed why he is a very good player. To come out and score 80 runs off the (last) five overs is not easy, but he made it look much easier than it was,” said Karthik. Karthik defended the decision to play Englishman Tom Banton as opener, replacing the ‘versatile’ Rahul Tripathi. “That's where Banton is best at. He has opened in international cricket and done well,” said Karthik.
14 October 2020||Dubai,||Royals eye revenge against Capitals||Rajasthan Royals will hope for a stronger show from its slightly off-colour top-order when it tries to settle scores against second-placed Delhi Capitals in their return leg match here on Wednesday. The Capitals had beaten Royals by 46 runs last week. Even though England all-rounder Ben Stokes did not set the stage on fire in his first game, his presence inspired Royals to snap a four-match losing streak with a five-wicket win over Sunrisers Hyderabad. While Stokes will be an important cog, the team will also have to fix its top-order which has been short of runs in the last five games. Jos Buttler produced a superb 44-ball 70 against Mumbai Indians but didn’t capitalise on the starts in the last two matches. Skipper Steve Smith and Sanju Samson have been off-colour. In fact, if it wasn’t for Rahul Tewatia, the Royals would still be in the dumps. Capitals were brought down by Mumbai Indians in their last game and Shreyas Iyer’s men will look to shrug off the odd defeat. Capitals’ Kagiso Rabada has the most wickets (17) this season. He has been supported well by fellow South African pacer Anrich Nortje (8 wickets) and Harshal Patel. Ravichandran Ashwin and Axar Patel have also done well to suffocate the opposition. Jofra Archer has led Royals’ bowling with good suppoert from the spin duo of Tewatia and Shreyas Gopal.
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||Come back, game needs you — Shastri to AB||India coach Ravi Shastri on Tuesday urged South African batsman A.B. de Villiers to come out of international retirement. The 36-year-old, who ended his international career two years ago, smashed six 6s in a 33-ball blitz in Sharjah on Monday. ‘Super human’ Accolades poured in for the former Proteas captain, with RCB skipper Virat Kohli calling his teammate “super-human”. “What one saw last night was unreal,” Shastri wrote on Twitter. In a direct plea to de Villiers, Shastri added: “The game in these trying times or otherwise needs you back in the international arena and out of retirement. The game will be better off.” High strike rate His IPL form — three half-centuries and a strike rate of over 185 in seven games — has added to talk of a comeback. Earlier this year, de Villiers hinted he may return for the T20 World Cup, scheduled to be held this year, that was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic.  What one saw last night was unreal Ravi Shastri Referring to deVilliers’ knock
14 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Wellness programme for football coaches||The Association of Indian Football Coaches (AIFC) and the Heartfulness Education Trust of Hyderabad have signed a Memorandum of Understanding to conduct an online coaches welfare programme across India from Wednesday. The course is aimed at helping coaches at grassroots and elite level and also physical education teachers and all Indian football stakeholders. The programme introduces coaches to simple practices of relaxation, meditation and rejuvenation. The programme also touches on communication, leadership, resilience, winning trust, inspiration, empathy, compassion, etc Kamlesh Patel, guide of the Institute, said. AIFC founder and director Dinesh Nair said the programme would promote holistic development, which includes mental well-being of the coach.
14 October 2020||CHENNAI,||SFI-Moregold Sports link to boost swimming||The Swimming Federation of India on Tuesday announced a multi-year partnership with Moregold Sports, an Australian sports education and consultancy company, to develop a world-class Swim Coach Education, Development and Certification Pathway for India. “SFI: CEDCP will be the cornerstone in revolutionising how competitive swim coaching is delivered in India. This is one of the key elements in the road map SFI has charted for the development of competitive swimming in India,” said R.N. Jayaprakash, president SFI, during a webinar to announce the partnership. According to Virendra Nanavati, executive director SFI, the project has also received approval and financial grant from FINA under the OASP support to NSF’s. Nanavati also added that national competitions might not resume for another four to five months due to the pandemic. In its recent guidelines, the Ministry of Home Affairs announced that pools can be reopened for training purposes for use by sportspersons by October 15. “It will not be possible to conduct competitions if all the states do not allow the reopening of pools. Pools are maintained by State governments and clubs. On October 15, not all pools might open, so we need to wait for four to five months,” Nanavati said.
14 October 2020||Dubai,||Gayle may play vs. RCB||Senior Kings XI Punjab batsman Chris Gayle is likely to play his first game of IPL 2020 on Thursday after recovering from food poisoning. The ‘Universe Boss’ had even posted a photo on social media from his hospital bed. KXIP posted photos of Gayle returning to the nets on Monday. “He is fine now and it is likely that he will be playing the game against RCB (on Thursday),” a team source said. The game is at Sharjah, the smallest among the three venues and ideal for someone like Gayle to go on a six-hitting spree. With the team having a set opening pair in Mayank Agarwal and K.L. Rahul, Gayle has sat on the sidelines so far. After six losses from seven games, KXIP needs to produce something special in the second half of the tournament.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||SAI, NRAI make elaborate arrangements for camp||The National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) and the Sports Authority of India (SAI) have made elaborate arrangements for the safety of the core group of shooters for the training camp, scheduled at the Dr. Karni Singh Range from October 15 to December 17. As per the plan, the shooters are scheduled to assemble at the hotel on Oct. 15 and there will be a COVID-19 test the next day. The shooters, coaches and support staff will stay in quarantine at the hotel for a week and undergo the test once again before moving to the range for training. Adherence to SOP NRAI and SAI will share the responsibility of ensuring the strict adherence to the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP). “The responsibility for maintaining the shooting range lies with the Administrator of the range. To maintain safety, zoning of premises by nature of risk category to minimise the contact between campers and range personnel has been planned into green, orange, yellow and red zones,” SAI said in a media release. It was also further stressed that NRAI would make arrangements for stay for all the campers and SAI would provide support “as per existing norms”. The responsibility of the campers at the range will be with SAI, while NRAI will be responsible when they are out of the range. Alternate option For the campers in the Delhi NCR, there is an option to self-isolate at home for quarantine. However, it is understood that the coaches prefer their shooters to stay in the hotel even during the quarantine period.  Rifle coach Deepali Deshpande said there would be a healthy routine during the quarantine week, with zoom sessions, so that the shooters are ready for training. “Steps are in place for the shooters to perform in a safe and comfortable environment,” NRAI secretary Rajiv Bhatia said in the statement. Foreign coaches Pavel Smirnov and Oleg Mikhailov would also be joining the camp in due course. Meanwhile, there was doubt about the availability of some of the shooters selected for the core group training, owing to college examinations other commitments and concerns.
14 October 2020||KOLKATA,||EB gets Neville on loan||East Bengal announced the signing of experienced A-League defender Scott Neville on a season-long loan from Brisbane Roar ahead of the upcoming Indian Super League season. The 31-year-old Neville brings in substantial experience of having played 12 consecutive seasons in the A-League with 200 plus matches and also featured for the Australia U-23 team. In the 2019-20 season, Neville featured in most of the matches for Brisbane Roar, where his current East Bengal coach Robbie Fowler was at the helm and helped it to a fourth-place finish in the A-League.
14 October 2020||Wayanad:,||Sravan wins||Sravan Renjith of Kottayam won the Wayanad leg of the qualifying round for the all-Kerala Open chess championship here on Tuesday. Sravan logged eight points for the first prize. E.M. Akhilah (Tvm) and Arpith S.Bijoy (Knr) finished second and third respectively. Ten players from Wayand district qualified for the mega finals.  Final standings: 1. Sravan Renjith (Ktm 8 points), 2. E.M. Akhilan (Tvm 8), 3. Arpith S.Bijoy (Knr 8), 4. Vishnu Surendran (Ekm 7.5), 5. P.B. Adarsh (Ekm 7.5), 6. C. Sameer (Mlp 7), 7. O.T. Anilkumar (Koz 7), 8. P.B. Sanoop (Ekm 7), 9. John Veni Akkarakaran (Koz 7), 10. Gagan Bhardwaj (Ksgd 7).   Players selected for mega finals: 1. Jinan Jomon (7), 2. V.R. Santosh (7), 3. V.S. Abhinav Raj (7), 4. C.G. Theertha (6.5), 5. Rohan Ebi (6), 6. M.S. Abel (6), 7. Sreerag Padman (6), 8. P.S. Vineesh (6), 9. C.G. Vishnu (6), 10. Allen Varghese (6) .
14 October 2020||Sardinia (Italy),||Sumit Nagal bows out in first round||Laslo Djere of Serbia defeated qualifier Sumit Nagal of India 6-3, 6-1 in the first round of the €271,345 ATP tennis tournament here on Tuesday. Nagal won two rounds in the qualifying event, which fetched him 12 ATP points. In the Challenger at Alicante, Spain, Ramkumar Ramanathan lost to Carlos Alcaraz of Spain.  The results (first round):   €271,345 ATP, Sardinia: Laslo Djere (Srb) bt Sumit Nagal 6-3, 6-1. €44,820 Challenger, Alicante: Carlos Alcaraz (Esp) bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 7-6(4), 7-6(3) .
14 October 2020||Lisbon,||Ronaldo tests positive for COVID-19||Cristiano Ronaldo has tested positive for the coronavirus and is in self-isolation, the Portuguese soccer federation said on Tuesday. The federation said Ronaldo was doing well and had no symptoms. It did not say when he tested positive. Ronaldo played in the 0-0 draw at France in the Nations League on Sunday, and in the 0-0 draw against Spain in a friendly last week. Ronaldo was dropped from the country’s Nations League match against Sweden on Wednesday. The federation said Ronaldo’s result prompted another round of tests for the rest of the Portugal squad. It said everyone else in the team tested negative.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Ineffable is His Maya||The story of Markandeya is told in the twelfth Skanda of the Bhagavata Purana. This sage is noted for his austere tapas and for his extraordinary devotion by which he has transcended death. Once, he does penance to have vision of the Lord. Owing to the spiritual power he gains by such penance, the Lord is pleased and appears before him in the form of Nara and Narayana. When the Lord offers him boons, the sage wishes to have the vision of the Supreme Lord during Pralaya. God grants him this desire but the sage has to wait patiently and all alone in his hermitage through the entire length of the Pralaya for this revelation. The first verse ‘Kararavindena Mukaravindam’ in the hymn Bala Mukundashtakam captures the vision that is revealed to the sage very precisely. But more than that, one is able to share the sage’s experience of the Lord’s Yogamaya which the wonderful and symbolic visualisation evokes, says Sri B. Sundarkumar in a discourse. It is the picture of the Lord as an infant lying on the banyan leaf, holding his foot in His mouth as if sucking His thumb. The sage goes near the child to make enquiries. At once, as the child breathes, and the sage is inhaled into its body. Inside the child’s body the sage once again sees the sky, horizon, the stars, and constellations, mountains and seas, cities and countries, forests and fields. He sees all aspects of creation shining as real in broad daylight. He even sees his own hermitage and the rishis in the Himalayas. As he looks amazed, he finds himself outside when the child exhales. The sage falls back into the ocean of deluge. He once again sees the banyan tree with the child lying on its leaf with bewitching smiles. As the sage goes near the child, the whole vision disappears from his eyesight.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 07:59 IST,||Sudoku - October 14, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Paradise on water||A bag of rice, dal, few potatoes and onions, a small bottle of oil, some green chillies, a portable cylinder-cum-burner, a safety kit, a few kitchen tools, torch lights and a change of clothes. Not to forget, a good stock of fresh, wild elephant apples. These were the things Rishan Doley, 30, and Shekhar Bordoloi, 26, packed and loaded on to their handmade raft, and set sail on a unique journey. The two friends and adventure sports enthusiasts travelled from Majuli in Assam, the world’s biggest river island (880 square kilometres), to the smallest inhabited river islet in Brahmaputra-Umananda in Guwahati. It is also home to the endangered primate species, the Golden Langur. The journey — a distance of 400 kilometres — took them eight days and gave them innumerable visuals and unforgettable experiences. Imagine wild elephants, water buffaloes and deer giving a lazy stare as you raft on a swelling river. Rishan, who is a mountaineer, travel guide with Incredible India and Nature camp guide in Majuli, says, “Words fall short to express the beauty and the experience we had. When we set sail we didn’t know what to expect. A few hours into the journey our excitement was unbound.” Shekhar, also a mountaineering and adventure coach, is from Nagaon and settled in Guwahati. The duo met some years ago at a mountaineering camp and hit it off immediately. With Shekhar’s knowledge of rivers and rafting (he grew up on the river banks of Majuli), the duo had decided on this journey many years ago, but were not able to execute it due to their busy professional lives. Shekhar says, “So when the lockdown hit us and all our regular work came to a standstill, we revived our Majuli-Umananda plan. The first step was to look for sponsors and start the paperwork and permissions from the Inland Waterways Authority of India.” Soaking up sights Then, they concentrated on building a raft. They selected local species of bamboo called jati and mukal . The raft was mostly built by Rishan with the help of a craftsman in Jorhat, says Shekhar. The raft has a little hut for the two to take shelter while the rest of it is open. “We had a makeshift roof for the open space when it rained. We didn’t mind the rain as it made the mighty Brahmaputra look even more handsome. Once we crossed the Dipholu river (a rivulet that originates from Assam’s Karbi Anglong hills and flows through Kaziranga), we decided to touch land as we couldn’t bear to move along without stopping to experience its exquisite beauty. Virgin lands with just wild animals grazing. It was no less than paradise. No film or photo can make up for what we saw in reality,” says Rishan. Rishan is also an expert in fishing. “I don’t use a net, I catch fish with my hand, I am quite good at it. So when we stopped for our breaks to cook, I would hunt for fish that live on the holes on the banks ( gorh in Assamese) or nest on wild debris from fallen logs and twigs near the banks ( jeng in Assamese). We gorged on fresh fish like x ingora , borali, misa puthi and a lot more. We never had a dull day at lunch or dinner,” laughs Rishan. They also drank from the river and were surprised at the taste and purity of the water. This however, started to deteriorate as they approached Guwahati city. “As we entered Panikhati (10 kilometres from Guwahati), closer to OIL India, we experienced itchiness on our skin. Since we were closer to our destination we avoided drinking or eating.” On their entire journey, they were greeted by people on the banks who offered food and water in the signature Assamese style of calling out to know about one’s well being and purpose. “It made us extremely happy. They had no idea about our journey but cheered and offered fruits and water or whatever they had on them,” adds Shekhar. Back in Guwahati, the duo is in talks with the Inland Waterways Authority of India to ferry their raft back to Majuli or Jorhat.
14 October 2020||October 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The call of the baul||For Debdas Baul, a man well-acquainted with no-fuss instruments like iktara , duggi and ghungroo, getting used to video calls and the online world seemed like a challenge. But the baul singer, from Birbhum district in West Bengal, knows he has to adapt for his art form to survive. This year in August, for the first time in 52 years, the 67-year-old went online with his baul songs. His online performances, the second one on October 17, are part of Sahaje Swadhin collective, supported by the Dara Shikoh Centre for the Arts. The idea of the collective is to bring together art practitioners to engage with the traditional lineage of baul singers. “Online is the way to go for us to sustain our families. We do not know anything other than music,” says Debdas, who has not been able to perform live since the lockdown started in March. “This mode of performance is slowly growing on me and I am thankful to the organisers for thinking of this avenue to help us generate an income,” he adds. Debdas will be joined by his three sons — Lakshman Das, Gautam Das and Uttam Das — along with Kanai Das Baul from Tarapith. They will sing around 12 songs, including ‘Amai Tene Nao Na Guru’, ‘Shei Na Desher Kotha Monn Bhule Giyeche’ and ‘Ki Chomotkar Phol Go Guru Dhore Ei Deshe’. “Singing without an audience is like singing at home,” laughs Debdas, adding that he misses singing to a crowd and the energy that comes with it. Normally, they travel around the country and perform at various cities like Kolkata, Delhi and Srinagar. This year, they have used this time to further hone their skills. “I used to write songs earlier. But now because my hands are not steady anymore, I can’t hold pen to paper.” Every evening at 7 p.m., Debdas’s family gathers together to sing these much-loved folk songs. His wife and daughters-in-law join in too. Uttam Das, Debdas’s youngest, son grew up at a time when film music and pop songs were all the rage. Yet, it was baul music that caught his attention. “I was nine when I first performed with my father and my brothers. I began to understand the message of the bauls in the songs,” says Uttam. It struck a chord and he knew he wanted to take these messages to more people. As an example, he narrates lines from ‘Porome Porom Janiye’ and says, “The crux of it is this, ‘We have come into the world on your orders and when you want us we will come back to you...’” Fascinated by this genre of music, enthusiasts have signed up for online classes with this family. “We have a 12-year-old from Kerala and a 50-year-old in Kolkata learning from us,” says Uttam, who is now also teaching his six-year-old son.  The event will take place on October 17 at 4 p.m.   For details, check out their Instagram page, @sahaje.swadhin. Tickets are priced at Rs. 150.
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||City records over 3,000 fresh COVID-19 cases||The city recorded 3,036 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 3,14,224, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Also, 45 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 5,854. Of the total cases, 2,86,880, people have recovered and there are 21,490 active cases. ‘Low bed occupancy’ In a related development, Bara Hindu Rao Hospital under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation was converted into a non-COVID-19 treatment facility on Tuesday, read an order by the government. Last week, 20 COVID-19 patients from the hospital were shifted to two Delhi government hospitals after a call for a strike by healthcare workers. The order said it was converted into a non-COVID-19 hospital due to “low average bed occupancy” and a request by the NDMC Commissioner. The number of new cases was less than 3,000 for 11 days till Monday. But the number of daily tests had been less, compared to above 60,000 in mid-September. In the past 24 hours, 54,957 tests were done, which is considerably higher. As per Tuesday’s bulletin, the number of active cases has gone up slightly, but the people in hospitals, and people under home isolation have decreased for the third consecutive day. Out of the total 16,117 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 68.3% were vacant, as per government data. But 55.1% of the ICU beds with ventilators have been occupied and 53.8% of the ICU beds without ventilators are full. The positivity rate (percentage of people testing positive for every 100 tests done) was 5.5%, which is lower than September. The overall positivity rate till now is 8.4%. The number of containment zones in the city on Tuesday was 2,747.
14 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana allows MLAs to use ‘flag’ on official and personal vehicles||Legislators in the BJP-ruled Haryana can now use ‘flag’ on their official, private or even hired vehicles — a decision taken so that they can get “due recognition”. Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said on Tuesday that sitting MLAs authorised by the Vidhan Sabha shall use the flag on his or her vehicle, which is registered in his or her name. “In case, the sitting MLA does not have any vehicle registered in his or her name, then the flag can be used on the private or hired vehicles,” he said. Mr. Gupta told The Hindu that the decision was taken so that the MLAs can get “due recognition” in public. “The basic idea behind the decision is to give due recognition to MLAs. They had to face humiliation at toll plazas. On many occasions, there had been instances when they were asked to prove their identity. So, now along with the flag, we have decided to give authorisation letters to MLAs. It’s a recognition of an elected representative,” he said. “As per protocol, an MLA is equal or above the rank of Chief Secretary. When bureaucrats are using flags, then there is no reason why MLAs can’t use it. It’s not promoting VIP culture,” he said. He added that the MLA is an elected representative and the flag being given just mentions Haryana Vidhan Sabha MLA. To apply for flag Mr. Gupta said in case the vehicle is not carrying a sitting MLA, then the flag shall remain covered by a white cover. “The MLAs have to apply for the flag to the Haryana Vidhan Sabha and the authorisation for its use will be issued by the Transport Commissioner in a prescribed form.” The authorisation will remain valid till the completion of the tenure of the Vidhan Sabha or till the MLAs have the membership of the Assembly.
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||High Court grants bail to man in Delhi riots case||The Delhi High Court has granted bail to a man who was arrested for allegedly rioting during the north-east Delhi communal violence in February this year, after noting there is no CCTV footage, video clip or photo to corroborate the prosecution’s claim. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait ordered that Mohd. Rehman be released on bail, if not required in any other case, on his furnishing a personal bond of Rs. 25,000 with one surety of like amount. Mr. Rehman was arrested in connection with an FIR lodged at Dayalpur police station on March 4 under charges of rioting. The special public prosecutor opposed the bail plea on the grounds that during investigation, primary witness had identified Mr. Rehman along with other co-accused. The prosecutor stated that Mr. Rehman is involved in four other riot cases. The HC, however, remarked: “It is not in dispute that in the present case there is no CCTV footage, video clip or photo to corroborate the prosecution’s claim.” Justice Kait also questioned why two Delhi police constables, who recorded statements as eyewitnesses in the case and identified Mr. Rehman, “did not make any daily diary entry as the alleged incident occurred on February 25, whereas the present FIR was registered on March 4.” The court further noted that the constables did not make a PCR call on the day of the incident. It additionally observed that the other witnesses who claimed to know Mr. Rehman also did not make any complaint to the police on the day of the alleged incident. “In view of the above, I am of the opinion that the petitioner deserves bail as he is in judicial custody since April 20. Charge sheet has already been filed. Charges are yet to be framed. Trial of the case shall take substantial time,” said the court.
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi Police harassing eyewitness in Rahul Rajput death case, alleges AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday alleged that the Delhi Police — under the Centre — is harassing an eyewitness in the murder case of Rahul Rajput. “In The Hindu’s article, a reporter had said that in a video call, the eyewitness said at 8 p.m., three police officers came to meet her in plain clothes and a woman officer took her SIM card and damaged it,” said AAP chief Spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj at a press meet. Rahul Rajput, 18, was allegedly beaten to death by a girl’s family members, including her brother, who objected to their friendship. The AAP leader said the police is harassing this eyewitness because she has claimed that despite repeated requests, the officers remained silent at the time of the incident. “On one hand, BJP says that Hindus are in danger and on the other hand, in front of the Delhi Police, a Hindu boy was beaten to death. Why didn’t the police stop them?” Mr. Bharadwaj asked.
14 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Seat allocation method didn’t achieve 5% quota’||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Tuesday informed the Delhi High Court that its method of allocation of seats for disabled did not achieve the mandate of 5% reservation provided under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act. Reacting to the submission, a Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said: “You cannot juggle your allocation of seats in such a way that you achieve only 4 or 4.5% reservation for PWD instead of 5% or more. Can you have an administrative allocation which results in not achieving the 5% reservation in admission? If you are not realising the purpose behind the statute, then we have a problem.” The HC said if JNU allocates seats for disabled persons in courses or centres, where such students do not apply or there are few applications, then the varsity will not realise the 5% reservation provided under the Act. JNU’s counsel Monika Arora said the issue will be placed before its executive council, which will consider coming up with a better method of allocating seats to ensure 5% quota is met. The court has posted the case for hearing on November 6.
14 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU aspirants given 14 days to upload latest certificate||Following concerns over submissions of certificates under the Other Backward Castes (OBC) category, Delhi University on Tuesday clarified that aspirants will be given a 14-day window to upload the latest certificate. ‘Due to pandemic’ Many of the aspirants had failed to procure the latest caste certificates due to the ongoing pandemic. Putting their applications on hold, several colleges had asked them to furnish the latest certificate. According to the university, students will be required to take an undertaking that in case the student fails to provide the certificate their admission will stand cancelled. The university also said: “In case any documents are found false at the time of physical verification of certificates, the admission is liable to be cancelled. In the meantime, applicants may be allowed to take admission by submitting a self-attested copy of acknowledgment slip and undertaking of ensuring the production of the certificate within the stipulated period.” In two days, DU has received 49,712 applications out of which 7,640 have been approved. Out of the approved students, 6,790 have paid the fees. Admissions under the first cut-off list will remain open till 5 p.m. on Wednesday. Applicants can, however, pay the fees till Friday.
