14 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Air pollution, cold a lethal pair for COVID-19 patients: doctors||Doctors in the NCR region have warned that high levels of air pollution, exhausted medical staff and the stressed health infrastructure in the area is making COVID-appropriate behaviour a “must” to contain the spread. Delhi along with three other northern States — Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan — is among the 10 States/UTs which have reported 76% of the new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours. Most fatalities Delhi (104), Punjab (23), Uttar Pradesh (21), Haryana (19) are also among the 10 States reporting 80% of the COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per data released by the Union Health Ministry on Friday. “Our public health behaviour over the next 8-10 days will be extremely crucial and could decide the fate of India's COVID wave. Our healthcare workers are exhausted. The general public should avoid super-spreader events. The risks they (health care workers) endure far outweigh any urges to do otherwise. Celebrate sensibly. Give the medical staff reasons to keep fighting,” said Arvind Singh Soin, chairman of the Institute of Liver Transplantation and Regenerative Medicine, Medanta-The Medicity. Across India, 547 COVID fatalities have been reported in the past 24 hours along with 44,878 new cases. Also total number of recoveries stands at 81,15,580 with 49,079 new discharges in the same time period. Doctors said that due to low temperatures and increased air pollution, particulate matter remains suspended in the air for a longer period and this increases transmissability of the novel coronavirus, making people more vulnerable to the disease. “The second mechanism linking increased COVID-cases and mortality due to air pollution is that exposure to polluted air is known to cause inflammation and cellular damage, making it easy for the virus or any other pathogenic microbe to invade our lungs. Also this process of inflammation may suppress early immune response to infection, making an individual more susceptible,” Vivek Nangia, Principal Director and Head of Pulmonology at the Max Super Speciality Hospital in Saket in Delhi said. Warning that the seasonal north Indian winter smog is here and poor quality air causes inflammation in the lungs, making people more vulnerable to breathing-related ailments, Vivek Nangia, Principal Director and Head of Pulmonology at the Max Super Speciality Hospital in Saket in Delhi said: “We see a rise of about 15-20 % in the cases both in OPD and emergency due to respiratory and cardiac ailments.”
14 November 2020||Srinagar,||6 civilians among 11 dead in Pak. firing across LoC||Eleven people, including six civilians, four Army soldiers and one BSF jawan, were killed and over 20 others injured in ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) in four districts of J&K on Friday. According to the Army, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violations along the LoC in multiple sectors, including Dawar in Bandipora, Keran in Kupwara, Uri and Naugam in Baramulla in the Kashmir valley. “Pakistan used mortars and other weapons and deliberately targeted civilian areas. Four Army soldiers were also killed and three soldiers were injured,” Srinagar-based Army spokesperson Colonel Rajesh Kalia said. Ammo dumps destroyed The Army said it retaliated strongly, causing substantial damage to the Pakistan army's infrastructure and inflicting casualties across the LoC. “Several ammunition dumps and multiple terrorist launch pads have been damaged,” the Army said. The Army also released videos that showed mortars hitting and damaging Pakistani bunkers along the LoC. The Uri sector of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district witnessed intense shelling and firing from Pakistan throughout the day, targeting some eight villages close to the LoC. “I managed to pick up my four children just in time. If I was just a couple of minutes late, they would have died as a shell exploded near a construction site near our house, leaving two dead,” a local said. Several people living near the LoC were seen moving to safer areas as scores of houses and sheds of civilians that were hit caught fire. “Six civilians died in the shelling and firing,” Baramulla Deputy Commissioner Dr. Ghulam Nabi Itoo told The Hindu . “Five injured civilians were shifted to Srinagar's Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) hospital,” he added. Deputy Commissioner of Baramulla, A BSF spokesman said Sub-Inspector Takesh Doval was also killed and another jawan injured when a mortar shell exploded in Baramulla’s Uri. Five civilians were injured in north Kashmir’s Bandipora when shelling hit the Bagtore Sector in Gurez. “All the five injured are stable,” an official said.
14 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Gorati Venkanna to be nominated to Council||The State Cabinet on Friday cleared people’s poet and noted singer Gorati Venkanna, former Minister Basavaraju Saraiah and a prominent Vysya leader Boggarapur Dayanand for nomination to the Legislative Council from Governor’s quota. The three who were recommended to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan for nomination will fill vacancies of former Home Minister Nayani Narasimha Reddy, Karne Prabhakar and Ramulu Naik which arose in the Upper House in August. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao who presided over the Cabinet meeting did a balancing act to give representation to SCs (Venkanna), BCs (Saraiah) and OCs (Dayanand) in the selection of candidates. While Mr. Venkanna was a leading figure in the cultural troupes that were active in separate Telangana movement, Mr. Saraiah had been aspiring for some post ever since he joined the TRS after he quit Congress four years ago. He was three times Congress MLA in 1999, 2004 and 2009 and served as Backward Classes Welfare Minister in Kiran Kumar Reddy government. Mr. Dayanand was a Deputy Director (Protocol) who took voluntary retirement in 2003 and joined the Telugu Desam. He was with the TRS since 2014. He was a prominent Vaisya leader and lifetime chief adviser of Vasavi Seva Kendram in Hyderabad.
14 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Vigilance to seek court nod to question Sivasankar||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) will seek the permission of court to question M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, on a charge of bribery. The agency had recently indicted him for corruption in the award of a LIFE Mission-UAE Red Crescent contract to build 144 dwellings for the poor in government land at Wadakkanchery in Thrissur. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had arrested Mr. Sivasankar on suspicion of helping Swapna Suresh, second accused in the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case, launder and layer the proceeds from the crime. He is currently in judicial remand in the Kakkanad sub-jail after facing days of custodial interrogation by ED agents. The VACB would soon move the Principal District and Sessions Court, Kochi, to question Mr. Sivasankar in custody. Money in locker The detection of a huge sum of money in a bank locker held by Swapna had blown the lid of a Pandora’s box of allegations against Mr. Sivasankar. Swapna had deposed in a court that the cash was the commission she received for pushing the LIFE Mission-UAE Red Crescent contract in the direction of the builder. She had also alleged that she had canvassed the builder at the behest of Mr. Sivasankar. LIFE Mission officials reportedly told the VACB that Mr. Sivasankar had shown undue haste in awarding the contract to the “favoured” builder. The businessperson also deposed that he had paid Rs. 4 crore to Swapna and others to bag the deal. They had allegedly told him that a bulk of the backhander would go to at least two UAE consulate officials responsible for executing the contract. The builder had also deposed that a set of expensive smart phones were also part of the bribe. The ED later “recovered” one of the phones from Mr. Sivasankar. Prima facie offence The VACB had reportedly said in its preliminary examination report that the ED’s finding revealed a prima facie offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Investigators said UAE Red Crescent deposited an estimated Rs. 14 crore in the account of the builder. As a set-off against the bribe, the LIFE Mission whittled down the number of dwellings from 199 to 144, thereby causing loss to the government and undue pecuniary advantage to the builder, the VACB stated. It has deemed Mr. Sivasankar’s alleged acceptance of the phone as an act of corruption.  LIFE Mission officials reportedly told the VACB that Mr. Sivasankar had shown undue haste in awarding the contract to the ‘favoured’ builder
14 November 2020||KADAPA,||Whistleblower done to death in group clash in Kadapa dt.||A whistleblower, Guru Pratap Reddy alias Gurunatha Reddy, was killed in a group clash at Pengi Ananthapur village of Kondapuram mandal in Kadapa district on Friday. The incident took place when an official team visited the village early in the morning to conduct a door-to-door survey to finalise the R&R beneficiaries eligible for compensation as the village would be submerged under the proposed expansion of the Gandikota project. ‘Fake beneficiaries’ When allegations were rife over the inclusion of up to 270 fake beneficiaries in the list, it was Gurunatha Reddy who had submitted a representation to district Collector Ch. Hari Kiran two months ago, requesting his intervention to stem the rot. Enraged by the development, Ramesh Reddy of the same village, who had allegedly included fictitious names, nursed a grudge towards him. As members of the official team reached the village, Ramesh Reddy and several others allegedly tried to disperse them and started attacking Gurunatha Reddy and his relatives with iron rods and a dagger. Though his brothers escaped with minor injuries, Gurunatha Reddy received deep cuts and died while being shifted to the government hospital at Tadipatri. Police picket Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan ordered reinforcement and posted a picket in the village. “We have launched a manhunt to nab Ramesh Reddy and 10 others,” Deputy Superintendent of Police (Jammalamadugu) N. Nagaraju told The Hindu . The Kondapuram police booked a case against 11 persons. The attack was initially seen as a scuffle between two warring groups within the ruling YSRCP represented by MLA M. Sudheer Reddy and former MLA P. Ramasubba Reddy, as the victim and the accused belonged to the rival camps. However, Gurunatha Reddy’s role as a whistleblower in unearthing the darker side of the compensation dole came to the fore after the district officials recalled the complaint filed by him two months ago.
14 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kodiyeri goes on indefinite medical leave||Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has gone on a leave of absence for medical treatment. A press release issued by the CPI(M) State secretariat here on Friday said Left Democratic Front (LDF) convener A. Vijayaraghavan would officiate as the party State secretary in Mr. Balakrishnan's stead. The CPI(M) has not set any date for Mr. Balakrishnan's return, triggering speculation that his going on leave presaged a “rectification campaign” in the party in the run-up to the local body and State Assembly elections. However, Mr. Vijayaraghavan denied the notion and said that it was an unfounded rumour floated by persons with a jaundiced view. There was not much to read into the temporary organisational arrangement, he said. Nevertheless, the Congress and the BJP spared no effort to link Mr. Balakrishnan's “exit” to the arrest and incarceration of his son Bineesh Kodiyeri on drug trafficking-related money laundering charges by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Bengaluru in August. Pressure to step down Leaders of both parties suggested that Mr. Balakrishnan had come under pressure from within the CPI(M) to “step down”. His “departure” had vindicated their stance, they said. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said it had belatedly dawned on the CPI(M) that the case against Bineesh had become an overbearing liability for the rank and file members. Many had shied away from meeting voters. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran said the CPI(M) faced the same predicament in Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Mr. Vijayan should emulate Mr. Balakrishnan and quit, Mr. Ramachandran said. ‘An internal affair’ Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary Kanam Rajendran said Mr. Balakrishnan going on leave for treatment was an internal affair of the CPI(M) and a personal necessity. Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan said Mr. Balakrishnan had no recourse but to resign following the arrest of Bineesh.
14 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Central agencies get first priority for sand mining in new policy||The State government has revised the sand policy of 2019 on the basis of recommendations made by a Group of Ministers (GoM) which held detailed deliberations with the general public. The New Sand Mining Policy-2019 was introduced in September of that year and later necessary amendments were made to the AP Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 1966 (APMMC). Subsequently, the government constituted the GoM having felt the need to serve the customers better. The GoM made recommendations for upgrading of the policy. Accordingly, the policy is upgraded as follows: sand excavation, storage and sale to be undertaken by the Central government agencies/Central government PSUs appointed on nomination basis on terms and conditions prescribed by the State government. The Central agencies/PSUs to be appointed with a premium amount fixed by the State government, which is payable (to the State) in addition to seigniorage fee and other applicable levies. Private bidders In case no response is received from the Central agencies/PSUs, sand operations to be entrusted to technically experienced, competent and financially strong agencies selected through technical and commercial bids with minimum auction premium fixed by the Government of A.P. in addition to seigniorage fee and other applicable levies. Reaches across the State have been classified into three packages: Package-1 Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts, Package-2 West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur and Prakasam districts and Package-3: Nellore, Anantapur, Chittoor, Kurnool and YSR Kadapa districts. First to third-order streams to be granted along with higher-order streams to competent agencies for excavation, storage and sale and the relevant, subject to the amendment of WALTA and APMMC Rules etc. Availability of sand to be ensured by dredging of irrigation barrages such as Prakasam and Dowleswaram. Own transportation Consumers to make own transportation arrangements from stockyard/reach. However, agencies will keep standby vehicles for transportation of sand to consumers as and when required. Sand booking to be permitted through offline mode, at stockyards/reaches of choice directly after verifying the quality of sand and making necessary payments there itself and free-of-cost sand to be permitted through bullock carts.
14 November 2020||Washington,||U.S. networks call Arizona for Biden, but Trump still defiant||Democratic nominee Joe Biden has won Arizona, U.S. networks said late on Thursday, further cementing his lead in the Electoral College and flipping the state Democratic for the first time since 1996. NBC, CBS, ABC and CNN declared Mr. Biden the winner with a lead of more than 11,000 ballots, giving him the State’s 11 electoral votes. Fox News and The Associated Press called the race in the southwestern state in Mr. Biden’s favour on Election Night, triggering the wrath of President Donald Trump, but other outlets held off until after nine days of ballot counting. Arizona gives Mr. Biden a 290-217 lead over Mr. Trump in the Electoral College that ultimately decides the presidency, with 270 needed to win the White House. Despite Mr. Biden being declared winner of the election on Saturday, Mr. Trump has refused to concede and continues to make allegations of election fraud. Races in North Carolina and Georgia have yet to be called. Mr. Biden holds a lead of more than 14,000 votes in Georgia, a margin that is nearly certain to survive a manual recount. Although the national popular vote does not determine the outcome, he is winning that by more than 5.3 million votes, or 3.4 percentage points.
14 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC allows bursting of crackers in Telangana||A Vacation Bench of the Supreme Court on Friday did not agree with the Hyderabad High Court’s view to completely ban the use, manufacture and sale of firecrackers in Telangana for Deepavali and other festivals. Instead, a Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Sanjeev Khanna modified the High Court order in line with the more “comprehensive” directions issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), on November 9, about the use and sale of firecrackers across the country, especially Delhi-NCR regions. In its order passed only a few days before the Hyderabad HC order of November 12, the Tribunal had given several alternatives on firecrackers, other than a blanket ban, based on the ground situation in individual cities and towns. While NGT ordered a categorical ban on firecrackers of any sort for Delhi -NCR region, it had allowed green crackers in cities and towns where the average of ambient air quality was ‘moderate or above’. “The cities/towns where air quality is ‘moderate’ or below, only green crackers be sold and the timings for use and bursting of crackers be restricted to two hours during festivals, like Deepavali, Chatt, New Year/Christmas Eve, etc, as may be specified by the State concerned,” the NGT had ordered. However, like Delhi-NCR, the Tribunal had ordered an imposition of the firecracker ban in cities where the air quality was 'poor' in November. In other cities and towns, the NGT had left the decision to opt for a ban or restrictions to the authorities. The apex court Bench observed that the NGT order applied to Telangana. “The High Court judgment stands modified and is brought in line with the directions issued by the National Green Tribunal on November 9, which applies even to the State of Telangana... All concerned in the State of Telangana must comply with the stated directions of the Tribunal in its letter and spirit," the Supreme Court directed. On November 12, the Hyderabad High Court had ordered a complete ban on firecrackers to prevent pollution. The Telangana Fire Works Dealers Association moved the apex court urgently on Friday to stay the High Court order. They argued that the unexpected ban by the High Court has caused a serious dent in their business.   The High Court order is a cause of grave prejudice to them. The losses and damage would be irreparable of the court order is not stayed.
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Govt. orders inquiry by ex-judge against Anna varsity V-C Surappa||The Tamil Nadu government has appointed retired Madras High Court judge P. Kalaiyarasan as the inquiry officer to go into complaints of financial and administrative irregularities levelled by certain individuals against Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa. This is the first time a former judge will probe charges against the Vice-Chancellor of the premier university. Previously, a retired judge had probed some charges against P. Mannar Jawahar after his tenure as Vice-Chancellor ended, and exonerated him. Expressing shock, Mr. Surappa, who has been at odds with the government on certain key issues, told The Hindu that there was not a speck of truth in the allegations against him. ‘Allegations serious’ The Anna University Teachers’ Association issued a statement in his defence. But the government order, dated November 11, said that since “prima facie” the allegations “are serious in nature”, the government decided to conduct an inquiry. According to the order, A. Suresh of Tiruchi sent a complaint to the Chief Minister’s Special Cell in February last, claiming that Sakthinathan, Deputy Director, Centre for Constituent Colleges, and Prof. Surappa were involved in corruption to the tune of Rs. 200 crore. He claimed that the two had collected nearly Rs. 80 crore by taking bribes of Rs. 13 lakh-Rs. 15 lakh per candidate for the recruitment of temporary teacher fellows of the constituent colleges and Anna University.
14 November 2020||New Delhi,||ICU beds for COVID-19 patients nearly full in Delhi||ICU beds for COVID-19 patients in the Capital are nearly full with new cases showing an upward trend and often hitting daily highs. Overall, 87.42% of the total 1,328 ICU beds with ventilators and 84.7% ICU beds without ventilators were occupied. As of 8 p.m. on Friday, there was 52.5% occupancy for COVID-19 beds in city hospitals, but the situation is starker in some cases: in 59 hospitals, all ICU beds with ventilators for COVID-19 treatment were occupied; and in 61 hospitals, all ICU beds without ventilators were full. When contacted, the Delhi government spokesperson did not comment on the situation. Hospitals without any ICU beds with ventilators include AIIMS Trauma Centre and the city government-run GTB Hospital, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital and Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, among others. Also, COVID-19 beds were not available in many private hospitals including Max Hospitals in Patparganj and Shalimar Bagh, Maharaja Agrasen Hospital in Punjabi Bagh and Akash Healthcare in Dwarka. On Thursday, the Delhi High Court had allowed the city government to reserve 80% ICU beds for COVID-19 patients in 33 private hospitals in view of the situation in the Capital where “cases are spiralling daily”. Delhi recorded 7,802 fresh COVID-19 cases in a day, taking the infection tally in the national capital to over 4.74 lakh on Friday, while 91 more fatalities during the same period pushed the death toll to 7,423. Positivity rate of 13.8% These fresh coronavirus cases were detected from 56,553 tests conducted the previous day. Delhi recorded a positivity rate of 13.8% amid the festive season and rising pollution in the city.  Addressing a press conference on Friday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the cases will come down in 7-10 days. “Corona is rising. I am worried... The Delhi government will take several preventive measures in the coming days to control the situation. I hope in 7-10 days, the number of cases decline and the situation comes under control,” he said.
14 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Employer can reject over-qualified aspirant’||A prospective employer has discretion not to appoint a candidate who may have a “higher qualification”, but not the one prescribed for the job vacancy, the Supreme Court has held. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan said courts have limited judicial review over such decisions by employers. Prescription of qualifications for a post is a matter of recruitment policy. Discretion lies with the employer. No role for courts “It is for the employer to determine and decide the relevancy and suitability of the qualifications for any post, and it is not for the courts to consider and assess,” Justice M.R. Shah, who authored the verdict, pointed out. The apex court said courts allow a “greater latitude” for employers to prescribe the necessary qualification for a post. “There is a rationale behind it... Qualifications are prescribed keeping in view the need and interest of an institution or an industry or an establishment as the case may be. The Courts are not fit instruments to assess expediency or advisability or utility of such prescription of qualifications,” the apex court judgment explained. It, however, noted that an employer cannot act arbitrarily or fancifully in prescribing qualifications for posts. The judgment came on an appeal filed by the Punjab National Bank against an Orissa High Court decision allowing an over-qualified candidate to be appointed as a peon. The Supreme Court set aside the High Court decision of November 22, 2019 upholding an over-qualified candidate’s claim to a job as peon in the bank. It noted that this candidate had deliberately not disclosed the fact that he was a graduate. It was known only later.  Besides, the prescribed qualification for the job was Class XII pass. The Bank had a specific rule against appointing a graduate as peon.  Conscious decision “In the present case, prescribing the eligibility criteria/educational qualification that a graduate candidate shall not be eligible and the candidate must have passed 12th standard is justified. It was a conscious decision taken by the Bank in force since 2008. Therefore, the High Court has clearly erred," the Supreme Court observed.  A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan said courts have limited judicial review over such decisions by employers. Prescription of qualifications for a post is a matter of recruitment policy. Discretion lies with the employer.
14 November 2020||Washington,||Joe Biden takes Arizona, but Trump still defiant||Democratic nominee Joe Biden has won Arizona, U.S. networks said late on Thursday, further cementing his lead in the Electoral College and flipping the state Democratic for the first time since 1996. NBC, CBS, ABC and CNN declared Mr. Biden the winner with a lead of more than 11,000 ballots, giving him the State’s 11 electoral votes. Fox News and The Associated Press called the race in the southwestern state in Mr. Biden’s favour on Election Night, triggering the wrath of President Donald Trump, but other outlets held off until after nine days of ballot counting. Arizona gives Mr. Biden a 290-217 lead over Mr. Trump in the Electoral College that ultimately decides the presidency, with 270 needed to win the White House. Despite Mr. Biden being declared winner of the election on Saturday, Mr. Trump has refused to concede and continues to make allegations of election fraud. Races in North Carolina and Georgia have yet to be called. Mr. Biden holds a lead of more than 14,000 votes in Georgia, a margin that is nearly certain to survive a manual recount. Although the national popular vote does not determine the outcome, he is winning that by more than 5.3 million votes, or 3.4 percentage points.
14 November 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 ICU beds nearly full in Delhi||ICU beds for COVID-19 patients in the Capital are nearly full with new cases showing an upward trend and often hitting daily highs. Overall, 87.42% of the total 1,328 ICU beds with ventilators and 84.7% ICU beds without ventilators were occupied. As of 8 p.m. on Friday, there was 52.5% occupancy for all COVID-19 beds in city hospitals, but the situation is starker in some cases: in 59 hospitals, all ICU beds with ventilators for COVID-19 treatment were occupied; and in 61 hospitals, all ICU beds without ventilators were full. When contacted, the Delhi government spokesperson did not comment on the situation. Hospitals without any ICU beds with ventilators include AIIMS Trauma Centre and the city government-run GTB Hospital, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital and Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, among others. Also, COVID-19 beds were not available in many private hospitals, including Max Hospitals in Patparganj and Shalimar Bagh, Maharaja Agrasen Hospital in Punjabi Bagh and Akash Healthcare in Dwarka. On Thursday, the Delhi High Court had allowed the city government to reserve 80% ICU beds for COVID-19 patients in 33 private hospitals in view of the situation in the Capital where “cases are spiralling daily”. It vacated a stay on the government’s September 10 order reserving beds by a single-judge Bench. This will lead to an increase in the number of ICU beds available for COVID-19 treatment, officials said. Addressing a press conference on Friday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the cases will come down in 7-10 days. “Corona is rising. I am worried... The Delhi government will take several preventive measures in the coming days to control the situation. I hope in 7-10 days, the number of cases decline and the situation comes under control,” he said.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Look for logo before buying ‘green crackers’||Putting an end to the confusion on what “green crackers” are and how they are to be identified, the Karnataka government on Friday modified its guidelines. The revised guidelines said green crackers are less harmful and polluting compared to conventional firecrackers. “Green crackers packing can be identified through distinct green logo of CSIR-NEERI and PESO as well as a Quick Response coding system. QR code is a novel feature incorporated on the firecrackers to avoid manufacture and sale of counterfeit products,” said the new guidelines. The order permitted bursting of green crackers as sparklers, flowerpots and maroons. “Green crackers” are manufactured based on chemical formulation developed by the National Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Environment Engineering Research Institute (CSIR-NEERI), and Petroleum and Explosive Safety Organisation (PESO).
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Gang held for creating fake FB accounts of IPS officers||The cyber crime unit of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Friday busted a gang of criminals, including the mastermind, operating from Rajasthan. They were cheating people after creating fake social media accounts of senior police officers from Tamil Nadu and other States. The criminals created fictitious Facebook accounts in the names of City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, Additional Commissioner of Police R. Dhinakaran and a handful of personnel in the ranks of Additional Director General of Police and Assistant Commissioner. The fraudsters then sought money from the people in their friends list, citing medical emergencies. A special team, comprising Additional Deputy Commissioner Saravanakumar, Assistant Commissioner of Police R. Durai and inspector Vinodh apprehended five suspects, including two juveniles, in Rajasthan. Mastermind held Addressing mediapersons here, City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal said the special team arrested the suspects, including mastermind Shakeel Khan and his associates — Ravindra Kumar and Mushtaqim Khan. Shakeel Khan taught his men to create fake Facebook accounts while Ravindran Kumar helped him withdraw money using a swipe machine. Explaining the modus operandi, an officer said they copied photos from the original Facebook accounts and created fake ones. They then contacted acquaintances of the account holder via private messages and requested money on the grounds of medical emergencies. They received money through mobile wallets and later transferred them to bank accounts, he said.
14 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kodiyeri goes on indefinite medical leave||Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has gone on a leave of absence for medical treatment. A press release issued by the CPI(M) State secretariat here on Friday said Left Democratic Front (LDF) convener A. Vijayaraghavan would officiate as the party State secretary in Mr. Balakrishnan's stead. The CPI(M) has not set any date for Mr. Balakrishnan's return, triggering speculation that his going on leave presaged a “rectification campaign” in the party in the run-up to the local body and State Assembly elections. However, Mr. Vijayaraghavan denied the notion and said that it was an unfounded rumour floated by persons with a jaundiced view. Nevertheless, the Congress and the BJP spared no effort to link Mr. Balakrishnan's “exit” to the arrest of his son Bineesh Kodiyeri on drug trafficking-related money laundering charges by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Bengaluru in August. Leaders of both parties suggested that Mr. Balakrishnan had come under pressure from within the CPI(M) to “step down”. His “departure” had vindicated their stance, they said. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said it had belatedly dawned on the CPI(M) that the case against Bineesh had become an overbearing liability for the rank and file members. Many had shied away from meeting voters. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran said the CPI(M) faced the same predicament in Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The ED had arrested his former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar on money laundering charges. It had summoned his additional private secretary C.M. Raveendran for questioning. Mr. Vijayan should emulate Mr. Balakrishnan and quit, Mr. Ramachandran said. Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary Kanam Rajendran said Mr. Balakrishnan going on leave for treatment was an internal affair of the CPI(M) and a personal necessity. Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan said Mr. Balakrishnan had no recourse but to resign following the arrest of Bineesh. In a Facebook post, Mr. Muraleedharan said "even children in Kerala knew the truth" however hard the CPI(M) tried to obfuscate the facts. He said if political propriety was the yardstick of Mr. Balakrishnan's departure, then Mr. Vijayan should follow suit.
14 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Power employees’ JAC urged to postpone stir||AP-Transco CMD N. Srikant has requested the Andhra Pradesh State Power Employees’ Joint Action Committee (JAC) to postpone its agitation in the interest of public service and keeping the COVID-19 pandemic and Deepavali festival in view. In a letter to the JAC on Friday, Mr. Srikant said that the best efforts were being made to resolve the important issues raised by the JAC. Elaborate discussions were held with the delegates of JAC in the presence of CMDs of Transco and DISCOMs and the issues were being duly taken up with the Energy Minister, with whom a fresh round of deliberations were likely to be held next week. The JAC had issued notices for agitation from October 19 to November 16, seeking resolution of certain issues plaguing the employees and the sector at large.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Seasonal visitors||
14 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kamra refuses to apologise, retract tweets||Stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra refused to apologise or retract his tweets on the Supreme Court a day after Attorney General K.K. Venugopal consented to multiple requests for criminal contempt action against him. Mr. Kamra reacted in a tweet, titled ‘no lawyers, no apology, no fine, no waste of space’. In a note attached to the tweet and addressed to “Dear Judges, Mr. KK Venugopal”, Mr. Kamra said his tweets are his view. “I believe they speak for themselves,” he wrote. Mr. Kamra’s tweets concerned the Supreme Court decision to grant interim bail to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami on November 11.
14 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kodiyeri goes on indefinite medical leave||Communist Party of India (Marxist) Kerala secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has gone on a leave of absence for medical treatment. A press release issued by the CPI(M) State secretariat here on Friday said Left Democratic Front (LDF) convener A. Vijayaraghavan would officiate as the party State secretary in Mr. Balakrishnan's stead. The CPI(M) has not set any date for Mr. Balakrishnan's return, triggering speculation that his going on leave presaged a “rectification campaign” in the party in the run-up to the local body and State Assembly elections. However, Mr. Vijayaraghavan denied the notion, saying it was an unfounded rumour.
14 November 2020||KOCHI,||Cochin Shipyard’s profit falls 47.7% in Q2||Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) reported a 47.7% decline in net profit at Rs. 108.36 crore for the September quarter of the current fiscal. The company had posted a net profit of Rs. 207.57 crore in the same period last year. Revenue from operations fell 32.43% to Rs. 657.40 crore in the quarter under review as compared with Rs. 972.86 crore in the September quarter of last fiscal. The Chennai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) had on March 4 approved the resolution plan submitted by CSL for acquisition of Tebma Shipyards Limited (TSL) which was undergoing insolvency proceedings, a communication said. In compliance with the NCLT order, the CSL said it had paid the bid amount for the takeover of TSL on September 15, with effect from which TSL has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company. During the quarter, in order to meet the challenges facing the company in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, CSL extended hours of operations by working in two shifts. This impacted depreciation to the tune of Rs. 134.88 lakh during the quarter, it said.
14 November 2020||KOCHI,||Three more held in firing case||The Perumbavoor police arrested three more persons in connection with the case in which a man was hacked multiple times and shot at, at Thendakkad near Perumbavoor in the early hours on Wednesday. The arrested were identified as Abubacker aka Manga Abu, 46, of Vallam; Sudheer, 43, of Okkal; and Baiju, 38, of Okkal. So far, eight persons have been arrested in the case. Conspiracy charge They have been charged with conspiracy, direct participation in the attack and helping the other accused to flee. The police said that Abubacker was the business partner of the key accused, Nizar, who was arrested along with four others on Thursday. The accused reportedly fled in the vehicles owned by Abubacker and Baiju. While Abubacker and Sudheer were arrested from Angamaly, Baiju was arrested from Vallam. The police also seized both the vehicles used by the accused to flee. The victim was identified as Adhil S., 24, of Okkal, who was rushed to a private hospital in the city shortly after the incident.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Festive spirit||
14 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kamra refuses to apologise, retract tweets||Stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra refused to apologise or retract his tweets on the Supreme Court a day after Attorney General K.K. Venugopal consented to multiple requests for criminal contempt action against him. Mr. Kamra reacted in a tweet titled ‘no lawyers, no apology, no fine, no waste of space’. In a note attached to the tweet and addressed to “Dear Judges, Mr. KK Venugopal”, Mr. Kamra said his tweets are his view. “I believe they speak for themselves,” he wrote. Bail for Arnab Mr. Kamra’s tweets concerned the Supreme Court decision to grant interim bail to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami on November 11. “My view has not changed because the silence of the Supreme Court of India on matters of other’s personal liberty cannot go uncriticised. I don’t intend to retract my tweets or apologise for them,” his note on Twitter read. The comedian said he wished to “volunteer” the time that may be allotted for hearing his contempt case to others “who have not been as lucky and privileged as I am to jump the queue”. “May I suggest the demonetisation petition, the petition challenging the revocation of J&K’s special status, the matter of the legality of electoral bonds or countless other matters that are more deserving of time and attention,” he wrote. On Friday, a group of lawyers and law students filed a joint criminal contempt petition against Mr. Kamra based on the consent from the Attorney General.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Seasonal visitors||
14 November 2020||ERODE,||Man held for bomb hoax call||A 32-year-old man from Mettupalayam in Coimbatore district, who made a bomb hoax call, was arrested by the Erode Railway Police Station here on Thursday night. On November 12, the railway police in Chennai headquarters received a call from a man who identified himself as Abdul Kareem and was speaking from a spot near Erode Railway Station. He said that he along with nine others had planted bombs at 10 places, including railway station, bus stand and Manikoondu in Erode city and it would go off anytime now. The police alerted the Erode railway police and gave the mobile number from which they received the call. The police along with Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad carried out checks at all the 10 places and found the call to be a hoax. The police traced the mobile signal to a tower located near the bus stand and picked up a person, who was identified as R. Santhosh Kumar of Shankar Nagar in Mettupalayam. He was lodged at prison.
14 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Degree, PG classes from November 17||The district administration on Friday decided to allow final year degree and post-graduate courses classes to start on November 17.Page 3
14 November 2020||Kolkata,||‘Political opponents are being falsely implicated’||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Friday alleged that political opponents to the ruling party in West Bengal are being falsely implicated in criminal cases, including under the NDPS Act. In a series of tweets on social media, Mr. Dhankhar said such “dastardly barbaric acts have no place in democracy.” Mr. Dhankhar said culprits behind decimation of such human rights would be made to suffer.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Property documents to have digital avatar||In a move that aims to bring in more transparency, stamp out illegal transactions and cut out middlemen, property documents will now have a digital avatar and uploaded on DigiLocker.
14 November 2020||New Delhi,||TKM suspends 39 at Bidadi, lockout drags||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) on Friday said it had suspended 39 union members at its Bidadi plant in Karnataka for involvement in acts of misconduct and in line with the company’s disciplinary rule.
14 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre, Punjab farmers talks inconclusive||The deadlock between the Centre and Punjab’s farmer unions over controversial agricultural reform laws continued on Friday with talks on the eve of Deepavali ending inconclusively.
14 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre, Punjab farmers talks inconclusive||The deadlock between the Centre and Punjab’s farmer unions over controversial agricultural reform laws continued on Friday with day-long talks on the eve of Diwali ending inconclusively.
14 November 2020||Pune,||4,543 more recoveries recorded in Maharashtra||As opposed to the robust recovery trend in the past few weeks, Maharashtra on Friday reported just 4,543 recoveries against 4,132 new COVID-19 cases. The cumulative recoveries now stand at 16,09,607, with the State’s recovery rate rising marginally to 92.48%. The total case tally has reached 17,40,461, while the active cases have dipped to 84,082. With 127 deaths, the toll has climbed to 45,809.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,||State medical colleges to open on December 1||The government has decided to reopen all medical, dental, AYUSH, paramedical, nursing and pharmacy colleges affiliated to Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) from December 1. Minister for Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education K. Sudhakar has requested colleges and students to strictly adhere to the guidelines issued by the government. The Higher Education Department has already formulated SOPs as per the UGC guidelines,
14 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC modifies Telangana High Court order on fireworks ban||A Vacation Bench of the Supreme Court on Friday did not agree with the Telangana High Court’s view to completely ban the use, manufacture and sale of firecrackers in Telangana for Deepavali and other festivals. Instead, a Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Sanjeev Khanna modified the High Court order in line with the more “comprehensive” directions issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), on November 9, about the use and sale of firecrackers across the country, especially in the Delhi-NCR region. In its order passed only a few days before the Telangana High Court order of November 12, the Tribunal had given several alternatives on firecrackers, other than a blanket ban, based on the ground situation in individual cities and towns. While the NGT ordered a categorical ban on firecrackers of any sort for the Delhi-NCR region, it had allowed green crackers in cities and towns where the average of ambient air quality was ‘moderate or above’. “The cities/towns where air quality is ‘moderate’ or below, only green crackers be sold and the timings for use and bursting of crackers be restricted to two hours during festivals, like Diwali, Chatt, New Year/Christmas Eve, etc., as may be specified by the State concerned,” the NGT had ordered. However, like Delhi-NCR, the Tribunal had ordered an imposition of the firecracker ban in cities where the air quality was ‘poor’ in November. In other cities and towns, the NGT had left the decision to opt for a ban or restrictions to the authorities. The apex court Bench observed that the NGT order applied to Telangana. “The High Court judgment stands modified and is brought in line with the directions issued by the National Green Tribunal on November 9, which applies even to the State of Telangana,” the Supreme Court directed. On November 12, the Telangana High Court had ordered a complete ban on firecrackers.
14 November 2020||Patna,||NDA meet tomorrow to elect leader in Bihar||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Friday submitted his resignation to the Governor, paving the way for the formation of a new government. Earlier in the day, at his government’s last cabinet meeting, Mr. Kumar moved a proposal for its dissolution and said NDA legislators would meet on November 15 afternoon to elect a new leader of the alliance. “A joint meeting of the all four National Democratic Alliance (NDA) partners in Bihar will be held at 12:30 p.m. on November 15 and the legislators would elect leader of the legislature party to finalize details pertaining to the next government formation,” Mr Kumar told media persons after meeting with leaders of the NDA. “All decisions regarding government formation will be discussed in that meeting and you all (media persons) will be informed thereafter,” he said. Senior State BJP leader and Deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi and Mukesh Sahni, president of the Vikasheel Insaan Party were present in the meeting held at the CM’s official bungalow, 1, Anne Marg on Friday. It is speculated that Mr. Kumar may take oath as Chief Minister for a fourth consecutive term on November 16. In the recently concluded Assembly election, Mr Kumar’s JD(U) won got only 43 seats, its worst performance since the party came to power in 2005, while alliance partner BJP got 74 seats. The other two NDA alliance partners HAM(S) and VIP won four seats each. Meanwhile, Independent MLA from Chakai Assembly constituency in Jamui district Sumit Kumar Singh declared his support for the NDA. Mr. Singh is son of former Bihar minister Narendra Singh.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,||IMA scam: Value of properties is one-third of outstanding claims||The value of movable and immovable properties attached in connection with the I-Monetary Advisory (IMA) scam, available for auction and settlement of claims by depositors, stands at Rs. 475 crore, only a third of the estimated outstanding claims of Rs. 1,400 crore. Harsh Gupta, Special Officer and Competent Authority, IMA Scam, said since the company had taken deposits and paid monthly returns through the banking system, making an estimate was easy. “We have carried out a forensic audit of all IMA accounts, according to which the total principal of the deposits collected from nearly one lakh investors is around Rs. 2,900 crore. Of this, IMA has paid returns of around Rs. 1,500 crore to depositors, which will get adjusted. That leaves the outstanding claims pegged at Rs. 1,400 crore,” Dr.Gupta said. The Special Court, which began hearing the case last week, will decide on the formula to settle the claims, given that the value of the properties attached is only Rs. 475 crore, Dr. Gupta said. “There are questions whether all depositors have to be paid proportionately, or if small depositors should be given priority,” he said. Several people, mostly early depositors, had already collected returns more than their principal deposit beforeIMA went kaput. “Whether these excess returns have to be collected back is a question that the court and the authorities will take a call on. Since their numbers are huge, there are issues of feasibility involved,” Dr. Gupta said. On the issue of when claims will be settled, Dr. Gupta drew a timeline of at least six months, if not more. However, the process is expected to take longer as the Special Court verdict is expected to be challenged in the higher courts, even if it confirms attachment of these assets, sources said.
14 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||WHO centre soon for traditional medicine||The World Health Organization (WHO) will set up a Global Centre for Traditional Medicine in India, it announced on Friday at an event in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed confidence that WHO would become the centre for global wellness, just as the country had emerged as the “pharmacy of the world”. WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus made the announcement in a video message at the event in which Prime Minister Modi dedicated two future-ready Ayurveda institutions in Jaipur and Jamnagar to the nation via video conferencing on the occasion of the 5th Ayurveda Day. The Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda (ITRA), Jamnagar (Gujarat), and the National Institute of Ayurveda (NIA), Jaipur (Rajasthan), are both premier institutions of Ayurveda. The Jamnagar institute has been conferred the status of an Institution of National Importance (INI) by an act of Parliament, and the one at Jaipur has been designated an Institution Deemed to be University (De novo Category) by the University Grants Commission (UGC), according to the AYUSH Ministry. “I am pleased to announce that we have agreed to open a WHO Global Centre of Traditional Medicine in India to strengthen the evidence, research, training and awareness of traditional and complementary medicine,” Mr. Ghebreyesus said in his video message. “This new centre will support WHO’s efforts to implement the WHO traditional medicine strategy 2014-2023, which aims to support countries in developing policies and action plans to strengthen the role of traditional medicine... ” he said. ‘Matter of pride’ Mr. Modi said Ayurveda was India’s heritage and all Indians would be happy to see that the country’s traditional knowledge was enriching other countries. “It is a matter of pride for all Indians that the WHO has chosen India for establishing its Global Centre for Traditional Medicine,” the Prime Minister said.   It is a matter of pride for Indians that the WHO has chosen India for establishing the centre Narendra Modi Prime Minister
14 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Southern States report a decline in cases||On Friday, 1,939 more persons tested positive for COVID-19 infection in Tamil Nadu, taking the tally of those infected till date in the State to 7,54,460. At the same time as many as 2,572 more persons were discharged from various health facilities since Thursday. The number of those discharged after treatment is 7,25,258. The State recorded 14 deaths taking the total toll to 11,454. In Chennai 512 new cases were reported in a day and as many as 687 persons were discharged. The city also witnessed five deaths owing to the infection. So far 2,07,686 persons have tested positive for the infection and 1,98,459 persons have been discharged post-treatment. The COVID-19 case load in Kerala declined as 5,804 people tested positive on Friday. The test positivity rate had a slight increase from the previous day’s 9.68%, to 9.97%, for 58,221 samples. Andhra Pradesh recorded less than 2,000 new cases for the sixth day at 1,593 and 10 more deaths. Testing covered 80,737 samples with 1.97% returning positive, the lowest single-day positivity rate in five months. The overall positivity rate has been put at 9.44%. A trend of low numbers continued in Karnataka with 2,016 new cases on Friday. Tests stood at 1,17,999. Also, 17 more deaths were reported. The State’s positivity rate stood at 1.71%, and case fatality rate was 0.84%. Bengaluru Urban district reported 1,030 new cases. Telangana on Thursday reported 997 cases and four deaths. The State tested 42,163 samples. Greater Hyderabad added 169 cases, Medchal Malkajgiri 85, and Rangareddy 66.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, Thiruvananthapuram, and Bengaluru bureaus)
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Nitish’s development strategy was key to win||Bashistha Narain Singh , president of the Bihar unit of the Janata Dal (U), discusses the government formation efforts in the State. Excerpts:  The Janata Dal (U) has returned to government but under reduced circumstances. How do you read the verdict? It is a fact that the Janata Dal (U) was negatively impacted by the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) on many seats, despite that we are about to form another government under Nitish Kumar. This shows that Nitish Kumar’s model of development, ending mafia raj, jungle raj has found popularity among the people. We are preparing our party also to work with renewed resolve. When can we expect government formation efforts to reach fruition? The results have just been out and there are some formalities that all political parties have to go through within their own set up. Appoint observers for legislative party meetings, and later to have a joint meeting of both the BJP and the Janata Dal (U) legislative parties. MLAs who have just been declared elected are slowly making their way to Patna from their areas. Government formation will happen soon, and Nitish Kumar will be the Chief Minister. The question is being asked because it was being said that following the reduction in the JD(U) numbers, Mr. Nitish Kumar was said to be sulking for the last two days and that is why it took him a while to thank the people for their support. I have been continuously meeting him over the last two days and it is wrong to say he is either downcast or even tense. We have been reviewing the results and hence been busy. Is the Janata Dal (U) apprehensive that the difference in the number of seats with the BJP, with you as a junior partner now, affects the authority of the Chief Minister? We don’t have such worries and we have been meeting all senior leaders of the BJP over the last few days and no such apprehension has been expressed. We (BJP and JD-U) have been allies for a very long time and there is no plan from either side to upset the other. Nitish Kumarji’s style as Chief Minister and in terms of policy implementation has always been to take everyone along, that is not likely to change. You have said the LJP affected your tally. In such a situation, is the continuation of the party within the NDA fold acceptable to you? Answer me whether you think Chirag Paswan’s continuation in the NDA is practical? On the one hand he wanted to harm the JD(U) and on the other he was praising the BJP. Is the presence of such fork-tongued people desirable in an alliance? Chirag Paswan himself and the BJP too must reflect on whether he can continue. Currently he is like a B-grade film actor who presumes too much upon his talent when the audience has a completely different opinion of his abilities. It’s being said women were the main bulwark of support for the NDA in these polls. Do you see that as an endorsement of the policy of prohibition? Yes we do and of all the policies and programmes like the Jeevika programme that the NDA government has run for women. The policy of prohibition has been endorsed by the electorate. If there is to be some change in terms of improving its implementation etc those changes could be made, but the policy itself will stay.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||‘RJD had a model electoral campaign’||Senior Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader and party spokesman Manoj K. Jha discusses how the RJD and the grand alliance were able to reach out to different social groups. Excerpts:  The difference in vote share between the MGB [ mahagatbandhan ] and the NDA [National Democratic Alliance] is merely 0.03%. Where do you think the MGB fell short? Our electoral system is such that, to an extent, vote share becomes secondary as compared to the winning of each and every constituency by being first past the post. In these elections, if you have noted, there is a mere vote difference of approximately 13,000 votes between the total votes achieved by the NDA and the MGB in total, which converted to a difference of 15 seats, some of them with very thin margin. Even then, we were able to increase our vote share very significantly. That shows people voted beyond caste affiliations and voted against the present government. The RJD’s performance comes in the face of 15-years of anti-incumbency against Nitish Kumar, do you still think that you fought well enough? The most impressive aspect of the RJD’s performance lies in the fact that we, as a party, began and ended our campaign on the issues that were deeply associated with the demands and grievances of the people of Bihar. We raised and remained steadfastly on the issues of jobs, employment, education, colleges, sports, equal salary for equal work, wage increment, bringing industries, improving the lives of our farmers, ensuring safety, security and well-being of women. We opposed various kinds of communal campaigning. We ignored personal attacks on the party leadership. It was as close to a model electoral campaign in India as any party can ever reach. This is the reason why we were able to muster the support of different social groups. Considering the Congress’s performance, was it wise for the RJD to allot 70 seats to them? Questions like this are an afterthought, which can only be imagined post facto but cannot be executed in the past. We wanted to maintain cohesion within the alliance and we were largely successful during the campaign in this regard. But the RJD had a better coordination with the CPI (ML) than the Congress. Wouldn’t it have been better to give them more space? Again, this is a speculative question to which there cannot be a definite answer. Too many complicated factors go into the making of alliances. But a party always learns from the dynamics of making and unmaking of alliances, and of course, from election outcomes. Both your ex-allies, Jitan Ram Manjhi and Mukesh Sahani, have performed well. Does the RJD regret not accommodating them? Both left the MGB on their own. We wanted to accommodate them respectfully. In an alliance, there should be ample space for reasonableness when it comes of seat-sharing as well as accepting the allocation. We were and are always in favour of welcoming the subaltern groups and parties to fight against the BJP and the JD(U).  (For full interview, log on to bit.ly/ManojJha)
14 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kunal Kamra refuses to retract tweets, apologise||Stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra refused to apologise or retract his tweets on the Supreme Court a day after Attorney General K.K. Venugopal consented to multiple requests for criminal contempt action against him. Mr. Kamra reacted in a tweet titled ‘no lawyers, no apology, no fine, no waste of space’. In a note attached to the tweet and addressed to “Dear Judges, Mr. KK Venugopal”, Mr. Kamra said his tweets are his view. “I believe they speak for themselves,” he wrote.  Mr. Kamra’s tweets concerned the Supreme Court decision to grant interim bail to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami on November 11. “My view has not changed because the silence of the Supreme Court of India on matters of other’s personal liberty cannot go uncriticised. I don’t intend to retract my tweets or apologise for them,” his note on Twitter read. The comedian said he wished to “volunteer” the time that may be allotted for hearing his contempt case to others “who have not been as lucky and privileged as I am to jump the queue”. “May I suggest the demonetisation petition, the petition challenging the revocation of J&K’s special status, the matter of the legality of electoral bonds or countless other matters that are more deserving of time and attention,” he wrote. On Friday, a group of lawyers and law students filed a joint criminal contempt petition against Mr. Kamra based on the consent from the Attorney General. “The tweets published by the alleged contemnor are in such bad taste that an ordinary prudent man can gather that he has scandalised this Hon’ble Court and further lowered its authority”, their petition contended. Mr. Venugopal, in his consent letter, had opined that certain tweets of Mr. Kamra’s “clearly cross the line between humour and contempt of court”. SC building picture One of them, Mr. Venugopal had pointed out, was a picture of the Supreme Court building swathed in saffron colour with the ruling BJP flag flying atop it instead of the Tricolour. He had said this tweet was a “gross insinuation against the entirety of the Supreme Court of India”. The tweet insinuated that “the Supreme Court is not an independent and impartial institution and so too its judges, but on the other hand is a court of the ruling party, the BJP, existing for the BJP’s benefit”, he had said. Though he found some other tweets of Mr. Kamra also “highly objectionable”, he had left it to the court to decide whether they would constitute contempt.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,||New species of vine snakes discovered||A team of researchers from the Centre for Ecological Sciences (CES), Indian Institute of Science (IISc), after extensive sampling across peninsular India, have discovered new species of vine snakes in the region. Led by former IISc student Ashok Mallik, working as part of his doctoral research, the team carried out field visits across India to collect morphological data, tissue samples and specimens to understand the patterns of distribution and diversification of vine snakes. The study, published in the journal Zootaxa , was carried out in collaboration with researchers S.R. Ganesh from the Chennai Snake Park, Saunak Pal from the Bombay Natural History Society, and Princia D’souza from IISc. Vine snakes are known to be among the most common snakes in peninsular India, found even in many peri-urban areas and in the Western Ghats. According to an IISc release, Asian vine snakes, distributed throughout the continent, belong to the genus Ahaetulla and  the recently described Proahaetulla . “Once the team started its research, they were surprised to discover that the common green vine snake ( Ahaetulla nasuta ) in India was a complex of several species. They found four distinct small-bodied and short-nosed species: the Northern Western Ghats vine snake ( Ahaetulla borealis ) , Farnsworth’s vine snake  ( Ahaetulla farnsworthi ) , Malabar vine snake  ( Ahaetulla malabarica )  and  Wall’s vine snake ( Ahaetulla isabellina ) in the Western Ghats rainforests alone,” said the release. These species were superficially similar in their morphology, but separated by geographic orecological barriers. The team also delineated the Travancore vine snake ( Ahaetulla travancorica ), separated by morphology and a geographic barrier from the Gunther’s vine snake ( Ahaetulla dispar ). “All the vine snakes were assigned names related to the locality or based on a morphological character, but we named the species Ahaetulla farnsworthi after my favourite mad scientist, Dr. Hubert Farnsworth from the cartoon Futurama . In fact, the snake also looks a lot like him,” Achyuthan Srikanthan, a researcher at CES who was part of the team, said. Finally, they recognised morphological distinctions between the brown vine snake in the Western Ghats and the one found in Sri Lanka, and gave the Western Ghats form a new name ( Ahaetulla sahyadrensis ). There are now six species of vine snakes endemic to the Western Ghats.
14 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Talks between Centre, Punjab farmers remain inconclusive||The deadlock between the Centre and Punjab’s farmer unions continued on Friday, with day-long talks on the eve of Deepavali ending inconclusively. The impasse has led to the stoppage of goods trains in the State afterrail rokoprotests demanded the repeal of three controversial agricultural reform laws. After more than six hours of discussions at Vigyan Bhavan in the capital, Central Ministers refused to allow the renewal of goods train services in Punjab, and farmers vowed to continue their protests by observing Saturday as a ‘Black Diwali’, and holding a mass agitation in Delhi later this month. However, both sides said they were open to further talks. “The Railways Minister said unless passenger trains are also allowed to run, goods trains services will not be permitted to resume. This amounts to an economic blockade of an entire State,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union-Ekta president Balbir Singh Rajewal, who was a leader of the farmers delegation, representing 30 protesting unions. Goods trains have not entered Punjab for one-and-a-half months now, except for two days in late October, leading to a shortage of essential goods, including fertilizers needed for wheat sowing and coal supplies for thermal plants. Farm leaders say they have vacated the tracks, but some protests still continue at stations. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said further discussions were needed, as one meeting could not resolve all the issues.
14 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Entry to Sabarimala only for those who register on portal||The number of pilgrims being allowed to the Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala during the two-month Mandalam-Makaravilakku pilgrimage season beginning November 16 will be increased proportionately taking into account those who do not turn up on the first two days of the pilgrimage after registering on the virtual portal. The entry of pilgrims from Pampa to the temple will be through the virtual queue portal. A maximum of 1,000 pilgrims will be allowed darshan during the first five days of the week, 2,000 on Saturdays and Sundays, and 5,000 on the days of Mandala Puja and Makaravilakku. Reviewing the arrangements for the pilgrimage at a meeting here on Friday, Minister for Devaswoms Kadakampally Surendran said steps would be taken to ensure social distancing. COVID-19 negative certificate would be mandatory. Those in the 60-65 age group would have to produce a medical certificate for entry. The test should be taken by pilgrims 24 hours before reaching the base camp at Nilackal. COVID-19 testing Besides setting up COVID-19 testing kiosks at Nilackal and Pampa for antigen tests, the Health Department had made arrangements at the Thiruvananthapuram Central, Thiruvalla, Chengannur, and Kottayam railway stations and at bus stations. Those testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, including those from other States, would be provided treatment till they turn negative. Arrangements had been made at government hospitals in Pathanamthitta and Kottayam and private hospitals in the two districts. Masks, sanitisers Masks would not be made compulsory for pilgrims while trekking. The Minister said the relaxation was as per the protocol that provided exemption during high physical activity. Used masks would be collected. Directions had been given to shops to make available masks and sanitisers for pilgrims and to ensure oxygen parlours and medical centres. Bathing in the Pampa river would not be allowed. Instead, showers would be installed.
14 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP rejigs leadership in States||BJP national president J.P. Nadda announced State in-charges on Friday, with former Union Minister and current BJP vice-president Radha Mohan Singh in-charge of the crucial State of Uttar Pradesh, and Kailash Vijayvargiya continuing as in-charge of poll-bound West Bengal. Newly appointed general secretary C.T. Ravi has been made the in-charge of Tamil Nadu, another poll-bound State, as well as Maharashtra and Goa. Bihar head unchanged Bihar will continue to be under the charge of BJP general secretary Bhupendra Yadav, and he will be assisted by the party’s national secretaries Harish Dwivedi and Anupam Hazra. Another national secretary of the party, Arvind Menon, and party’s national IT cell head Amit Malviya will assist Mr. Vijayvargiya in Bengal. Similarly, Sunil Ojha, party’s national secretary, Satya Kumar and Sanjeev Chaurasia will assist Radha Mohan Singh in Uttar Pradesh. Another BJP vice-president, Baijayant Panda, will be in-charge of Delhi and poll-going Assam. Party general secretary Tarun Chugh, who was earlier co-incharge of Delhi, will now look after the party’s work in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and Telangana. The party’s former general secretary, P. Muralidhar Rao, who was looking after its work in Karanataka, will now be state in-charge of Madhya Pradesh, replacing general secretary Arun Singh who was the in-charge of Odisha. Mr Singh will look after the party’s work in Rajasthan. Newly appointed general secretary D. Purandeshwari will now look after its work in Odisha. She will also be the in-charge of Chattisgarh. Mr. Yadav, who was party’s in-charge for Bihar and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home State Gujarat have been retained and also been given the responsibility of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home State Gujarat. Party’s general secretary Dushyant Gautam has been made the in-charge of Punjab, Chandigarh and Uttarakhand and Dilip Sakia of Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh. The party has made its Union Minister V. Muralidharan in-charge of Andhra Pradesh, along with Sunil Deodhar as co-in-charge.
14 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Expansionism policy of a few nations needs mature response’||President Ram Nath Kovind, while virtually addressing the valedictory session of the 60th course of National Defence College (NDC) on Friday, said that the policy of expansionism followed by some nations demands a strategic and mature response and decision makers will have to be guided by national as well as international objectives. Though the President did not name any country, his comments can be interpreted in the backdrop of growing hostility between India and China. “Decision makers have to be guided by national interests as well as international objectives, both of which should be adaptive and multi-pronged. The policy of expansionism followed by a few nations demands a strategic and matured response globally. It is in this context that the NDC deals with several such challenges and offers its course participants tools to understand the multi-dimensional geostrategic and geopolitical environment for future,” President Kovind said. Civil services Commenting on the significance of the NDC, he said, “The most significant contribution it has been making is aligning India’s Civil Services to the strategic defence thinking. Senior officers from the Civil Services join this course to improve their understanding on national and international security situation.” President Kovind, in his address, also highlighted the need to fight against terrorism and described it as the “most virulent curse on humanity”.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Police told to give back access to Power TV social media accounts||The High Court of Karnataka has directed the police to return the login credentials of the Facebook and YouTube accounts of Power TV and has held that the channel is entitled to get back seized equipment required to telecast its programmes by following due process of law before the trial court. Justice Suraj Govindaraj passed the order while partly allowing the petition filed by Rakesh Shetty, Managing Director of M/s Power Smart Media (OPC) Pvt. Ltd., which operates Power TV channel, Bengaluru.  Investigation to continue However, the court declined to quash at this stage the complaint registered against Mr. Shetty while stating that allegations and counter allegations by and against the petitioner require investigation. The High Court asked the petitioner to file application for release of seized digital equipment while pointing out that the equipment could be returned to the TV channel after collecting necessary data from them for investigation as per the law. The petitioner had questioned the legality of registration of the case based on a complaint lodged by civil contractor Chandrakantha Ramalingam on September 24 and seizure of equipment required to operate the channel and changing of login credentials of social media accounts of the channel after securing them for the purpose of investigation.   The channel had claimed that the complaint was lodged after the channel telecast programmes from September 2 onwards “exposing” alleged corruption by family members of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, including his son B.Y. Vijayendra. The channel, in its programme, had alleged that family members of Mr. Yediyurappa had received Rs. 12 crore “bribe” from Mr. Ramalingam for releasing Rs. 140 crore due to him from the Bangalore Development Authority for carrying out civil works. It was claimed in the petition that Mr. Ramalingam had lodged the complaint against the petitioner at the instance of the family members of Mr. Yediyurappa after the channel aired the programmes. Interestingly, the petitioner claimed that it was Mr. Ramalingam himself who had voluntarily shared his WhatsApp chats with the Chief Minister’s family members in relation to demand made for Rs. 12 crore and payment received by a family member.  Ramalingam’s complaint However, Mr. Ramalingam, in his complaint, alleged that Mr. Shetty in June this year had offered him to get payment from BDA using his connections as he [Mr. Shetty] was working in the office of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Mr. Shetty received Rs. 25 lakh payment in cash as commission after BDA in June released Rs. 7.79 crore of the Rs. 140 crore, and he was surprised to watch the programme against the Chief Minister’s family on the channel, the complainant alleged. However, the petitioner said he neither claimed that he was working in the office of Mr. Shah nor discussed about payments pending from BDA with the complainant or received any commission.
14 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rahul has nervous quality about him: Obama||Former United States President Barack Obama’s comment that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi was like a student who is eager to impress but lacks aptitude to master the subject prompted a terse response from the Congress on Friday that it does not comment on “an individual’s view in a book.” Mr. Obama’s memoir, A Promised Land , that was reviewed by The New York Times (NYT), talks about political leaders from across the world, including Mr. Gandhi. According to the NYT review, speaking about Mr. Gandhi, the former President wrote that the Congress leader has “a nervous, unformed quality about him, as if he were a student who’d done the coursework and was eager to impress the teacher but deep down lacked either the aptitude or the passion to master the subject.” Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh also find a mention in the memoir. “We are told of the handsomeness of men like Charlie Crist and Rahm Emanuel, but not the beauty of women, except for one or two instances, as in the case of Sonia Gandhi,” the NYT review said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted, “May I humbly remind certain overzealous friends of the Media running a sponsored agenda that we don’t comment on individual’s views in a book. In the past, a Leader has been called “psychopath” and “master divider” by people and agencies. We didn’t acknowledge such comments!”
14 November 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. may face tough deals in future polls||The most immediate fallout of the Congress’s non-performance in Bihar will be its ability to strike future alliances and bargain for seats in the next round of elections in crucial States such as West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam where polls are barely six months away. Though the Central Committee of the CPI(M) agreed to a seat-sharing arrangement with Congress in Bengal, there are calls for a rethink in some quarters. “Every party is free to decide its course of action but the Left parties should remember that in the 2019 Lok Sabha poll, we managed to win at least two seats. The Left that contested on the 42 seats in the State managed to save their deposit only in one seat,” West Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury told The Hindu on Friday. “If we fight separately, then it will impact both the parties in Bengal”, he noted. Mr. Chowdhury’s assertion comes after CPI (Marxist-Leninist) leader Dipankar Bhattacharya charged the Congress with trying to play the big brother’s role and asserted that any subservience to them would be suicidal to the Left Front in Bengal. He cited the Congress’s less than 30% strike rate in Bihar that allowed it to win only 19 of the 70 seats it contested. Mr. Chowdhury said, “Every election is different and in the 2016 Bengal Assembly elections, we were given 92 of the 294 seats. We won 44 seats. The Left Front contested 202 seats and won 33 seats”. But the Congress’s recent track record in alliances is hardly anything to be mentioned about. In the Maharashtra Assembly polls last year, it contested 147 seats but won only 44, while its ally, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), won 54 of the 121 seats it contested. In 2016, the Congress contested in 40 seats as part of the DMK-led alliance in Tamil Nadu but bagged only eight and had a strike rate of less than 20%. However, DMK’s leader in the Lok Sabha T.R. Baalu told The Hindu that there was no rethink on the alliance with the Congress. “Our alliance is very much intact, but on issues such as the number of seats, my leader will decide closer to the time of elections”, he said.
14 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Surat sets up housing project for migrants||Surat became the first city to finalise a project under the affordable rental housing scheme for migrant workers announced by the Centre in May, Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) Durga Shanker Mishra said on Friday. The Affordable Rental Housing Complex (ARHC) scheme under the Ministry’s Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Urban (PMAY-U) was announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on May 14 as a part of the government’s economic package in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Under the scheme, private firms will be given unoccupied government housing projects to refurbish and operate as rental housing. Mr. Mishra said the Surat Municipal Corporation had become the first city in the country to finalise an ARHC for migrant labourers with 393 one-bedroom flats in the city’s Sachin Area. “These flats were completed in 2014 by SUDA & lying vacant. Shripad Consultants, Surat, won the bid under Model-1 of ARHC. They retrofit, maintain & operate the complex to house migrant labour and pay Rs. 18 crore positive premium to SUDA over 25 years,” he said in a tweet. “...This will provide dignified living to migrant workers, who are coming back to cities...” Mr. Mishra said in another tweet.
14 November 2020||New Delhi,||Left slams Centre’s stimulus package||The stimulus package announced by the Centre fails to constitute a blueprint for economic revival, without any significant hikes in government expenditures or direct cash transfers to the people, the CPI(M) Polit Bureau said in a statement. The party said the government’s claim that the stimulus package announced in three instalments is equal to 15% of the GDP is wrong. “The reality is that the sum total of direct extra governmental expenditures is, by liberal estimates, Rs. 3,72,295 crores, or a mere 1.9 per cent of the GDP. This is a measly stimulus compared to other major economies in the world who have provided 10 to 15 per cent of their GDP,” the statement said. For the real picture to emerge, the CPI (M) said, the Finance Minister must tell the country what is the amount being spent by the government over and above the budgetary estimates of expenditures. “Coming a day after the RBI’s severe indictment that the Indian economy is in a deep recession for the first time in history, this announcement fails to constitute a blueprint for economic revival,” the party said. CPI General Secretary D. Raja said, “The so-called announcement, once again, is targeted to help the corporate houses. There is nothing in the package to address the problems of unemployment.”
14 November 2020||Srinagar,||NC leader barred from going abroad||Senior National Conference (NC) leader and former legislator Altaf Ahmad Wani alias Kaloo was stopped at the Indira Gandhi International Airport, Delhi, on Thursday afternoon and “not allowed” to travel to Dubai. “I was travelling along with my family to attend my niece’s engagement in Dubai. I had an evening flight to catch. I was stopped at the immigration for over four hours and finally told I am barred from travelling outside the country,” he told The Hindu . Mr. Wani said the immigration officials informed him that he can’t leave the country till March 2021. “It seems the Ministry of Home Affairs [MHA] has barred mainstream political parties from travelling abroad... They should make public the list of leaders barred from travelling to save them time and money,” he stated.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Month-long window||Investors in I-Monetary Advisory (IMA) who have lost money have to apply for claimsbetween November 25 and December 24, 2020. No claims will be entertained beyond that, Harsh Gupta, Special Officer and Competent Authority, IMA Scam, said. The claims have to be submitted online (imaclaims. karnataka. gov.in). To weed out middlemen, this facility has also been made available at BangaloreOne/KarnatakaOne and Atal Jana Snehi Kendras across the State, he added. The competent authority has conducted an audit of IMA books and has a list of depositors. If the details given by the claimants match with those in the database, they need not submit any proof. If there is a discrepancy, claimants need to submit receipts of their deposits. If the depositor is dead or hospitalised, a claim application can be filed by the nominee or legal heir supported with all necessary documents.
14 November 2020||Chennai,||T.N. govt. orders inquiry against Anna varsity V-C||The Tamil Nadu government has appointed retired Madras High Court judge P. Kalaiyarasan as the inquiry officer to go into complaints of financial and administrative irregularities levelled by certain individuals against Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa. This is the first time a former judge will probe charges against the Vice-Chancellor of the premier university. Previously, a retired judge had probed some charges against P. Mannar Jawahar after his tenure as Vice-Chancellor ended, and exonerated him. Expressing shock, Mr. Surappa, who has been at odds with the government on certain key issues, told The Hindu that there was not a speck of truth in the allegations against him. The Anna University Teachers’ Association issued a statement in his defence. But the government order, dated November 11, said that since “prima facie” the allegations “are serious in nature”, the government decided to conduct an inquiry. According to the order, A. Suresh of Tiruchi sent a complaint to the Chief Minister’s Special Cell in February last, claiming that Sakthinathan, Deputy Director, Centre for Constituent Colleges, and Prof. Surappa were involved in corruption to the tune of Rs. 200 crore.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,||HC restrains KPCL from continuing survey in Sharavathi sanctuary||The Karnataka High Court onFriday restrained till further orders the Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd. (KPCL) from continuing the survey and geotechnical works undertaken at Sharavathi Valley Lion-Tailed Macaque Sanctuary for a 2,000-MW underground pump storage hydro-electric project. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty, passed the interim order on the two PIL petitions challenging the permission granted under Section 29 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act for conducting a survey and geotechnical works inside the sanctuary. The Bench observed that “prima facie both the State Board for Wildlife and the Standing Committee of the National Board of WildlLife have not applied their mind on impact on the habitats of sanctuary in carrying out the survey work by drilling boreholes”. Though KPCL had said that substantial work of survey through drilling of boreholes was completed as of October 16, when the KPCL voluntarily decided to halt the works till court considered the matter, the Bench said that no material had been produced before the court to claim that substantial work on drilling boreholes had been completed. The pleas were filed by EdwardSantosh Martin, a conservationist, and United Conservation Movement Charit- able and WelfareTrust.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||6 civilians among 11 dead in Pak. firing||“Five injured civilians were shifted to Srinagar's Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) hospital,” he added. Deputy Commissioner of Baramulla, A BSF spokesman said Sub-Inspector Takesh Doval was also killed and another jawan injured when a mortar shell exploded in Baramulla’s Uri. Five civilians were injured in north Kashmir’s Bandipora when shelling hit the Bagtore Sector in Gurez. “All the five injured are stable,” an official said. At least seven civilians were reported injured in the Sawjian Sector in the Pir Panjal's Poonch in Pakistan shelling. “A bus stand was hit by the shelling, leaving the civilians injured,” an official in Poonch said. Meanwhile, a Srinagar-based Army spokesman said suspicious movement of infiltrators was also observed at the forward posts along the LoC in the Keran Sector on Friday. “This was accompanied by initiation of an unprovoked ceasefire violation by Pakistan along the LoC in Keran Sector. A befitting response is being given,” the Army said. Parties condemn firing The National Conference has demanded an immediate end to such skirmishes. “It is the people of J&K, especially those living on both sides of the LoC or international border who have to face the brunt of skirmishes between the two countries. It’s really saddening to witness innocent lives being devoured like this. We call upon both the countries to immediately stop cross border shelling,” a NC spokesman said. Peoples Conference chief Sajad Lone termed the shelling as “modern day barbarism”. “My prayers with the hapless inhabitants of these areas. May sanity prevail,” Mr. Lone, also spokesman of the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, said.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Ensure that only green crackers are sold: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the State government to strictly ensure that only “green firecrackers”, containing the distinct, green logo of CSIR-NEERI and PESO, and a Quick Response (QR) code on their packaging, are sold across the State. The court also directed authorised officers, the police, and local authorities such as city corporations, municipalities, and the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) to regularly inspect stalls selling crackers to ensure only “green firecrackers” were being sold.  ‘Give wide publicity’  To increase awareness about “green firecrackers”, the court asked the government to give wide publicity through various media platforms, including new channels on television and social media. It said the public should be requested to check for the green logo and QR code before making cracker purchases. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued the directions after the government, acting on Thursday’s observation of the court, issued a notification explaining what constitutes “green” crackers and how they can be identified, late Thursday night. The Bench, during a hearing on Thursday, had pointed out that the government’s order of allowing only “green firecrackers” was “ineffective” as its did not specify what such crackers were and how the public could identify them. “The green firecracker packing can be identified through the distinct, green logo of the National Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Environmental Engineering Research Institute (CSIR-NEERI) and Petroleum and Explosive Safety Organisation (PESO), as well as QR code system. The QR code is a novel feature incorporated on the firecrackers to avoid manufacture of and sale of counterfeit products,” the government said in the Thursday night notification, submitted to the court. “The green firecrackers are those manufactured based on chemical formulation developed by the CSIR-NEERI and PESO, and they don’t contain harmful chemicals, thereby reducing air pollution... The general ‘green crackers’ are available as sparklers, flowerpots, maroons, etc.,” the government’s November 13 notification clarified. Reiterating its Thursday’s observation that stringent order banning crackers as pleaded by the petitioners — A.S. Vishnu Bharath of Bengaluru and Samarpana, a social organisation — cannot be issued as the petitioners had approached the court in the eleventh hour, the Bench adjourned hearing till November 23, directing the State and its authorities to enforce air and noise pollution control norms, and sale and use of only “green firecrackers”.
14 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Orthodox Church quits peace talks in Kerala||The attempt by the State government to broker peace between the Orthodox and Jacobite factions of the Malankara Church has suffered a blow with the former announcing its decision to withdraw from the talks initiated by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Addressing mediapersons here on Friday, Church leaders held that the submission of affidavits by the Home Secretary and the Ernakulam District Collector in the High Court in connection with the Kothamangalam Marthoman church case was a move against the Orthodox Church. With this, the role of the bureaucracy in the ‘politically motivated movement’ against the Orthodox Church had become all the more evident, they said. ‘Eye on election’ “The Orthodox Church would like to know whether the Home Secretary had submitted this affidavit with the knowledge of the Chief Minister. Church members understand that the government is postponing the execution of the court order, by filing leave petitions, with an eye on the election,” said Yuhanon Mar Diascoros, Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church Episcopal Synod secretary. He accused the State government and the Ernakulam Collector of taking a stance against the Orthodox faction and doubted whether the government was colluding with the Patriarch (Jacobite) faction. “That the Home Department, which is not even a party in this case, submitted an affidavit in connection with the Kothamangalam church case is incomprehensible,” he said. The Church further said the Additional Chief Secretary and the Ernakulam Collector submitted in the High Court decisions that had never been approved by it during the peace talks in the presence of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. ‘Bid to mislead court’ “The officials are attempting to mislead the court, thereby challenging the judicial system. The Orthodox Church takes a serious note of these actions, which are politically motivated. The government has lost is credibility by furnishing such forged documents,” read a statement by the Orthodox Church. ‘No understanding yet’ It clarified that the discussions led by the Chief Minister had never arrived at an understanding to stop or put on hold the proceedings. “With the Patriarch faction taking a stand that they are unwilling to restore peace as per the Supreme Court order and will not cooperate in implementing the court order, we have decided not to proceed with peace talks,” they said. Thomas Mar Athanasius, Gabriel Mar Gregorios and Orthodox Church association secretary Biju Oommen were present.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Kodiyeri goes on indefinite medical leave||Communist Party of India (Marxist) Kerala secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has gone on a leave of absence for medical treatment. A press release issued by the CPI(M) State secretariat here on Friday said Left Democratic Front (LDF) convener A. Vijayaraghavan would officiate as the party State secretary in Mr. Balakrishnan's stead. The CPI(M) has not set any date for Mr. Balakrishnan's return, triggering speculation that his going on leave presaged a “rectification campaign” in the party in the run-up to the local body and State Assembly elections. However, Mr. Vijayaraghavan denied the notion, saying it was an unfounded rumour. The Congress and BJP spared no effort to link Mr. Balakrishnan's “exit” to the arrest of his son Bineesh on drug trafficking-related money laundering charges by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Bengaluru in August. Leaders of both parties suggested that Mr. Balakrishnan had come under pressure from within the CPI(M) to “step down”. His “departure” had vindicated their stance, they said. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said it had belatedly dawned on CPI(M) that the case against Bineesh had become a liability for the rank and file members.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Kunal Kamra refuses to apologise, retract tweets||Stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra refused to apologise or retract his tweets on the Supreme Court a day after Attorney General K.K. Venugopal consented to multiple requests for criminal contempt action against him. Mr. Kamra reacted in a tweet, titled ‘no lawyers, no apology, no fine, no waste of space’. In a note attached to the tweet and addressed to “Dear Judges, Mr. KK Venugopal”, Mr. Kamra said his tweets are his view. “I believe they speak for themselves,” he wrote.  Mr. Kamra’s tweets concerned the Supreme Court decision to grant interim bail to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami on November 11. “My view has not changed because the silence of the Supreme Court of India on matters of other’s personal liberty cannot go uncriticised. I don’t intend to retract my tweets or apologise for them,” his note on Twitter read. The comedian said he wished to “volunteer” the time that may be allotted for hearing his contempt case to others “who have not been as lucky and privileged as I am to jump the queue”. “May I suggest the demonetisation petition, the petition challenging the revocation of J&K’s special status, the matter of the legality of electoral bonds or countless other matters that are more deserving of time and attention,” he wrote. On Friday, a group of lawyers and law students filed a joint criminal contempt petition against Mr. Kamra based on the consent from the Attorney General. Mr. Venugopal, in his consent letter, had opined that certain tweets of Mr. Kamra’s “clearly cross the line between humour and contempt of court”.
14 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||Journalist found dead in U.P.; SI, constable booked||A woman sub-inspector (SI) and a male constable were booked for alleged murder after a journalist was found dead on the railway tracks in Uttar Pradesh’s (U.P.) Unnao late on Thursday. The police, however, said prima facie it appeared to be a case of suicide. A case was lodged under Section 302 (murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code after the family of the journalist Suraj Pandey alleged that he was murdered by the two police personnel. On Thursday, Mr. Pandey had left home in the morning, but soon went missing and his phone remained ‘unreachable’, said his uncle. Then, around 5 p.m., the family got information about his death. “He has been murdered,” said Mr. Pandey’s uncle. “Someone had come [in the morning] to take him somewhere. If CCTV footage is checked, the person who took him would be found to be the person who committed the murder,” he told reporters. SP Unnao, Sureshrao A. Kulkarni, said a case was lodged against the woman SI Sunita Chaurasia, her driver Amar Singh, and a constable, after the family alleged that the two had threatened and murdered Mr. Pandey. The SI had been in touch with the journalist, Mr. Kulkarni said.
14 November 2020||Kolkata,||‘Political opponents are being falsely implicated’||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Friday alleged that political opponents to the ruling party in West Bengal are being falsely implicated in criminal cases, including under the NDPS Act. In a series of tweets, Mr. Dhankhar said such “dastardly barbaric acts have no place in democracy”. “Concerned at inputs of vigorous moves #PurbaMedinipur and elsewhere to falsely implicate political opponents in criminal cases including under NDPS Act. All @MamataOfficial@WBPolice@HomeBengal are alerted to curb this criminality...” he tweeted. “Details of all NDPS cases @MamataOfficial since 2011 being sought and every case now would be under scanner. Concerned @WBPolice @HomeBengal are alerted of consequences of engaging in such political hatchet work that is grave crime...” he tweeted. The Trinamool Congress leadership dismissed the allegations saying that he is denigrating his high office and speaking like a spokesperson of the BJP.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Air pollution, cold lethal for COVID-19 patients’||Across India, 547 COVID fatalities have been reported in the past 24 hours, along with 44,878 new cases. Also, the total number of recoveries stands at 81,15,580 with 49,079 new discharges in the same time period. Doctors said that due to low temperatures and increased air pollution, particulate matter remains suspended in the air for a longer period and this increases the transmissability of the novel coronavirus, making people more vulnerable to the disease. “The second mechanism linking increased COVID-cases and mortality due to air pollution is that exposure to polluted air is known to cause inflammation and cellular damage, making it easy for the virus or any other pathogenic microbe to invade our lungs,” Vivek Nangia, principal director and head of pulmonology at the Max Super Speciality Hospital in Saket in Delhi said. Warning that the seasonal north Indian winter smog is here and poor quality air causes inflammation in the lungs, making people more vulnerable to breathing-related ailments, Vivek Nangia, Principal Director and Head of Pulmonology at the Max Super Speciality Hospital in Saket in Delhi said: “We see a rise of about 15-20 % in the cases both in OPD and emergency due to respiratory and cardiac ailments.” “Many people encounter acute exacerbations of their asthma and COPDs. This year the situation is compounded by the ongoing COVID pandemic,” he added.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Venkanna to be nominated to Council||The three who were recommended to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan for nomination will fill vacancies of former Home Minister Nayani Narasimha Reddy, Karne Prabhakar and Ramulu Naik. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao did a balancing act to give representation to SCs (Venkanna), BCs (Saraiah) and OCs (Dayanand). While Mr. Venkanna was a leading figure in the cultural troupes that were active in the separate Telangana movement, Mr. Saraiah had been aspiring for a post ever since he joined TRS after he quit Congress four years ago. Mr. Dayanand was a Deputy Director (Protocol) who took voluntary retirement in 2003 and joined the Telugu Desam. He was with TRS since 2014.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka to open medical colleges in Dec.||The State government has decided to reopen all medical, dental, AYUSH, paramedical, nursing, and pharmacy colleges affiliated to the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) from December 1. Minister for Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education K. Sudhakar has requested the administration of all colleges and students to strictly adhere to the guidelines issued by the government. ‘Strictly adhere’ Mr Sudhakar tweeted: “Karnataka Government has decided to reopen all the medical, dental, AYUSH, paramedical, nursing and pharmacy colleges affiliated to RGUHS from 1st December. I request the administration of colleges & students 2 strictly adhere to the guidelines issued by the government”. The Higher Education Department has already formulated Standard Operating Procedure as per the University Grants Commission guidelines, in view of the opening of degree, engineering, and diploma colleges in the State from November 17. Already, the Union government has issued guidelines for allowing opening research laboratories and libraries in universities and educational institutions of higher research.
14 November 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. BJP to train recruits in ideology||The Bharatiya Janata Party and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh will organise training camps for party workers, including new entrants such as supporters of Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, in their ideologies, histories and goals. “Party workers will be trained so that our organisation becomes more robust and is expanded, and the workers are ideologically stronger,” said State BJP president V.D. Sharma. “During the training, they will get to know about the formation of the BJP, its background and its purpose.” Training camps will be organised from November 25 to December 15 in the State’s 1,059 mandals on the direction of the party’s central leadership. “In these camps, party workers will get training on the party’s policy, election management, media and social media,” said a party official. From the grassroots Further, Mr. Sharma said Deendayal Upadhyaya had founded the Jana Sangh and given the idea of ‘Integral Humanism’, which was adopted by the BJP that became the world’s largest political party. “The workers will understand how to take this idea to the grassroots and uplift society through government,” he added. On November 10, the BJP won 19 seats in the Assembly byelection. Eighteen BJP winners were earlier Congress legislators.
14 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha man back after 20 years in Pak.||A resident of Odisha’s Sundargarh district who had accidentally crossed over to Pakistan and spent 20 years in the Lahore jail was brought back home on Friday. The man, identified as Birju Kullu, was accorded an emotional welcome in his village Jangateili under Kutra block. He is in his fifties. To bring him back, the Sundargarh district administration had sent a vehicle to Amritsar where he was admitted in a hospital upon testing positive for COVID-19. ‘Unstable condition’ Pakistani authorities had handed him over to their Indian counterparts in the month of October after his jail term. According to his family, he had gone to work in a hotel in Jharkhand about 25 years ago. Mr. Kullu disappeared from there under mysterious circumstances. Since then, his family had no clue about his condition and had lost hopes for his return. When the Sundargarh police was informed about Mr. Kullu, his family members were identified. Police said Mr. Kullu appeared unstable and was unable to describe as to how he had crossed the international border and got caught by Pakistan security forces. They only answer he managed to give was that he was picked by men in uniform. “This is his new life. We had lost all hopes for his return. We are very happy,” said his sister.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Fire power||
14 November 2020||Mumbai,||NCB questions Arjun Rampal, arrests friend||Bollywood actor Arjun Rampal was questioned by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday in connection with a drug case while his friend has been arrested, an official said. Mr. Rampal, who was initially summoned by the central agency on Wednesday, arrived at the NCB’s zonal office at Ballard Estate, south Mumbai, around 11 a.m. The 47-year-old model-turned-actor is being questioned in connection with the case related to alleged drug use in the Hindi film industry, the official said. ‘Prescription medicine’ “I have nothing to do with drugs. I have prescription for the medicine which was found at my residence and the prescription has been handed over to NCB officials,” Mr. Rampal told reporters. “I am cooperating with the investigation and the NCB officials are doing a good job,” he said while leaving from the NCB’s office at around 6 p.m. Mr. Rampal’s friend Paul Bartel, a foreign national, has been arrested by the NCB, said the official. Mr. Bartel was arrested on Thursday after interrogation, he said. The actor’s partner, Gabriella Demetriades, was questioned by NCB officials for two consecutive days. The agency had questioned her for almost six hours each on Wednesday and Thursday. It had summoned Mr. Rampal and Ms. Demetriades after conducting a search at the actor’s residence in suburban Bandra on Monday. The probe agency had seized electronic gadgets like laptops, mobile phones and tablets during the search and also questioned Mr. Rampal’s driver. A day before the search at Mr. Rampal’s house, the NCB had arrested Bollywood producer Firoz Nadiadwala’s wife after ganja was allegedly found at their residence in suburban Juhu. She was later granted bail by a city court. The NCB launched the probe into alleged drug use in Bollywood after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June.
14 November 2020||Indore,||Fresh case filed against M.P. godman||A fresh case has been registered against self-styled godman Namdeo Das Tyagi, for allegedly manhandling a panchayat staff member before the demolition of alleged illegal construction at his ashram near here, police said on Friday. Mr. Tyagi, 54, popularly known as ‘Computer Baba’, is currently in jail after he was arrested in preventive action when the administration was removing encroachment from government land in Jamburdi Hapsi village near Indore on Sunday. Re-arrested The godman has been booked in a fresh case and formally re-arrested in jail, following a complaint from the secretary of a village panchayat under the Gandhinagar police station area, said Additional Superintendent of Police Prashant Choubey. The complaint stated that Mr. Tyagi and his associates had allegedly abused, manhandled and ill-treated a panchayat staff member, who had gone to free government land from his possession on Sunday, the official said. The case was registered under relevant Sections of the IPC on Thursday, the ASP said. The sub-divisional magistrate court had rejected the godman’s bail plea, following which an additional sessions judge also scrapped his review petition. Mr. Tyagi enjoyed Minister of State status in the previous Congress government in Madhya Pradesh, and was appointed chairman of a river conservation trust. The authorities said they have freed 40,000 sq. ft of land worth Rs. 13 crore from alleged encroachment by Mr. Tyagi.
14 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha rights body pulls up 2 police officers||The Odisha Human Rights Commission pulled up two police officers in two separate cases for allegedly filing a false murder case and indulging in custodial torture. While the rights panel imposed a penalty of Rs. 5 lakh on Prakash Kumar Karna, whose false murder charges led to two youths spending eight months in jail, it directed the State government not to give police station duty to Sandhyarani Jena, a police inspector, who was captured in a video beating up a man inside the police station. After one Jitu Dandasena, a 19-year-old youth of Piplipali village under Paikmal Police station of Bargarh district, went missing in December 2016, his father had lodged a complaint with the Paikmal police station. Mr. Karna, who was the then investigating officer, arrested two persons — Halu Gurla and Raghab Naik — in June 2017 on charges of killing the youth. Ironically, the police did not find his body. The two youths were reportedly coerced into ‘confessing’ to the murder of the missing youth. A chargesheet was also filed in the court. Man returns home However, Jitu Dandasena, who was killed, as claimed by the investigating officer, returned home in May 2018. He then said that the accused had actually attacked him. They left him when he fell unconscious. Subsequently, he fled to Delhi to work there. “Extraction of a confession self-implicating a person in an offence which he has not committed shows the amount of pressure, may be physical or psychological, undergone by the victims and looking at the conduct of the investigating official, we do not rule out the extraction of confessional statement by means of physical assault and use of force during police custody. Otherwise, a person cannot self-implicate himself in a case where in trial, it may take him to the gallows,” the panel said. The Commission’s chairperson, Justice B.P. Das, and member Asim Amitabh Dash directed the investigating officer to pay Rs. 2.5 lakh as compensation to each of the youths. Custodial violence The panel also found Sandhyarani Jena, former inspector of Patna police station in Keonjhar district, guilty of custodial violence. It directed that she should not be given any field duty for a period of two years. The errant police officer should also be sent for training to learn about how to deal with accused persons, it said.
14 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,||Farmer killed in attack by jumbos in A.P.||A farmer was killed when a herd of elephants attacked him at Parusarampuram village of Komarada mandal in Vizianagaram district in the early hours of Friday. The incident occurred when the farmer, Raghumanda Lakshminaidu (50), went to the fields for farming activity. The farmer, unaware of the presence of the elephants in the nearby fields, was working when he was attacked. He died on the spot. Following a directive by Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal, forest officials rushed to the spot and assured the kin of the deceased of extending financial assistance. So far, six persons were killed by the wild animals in Vizianagaram district alone. In spite of several coordination meetings, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha governments could not find a permanent solution to the ‘jumbo’ issue. Four elephants have been moving in the tribal habitations of Komarada, Jiyyammavalasa and other places for the past sometime.  Farmers are unhappy with the Forest Department over delay in payment of compensation for the crops damaged by elephants. The forest officials cited delay in getting damage assessment reports from the Revenue Department as the reason for not paying the amount in time. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Pamula Pushpa Srivani promised to extend help to the family of Lakshminaidu.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Ravi Belagere dead||Journalist and Kannada writer Ravi Belagere, 62, died of a cardiac arrest early on Friday. The owner and editor of Hai Bangalore, a Kannada tabloid started in 1995, Mr. Belagere was a novelist and a translator as well. He also started Prarthana, a school in South Bengaluru. Mr. Belagere’s tabloid was widely read for its extensive coverage of the underworld. His columns such as Love Lavike , Khaas Baat, and Paapigala Lokadalli were popular. Many of them were brought out as books. He hailed from the border district of Ballari and translated several Telugu works. He also translated works from English to Kannada. Mr. Belagere wrote over 70 books in all. He adapted classics such as Gabriel Garcia Marquez’s Love in the Time of Cholera and Mario Puzo’s The Godfather into Kannada, setting them in Ballari and Bengaluru, respectively. He was awarded the Karnataka Sahitya Akademi award for his short story collection Pa.Vem. Helida Kathe and was the recipient of the Rajyotsava Award in 2010. He constantly found himself embroiled in controversies. He was pulled up in 2017 by the Karnataka Assembly for his “defamatory writings” against Congress MLA B.M. Nagaraj and BJP MLA S.R. Vishwanath. He eventually got relief from the High Court of Karnataka in the case. He was also imprisoned for a failed attempt to allegedly get journalist Sunil Heggaravalli killed.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,||IMA scam: Value of attached properties is one-third of outstanding claims||The value of properties attached in connection with the I-Monetary Advisory (IMA) scam stands at Rs. 475 crore, only a third of the estimated outstanding claims of Rs. 1,400 crore, officials said.
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK creates three more district units||The AIADMK on Thursday announced the re-organisation of three more district units. In Tiruppur, where the party till now had two districts units, one more had been formed. Tiruppur (rural) had been divided into two – west and east. Deputy Speaker Pollachi V. Jayaraman, who was the secretary for the undivided Tiruppur (rural) unit, had been shifted to Tiruppur (urban) while Animal Husbandry Minister Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan and former MP. C. Mahendran would be in charge of Tiruppur (rural–west) and Tiruppur (rural–east) respectively. Former Minister M.S.M. Anandan, who was the secretary for Tiruppur (urban) until now, had been made an organisation secretary of the party. Other districts that had been bifurcated were Pudukottai (north & south) and Virudhunagar (west and east). P.K. Vairamuthu, the secretary of the undivided Pudukottai district unit, would now look after Pudukottai (south) and Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Pudukottai (north). Dairy Development Minister,K. T. Rajenthira Bhalaji, who was in charge of the Virudhunagar district since July, had been made secretary of the Virdhunagar (west) unit while E. Ravichandran, secretary of the Narikudi (east) panchayat union, would look after Virudhunagar (east). Till March this year, the Dairy Development Minister was the secretary of the undivided district unit. With this, the number of district units in the AIADMK have gone up to 73. Following the death of Agriculture Minister R. Doraikkannu who was secretary of the Thanjavur (north) unit, R. Vaithilingam, deputy coordinator and secretary of Thanjavur (south), had been given the additional charge of the other unit. The party also named office-bearers for the party’s labour wing, non-formal drivers’ wing, women’s wing and advocates’ wing. Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar, who was the secretary of Anna Thozhirsanga Peravai (ATP), had been relieved of the post, which would be handled by R. Kamalakannan, till now secretary of the non-formal drivers’ wing. Poll panel The party also announced the formation of committees for election manifesto, poll campaign, interaction with the media, preparation of responses to charges of the Opposition and the media coordinators. Also, it divided the State into 29 zones and appointed point persons for each. Sixteen Ministers, including K.A. Sengottaiyan, K. Pandiarajan, D. Jayakumar and C.Ve. Shanmugam, were among the 29 point persons. For Puducherry, Mettur legislator S. Semmalai and Industries Minister M. C. Sampath had been made point persons. Puducherry unit Meanwhile, the Puducherry unit too had been divided into two – east and west. Legislator A. Anbalagan would handle the east unit and Om Sakthi Sekar, the west unit. All the announcements were made in releases issued by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami (co-coordinator) and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam (coordinator).
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Health Secretary pays a visit to RGGGH, interacts with patients||Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan visited the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Friday and interacted with patients admitted for COVID-19 treatment. The official spent two hours at the hospital and was accompanied by Dean E. Theranirajan. Dr. Radhakrishnan also spoke with the hospital employees and doctors. The aim of the visit was to appreciate the doctors, nurses, paramedical and conservancy staff, who despite the festival continued to work round-the-clock. He also inspected the third floor in the new tower block, where an additional 120 oxygen beds have been prepared. This will include 50 additional ICU beds.
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ophthalmologists see spike in diabetic retinopathy, myopia||Ophthalmologists have started handling children and adults presenting themselves in clinics with common and some hitherto rare conditions. The prolonged lockdown has led to complications such as untreated glaucoma and cataract. Diabetics who have not checked their glucose levels have to deal with diabetic retinopathy. Cases of myopia have also increased with the constant use of electronic gadgets or long hours spent on computers, doctors said. “It is known that COVID-19 causes conjunctivitis, otherwise called Madras Eye,” said T.S. Surendran, director of paediatric ophthalmology at Sankara Nethralaya. “Post-lockdown, we did see more incidence of myopia owing to the excessive use of gadgets. In children who are already myopic, there was a jump,” he said. K. Vasantha, former director of the Government Eye Hospital, said: “By now, most of us know that a block in the blood vessels is the major cause for the organs getting affected in the coronavirus infection. Even after recuperation from the initial infection, other ailments are being reported. In the eye, blocks in the retinal veins and arteries are being encountered. Both will affect sight, sometimes permanently. I have been asked for a second opinion on a patient who had a melt in the cornea, with secondary infection in both eyes. Organisms have been isolated from the conjunctiva of the patient with the COVID-19 infection. But this is only in 4% or 5% of the people. One should remember that the virus may spread from tear fluid also.” Mohan Rajan, of Rajan Eye Care Hospital, said some of his patients suffered from occlusion of the retinal blood vessels. “The arteries and veins of the retina are exposed to the same pathological processes, and this affects the ocular circulation as well,” he said. Some people complained of double vision and drooping of the eye lid post-infection. This occurred owing to the paralysis of the nerves in the eyes, he said. No regular checks As people feared getting infected they neglected regular checks, resulting in the worsening of diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma, age-related macular degeneration and cataract. Maintaining good eye health during the pandemic is important, Dr. Mohan Rajan said. “If you wear contact lenses, consider switching to glasses. Use protective eyewear to prevent virus-laden aerosols. Wash hands with soap and water before and after touching the face and the eyes. If you experience a sudden vision loss or pain in the eye, contact your ophthalmologist as soon as possible,” Dr. Mohan Rajan said.
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No truth in allegations, says V-C||Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa said the allegations levelled against him did not have a speck of truth in them. He said he came to know of the inquiry commission only from news channels. “I came to know from news broadcast that a commission has been constituted against me. Later, the registrar sent me a copy of the order. I am surprised and appalled by the way in which it has been taken up and [allegations] levelled without even verifying the bonafide of the people who made the complaint. It looks like an anonymous complaint. Some of these complaints and allegations are completely false. There is not even a stray speck of truthfulness in them,” he said. On the complaint that his daughter was appointed to the university, he said: “My daughter is working at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. When we moved here [Anna University], the intellectual property cell [in the university] requested her services, and we sent her in honorary capacity. She worked for six months with the intellectual property cell of the Anna University. They made use of her services without paying her anything.” On the allegation that he had made Rs. 280 crore after taking over as the university’s V-C, he said; “I do not know how they arrived at this amount. I have no idea about it.” He refused to comment on why the State government had decided to constitute a commission, when there were just few months left for his tenure to end.
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three suspects in Sowcarpet triple murder nabbed||Three persons who fled after committing a triple murder in Sowcarpet have been apprehended by a special team of police personnel near Solapur, Maharashtra. Late on Wednesday, Dileep Thalil Chand, 74, who ran a finance firm and his wife Pushpa Bhai, 68, and their son, Shithal Kumar, 42, natives of Rajasthan, were found dead in their house on the first floor of a three-storey residential apartment on Vinayaga Maestri Street in Sowcarpet. The police said they were gunned down by unidentified assailants. Five special teams were formed to trace the suspects City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal said, “Since the accused are from Pune, we contacted the Pune police and also sought assistance from Solapur, since it was identified as their location. We have conducted an interstate operation with the assistance from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra. They will be brought to the city after obtaining a transit remand from the local court.” At 3.30 a.m. on Friday, the special team led by inspector P. Jawahar and Sub-inspector Ashok spotted the suspects inside a car near Solapur. The team gave chase and intercepted it. The suspects Kalaish, 32, a brother of the prime accused Jayamala (daughter-in-law of Dileep Thalil Chand), and his associates, Ravindranath Kher, 25, of Kolkata, and Vijay Uttham Kamal, 28, of Pune, were apprehended. Jayamala, from Pune, and Shithal Kumar got married ten years ago. She complained of harassment, and was estranged from her husband since last January. She was living at her parents’ home in Pune with her two children. The Commissioner said both sides had preferred criminal complaints against each other in Chennai and Pune. “It is a planned murder. They brought the weapons from Pune,” Mr. Aggarwal said. He added that three more persons, including Jayamala, her brother Vilash and one more suspect, who are still at large, would soon be apprehended. Police recovered two weapons including a .32 bore revolver from Kailash and other suspects. Kailash allegedly confessed that Jayamala was harassed by the family for a long time. Annoyed over her in-laws filing a case against her, Jayamala and her brothers came down with three others. Kailash and one of his friends shot down the family before fleeing.
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||WRD unveils plans to quench Chennai’s thirst||With its avowed mission of making Chennai a water-resilient city, the Water Resources Department proposes to augment water supply by conserving nearly 7.26 tmc ft of water and prevent flooding of several areas. It has submitted a detailed project report seeking World Bank funding under the Chennai City Partnership Programme. The 17 projects chalked out by the department are set to address the twin issues of droughts and floods experienced by the city. The projects, with a combined outlay of Rs. 464 crore, will cover the Adyar, Cooum and Kosasthalaiyar river basins. One of the key projects is to build a barrage across the Adyar near Thiruneermalai and provide headwork to pump water and transfer it to Chembarambakkam treatment plant, the reservoir or to the Sikkarayapuram abandoned quarries, where water is stored for city supply. Moreover, flood water from the southern tributaries of the Adyar stored in Orathur reservoir and check dams across the river in Varadarajapuram and Somangalam would be linked to Chembarambakkam through this infrastructure. “We will be able to augment city water supply by up to 2 tmc ft through this project alone. The water pumped would be sent to Chembarambakkam or Sikkarayapuram through a 6.5-km-long pipeline,” said an official. Based on the model study, the department plans to boost water supply and mitigate floods through various strategies such as intra-basin transfer, construction of barrages or riverine reservoirs, improving storage capacity of tanks and conservation of flood water in rivers. For instance, construction of a barrage across the Palar near Padalam-Udayambakkam and Chengalpattu would help conserve 1 tmcft of flood water and divert it for Chennai’s needs. Some dilapidated check dams on the Kosasthalaiyar and Cooum, including in Velliyur and Sorancheri respectively, would be reconstructed for groundwater recharge. “We will be able to enhance groundwater potential and tap 180 million litres a day through well fields in the region near Kosasthalaiyar through the proposed projects,” another official said. Moreover, restoring storage capacity of a cascade group of tanks, including Tiruninravur, Thandurai and Sekkadu, would help the surplus water reach the water body in Retteri.
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘There will be no change in alliance’||P. Thangamani, Electricity Minister and the ruling party’s face in Namakkal district, is regarded as a key figure in the AIADMK regime, ever since Edappadi K. Palaniswami became the Chief Minister in February, 2017. He has been made the lead member of the party’s media panel. In an interview, he asserts that there is no anti-incumbency, and the party’s existing alliance will continue in 2021. Excerpts:  What are the main challenges facing your party in the run up to Assembly election? What will be the focal point of your party’s campaign? The [AIADMK] government, in the last 10 years, particularly in the last 4 years, has done very well. To tell you frankly, I do not see any challenge for my party. The government’s performance on development, easy accessibility of the Chief Minister and Ministers, the Chief Minister’s pro-farmer image, and COVID-19 management will all favour my party. Our campaign will definitely be based on the development plank. Besides, in the party too, several committees have been constituted [to oversee election work] and zonal point-persons appointed. We have gone beyond those issues [which arose as part of the debate on the party’s nominee for the post of Chief Minister]. Do you think that anti-incumbency, on account of being in power for 10 years, the absence of Jayalalithaa and the perception of the BJP calling the shots in the State will affect your party's chances? The fact that we have been in power for 10 years is going to be our plus point. There is no anti-incumbency because of our good governance. As far as my party is concerned, there are no two opinions that only when there are cordial relations between the Central and State government, the State will stand to gain heavily. At the same time, we [my party] have never given up our individuality on issues that affect the State. We are following the policy of Amma [Jayalalithaa]. As for the alliance, there is no problem. What is the message that you draw from the results of Bihar elections? Opposition parties have been carrying on a false campaign about the way COVID-19 is being handled. But this verdict illustrates that the Central and State governments have done well on this front. Our showing on the COVID-19 management is as good as a developed country. Do you expect addition of allies or changes in the present coalition? As I see, there will be no change in the existing alignment of forces. The same coalition will continue. Will there be a coalition government in the State after the Assembly polls? No. The policy followed by Thalaviar [M.G. Ramachandran] and Amma will continue  Besides, in the party too, several committees have been constituted [to oversee election work] and zonal point-persons appointed
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s daily case count drops under 2,000||As many as 1,939 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, taking the State’s tally to 7,54,460.  At the same time, 2,572 persons were discharged from various health facilities after treatment. The number of those discharged after treatment stood at 7,25,258. The State also recorded 14 deaths, taking its toll to 11,454. Chennai reported 512 cases, while as many as 687 persons were discharged after treatment. It also witnessed five deaths owing to the infection. So far, 2,07,686 persons have tested positive for the infection, 1,98,459 have been discharged and 3,758 persons have succumbed to the infection in the city. As of Friday, 5,469 persons are under treatment in Chennai, the Directorate of Public Health’s daily bulletin stated. Apart from Chennai, Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Tiruvallur and Salem, all other districts recorded cases in double digits. Tenkasi, Perambalur and Ariyalur saw just three, four and six new infections respectively. So far, 94,946 persons aged over 60 and 26,682 children aged below 12 have tested positive for COVID-19. While two of the deceased had no co-morbidities, 12 persons had one or more underlying health conditions. Seven deaths took place in private hospitals and seven in government facilities. Deaths in State A 56-year-old woman from Chennai, who tested positive on October 27, was admitted the same day to a private hospital in the city, with complaints of fever and cough. She died on Friday night due to ARDS/COVID-19 pneumonia, the hospital authorities said. Among the deceased who had co-morbidites were two nonagenarians. They were admitted to hospitals in Chennai. Of the 16,58,887 passengers who entered the State till Friday, 6,711 persons have tested positive.
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Customs officials bust smuggling racket at Chennai airport, seize 6.9 kg of gold||In a huge seizure, the Chennai Air Customs recovered a total of 6.9 kg of gold at the airport. Five persons have been arrested in connection with this incident. On receiving information about a possible smuggling attempt on a flight from Dubai, the officials mounted surveillance. A janitor, Gnanasekar, who works for a housekeeping service company at the airport, was spotted fetching two black bundles from a waste bin in a toilet. Inspection On inspection, they found three gold paste packets weighing 2 kg. When they were extracted, officials recovered 1.81 kg of gold, a press release said. In connection with this, a suspected passenger Sheikhussman, 35, of Tiruchi, was held at the exit. When Gnanasekar was questioned, he said his colleague Shankar had asked him to collect the bundles on the orders of Kumar, who works as the supervisor of the housekeeping firm. Syed Ibrahim Shah, 21, of Chennai, who was waiting for Sheikhussman outside the terminal, was also arrested. After questioning them, the officials determined that Kumar was the mastermind of the operation and all the five were arrested. In another case, when a flight from Abu Dhabi was searched, officials found four gold bars, each weighing 1 kg, and three rectangular gold plates inside the toilets. Officials recovered 5.1 kg of gold.
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Radhakrishnan leads campaign to prevent spike in virus cases||Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan led an information, education and communication campaign in crowded shopping areas of the city to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Officials visited crowded areas such as Ranganathan Street and talked to the people about the need for wearing masks and maintaining physical distance at shops on Friday. “We don’t want the post-festival Delhi situation to be repeated. So, we are cautious. Since we are doing well, there is a sense of complacency among the people. So we are undertaking the drive. Already at the field level, both in Chennai Corporation and districts, teams are doing this regularly,” Dr. Radhakrishnan said. “People are bringing along children and the elderly. But they are wearing masks only after seeing officials. Many people are not wearing a mask properly. This is the main issue seen,” he said. Positive aspects Pointing to the positive aspects, Dr. Radhakrishnan said, “By and large, everyone was carrying a mask. Shops were monitoring customers. Corporation and police and health officials were making announcements and entry-level random thermal screening was also seen,” he said. “Some of the challenges include improper wearing of masks by street-vendors. Children below the age of 10 were brought without a mask. Some street-vendors were also placing the mask improperly below the nostrils without covering the nose,” he said. The campaign in more than 100 crowded streets in Chennai on Friday was to sensitise residents to the need for avoiding a post-festival spike in COVID-19 cases.
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Consecration allowed in religious places from Nov. 16||The State government on Friday permitted the consecration of religious places across the State from November 16. An official release stated that a maximum of 100 persons could take part in the consecration of religious places, in compliance with the standard operating procedure (SOP). The State government’s decision follows representations that stated though construction had been completed, consecration could not be undertaken due to the COVID-19 lockdown. “The events should be held while ensuring that everyone wears face masks and comply to physical distancing norms to prevent the spread of COVID-19,” the release said, appealing for cooperation from the people. ‘Under control’ The spread of COVID-19 “has been on the decline, gradually”, in all districts of Tamil Nadu, and with proactive steps taken by the State government and cooperation from the people, the spread of the infection “has been brought under control,” the official release stated. The State government, which imposed a lockdown on March 25, has been announcing relaxations based on the prevailing situation, from time to time.
14 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Will the festive boost to sales last?||Even as they hope to sustain the momentum in the market, with new launches and associated measures, automotive companies are cautiously optimistic about the demand scenario in the post-festive season. It is estimated that more than 2.7 lakh cars were sold in October, helped by the pent-up demand and festive season sales. Companies said this was remarkable, as three months back, no one could forecast that the market would bounce back to this level. However, they are sceptical about the outlook, for the next few quarters. “We are cautiously optimistic right now in terms of demand outlook, because it is pent-up demand, mixed with some people buying vehicles for different reasons,” said Santosh Iyer, vice-president (sales and marketing), Mercedez-Benz India, while participating in the 3rd Conversation, organised as part of the ‘Tamil Nadu Smiling’ campaign of The Hindu Group. The topic of discussion was: “Will the automobile sector regain its mojo this festive season?” Mr. Iyer was of the view that manufacturers with new products or refreshes in their portfolio would still be able to excite the market and get some replacement demand in. “We are seeing that in the case of GLS SUV, priced at over Rs. 1 crore. It was launched in July. Even now, we have three months’ waiting period for the car, in these times,” he added. On government support measures, he felt there had been indirect measures to support the auto sector, unlike in some other countries, where interventions were direct. N. Sundararaman, head of marketing at Bajaj Auto, said there was a need to pep up consumer sentiments, which were depressed due to factors like the health crisis and reduction in income.  “There is definitely a good revival from a disbursements perspective. We are expecting that this festival season will bring in a little more demand. In our business, almost 90% of our moratorium customers have started paying their EMI,” said D. Arulselvan, executive V-P and CFO, Cholamandalam Investment & Finance Company Ltd.
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai vet raises awareness to help pets have a trauma-free Deepavali||Pets have a traumatic time, every Deepavali. While some suffer panic attacks due to the noise of firecrackers, some get injured while running away, scared. To create awareness about the trauma faced by dogs, both on the streets and inside houses, a veterinary doctor has been putting tags with messages around the necks of the canines he treats. R. Sokkalingam, a veterinarian with the Animals Charitable Trust, has put tags around the necks of close to 40 dogs he has treated, over the last few days. The tags carry the messages: “Say no to crackers” and “Save me from loud noise”. “Last year, after Deepavali, I treated close to 50 dogs. Some suffered burns, some were injured while they were running away, scared by the sound of firecrackers, and some had suffered panic attacks, while others had stopped eating due to the noise,” he said. He distributed pamphlets last year to create awareness about the trauma faced by dogs. “But people just throw them away. This year, the tags around the necks of dogs have received good response. When the dogs were taken for a walk, people stopped to read. Hopefully, this will bring about a change in the minds of at least a few people,” he said. M. Gerald, a pet owner, said he had four dogs, and all of them got disoriented due to the noise of firecrackers. “It is difficult to make people understand what the animals undergo. I feed them early as most often they stop eating due to anxiety,” he said. A tough time The veterinarian said people should make dogs wear mouth caps before taking them for a walk during the festive season. “They may lick gunpowder and this will create problems. “Pets can be kept in closed rooms for a while, until the bursting of crackers subsides,” added Mr. Sokkalingam. S. Vinod Kumaar, general manager- administration, Blue Cross, said usually they get around 50 calls pertaining to dogs. “During Deepavali, the number shoots up by 10%. Pets have a stressful time during the festival season,” he said.  It is difficult to make people understand what the animals undergo. I feed them early as most often they stop eating due to anxiety M. Gerald Pet owner
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Frontline workers celebrate Deepavali||The Chennai Food Bank organised Deepavali celebrations for frontline COVID-19 warriors at the Government Medical College, Omandurar Government Estate, Chennai, this week. According to a press release, the event was organised in the presence of Dean Jayanthi, who launched the distribution of 1,500 sweet boxes to doctors and frontline workers of the hospital. Chennai Food Bank, managed by The Rajasthan Youth Association Madras Metro Trust, celebrated the festival on November 10 and 11 at the hospital. Doctors, nurses, paramedical and support staff, housekeeping and security personnel participated.
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil dictionary released in hospital||Hospitals may not be an ideal place to release a book. Since Cre-A S. Ramakrishnan, the founder of Cre-Aa Publications, is being treated for COVID-19 at the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital at the Omandurar Government Estate, the Cre-a Tamil Dictionary was released in the hospital on Friday. Mr. Ramakrishan was on oxygen support and writer Imayam, who has been visiting him, received a copy of the dictionary. It has been published as a Tamil-Tamil-English dictionary. “Probably Mr. Ramakrishnan is the only publisher who is alive to to see the release of the third edition of a dictionary,” said Mr. Imayam, whose novels and stories have captured the lives of the Mahadalits in Tamil Nadu.
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||UGC shouldn’t force T.N. varsities to implement NEP, says Ramadoss||PMK founder S. Ramadoss said on Friday that the University Grants Commission (UGC) should not threaten the State universities in Tamil Nadu to adopt the National Education Policy (NEP). In a statement, he said the universities and colleges in Tamil Nadu were being urged to implement the NEP in the past few weeks. “The UGC has written to colleges and universities asking them to implement certain aspects of the NEP immediately.”  “All educational institutions and professors have been asked to upload their information on the UGC’s Vidhwan website, failing which the grants will be stopped. This kind of threat is condemnable,” he said. Dr. Ramadoss said though the UGC had the power to monitor the implementation of the NEP, it should not resort to threats. “On the NEP issue, the universities and colleges in Tamil Nadu cannot take their own decisions. They have to adhere to the decision taken by the Tamil Nadu government. So far, it has not taken any decision as it is waiting for the report of a committee that it has formed. In such a scenario, the universities and colleges cannot implement the NEP,” he said. The UGC should understand the scope of its power and the situation of the universities. “The UGC has the right to stop the grants if universities and colleges are going against the rules. But the implementation of the NEP depends on the policy decision of the Tamil Nadu government,” he said. Dr. Ramadoss said the UGC was not intimating the Higher Education Department or the State government of the circulars being sent to the universities and colleges on the implementation of the NEP.  The UGC is not intimating the Higher Education Department or the State govt. of the circulars being sent to colleges on implementation of NEP S. Ramadoss PMK founder
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 4 lakh passengers head home in special buses||The five bus termini in the city from where special buses were operated saw huge crowds as people headed to their native places for Deepavali. More than four lakh passengers have departed from the city to various destinations in the State through the special buses operated by the Transport Department for three days from November 11 to 13. A Transport Department official said Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar had announced the operation of 9,510 buses including special buses from the city to various parts of the State, along with nearly 5,250 special buses to various important destinations within the State, for three days. Only one lakh passengers were transported on the first day of the operation of special buses, but more than three lakh persons travelled over the next two days. The number of passengers this year has been down by more than 2 lakh from a total of 6,70,630 passengers transported last year on 11,111 buses. Officials attributed the reduction to the COVID-19 pandemic. The official said there was a good response to the special buses being operated from Chennai to Bengaluru (Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had cancelled e-registration for travel between the two cities for people to celebrate the festival). The Metropolitan Transport Corporation, which provides the last-mile connectivity to the commuters, had operated more than 150 special link buses. The Transport Department has made arrangements to operate more than 16,000 buses for the people to return to Chennai and other places in the State from November 15 to 18.
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Withdraw G.O., says AUTA||Teachers of Anna University have demanded the withdrawal of the G.O. issued for the setting up of a commission to inquire into the alleged corruption charges against Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa. The Anna University Teachers’ Association (AUTA) expressed shock at the government’s move and said the university had remained “an oasis of a non-corrupt environment” under his leadership.
14 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||New Transport Secretary||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday named C. Samayamoorthy the Transport Secretary, replacing incumbent Dharmendra Pratap Yadav. Mr. Yadav will be posted as Chairman and Managing Director of Overseas Manpower Corporation. Mr. Kumar Jayant, holding that post has been named Commissioner of Treasuries and Accounts. Mr. Samayamoorthy had been holding the post of Commissioner of Treasuries and Accounts.
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Law and order well maintained in Chennai: Aggarwal||Chennai Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Thursday said law and order is well maintained in the city. Talking to presspersons, Mr. Aggarwal said, “The city is very peaceful and law and order is well-maintained. It will continue to be well maintained. If anyone commits any wrong, they will be handled as per law.” Mr. Aggarwal inaugurated a modern LED signal near CMBT in Koyambedu. He said the modern signal was introduced near Gandhi Square on Kamarajar Salai on a pilot basis a couple of months ago. Following good response from the public, another signal had been established in Koyambedu for the free flow of traffic. He said the State government was operating special buses to clear the Deepavali rush. On Thursday alone, over 1.5 lakh passengers utilised the services. Mr. Aggarwal said over 3,000 traffic police personnel and those from the Armed Reserve had been deployed to regulate traffic.
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||He should not continue in his post: VCK head||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) president Thol. Thirumavalavan on Friday said the State government should take steps to remove Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa from his post. In a statement, Mr. Thirumavalavan said it would be improper for him to continue after the State government had initiated an inquiry into allegations against him. “The State government has said that Justice Kalaiarasan will probe into irregularities, such as whether the decisions taken by him as V-C were legal according to the Anna University Act of 1978, and if the temporary appointments made by him were legal and whether the funds or fee received by the university were used properly,” he said. He said Prof. Surappa should not continue in his post as investigations could be jeopardised.
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tree plantation drive||In honour of late playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, Exnora in partnership with the S.P.B. Charitable Foundation has launched a tree plantation challenge and adoption of Konetampettai. The Prince of Arcot, Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, launched the programme.
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamarajar Port handles huge transshipment vessel||The Kamarajar Port Limited handled its largest transshipment vessel on November 11 with the arrival of the M.V. MSC Faith, whose capacity is 14,336 TEU (Twenty-foot equivalent unit). This vessel came from Tembe Port in Ghana. This is significant because nearly 90% of transshipments usually head only to Colombo or Singapore but this time it arrived at the Kamarajar Port, a senior official said. “The shipments will be taken to other ports through feeder vessels. We are going to have another huge transshipment vessel, the MSD Katrina, soon. We are confident that in the coming months, we can handle more such vessels and hope this becomes a regular feature here,” he added. The transshipment was possible because the port has a deep draft and a state-of-the-art terminal with equipment like gantry cranes, and a backup yard that can house up to 17,000 TEUs of containers, according to a release. The vessel is 366 m in length and has a beam width of 48 m. Since the terminal was equipped with gantry cranes with an outer reach of 62 m, the whole process of docking and unloading was seamless, the release said. The vessel will unload 4,155 TEUs of containers and nearly 70 are meant for the city while the remaining will depart to other ports in feeder vessels.
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bus services to Karnataka to continue||The State government on Friday decided to permit bus transport between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka even beyond November 16. Both the government and private operators could operate.  Karnataka’s request An official release said the decision followed a request from the Karnataka Chief Minister to his counterpart in Tamil Nadu, and several representations from the general public. The Tamil Nadu government had earlier permitted bus transport between the two States without the mandatory e-registration.
14 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Naxal Special Division of police, organisations celebrate Deepavali in tribal settlements||The Coimbatore Anti-Corruption Movement Trust, the Naxal Special Division (NSD) of Coimbatore District (Rural) Police and Nizhal Maiyam, a non-governmental organisation, celebrated Deepavali at two tribal settlements on Thursday. The members of the special division and the organisations visited tribal settlements at Chinnarpathy within the limits of the Aliyar police station and Keel Poonachi within the limits of the Kadambarai police station. Based on instructions from Coimbatore rural superintendent of police Ara Arularasu, the NSD team coordinated the activities with the support of the Forest Department. Awareness session conducted The NSD team and the Forest Department staff conducted an awareness session on elephant trampling for residents of the two settlements. Lunch was also provided for the residents of th e villages. N.K. Velu, former Additional Superintendent of Police (DVAC) and managing trustee of the Coimbatore Anti-Corruption Movement Trust, said that blankets, monkey caps, sweets and other articles were distributed to the residents of the two settlements. He said that the trust functions under the Coimbatore unit of Anti-Corruption Movement, which is headquartered in Chennai.
14 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation in a fix over whether to use or discard bins||To use bins to collect waste or discard those to make Coimbatore a bin-free city seems to be a dilemma that the Coimbatore Corporation has not got over yet. For, on Wednesday the civic body issued a release asking people to dump waste only in bins and not in the open. This goes against what it has been saying in the past couple of years – that it will strengthen door-to-door collection, remove bins on streets and make Coimbatore a bin-free city. To drive home the point that bin-free waste collection is possible, the Corporation picked up Ward 23 in R.S. Puram, implemented it with the help of NGO, ICLEI, and showcased it to the city. But it was an one-off effort as the civic body failed to replicate the success in any of the other 99 wards. Sources familiar with the Corporation’s strategy say that the civic body, in fact, added bins to the city, to strengthen waste collection. And, in the run up to the annual Swachh Sarvekshan evaluation exercise by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, the Corporation kept adding bins, including temporary ones that disappeared after the completion of the evaluation. Even as it kept adding bins, the Corporation shifted its focus towards push carts. It said it would do away with push carts because it planned to introduce small goods carriers to improve door-to-door collection. It went in for battery-powered vehicles and then switched over to diesel vehicles after field workers complained about the pulling power of the battery-powered vehicles. The Corporation again turned its focus back to bins as it started constructing micro compost centres to process wet (organic) waste at ward-level. It said it would do away with bins as it would use the autorickshaws to take the waste directly from houses to the centres, recalls the source. But then, asking people to use bins to dump waste only showed the Corporation’s predicament on the issue, says a solid waste management expert who wishes to remain anonymous. It is time that the Corporation has a clear waste management philosophy – to use or not to use bins for primary waste collection. If it decides either way it should stick to it and draft a plan of action to be implemented over the next few years, he says. And, if it decides to be bin-free it is better for it will be in line with the Central Government’s vision and Swachh Sarvekshan guideline, he adds. The Corporation sources say going bin-free will also help the Corporation bag a few stars for the city in the Sarvekshan ranking. The Government has fixed 2022 as the deadline for going bin-free and the Corporation plans to start making at least two or three wards in each of the five zones bin-free. It will then extend it to more wards.
14 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Incidents of spotted deer hounded by stray dogs on the rise in Coimbatore||Coimbatore is witnessing many incidents of spotted deer straying out of forests and becoming victims of stray dog attack. Sources from areas near Maruthamalai said several incidents of stray dogs chasing and attacking spotted deer had taken place this year. A person associated with a non-governmental organisation said that a spotted deer was killed by stray dogs on Bharathiar University campus on Thursday. On Friday, a male spotted deer sought refuge in a narrow space between two houses at Murugan Nagar near Kalveerampalayam after being chased by dogs. It was bleeding from the base of its antlers. According to the Forest Department it bled from an injury to its velvet antlers, the soft antlers that grow after the annual sheds its full-grown antlers. A. Sukumar, forest veterinary officer of Coimbatore Forest Division, said that death due to post-capture myopathy was very high in the case of spotted deer, wherein they died of shock and stress caused while they were captured for treatment. “They are very afraid of human presence and touch. Therefore, capturing and treating spotted deer is not recommended much in the case of minor injuries due,” he said. District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh said the deer found at Murugan Nagar was saved after the Department staff chased away the dogs. “The deer had shed its antlers naturally and the velvet antlers had just started growing. The velvet antler sprouts got injured when the deer hit its head against a compound wall while attempting to escape. Once the staff chased away the dogs, the deer managed to run into the nearby forest”, he said, Asked whether population increase was the reason for spotted deer coming out of the forests and staying into places such as the university campus, I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle), said the species were known for moving into areas where palatable grasses grow. Apart from stray dog attacks, incidents of poaching spotted deer and sourcing of venison from injured or dead deer, which were attacked by stray dogs, have also been reported in Coimbatore Forest Division. In July this year, the Forest Department apprehended four men who ventured into a reserve forest area at Sirumugai to hunt spotted deer, which falls under Schedule III of the Wildlife (Protection) Act. In another case in September, the department imposed a fine on 13 persons on charges of sourcing venison from a dead deer. The department also took disciplinary action against a forest range officer and two others on charges of negligence in the investigation.
14 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Telangana man found dead in Coimbatore lodge||A 27-year-old man from Telangana was found dead in a lodge at Gandhipuram here on Thursday. Police said R. Sumanth Reddy from Mathura Nagar in Telangana was found dead in the room he stayed in at the lodge on Nehru Street. The lodge's management opened the room using a master key on Thursday afternoon after Reddy did not open it or respond to calls, the police said. There was also no response from him when a room boy had gone to serve tea on Thursday morning. The management informed the Kattoor police that the man was found dead when they opened the door. The police suspect that the death could have occurred between 2 p.m. on Wednesday and 1.30 p.m. on Thursday. They said the deceased wanted to pursue higher studies in the U.S. and his parents allegedly refused to bear the expenses. He came to Coimbatore to visit a yoga centre and stayed at the lodge. The body was sent to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for post-mortem. Suspecting that he could have ended his life, the police registered a case of unnatural death.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
14 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MLA questions road project||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Coimbatore east urban unit in-charge and Singanallur MLA on Tuesday asked if it was fair on the Coimbatore Corporation’s part to spend Rs. 40 crore on model road project in Race Course. What was the need for taking up the work in Race Course, where the road was in good condition and hundreds of walkers used the footpath for exercise, he asked and added that the question became pertinent considering the poor condition of other roads in the city.  ‘Parks in poor condition’ Anna Centenary, Semmozhi and other parks that the Corporation maintained were in poor condition – the trees and plants had wilted without maintenance. Children play equipment had rusted. Had the Corporation spent the money to improve the parks, it would have been a welcome move. But, it was unfortunate that the Corporation had chosen to spend the money on improving something that was already in good condition. Therefore, for whose benefit had the Corporation taken up the project, he asked.
14 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DVAC seizes unaccounted cash||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC) seized unaccounted money to the tune of Rs. 4.3 lakh in a raid that lasted for three hours at the office of the Industrial Safety and Health at Ganapathipalayam Pirivu in Tiruppur on Thursday. The DVAC registered a case against M. Dharmendra, Deputy Director (Zone 3) of Industrial Safety.
14 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Special arrangements at health centres for fever check||On Saturday and Sunday, the Coimbatore Corporation has made special arrangements at its urban primary health centres to check people for fever or influenza-like infection, lift samples and have those tested. A release from the civic body said though the COVID-19 situation was under control, the heavy movement of people during the shopping season had caused concern. Therefore, public should make use of the opportunity and immediately report at the centres if they have fever or breathlessness or COVID-19 symptoms. They could also get in touch with the ward sanitary inspector or zonal sanitary officer to get samples tested at a nearby approved laboratory, the release added.
14 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Exercise caution while lighting firecrackers’||Those lighting firecrackers should follow the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board norms and the Supreme Court order, the Corporation said in a release. Children should light fireworks or crackers only under adult supervision and that too between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. and 8 p.m., as ordered by the apex court. They should then handover the remains to the conservancy staff. Members of the public should desist from bursting crackers near places of worship or hospitals, it added.
14 November 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore reports 24 cases||Cuddalore district reported 24 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 23,736. A total of 43 persons were discharged from hospitals in the district, which now has 173 active cases. The district reported one more death on Friday, taking the toll to 274. As many as 18 persons tested positive in Villupuram district, taking its overall case count to 14,247. Kallakurichi district recorded 10 fresh cases on Friday, taking the tally to 10,486. In Tiruvannamalai district, 25 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 18,196. Out of this, 17,540 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 387. In Vellore The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 18,633 with 49 new cases reported on Friday. While 18,062 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 251. The district's death toll is 320. In Ranipet district, 30 cases were reported taking the tally to 15,276. In Tirupattur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 6,989 with 26 new cases on Friday.
14 November 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accident||Two persons were killed in an accident near Thoppur here on Friday. The deceased were identified as Rangaraj (35), a lorry driver, and Kannadasan (30) from Kallakurichi. The police said Rangaraj was driving a loaded truck to Kerala and on Friday, when the truck was moving near Thoppur, Rangaraj lost control of the vehicle and it hit a parked truck. In the impact, both the trucks toppled and a two-wheeler got stuck under the trucks. Rangaraj and Kannadasan, who was riding the two-wheeler, died on the spot. Manikandan, who was accompanying Rangaraj, and Prakash, who was riding pillion, suffered injuries and admitted to hospital.
14 November 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Water released from Echambadi dam||Minister for Higher Education K.P. Anbalagan raised the shutters of Echambadi dam for release of water through left and right canals for irrigation in Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri districts. Collector S.P. Karthika, MLAs and senior officials attended the event. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami recently ordered the release of water from dam on November 13. In a release, Mr. Anbalagan said the water would benefit 6,250 acre of agricultural land and 32 villages. He advised the farmers to contact agriculture officers in their areas and benefit from various government schemes.
14 November 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Devotees can watch Soorasamharam only on TV||Ahead of the week-long ‘Kanda Sashti’ celebrations beginning from November 15 to November 21 at Sri Dhandayuthapaniswamy Temple in Palani, District Collector M. Vijayalakshmi presided over a meeting to discuss the security arrangements made in which officials from the police, HR & CE, Health, Transport, Fire & Rescue Services and other departments participated here on Friday. Since COVID-19 pandemic, all public places including places of worship have to follow the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) as per the WHO guidelines, which was released by the State government recently in its exit plan from the lockdown. Though the curfew was in force, the government has only relaxed certain norms. Hence, the administration has sought the cooperation of the public. Already, in places of worship, senior citizens and children have been prohibited as a precautionary measure. Curbs on darshan Officials from the HR & CE told at the meeting that devotees shall be permitted in the temple only during the first five days (November 15 to November 19). The visiting devotees can register online and have to compulsorily wear face masks and adhere to physical distancing norms. The devotees can visit the shrine from 8 a.m. during these days. On the sixth day, the soorasamharam celebrations would be performed in the absence of the devotees. Elaborate arrangements have been made to telecast the event live through television channels, local cable TVs and YouTube for the benefit of the devotees. Similarly, on the final day, the celestial wedding too can be viewed only through TV channels and YouTube. In a nutshell, devotees will not be permitted to visit the shrine on the last two days of the Kanda Sashti festival. This year, the ‘girivalam’ too shall remain out of bounds for the devotees. The shops along the stretch would be instructed to close down their business activities. The Collector appealed to the devotees to cooperate and ensure that the event was conducted in a smooth manner.
14 November 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Dindigul and Theni districts focus on crime against children||Preventing crimes against children was being accorded top priority in Dindigul and Theni districts over the last 10 months with sensitisation programmes being intensified among various stakeholders and all the accused figuring in the crimes were booked by the investigating officers, said DIG of Police (Dindigul Range) M. S. Muthusamy here on Friday. Sharing a few data on the POCSO Act, the DIG told The Hindu that in the last 10 months, 87 cases were registered and 111 accused were arrested in Dindigul district from January to October. Similarly, in the neighbouring Theni district, the police had booked 70 cases and held 97 accused, he said and added that in some cases, the police had recommended the accused to be held under the Goondas Act. Claiming that the two districts focused on creating awareness and educating the people at periodic intervals, Mr. Muthusamy said that they also sensitised girl children through stakeholders, who included district SP, social welfare officer, child welfare officer, psychologist and NGO. Training given Every police station in the districts had an exclusive person to attend to complaints of child abuse. The investigations were thoroughly conducted and only the real accused behind the heinous crime were arrested. The stakeholders were also given training on how to handle the victims through a day-long programme. Posters and booklets too helped in the education. Recently, when there were a series of demonstrations after a court acquitted an accused in connection with a 12-year-old girl from Vadamadurai in Dindigul district, who was found dead after being raped, Mr. Muthusamy clarified that the police had arrested the accused. The State government had moved a higher court in the case, he added. The DIG of Police said that November 14 is celebrated as Children's Day and he wished that there was no crime against any child. Mr. Muthusamy assured that the custodians of law would accord top priority towards prevention of crimes against children and warned of severe action as per the law. A suspect would not be let off to wander scot-free, if he was found to have committed the crime, he warned.  Every station has an exclusive person to attend to complaints of child abuse. The investigations are thoroughly conducted and only the real accused are arrested. M. S. Muthusamy DIG of Police (Dindigul Range)
14 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Shoppers crowd market areas in Erode||Rain failed to dampen the festive spirit in Erode as shoppers in large numbers thronged the commercial streets on Friday. Textile showrooms, cracker shops, sweet stalls, hotels, mobile shops and other establishments drew huge crowds throughout the day that continued till late in the night. Most of the roads, R.K.V. Road, Manikoondu, Gandhiji Road, Mettur Road, Meenatchi Sundaranar Road, Panneerselvam Park, Perundurai Road and Sathy Road witnessed heavy flow of vehicles. Police personnel on commercial streets and on arterial roads had a tough time regulating traffic as pedestrians walked on the road affecting vehicle movement. Though awareness messages were played through the public address system asking people to wear masks and ensure personal distancing, shoppers violated the norms in many places. Vehicle movement was banned on the entire stretch of R.K.V. Road and interior roads on commercial streets throughout the day to help shoppers move freely. Since only limited trains were operated, people depended more on bus services as Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC), Erode Region, operated 100 additional buses besides the regular 787 buses. Most of the buses were crowded as workers’ movement from Tiruppur, Coimbatore, Namakkal and Salem to other districts was high. TNSTC had said that special buses would be operated till November 17.
14 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Solatium sought for kin of victims killed in accident||The Erode District Committee of the Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association has urged the State government to provide a solatium of Rs. 10 lakh each to the families of four persons killed in an accident on Bargur hills on November 8. In a letter to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, association president V.P. Gunasekaran said there were over 30,000 people living in the 33 hamlets coming under Bargur panchayat in Anthiyur Union. People belonging to Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribes, Backward Class and Most Backward Classes were living in these hamlets and working at tea and coffee estates in Udagamandalam, Valparai and also as workers in farm lands to earn their livelihood. On November 8, four workers were killed and 11 others injured after a sports utility vehicle in which they were travelling from Thambureddy tribal hamlet to Vattakadu village in Anthiyur met with an accident near Maniyachi Pallam. The injured were undergoing treatment at government hospitals at Anthiyur, Erode and Salem. The letter said four of the families lost their bread-winners and a solatium of Rs. 10 lakh to each of the families would help them meet their expenses. Also, a government job to a member of their families would help them bring up their children, the letter said. Since the injured could not go to work in the coming months, a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh each should be given to their families, the letter said.
14 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Three young innovators receive grants to develop ideas into prototypes||Three young innovators, selected by Technology Business Incubator (TBI) at Kongu Engineering College, have received a grant of Rs. 28.30 lakh to develop ideas into prototypes in emerging technology areas. The funding assistance has been provided under the PRomoting and Accelerating Young and ASpiring innovators and Startups (PRAYAS) scheme, which was sanctioned by the Department of Science and Technology of the Government of India under the National Initiative For Developing and Harnessing Innovations programme. P. Sachithanandan, correspondent of the college, and V. Balusamy, principal, handed over the sanction orders and cheque to K.P. Rajaganesh of Kunnathur, M.S. Vijaya of Chennai and Smit Rambhiya of Bengaluru at the college recently. Faculties said the Department of Science and Technology had provided a grant of Rs. 1 crore for establishing PRAYAS FAB lab containing 3D printer and scanner, CNC Router and Laser, PCB Milling Machine, SMT Pick and Place Machine and PCB Printer. Also Rs. 5-crore grant was provided to support young aspiring entrepreneurial students, graduates and early stage startups with innovative, technically feasible and commercially viable ideas addressing the needs of society. Under this scheme, a maximum of Rs. 10 lakh grant could be availed per project. So far, Rs. 178.30 lakh had been sanctioned to 21 innovators, including three women innovators. Hence, TBI called for budding entrepreneurs to to submit their proposals at the earliest. Interested innovators may approach TBI@KEC or visit www.tbi-kec.org for details.
14 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Unemployed youths asked to start new enterprises||The district administration has called upon unemployed youths to start new enterprises as subsidy is available for them under the Unemployed Youth Employment Generation Programme (UYEGP) scheme. In a release, Collector C. Kathiravan said the maximum project cost of Rs. 10 lakh for establishing manufacturing unit, service or business enterprises was enhanced to Rs. 15 lakh from October. The subsidy under the scheme was increased from Rs. 1.25 lakh to Rs. 2.5 lakh and youngsters, who had submitted their projects after February 14, 2020, were eligible to get the increased subsidy. The release said the applicant’s maximum family income should be Rs. 5 lakh per annum, and the applicant should have completed Class 8 and should be in the age group of 18 to 35. For a specific group of people, the maximum age limit was 45 years. Eligible youths can visit www.msmeonline.tn.gov.in/uyegp and apply. The applications should be submitted to the General Manager, District Industries Centre, SIDCO Premises, Chennimalai Road. For details, contact the District Industries Centre at 0424 – 2275283 and 2275440, the release added.
14 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Stamp duty exemption for MSMEs hailed||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Erode, has welcomed the State government’s announcement that exempts payment of stamp duty for registration of agreements executed by micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) for loans taken under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Scheme. In a release, V. Panneer Selvam, Chairman, CII Erode and Director of Arasan Eye Hospital, said the move would give a big relief to the MSMEs that were just picking up from the lockdown, and help increase the cash flow. The reduction of registration fee to 0.1% in respect of the agreements on deposit of title deeds for loans taken by micro and small enterprises was a welcome move, the release added. He appreciated the State government’s efforts to help the industries, especially MSMEs, in these critical times and said this move would benefit many new MSME investors.
14 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||HIV-infected children given clothes||A total of 134 children, who were HIV-infected and those who lost their parents to HIV, were given clothes and sweets for Deepavali. At a function organised by Unarvugal, an NGO, at the District Headquarters and Hospital, Erode Town DSP Raju distributed the clothes and sweets to the children in the presence of Makkal G. Rajan, founder-president of Unarvugal, Hospital Superintendent Venkatesh and doctors. A total of 90 children are HIV-positives and are undergoing treatment at the hospital while others lost their parents to the disease. Mr. Rajan promised to provide free education to the children through the NGO.
14 November 2020||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Man shot dead by neighbour in Kallakurichi||A 40-year-old man died after he was shot by his neighbour with a gun in front of the latter’s residence at Sirupanayur near Tirukovilur in Kallakurichi district on Friday. Previous emnity According to the police, the victim was identified as Shaan of Sirupanayur. He was walking to a nearby mosque to offer prayers when his neighbour Sharun, 40, shot him with a country-made gun. Previous enmity was said to be the reason behind the murder. The police said a Single Barrel Muzzle Loading (SBML) gun was used by the assailant to shoot Shaan in his chest. Licensed gun The licensed gun belonged to Sharun’s father. The victim, who was profusely bleeding, died en route the Tiruvannamalai Government Hospital. Further investigations are on.
14 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Deepavali eve shopping brisk||A sea of people descended on Vilakkuthoon area and South Masi Street for last-minute Deepavali shopping, with total disregard to COVID-19 safety precautions. Although there has been a dip in sales this year owing to financial distress caused by COVID-19 pandemic, the sales improved in the last two days ahead of Deepavali, says Abdul Sikkander, a street vendor on Town Hall Road. Ashraf Tayub, secretary of Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants' Association, says there was indeed good sales in the Vilakkuthoon area for the past three days. “But the overall purchasing capacity of people has reduced this year due to the lockdown,” says Mr. Sikkander. M. Panchu, a domestic worker who bought clothes from street hawkers in Vilakkuthoon on Friday, says the budget for her family's Deepavali shopping was half that of last year. “My husband lost his job during the pandemic and so we can’t spend much on Deepavali shopping,” she says. Braving intermittent rains on Friday afternoon, people took shelter under umbrellas and completed their shopping on Deepavali eve. N. Selvam, a street vendor, says the rain turned the roads slushy, causing inconvenience to shoppers and hawkers. “While thousands of people come for shopping, lack of public toilets poses severe inconvenience for both hawkers and shoppers,” he says. Despite repeated instructions through public address systems, people did not follow COVID-19 safety precautions. Many did not wear face masks and personal distancing norms were completely flouted. “Since it was raining, there is a higher risk of spread of communicable diseases,” says Mr. Selvam. At flower market Hundreds of people thronged the flower market at Mattuthavani on Friday, leading to a steep rise in prices of flowers. Jasmine, which was sold for Rs. 1,400 a kg on Friday morning, was selling at Rs. 2,000 by the evening. ‘Picchi’ was sold for Rs. 1,200, ‘kanakambaram’ for Rs. 2,000 and ‘mullai’ for Rs. 1,200. S. Ramachandran, president of a flower vendors’ association at the market, says the flower market saw the huge crowd after nearly eight months. COVID-19 safety precautions went for a toss at the flower market also.
14 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||People wary of splurging on crackers this year||There has been dip in sale of crackers this Deepavali, mainly because of the financial hardship caused by the COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdown, say traders. Although customers were seen visiting various stores across the city on Friday to buy crackers, their buying power has reduced this year, says P. Radhakrishnan, a trader on Bypass Road. “This has resulted in a 30% fall in sales in our shop compared to last year. The production of crackers has also been lower this year during the lockdown period,” he adds. While sales of crackers usually starts at least five days before Deepavali, this year the sales picked up only on Friday, says P. Ramesh Kumar, a trader on Kamarajar Salai. “Most people opt for less expensive crackers this year. People are not indulging in spending huge amounts in buying crackers," he adds. K. Shankar, who works at a snack manufacturing unit, says he reduced the budget for buying crackers by 50% this year. “With less income, buying crackers for Deepavali was not our first priority. But my children insisted that we buy crackers to celebrate the festival,” he says.
14 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai Bench quashes FIRs against two anti-CAA protesters||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday quashed FIRs registered by the Madurai police against advocates T. Lajapathi Roy and Henri Tiphagne.  In separate incidents, the advocates had staged demonstrations against the amendments made to the Citizenship Act. Hearing the petition filed by Mr. Roy seeking to quash the FIR, Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that FIRs had been registered against as many as 26 persons in the wake of an anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protest near Goripalayam Pallivasal, on February 8. The court observed that it was true that the meeting was convened without prior permission from authorities concerned. But it was not the case of the police that an untoward incident had occurred. Taking into account that no act of violence was committed, the judge allowed the petition and quashed the FIR registered against the advocate. Further, the judge said the benefit of the order would enure in favour of the other accused in the case as well, who had not filed petitions seeking to quash FIRs. Similarly, Justice J. Nisha Banu quashed two FIRs registered against advocate and human rights activist Henri Tiphagne. The judge took cognisance that no untoward incident had taken place and observed that there were protests across the country against amendments to the Act.
14 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MLA donates rice to three homes in city||Madurai Central MLA P.T.R.P Thiagarajan, along with his family members, donated rice to three homes in the city on Friday, ahead of Deepavali. The MLA donated 100 kg rice to each of the three homes - the Home for persons with mental illness at Aruldosspuram, run by M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation; AMK Sevai Maiyam at Simmakkal; and an orphanage run by Madurai Corporation at Dhanappa Mudhali Street. K.S.P. Janardhan Babu of M.S. Chellamuthu Trust said there were 50 inmates at the home in Aruldosspuram. “The homeless people with mental illness are the most neglected sections of the society who need utmost attention,” he said. Though the government gave minimal financial support for the inmates, there was a need for regular supply of groceries to the home. “Students can also volunteer to take care of the elderly inmates,” he added.
14 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Stop misuse of advocate stickers: PIL plea||Complaining about misuse of advocate stickers on vehicles, a public interest litigation petition was filed before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the authorities concerned to take necessary steps in this regard. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi suo motu impleaded the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and the Bar Associations of the Madras High Court and the Madurai Bench in the case and sought their responses. The petitioner, V. Ramesh, a Madurai-based advocate, said the stickers were being misused by anti-social elements and habitual offenders as a shield for their illegal activities. Necessary action must be taken against those misusing the stickers, the advocate aid.
14 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court quashes defamation proceedings||After 12 staff members of Madurai Kamaraj University expressed regret for employing offending expressions against advocate S. Vanchinathan, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court quashed the defamation proceedings initiated against them by the advocate. Advocate Vanchinathan had preferred a private complaint against the petitioners for the offence under Section 500 (Defamation) of the Indian Penal Code. It was said that the petitioners had circulated pamphlets against the advocate, stating that he had indulged in anti-national activities. During the course of the hearing, the court was informed that the petitioners were withdrawing the allegations made against the advocate. Since an unconditional regret was expressed by them, the advocate decided not to press the private complaint. Taking cognisance of the submissions, Justice G.R. Swaminathan quashed the proceedings pending before the Madurai Judicial Magistrate VI. The court warned the petitioners against employing such intemperate expressions when they draft their memorandum in future.
14 November 2020||MADURAI/THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai’s daily case count crosses 40-mark again||Madurai recorded 46 new COVID-19 positive cases on Friday, which took the total number of cases in the district to 19,246. A total of 42 persons were discharged, and the number of active cases is 406. No COVID-19 death was recorded in the district. On Thursday, the district registered 31 fresh cases. Twenty-eight people tested positive in Tirunelveli, which has 267 active cases. Thirty-one people were discharged from hospitals in the district, which has registered a case tally of 14,559. There were 21 new cases recorded in Kanniyakumari, which has an overall infection tally of 15,316. The district saw the discharge of 25 people. Thoothukudi district lost a patient to COVID-19 infection to have an overall death toll of 135. The district added 19 fresh cases, which took its total positive case count up to 15,434. After 47 persons were discharged, the district has 297 active cases. Virudhunagar reported 18 fresh cases and an identical number of discharges. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district stands at 15,653. The death toll remains at 224 in the district, which has 98 active cases. Dindigul had 16 new cases and the total number of people affected with COVID-19 so far is 10,017. Hospitals discharged 26 people after their recovery. Sivaganga accounted for 14 new cases, which raised the district’s case count to 6,127. The hospitals discharged nine people. Thirteen fresh cases were recorded in Ramanathapuram, which saw its tally go up to 6,113. There were five discharges in the district. The total case count of Theni went up to 16,419, with the addition of nine cases. There were 15 discharges from hospitals in the district. Tenkasi had three new cases, with which the district’s tally rose to 7,926. With five people having been discharged from hospitals, 80 others are undergoing treatment.
14 November 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Preserve flora and fauna’||Former Scientist of the Bombay Natural History Society ( BNHS) Sivagurunesan on Wednesday called upon educationalists to teach the importance of preserving the nature and flora and fauna among schoolchildren. Speaking at the 125th birth anniversary of Dr. Salim Ali, internationally known naturalist and ornithologist, at the BNHS regional migration study at Point Calimere, he said that birds could live without man but man couldn’t live without birds. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director, BNHS Regional Migration Study Centre at Kodiakarai, said that bird ringing had started at Point Calimere about 35 years ago. V. Kumaresan, Forest Range Officer, Point Calimere, spoke.
14 November 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Quack arrested||A 55-year-old man, who had completed Class VIII and was practising allopathic medicine at Pallipalayam for many years, was arrested recently. On Information, Namakkal MP AKP Chinraj sent his assistant and two others as patients to the clinic and the man wrote prescriptions in a letter-head of another doctor, who is serving at the Government Primary Health Centre at Punjai Puliyampatti. On confirming that he was a quack, the MP alerted Collector K. Megaraj and health officials. The officials questioned the man who was identified as Thangaraj. On a complaint, the police arrested him.
14 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||MPs discuss measures to improve BSNL services||Members of Parliament V. Vaithilingam (Lok Sabha) and N. Gokulakrishnan (Rajya Sabha) convened a meeting of the Telecom Advisory Committee recently to discuss various measures to improve services of BSNL, Puducherry. Jayakumar Jayavelu, General Manager, BSNL, Puducherry, gave an overview of the services offered in the region and highlighted the Bharat Fiber Broad Band (FTTH) services. The MPs wanted BSNL to further improve their range of offerings to customers in the region. M. Shanmugasundaram, DGM (CFA), BSNL, Puducherry, C. Subramanian, DGM (Finance), Telecom Advisory Committee members P.R. Prabakar, M. Kamaladass, P. Anandaraj and M.Kumaran participated in the meeting.
14 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry posts 75 new COVID-19 cases, one death||Puducherry posted 75 new COVID-19 cases and Karaikal registered one death on Friday even as the administration geared itself to maintain the downward trend by sustaining the intensive IEC and surveillance activities until close of festival season. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, after a daily review with officials, said the joint enforcement team is ensuring convergence of IEC and surveillance in hotspots that have shown significant drop in active cases such as Reddiarpalyam - Azees Nagar, Moolakulam, Villianur and Sulthanpet. The online COVID-19 information portal that works in consultation with the ICMR is extended for use by all hospitals, including private medical college hospitals and private clinics, Ms. Bedi said. The scope of the data management portal would be widened to cover all public health related facets. The data of Jipmer would also be integrated to make the portal comprehensive. According to the Lt. Governor, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (ISDP) team would collaborate with ICMR to adopt the best practices of National Health Authority and that of WHO for incorporation in the online information portal. Nodal officers would be engaged to document the ‘Puducherry Model of Management of Covid’ by sharing experiences and key roles played across health, revenue, municipality and police verticals. The health team is simultaneously focusing on dengue source reduction for offsetting co-morbidity with COVID-19. Meanwhile, the Union Territory saw 75 new cases from 3,355 tests, while 70 patients were discharged on recovery. In Karaikal, a 68-year old woman succumbed to the infection taking the toll in the Union Territory to 608. The toll across regions stood at Puducherry (498), Karaikal (59), Yanam (44) and Mahe (seven). A press release from the Health Secretary said the overall tally in the Union Territory aggregated to 36,252 cases after transfer of two cases to Tamil Nadu. The total number of active cases stood at 1,073 (35 in hospital and 738 in home isolation) while the cumulative tally of recovered patients was 34,571. The test positivity rate was 2.23%, case fatality rate 1.68% and recovery rate 95.36%. The number of tests completed by the health department to date was 3.55 lakh of which 3.13 lakh samples returned negative.
14 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G seeks action on promoter of stadium at Thuthipet||Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi has directed District Collector T. Arun to initiate action against promoters of Seichem Cricket Stadium at Thuthipet for "irregularities" in the project. In a letter to the Collector on Thursday, the Lt. Governor said she had received complaints about illegality in the construction of the stadium. Information gathered under the RTI Act by an applicant had revealed that the stadium was constructed on encroached government land, waterbodies and by sinking borewells. “Pursuant to the discussion held today (on Thursday) you (Collector) have accepted and conceded that you ought to have taken action to prevent any continuing violations of law,” Ms. Bedi said in her letter, which was released to the media on Friday. Ms. Bedi directed the Collector to initiate the process to register a case for trespassing into government lands and waterbodies. Direction to Collector The Lt. Governor also asked the Collector to issue a directive to the promoter to stop further activities on the premises till all matters are examined by the Departments concerned. The Collector should also ascertain whether the list of invitees had given their consent to participate in the inauguration of the T-20 tournament. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy along with Cabinet colleagues and legislators had inaugurated the tournament on Wednesday. “While you (Collector) personally avoided attending the inaugural function, knowing of his (promoters) credentials, you failed to caution the Office of the Lt. Governor on the bonafides of the person who was insisting on my personal presence for the inauguration. As a Collector, it is your duty to ensure the dignity of the constitutional office of the Lt. Governor,” the letter said. Ms. Bedi said she would be taking up the illegal construction of the stadium by Siachem Technologies with Board of Cricket Control of India.
14 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Plea for action on private medical colleges quota||The Pondicherry State Students and Parents Welfare Association has urged Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy to get approval for the draft bill mandating private medical colleges to part with 50% of the seats under the government quota. In a letter to the Chief Minister, president of the Association V. Bala said the Chief Minister should get immediate approval for the draft bill. Welcoming the decision of the government to bring in a legislation making it mandatory for private medical colleges to provide 50% of the seats, he said the bill was pending before the Union Ministry of Home Affairs for the last four months. So far, the private medical colleges provided 35% seats under government quota while minority medical colleges in Tamil Nadu provided 50% of seats under government quota. The non-minority private medical colleges provided 65% of the seats, he also added. The association requested the Chief Minister to take up the issue as top priority.
14 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Exam for empanelment of balasevikas on Dec. 12||The competitive examination for empanelment as ‘guest balasevika’ is scheduled to be held at the Bharathidasan Government College for Women on December 12 (Sunday). The Directorate of School Education said the test would be held from 10 a.m. to noon as per the syllabus published in the webpage schooledn.py.gov.in/ recruitment.html Other details regarding the examination would be made available shortly, the Directorate said. The updates can be viewed on the site schooledn.py.gov.in
14 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Siddha-based treatment centre in Salem temporarily closed||The Siddha-based COVID-19 treatment centre is temporarily closed from November 13 and it will be moving out of the existing facility near Uthamacholapuram here. The centre was set up in August with about 65 beds at the Tamil Nadu State Agricultural Marketing Board Training Centre. It handled COVID-19 patients with mild symptoms. Besides nutritious diet and Siddha-based external and internal medicinal treatment, the centre also organised yoga sessions to prevent stress of patients. District Siddha Medicine Officer K. Selvamoorthi said about 10 patients, who were under treatment at the centre, were discharged on Friday. As the agricultural centre also required the place to conduct training sessions from November end, they were shutting down the centre and looking for another place. He added that the centre would be set up at a non-educational facility. Since the beginning of the centre, they had handled 703 cases till date and they had to refer only 29 patients from the centre to other facilities for higher management, he said. R. Selvakumar, Deputy Director of Health Services, said the Siddha centre and a few other COVID-19 care centres, which were functioning in the district, were being temporary closed as the number of positive cases had reduced. “There are sufficient beds in the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital and four other government hospitals here. Only 20% of beds at the hospitals are in use at the moment. All these facilities will be operational if cases increase,” he said. Dr. Selvakumar said the positivity rate in the district was about 3.5% and death rate had also reduced.
14 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DVAC raids Tasmac regional office||Officials from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption raided the premises of Tasmac godown and regional office at Sandhiyur here. According to officials, based on a tip-off, a team led by DVAC ADSP Chandramouli and Revenue officials raided the Tasmac premises and seized Rs. 1.21 lakh of unaccounted cash. The money was given by licensees of Tasmac outlets here, the officials said. Questioning of district manager Ambayiranathan is under way.
14 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Discharge from Mettur dam reduced||The discharge from Mettur dam was reduced to 3,000 cusecs on Friday. According to officials from Public Works Department, water level at the dam was 93.9 ft against a full reservoir level of 120ft. The storage was 57,221 tmcft and the dam received an inflow of 5,705 cusecs. The discharge through Cauvery river was reduced from 12,000 cusecs to 3,000 cusecs on Friday. The discharge through East-West canal was maintained at 800 cusecs.
14 November 2020||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||30 watch towers set up in Namakkal||The Namakkal district police have set up about 30 watch towers and made additional arrangements to prevent untoward incidents during the Deepavali celebrations here. The police said the watch towers had been set up to ensure COVID-19 safety norms and prevent untoward incidents at important business areas and places where the public could gather. Announcements were being made through public address system at regular intervals advising the public to ensure physical distancing. The police also set up check posts on the district borders for vehicle checks. The police advised the public to contact them through toll-free numbers in case of any emergency. They could also raise complaints through Facebook and Twitter handles of the Namakkal District Police. They advised the public not to venture deep into water bodies as there could be heavy flow due to Northeast monsoon. In Salem, the police have set up watch towers at 14 busy business areas and deployed close to 400 police personnel from Home Guards, Tamil Nadu Special Police and District Armed Reserve. Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger distributed sweets to the Armed Reserve police personnel.
14 November 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Farmer murdered near Krishnankoil||A farmer, G. Rajendran (68) was hacked to death while he was sleeping in his farm near Cunnoor under Krishnankoil police station limits. The police said that Rajendran had gone to his farm on Thursday night and had slept there. On Friday morning, he was found lying in a pool of blood. The police were yet to ascertain the motive behind the crime and the perpetrators of the murder. Krishnankoil police have registered a case.
14 November 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Brothers held for assault||The Courtallam police have arrested two brothers for allegedly attempting to assault a builder and his colleagues owing to prior enmity. In his complaint, builder Immanuel Prasath of Kulavanigarpuram in Palayamkottai said he, who also has his office at Tenkasi, was hired by Rajiv, 30, of Bismi Nagar in Vallam under the Courtallam police station limits for constructing his house there. Since, Rajiv reportedly did not settle the builder’s bills properly, the work was stopped midway. There was a case pending before the Madurai Bench of Madras in this connection following the dispute between Immanuel and Rajiv. Against this backdrop, Immanuel and his colleagues James Raj Jacob and Kasi Pandian had recently gone to the house of one Veerabahu at Bismi Nagar to receive the final payment from the house owner towards construction of his house. Even as the builder and his colleagues were returning, Rajiv and his brother Ram allegedly intercepted the car and attacked even as the occupants inside the vehicle were recording the duo’s acts and verbal abuses on their mobile phones. However, the trio managed to escape and registered a complaint with the Courtallam police, who arrested Rajiv and Ram.
14 November 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers disappointed||The reduction in scale of loan through Cooperative Banks/Societies for agriculture operations this season has triggered a sense of disappointment among the farmers. Inquiries reveal that normally the Cooperative Banks and Societies would be fixing a scale of loan of less than Rs. 10,000 of the amount fixed as loan for different crops by the nationalized banks every year. But this year, much to the dismay of the cultivators, the Cooperative Banks and Societies have reduced the maximum crop loan amount by Rs. 500 compared to the loan amount disbursed by them during last year, claimed G. Srinivasan, a progressive farmer from Ganapathi Agraharam. Though the scale of loan for paddy has been fixed at Rs. 32,550 per acre for normal cultivation and Rs. 20,600 per acre for direct sowing at the Cooperative Banks and Societies, the farmers, as usual, would be made to remain content with funding of Rs. 20,000 or even less per acre if they opt to avail crop loan through the Societies. On the other hand, if they choose to avail crop loan from Nationalized Banks, they would be getting around Rs. 40,000 to Rs. 50,000 per acre depending on the crop/plantation, he added.
14 November 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Restricted darshan||Devotees visiting Sri Vashisteswarar temple, Thittai, on November 15 and subsequent days will be allowed to have darshan of Guru Bhagavan only and they will not be allowed to perform any pujas or ‘parikarams’. Disclosing this in a press release, Collector M.Govinda Rao said that elaborate arrangements had been made on the temple premises for the smooth conduct of ‘Guru Peyarchi’ festival without compromising on the standard operating procedure laid down by the Government to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Meanwhile, the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department announced that arrangements had been made for the conduct of two different ‘parikarams’ for the benefit of devotees at the temple in connection with the ‘Guru Peryarchi.’ The devotees can take part in the ‘parikaram’ events to be held on the temple premises for two weeks from November 16 by remitting the necessary amount at the temple office and the ‘prasadam’ would be sent to their residential address through post. Billboards containing the details about the ‘parikarams’ were displayed on the temple premises, sources said.
14 November 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Ettaiyapuram goat market witnesses Rs. 6-crore business||The goat market at Ettaiyapuram saw roaring business as it reopened after lockdown relaxations. Sale of Rs. 6 crore-worth goat and sheep were made on Deepavali eve. The goat market, popularly known as ‘Saturday Market’, used to record business anywhere between Rs. 50 lakh and Rs. 1 crore on any ordinary day. During festival seasons like Ramzan, Bakrid, Deepavali, Christmas and Pongal, the sale would move up to Rs. 3 crore. During the festival season, buyers come from various parts of Tamil Nadu, including Chennai to the market. When sellers and buyers converged on this market on Friday, around 12,000 sheep and goats were brought for auction. A fully grown goat and sheep fetched up to Rs. 13,000 for the owners. “The price rise was due to the direct participation of consumers in the auction along with the traders and the butchers,” said the buyers. However, animal owners felt that it was 15% to 20% less than the actual price that would usually prevail in this market ahead of Deepavali.
14 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||176 fresh cases in central districts||The central districts on Friday recorded 176 fresh cases for COVID-19. The region recorded two deaths- one each in Ariyalur and Thanjavur. A 53-year-old man from Ariyalur and a 62-year-old man from Thanjavur both suffering with diabetes and chronic kidney disease died of COVID-19. Nagapattinam district overtook Thanjavur as the district with the highest number of COVID-19 cases on Friday. Among the 39 patients who tested positive in Nagapattinam and the 33 who tested postive in Thanjavur were local index cases, primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. Meanwhile, Tiruchi reported 29 new COVID cases, a sharp drop over the last few days. Of the 29 patients who tested positive in Tiruchi, some hailed from existing containment zones or were isolated cases, and were primary contacts, interdistrict travellers and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. Tiruvarur recorded 24 new cases while Karur, 22 patients, including residents of, Gandhigramam, Puliyur and Thanthonrimalai tested positive for the viral infection. Interdistrict travellers from Tiruchi, Namakkal also tested positive. In Pudukottai, a further decline with 19 cases were reported. Among them were local index cases and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses. In Ariyalur, six patients tested positive further increasing the total number of cases in the district to 4494. Among the six, two hailed from Ariyalur block while one each hailed from Thirumanur, T. Palur, Andimadam and one interdistrict traveller too, tested positive. Meanwhile, in Perambalur, four teste positive, among which two hailed from Perambalur block while one each hailed from Veppur and Alathur. Meanwhile, a total of 479 throat swabs were lifted at the government hospitals and primary healthcare centres in the district and sent for processing.
14 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rain dampens spirit of traders||Heavy rain on Friday dampened the spirit of the general public especially traders including textile merchants, hawkers and cracker sellers in the city. Though the north east monsoon was officially said to have started in the last week of October, it was only on Friday that the city received monsoon shower for the first time in the season. The rain that began around 12 noon continued up to 1.30. Until the rain started, the key commercial centres including NSB road, Big Bazaar, Singarathope, Super Bazaar, Chinna Kadai Street, Nandhi Koil Street and others were jam-packed with thousands of last minute shoppers, who thronged the market areas to buy textile, readymade, crackers, sweets and others. The traders too were busy in meeting the requirement of the customers. But, the moment the rain started, they disappeared from the streets and took shelter in the nearby buildings. The commercial streets looked empty with the customers moving away to shelters from getting drenched. It was the hawkers, who bore the brunt of the sudden rain. They had a tough time to safeguard the dress materials and crackers from the rain.
14 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Integrated Power Supply system provided at more level-crossing gates||Southern Railway has provided the Integrated Power Supply (IPS) system at 20 mid-section engineering interlocked level-crossing gates in Tiruchi Division. Of these, the IPS facility has been provided at 15 interlocked level-crossing gates in the Thanjavur-Mayiladuthurai broad gauge section and at five interlocked level-crossing gates in the Thanjavur-Tiruvarur section at a cost of Rs. 3 crore. Principal Chief Signal and Telecommunication Engineer, Southern Railway R. Baskaran inaugurated the IPS system at the 20 mid-section level-crossing gates on Thursday. The IPS system ensures continuous power supply to signals and prevents blanking of signals when the train is approaching. Battery backup Under this system, the IPS is provided with four hours battery backup, and the signals work even if input power supply fails. This ensures there is no unnecessary detention of trains at level-crossing gates during power failure, according to a Southern Railway press release. The IPS facility ensures punctual and safe running of trains. In Tiruchi Division, all the 90 railway stations have been provided with the IPS facility. Out of the 146 mid-section engineering interlocked level-crossing gates in the division, this facility had been provided at 91 level-crossing gates. Work is under progress to provide the IPS facility at the remaining 55 interlocked level-crossing gates and this will be completed in the financial year 2021-2022, the release added.
14 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||2 more butterfly species recorded at conservatory||Two more butterfly species have been recorded at the Tropical Butterfly Conservatory at Srirangam here taking the total tally of species recorded so far to 120 now. The 119th species was the Black Spotted Pierrot. This species was recorded late last month at the 27-acre green conservatory. The 120th species recorded a few days ago was the Common Snow Flat. This species had been recorded in the western ghats and in the eastern ghats but was rare in the plains, said V. Muthukrishnan, Junior Research Fellow, at the conservatory. The number of butterfly species had been steadily increasing at the conservatory ever since it was opened five years ago in 2015. Butterflies are bio-indicators of a healthy ecosystem and play an important role in the food chain, Mr.Muthukrishnan added.
14 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||Water level at Mettur dam stood at 93.81 on Friday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 5,519 and the discharge 6,000 cusecs.
14 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Incessant rain brings cheer||Belated north-east monsoon finally drenched the district on Friday giving hopes that it would not let down the people, particularly the district’s farmers, this time. Contrary to the usual rainfall pattern where rain drenches areas closer to the Western Ghats and leaves the regions away from the hills dry, the Friday rains pleased the population living away from the hilly region. While the towns nearer to the hills recorded less rainfall, areas like Palayamkottai experienced significant precipitation. After incessant overnight drizzle, steady rain drenched the district since Friday morning to threaten last minute Deepavali shopping. Despite the drizzle, the shoppers could be seen moving around with their purchase. Water stagnation could be seen at Samathaanapuram traffic island, Palayamkottai Head Post Office, District Police Office, Old Police Control Room at Samathanapuram, Palayamkottai Market, near Red Cross Society office, near Lourdhunathan Statue, around Murugankurichi Signal, Melapalayam Junction and VST mosque junction. The cramped Tirunelveli Junction area, which is already giving nightmarish experience due to the ongoing reconstruction of the age-old bus terminus under the ‘Smart City’ programme, became impossible to navigate on Friday with stagnant rainwater, haphazardly parked buses and huge crowd. The road-users, especially the two-wheeler riders, suffered a lot as they had to manoeuvre through these hardships. The sky remained overcast throughout the day, heralding more rains. Rainfall recorded at different places is (in mm): Palayamkottai 63, Kalakkad 55.40, Papanasam dam 42, Moolaikkaraipatti 40, Servalar dam 34, Ambasamudram 29, Cheranmahadevi 26, Manimuthar dam 25, Nanguneri 19.50, Kodumudiyar dam 15, Tirunelveli 11, Nambiyar dam 7, Radhapuram 6.20, Gundar dam 3, Karuppanadhi dam and Shencottai 1. Though no significant rainfall was reported in any part of Thoothukudi district during Thursday, steady rain in the night for over an hour created puddles in several parts of the port town. With the drizzle continuing on Friday also, the situation became worse during the day. As the low-lying town witnesses water stagnation at several places during the monsoon, the Corporation has kept ready good number of pumps to clear the puddles. Rainfall recorded at various places was (in mm): Srivaikundam 57, Thoothukudi 21, Tiruchendur and Maniyaachi 18 each, Kayalpattinam 11, Kayathar and Kadambur 9 each, Sattankulam 5.20 and Kulasekarapattinam 4. Kanniyakumari district which was getting good rains ever since the monsoon started, did not register significant rainfall on Thursday and also on Friday. Rainfall recorded at different places was (in mm): Mayiladi 12.40, Petchiparai dam 10, Perunchani dam 9.80, Chittar I 9.40, Puthen dam 9.20, Mambazhathuraiyar dam, Adaiyamadai and Mullanginaavilai 8 each, Kannimar 7.60, Kuzhithurai, Nagercoil and Chittar II 7 each, Surulacode 6.40, Kottaram 5.60, Aanaikidangu 5.40, Boothapandi and Balamore 4.20 each, Mukkadal dam 2.20, Kaliyal 1.20 and Aralvaimozhi 1.
14 November 2020||Tiruvannamalai,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvannamalai Karthigai Deepam to be low-key affair||Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the district administration has announced that devotees will not be allowed inside the Tiruvannamalai temple on the day of Karthigai Deepam, falling on November 29, or gather on the streets to witness the lighting of the Deepam. The Tiruvannamalai Deepam festival is scheduled to be held from November 17 to December 3. The festival usually draws lakhs of devotees from across the country. This year, the festival will start with the flag hoisting on November 20. On November 29, the Bharani Deepam will be lit inside the Arunachaleshwarar temple at 4 a.m. and the Karthigai Deepam will be lit on top of the hill at 6 p.m. “Since prohibitory orders are still in place and to prevent the spread of COVID-19, we are not allowing anyone inside the temple on November 29. On other days, 5,000 devotees, with e-passes obtained by registering atwww.arunachaleswarar temple.tnhrce.inwill be allowed inside the temple for darshan,” said Collector K. S. Kandasamy. As always, devotees will not be allowed to climb the hill for darshan of the deepam. “This time, people will not be allowed to gather on the streets and witness the lighting of the deepam. They can stand outside their respective houses and do so,” added the Collector. Girivalam, on November 29 and 30, is also banned. “No special buses will be operated between November 28 and 30. The annual car festival that is scheduled on November 26 and the other processions, usually conducted on Mada streets, during the festive season, will take place inside the temple premises this year,” said an official. The annual float festival that traditionally used to be conducted in Ayyankulam in Tiruvannamalai will be held at Brahma Theertham on the temple premises between November 30 and December 2. “All these events will be telecast on social media platforms and television channels,” added the official. The local administration has also banned Annadanam and cattle or horse santhai this year. “The Shivacharya and other temple staff will be provided with identity cards and only those with valid credentials will be allowed to enter the temple,” the official explained. Police personnel will be deployed in large numbers to ensure people do not flout norms and gather on the streets. “We will also be using drones,” said S. Aravind, Tiruvannamalai Superintendent of Police.
14 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. to profile elephants that use Gudalur landscape||The Forest Department is set to embark on a process of creating a unique profile of all the elephants that inhabit or pass through the Gudalur landscape every year to manage human-elephant interactions better. Based on instructions from Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore, I. Anwardeen, the Gudalur forest division is to begin documenting the elephants using the landscape, said District Forest Officer (Gudalur division), Sumesh Soman. Mr. Soman said the photographs of the elephants would be collected, while forest officials would also collect information about their movement patterns, the herd the individual belonged to, the habitats they preferred, their behaviour and other aspects. “A unique ID will be provided for each elephant, so that forest rangers can have access to some vital information about the elephant that can be employed to mitigate conflict,” said Mr. Soman. Officials said the department staff were being given special training so that they could be used to collect the information, which would be passed on to experts to develop the unique identification. “We do not want to anthropomorphise the elephants in the landscape with unique names, as this could lead to people identifying certain individual elephants and calling for their capture every time a problematic interaction takes place,” said an official from the department. The entire exercise could take a few months or a year, as the department would have to identify the elephants that resided primarily in the Gudalur landscape and also the herds and individuals that passed through Gudalur to Nilambur and Wayanad.
14 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||311 recruits attested into Madras Regiment||A total of 311 recruits were on Friday attested into the Madras Regiment at the Shrinagesh Barracks in Wellington, Coonoor, after completion of a year-long basic and advanced military training. The attestation parade was reviewed by Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh, Commandant of the Madras Regimental Centre at Wellington. The attestation parade was carried out with appropriate social distancing and in consonance with the highest traditions of the Indian Army. While addressing the parade, the reviewing officer congratulated the meritorious recruits and appreciated the instructors and staff for achieving very high standards of training. He lauded the efforts of the Madras Regimental Centre in training smart and effective soldiers for the Indian Army, a press release from the MRC said. The reviewing officer made a special mention of the efforts taken to train the soldiers under the prevailing pandemic situation and commended all the stakeholders for their hard work, the press release said.
14 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||49 test positive in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 18,633 with 49 new cases reported on Friday. While a total of 18,062 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 251. The district's death toll is 320. In Ranipet district, 30 cases were reported taking the tally to 15,276. In Tirupattur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 6,989 with 26 new cases on Friday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 25 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 18,196. Out of this, 17,540 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 387. In Cuddalore Cuddalore district reported 24 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 23,736. A total of 43 persons were discharged from hospitals in the district, which now has 173 active cases. The district reported one more death on Friday, taking the toll to 274. As many as 18 persons tested positive in Villupuram district, taking its overall case count to 14,247. Kallakurichi district recorded 10 fresh cases on Friday, taking the tally to 10,486.
14 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK splits its Virudhunagar unit into west and east||The bifurcation of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s Virudhunagar unit into Virudhunagar West and Virudhunagar East has only strengthened Minister for Dairy Development, K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji’s hand in the party. For, the newly-announced Virudhunagar East, the district secretary is K. Ravichandran, brother of former Tamil Nadu Assembly Speaker, K. Kalimuthu and said to be staunch supporter of Mr. Bhalaji. Mr. Bhalaji, who was the party district secretary covering the whole district was later removed from the post after he started to make comments on religious lines that embarrassed the party high command. However, subsequently, he was made the party in-charge. After Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s visit to the district for review of development works on Wednesday, the announcement of bifurcating the party’s district unit was made on Thursday night. However, the announcement caused confusion among the party cadre, especially the supporters of party MLA, representing Sattur Assembly Constituency, M. S. R. Rajavarman. Mistaking the new secretary for Virudhunagar East district as Ammanpatti Ravichandran, the MLA’s supporters bursted crackers in Alangulam near Rajapalayam on Thursday night. However, after it was clarified that it was the other Ravichandran, the former Vembakottai union secretary, supporters of Mr. Bhalaji bursted crackers in Alangulam that led to a scuffle among the supporters of both groups. Four of them who were injured in the attack got admitted in different hospitals. One Inbaraj, had lodged a complaint with Alangulam police seeking action against party functionary Manikandan. While the West district comprises Rajapalayam, Srivilliputtur, Sivakasi and Virudhunagar, the East district contains Sattur, Aruppukottai and Tiruchuli Assembly constituencies.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||179 positive cases in Coimbatore district||Coimbatore district reported 179 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday, taking the overall tally to 46,055. The district had 971 active cases of the disease and 243 persons got discharged from hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres after recovery. According to the Health Department, the death of a 58-year-old patient from Coimbatore at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Thursday took the district’s death toll to 584. Tiruppur district had 889 COVID-19 patients under institutional care on Friday. The district reported 80 new cases while 156 persons recovered from the disease and got discharged from treatment centres. No death was reported in Tiruppur district on Friday. Ninety-six positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, 86 were indigenous, including 30 in Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 51 cases were reported. Erode district reported 50 new cases, taking the tally to 11,480. While 90 persons were discharged, 725 continue to be under treatment. A total of 36 were reported in Krishnagiri and in Dharmapuri, 19 new cases were reported. In the Nilgiris, 31 people tested positive. The total number of confirmed cases stands at 7,069. The death toll in the district increased from 40 to 41 on Friday, while the district administration said that 218 people are undergoing treatment.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Govt. orders inquiry by ex-judge against Anna varsity V-C Surappa||The Anna University Teachers’ Association issued a statement in his defence. But the government order, dated November 11, said that since “prima facie” the allegations “are serious in nature”, the government decided to conduct an inquiry. According to the order, A. Suresh of Tiruchi sent a complaint to the Chief Minister’s Special Cell in February last, claiming that Sakthinathan, Deputy Director, Centre for Constituent Colleges, and Prof. Surappa were involved in corruption to the tune of Rs. 200 crore. He claimed that the two had collected nearly Rs. 80 crore by taking bribes of Rs. 13 lakh-Rs. 15 lakh per candidate for the recruitment of temporary teacher fellows of the constituent colleges and Anna University. Similarly, a person named C. Varadarajan and Selladurai of ‘Save Anna University’ had accused Prof. Surappa of irregularities, the order said. Another person R. Adhikesavan alleged that the Vice-Chancellor had appointed his daughter at the university. “Apart from this, many complaints of financial irregularities were received,” it said. Hence, Justice P. Kalaiyarasan was appointed as the inquiry officer under provisions of the Anna University Act, 1978, with a mandate to submit his report within three months. The terms of reference are to inquire into the functioning of Anna University and whether its activities in all respects conform to the Anna University Act and the various laws framed thereunder during the tenure of Prof. Surappa. The retired judge would inquire into the temporary appointments and other recruitments made in the academic as well as administrative sides during the tenure of Prof. Surappa. He would also inquire into the amounts received by the university in fees, assistance, donations and grants. The inquiry officer would also look into whether there was any lapse or abuse of official position. “If such allegations are proved to be true, he would suggest such suitable ways and means to prevent such recurrences in future,” the order said.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Festival spirit||
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Brisk business||
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||For the needy||
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In full glow||
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘COVID-19 patients must stay away from crackers’||COVID-19 patients and those who recovered from the viral infection must exercise extreme caution and stay away from bursting crackers while celebrating Deepavali as they have suffered lung damage, say doctors of Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre. A press release from the hospital said people with any respiratory illness, especially those suffering from asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary disease, face distress because of the smoke emitted from crackers. “Even in healthy persons, allergies are common when they are exposed to smoke, which can lead to cough, sneeze and running nose. In addition, if crackers that produce high noise explode close to the ears, it might lead to ‘ringing in the ears’ or hearing loss,” said Nageswaran, senior consultant, ENT department. ‘Mask is not of much use’ The doctors also stress that bursting of crackers while wearing face masks cannot keep a person safe either and it can make a person feel more suffocated. “Hence, it is advisable for people to exercise caution while celebrating the festival,” added the release.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||In the news report, “War heroes from Salem remembered”, in the edition dated November 12, it should read “commemorative plaque” and not as published. The error is regretted.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||14-11-2020-city-cinema||MISCELLANEOUS  HAMSADHWANI 9790909567 / 9840984038 DEEPAVALI GREETINGS to Artistes, Members, Sponsors & Rasikas. Request all Members to update their KYM details as performat inwebsite hamsadhwani.netMail details by 20th Nov. Await Margazhi Fest in Dec by Federation of City Sabhas
14 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Five youths sentenced to life imprisonment on the charge of gang-rape||A local court found five youths guilty of raping a minor and videographing the offence and sentenced them to life imprisonment. Judge Manjappa Annaiah also imposed a fine of Rs. 5 lakh on the offenders under the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (PoCSO) and Information Technology Act. Circle Inspector of Ramesh Gokak filed a charge-sheet stating that the accused Siddappa Daddi, Suresh Belagavi, Sunil Dummagol, residents of Mutyahnatti, Mahesh Shivangol, resident of Mangutti in Hukkeri taluk, and Somshekhar Shahapur, resident of Bailhongal, had gang-raped the victim and threatened her and her friend against informing anyone about it. They had cornered the girl and her friend who had come for a trek on Mutyahnatti mountain near Kakati in 2017, according to public prosecutor L.V. Patil. Personnel from the Kakati Police Station Raghavendra Hallur and Avinash Yaragoppa presented the accused before court and escorted them back to the Hindalaga Hail later.
14 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Confusion over announcement on college reopening in Belagavi||The State government’s announcement that post-graduate classes and final year undergraduate classes would reopen across universities and colleges in the State has created confusion among students, parents and college managements. The standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the State government say that colleges can admit only half the number of students into live classes, while the other half should learn online. The SOP also makes it mandatory for teachers and students to undergo COVID-19 test and attend classes only if their results are negative. Colleges are not supposed to open libraries or canteens, to avoid crowding. Students are supposed to bring tiffin boxes from home. Colleges are to supply masks and gloves and sanitiser solution to students and teachers. Colleges will not insist on students wearing any uniform, as per the SOP. “Most parents are not comfortable with the idea of sending their children back to college as they believe the disease is still around,” said Rayanna Chougale, whose two daughters are in college. Some students are worried about compulsory testing. “I live in a village on the Maharashtra border and there are no testing facilities nearby. What should we do” aks Rahul Nasi. “We have to go to either Belagavi or Chikkodi for tests. It takes three-four days for results to arrive. What is more, we have to go to the testing centre twice — once to give samples and again to get the certificate. That can be cumbersome,” said. Some say the stigma associated with the virus prevails. “I live in Mudalagi. My friends and I rented a room to attend college in Belagavi. But my landlord asked me to vacate it in April and I did so. Now, he is not ready to accommodate us,” said Imran Syed,’ a college student. Some say the epidemic has affected girls education. “I have a feeling most of the girls in my class will have to drop out. Their parents are likely to cut short their education and instead, arrange for their marriages,’’ said Ankita Patil, who commutes to Visvesvaraya Technological University from Hukkeri. College principals are not sure about the direction to supply masks and gloves to all students. “Not all colleges will be able to distribute safety equipment. We have around 250 students and we may supply the safety equipment. But there are some colleges with thousands of students and they will not be able to do that. Even we will not be able to do it repeatedly,’’ said Girish M.B., principal of a private college. Kalpana Mahajan, principal of a government college, said that the SOP does not mention how the government will meet the expenses for supplying safety equipment.
14 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||KPCC sets up panel to select probable candidates for Belagavi LS bypoll||The Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee has constituted a panel to select probable candidates for the Belagavi Lok Sabha bypoll. The Election Commission is yet to announce the date for the election to the seat that fell vacant after the death of Union Minister Suresh C. Angadi. The former Minister M.B. Patil is the chairman of the committee and it comprises L. Hanumanthaiah, Satish Jarkiholi, H.M. Revanna, Veerakumar Patil, Ajay Kumar Sarnayak, Anil Lad, G.S. Patil, Basavaraj Shivannanavar, Srinivas Mane, and Nagaraj Chabbi. The committee has been asked to submit a list of probable candidates after consulting the party cadre, as soon as possible. Mr. Hanumanthaiah visited Belagavi and met some aspirants and some leaders on Wednesday.   The BJP has begun its preparations too. A group of leaders held meetings in Belagavi and Hubballi with party leaders. There have been demands from Mr. Angadi’s supporters that the party nominate a member of his family.
14 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Bidar students bound for AIIMS interact with other pupils||Karthik Reddy and Arbaaz Ahmed, pre-university students from Bidar who have got admission to the New Delhi-based AIIMS, interacted with students of Sana Shaheen PU College in Hubballi on Thursday. The students of the Bidar-based Shaheen PU College encouraged students to study with single-minded devotion and stop fearing examinations. They are the only two students from Karnataka to get into AIIMS. Karthik Reddy, who got the all India ninth rank and topped the State in NEET rankings, asked students to aim high and never stop believing in themselves. He spoke of how he had made the best use of the lockdown period to revise his portions and focus on the PU examinations along with NEET examinations. He spoke of how he developed self-discipline to stay away from watching TV and using the Internet during the two-year period. Mr. Ahmed, who got the all India 85th rank, spoke of how his elder brothers inspired him to come out of the spiral of poverty by doing well in the examinations. He shared with them his life story of humble beginnings and the many challenges of his childhood. Later, Abdul Quadeer, chairman, Shaheen Group of Institutions, spoke at a press conference in Hubballi.
14 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Art gallery comes up in Belagavi||Wildlife photographer and nature enthusiast Sanjay Ladhad has opened the first private art gallery in Belagavi. Studio Arcane will start functioning in the Bamane Complex in front of the Fire Brigade Office in Goaves here on Monday. In the first season, paintings and photographs of city-based artists will be exhibited. Artists Manesh Honule, Shirish Deshpande, Shilpa Khadakbhavi, Sachin Upadhey, Balu Sadalge, Chandrashekar Rangnekar and photographers Kiran Kulkarni, Tejraj Kale, Niranjan Sant, Hemant Kutre, Milind Pawashe, Rajesh Shelake will exhibit their works. The studio also showcases works of sculptures, handicrafts, pottery art and others. It will be open 365 days a year. “We are developing a website that can serve as an online gallery and a market place for art,” said Mr. Ladhad. Details can be had on Ph: 6362306082 and 9341610322.
14 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Water release till March 21||Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam, a State government agency that supervises the operation of dams on the Krishna river, has decided to release water from the Alamatti and Narayanpur dams till March 21. The dams will be closed after that to impound water in the next monsoon season. This was decided at an irrigation consultative committee meeting chaired by Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol. He agreed to a suggestion by officers that water flow will be maintained for 71 out of the 120 days from January to March 2021. This will be done as per the Vara Bandi loop system. The Alamatti dam will be opened for eight days and closed for the next seven days. The Narayanpur dam will be opened for 14 days at a stretch and closed for the next eight days. This happens in succession. Releasing water in both the canals will need 1.06 tmcft of water. The total quantity of impounded water is around 116.33 tmcft in both the reservoirs. That will be sufficient to release water till March 21, the Minister said.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Property documents to have digital avatar with e-Aasthi||In a move that aims to bring in more transparency, stamp out illegal transactions and cut out middlemen, property documents will now have a digital avatar and uploaded on DigiLocker. The khata certificate issued by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) will have 46 kinds of information, including photo of the property, photo of the owner, property identity number (PID), apart from registration information. This will help curb menace of fake documents being created for fraudulent property transactions. After launching the new e-Aashthi portal through which the BBMP hopes to streamline property record management and establish electronic integration with registration, civic Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad told reporters here on Friday that the pilot had been implemented in three wards in Shantinagar division — Neelasandra, Shantinagar, and Shantalanagar. He said after the pilot of two weeks, glitches, if any, would be set right and the system rolled out in the remaining 97 wards in the core zones (East, West, and South) in a phased manner. “In the three wards, officials concerned have already been directed to stop issuing handwritten khata certificates,” he said, and added that property records could be created under e-Aasthi from the existing khata master database. He added that the process has been put in place to undertake updation following transactions, such as sale, inheritance, partition, gift, will, land acquisition, khata amalgamation/bifurcation. The new khatas, apart from having 46 kinds of information, would have digital signatures and would be DigiLocker enabled. The earlier version of khata certificate and khata extract had 18 kinds of information. Since the e-Aasthi and Kaveri system of the Department of Stamps and Registration is already linked, any mutation (change in ownership) can be initiated automatically. “A notice will be generated from the system automatically by initiating a transaction after receiving registration details electronically. Officials will have three days to verify/hear objections. There is also a facility to upload supporting documents wherever applicable, following which the mutation/khata extract will be generated,” said Mr. Prasad. The Commissioner termed this as a milestone for the civic body and added that since online applications for khata transfer, amalgamation, bifurcation, etc. under Sakala began early 2018, as many as 2.87 lakh applications have been processed thus far. BBMP Administrator Gaurav Gupta said the civic body was already providing many services online, such as trade licences, birth and death certificates, and building plan sanctions. “With e-Aasthi, we are taking this one step further,” he said.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KAPC recommends big hike in compensation for crop loss||With the existing compensation for crop loss caused by natural calamities not even sufficient to purchase farm inputs such as seeds and fertilisers, Karnataka Agricultural Price Commission (KAPC) has recommended that the State government seek a substantial hike in payment of compensation tofarmers under the Centre’s National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). It has recommended an increase of over seven times — from the existing Rs. 6,800 to Rs. 50,000 for crop loss per hectare in dry areas/regions. For crop loss in irrigated areas, it has recommended a hike from Rs. 13,500 to Rs. 50,000 per hectare.In the case of horticultural crops, which are largely multi-year crops, the commission has recommended a hike from Rs. 18,000 to Rs. 1lakh per hectare. Standing crops on nearly 11 lakh hectares were damaged owing to heavy rains and floods in the last monsoon season. KAPC chairman Hanumagowda Belagurki submitted the recommendations on agricultural and horticultural prices for the years 2019-20 and 2020-21 to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, with Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil and Horticulture Minister Narayana Gowda also being present. The commission’s recommendations to the State government includes coverage of all farmers under the Prime Minister’s Fasal Bima Yojana and weather-based insurance scheme to ensure insurance in the case of flood/drought. The commission has also recommended that the government procure foodgrains such as rice, ragi, and jowar for the Public Distribution System from the farmers of the State, helping them get good prices for their produce.    At present, foodgrains worth Rs. 800 crore are being procured under the central pool in the State. The commission has suggested procurement of 39.7 lakh tonnes of foodgrains, worth Rs. 12,000 crore, in the State. It has also recommended “Holakondu Kere” (pond per field) for management of water for crops, dependingon the water requirement of farmers.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Take steps to arrest Sampath Raj in D.J. Halli case: High Court directs CCB||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the Central Crime Branch (CCB) of the city police to take all steps to trace and arrest the former Mayor R. Sampath Raj, who is absconding, in a case of August 11 violence at D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli localities. Noticing that there is a considerable delay in arresting him, a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty directed the investigating officer to submit the progress report on steps taken to nab Mr. Sampath Raj. The Bench was hearing a batch of PIL petitions through which the court is monitoring the investigation of various cases related to the violence by the CCB and the National Investigation Agency besides appointing a retired judge of the High Court as the Claims Commissioner to assess damages caused to private and public properties during the violence. Mr. Sampath Raj is specifically accused in a case related to the burning of Pulakeshinagar MLA R. Akhanda Sreenivasa Murthy’s residence. The CCB had said that Sampath Raj was initially admitted to a hospital in the city for COVID-19 treatment and left the hospital without informing the investigating agency evading the arrest.  Meanwhile, the Bench did not accept the government’s decision to appoint staff to the Claims Commissioner’s office through outsourcing manpower as works of the commission involves certain level of secrecy.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Green crackers’ are not totally chemical-free, doctors warn||Ahead of Deepavali, Minto Ophthalmic Hospital released a list of dos and don’ts on Friday to prevent mishaps. Despite “green crackers” being advocated over others by the government, doctors have warned that they are not totally chemical-free. The hospital, in a statement, said that though there has been a “drastic reduction” in the use of firecrackers, injuries ranging in severity from mild superficial to severe sight-threatening ones continue to be reported. “It is not just the reveller who suffers injury, but the innocent bystander also suffers in more than half the cases. Over 40% of those injured are children under the age of 14,” it said. Explaining that firecrackers are known to cause thermal, mechanical, and chemical injuries, Minto hospital has said that “green crackers” are not completely safe and or completely free of chemicals, though the percentage may be low. Complete prevention is the best alternative, which is to ban crackers completely, doctors have said. Sujatha Rathod, director, Minto hospital, said at the press conference that there was no material available to prove that “green crackers” do not cause harm to the eyes. “Even if they are known as green crackers, there will be some amount of chemicals in them,” she said. When asked if the number of eye injuries reported at the hospital have reduced over the years, she said the last 10 years have seen 45 to 65 injuries being reported during the festive season every year.  Precautions For those who still wish to burst firecrackers, the hospital has advised keeping a bucket of water, hose and a first-aid kit handy, along with using a long taper to light crackers rather than bending down close to it, using a large open area to burst firecrackers, wearing closed footwear, keeping infants indoors, and immersing used firecrackers in a bucket of water before disposing. Doctors have warned not to wear loose clothing, let children light crackers without adult supervision, attempt to reignite crackers that did not burst, lighting crackers while it is in the hand, and burst them indoors. “Do not apply any cream or ointment or oil on burnt areas. In case of injury to the eyes, do not panic. Do not attempt to wash the eye, rub it or self medicate. Cover the eye gently with a clean handkerchief and rush to the nearest ophthalmologist or eye hospital,” the release added.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Declare elections to 5,800 GPs in 3 weeks’||In a setback to the State government, the High Court of Karnataka on Friday declared that only the State Election Commission can examine whether there exists an “exceptional situation” to postpone the elections to panchayats beyond the period prescribed in the Constitution and that the government has no say in it. While directing the SEC to announce elections to 5,800 gram panchayats within three weeks, the court also declared that the SEC is not required to consult the government on holding the the elections and the State government has no role to play. A Division Bench delivered the verdict on a PIL petition filed by K.C. Kondaiah, Congress MLC, and seeking direction for holding elections to gram panchayats. Can seek feedback If the SEC wants any feedback or any factual information regarding the situation prevailing, then it can seek feedback from the government or its officers for the purpose of arriving at a decision, the Bench said. The Bench did not appreciate the stand of the State government that it would be difficult to implement the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) prescribed by the SEC to conduct elections to the panchayats. “In fact, it is the duty of the State government to take appropriate steps to ensure that the SOP published by the SEC is strictly implemented in true letter and spirit,” the Bench observed, while declining to accept the government’s claim that it is difficult to hold elections in view of COVID-19. The Bench told the government to look at examples such as elections to Bihar Assembly, bypolls to Karnataka Assembly, and minor children attending SSLC exams in the State. Governor’s role Even if government staff is required for holding polls, the requisition has to be submitted by the SEC to the Governor and not to the State government, and the Governor, as per Constitution, has no choice but to make available the required, the Bench said, while stating it is obligation of the government to allocate funds to SEC.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Delay in payment of salary disappoints road transport corporation employees||Deepavali celebrations will be muted for more than 1.25 lakh people employed with the four State road transport corporations who are yet to receive their October salary. Unions have appealed to the State government to release at least Rs. 15,000 to the employees so that they can celebrate Deepavali with their families. A Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation employee said, “We were expecting credit of at least half of the salary amount, but we received nothing till Friday evening. We are unlikely to get our salary till Tuesday because of general holidays. We have been working hard amid the pandemic, but are not being paid on time.” All the four corporations are relying on the State government to release funds as they had suffered huge revenue losses on account of the pandemic. Recently, they had asked the government to release Rs. 634 crore to pay salaries till December. Managing director of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) Shivyogi C. Kalasad was not available for comment. The KSRTC Staff and Workers Federation has been demanding that the State government release salaries till the time there is normality in bus services and the corporations start receiving pre-lockdown revenue. Rise in bookings The KSRTC received 26,000 online seat bookings on Friday and earned Rs. 1.5 crore. An official of the KSRTC said there was a huge demand for non-AC buses from Bengaluru to destinations such as Mangaluru, Belagavi, Hubballi, and Shivamogga. “This is the first festive season after the outbreak of the pandemic we are seeing demand. We were getting 5,000 to 6,000 online bookings but the number shot up drastically on Friday. From Majestic and other points, we also received demand for more than 650 additional buses on Friday,” said the official.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||An initiative to reach out to State’s farmers||Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil is set to embark on a “day with farmers” initiative from Saturday, under which he will periodically spend a full day in avillage with farmers. Participating in the valedictory function of the three-day Krishi Mela, organised by the University of Agricultural Sciences, Bengaluru, the Minister said he would begin the programme from K.R. Pet taluk in Mandya. He plans to stay from7 a.m. to 7 p.m. in the village at the fields of two progressive farmers. The Minister said the aim was to understand the problems of farmers and also instil confidence in them. He also plans to identify progressive farmers and encourage others to learn the best practices from them. He said such trips would be taken up two or three times a month. During his visit to K.R. Pet, he plans to try to convince farmers to shun the practice of monocropping, such as growing only sugarcane or paddy, and to appeal to them to try out integrated farming, emulating farmers in the parched Kolar district. Speaking on the occasion, Horticulture Minister Narayana Gowda reiterated that the State government would set up an international market on about 70 acres of land near Bengaluru airport. He also said the export of fruits and vegetables from the State had increased to 5.5% of the total production now, from the earlier 2% in the past few months. Good turnout The three-day Krishi Mela was visited by scores of well-educated farmers. Despite being a low-key affair given the COVID-19 restrictions, it saw a good turnout of well-educated farmers. About 95,000 viewers opted for social media platforms to watch the event. “Many had qualifications like BE or postgraduate degree. While some of them were full-time farmers, some were pursuing farming along with their regular profession. During consultations with scientists, they showed their interest in processing and value addition,” said Harini Kumar, head of UAS-B’s BT Department. Narayanaswamy, principal scientist at the Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, told The Hindu that the queries posed by some of the well-educated farmers were challenging. “They were particularly keen to understand the recent technologies and latest crop varieties. They were focusing on high incomes and enquired about methods to reduce the cost of cultivation,” he said.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||110 kg of ganja seized||Acting on a tip-off that a person was selling ganja at Rajgopal Nagar, the police conducted a raid and arrested Shivakumar, 27, hailing from Chickballapur. They recovered 17 kg of ganja from him, but a raid at his house in Chickballapur revealed that he had another 93 kg of the illegal substance in storage. “In total, 110 kg of ganja was seized,” said the police. Shivakumar, who works as a truck driver, made regular trips to Hyderabad, Tirupati and Visakhapatnam, mainly transporting vegetables. “On one such trip, he befriended a man in Tirupati from whom he used to buy ganja at a low cost. He would sell them in small quantities in Bengaluru and Chickballapur,” the police added.
14 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply from 10.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. on November 17 and 18 in the areas serviced from South City MUSS and Jayadeva sub-stations for taking up conversion and cable works. According to a Bescom release, the areas to be affected on November 17 are 17th A, B, C, G and H Cross, 15th Main, J.P. Nagar, 5th Phase, Nanjundeswara Layout, KEB Layout, Gurrappana Palya, BTM Layout I Stage, EWS Colony, 17th Main to 29th Main, BTM Layout 2nd Stage; and on November 18 are 6th to 9th Main, MICO Layout, and BTM Layout 2nd Stage.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Disruption of metro services on Green Line||The BMRCL has decided to suspend metro services between R.V. Road and Yelachenahalli for three days on November 17, 18 and 19. A press release stated this would be done to facilitate the pre-commissioning of the southern extension of Green Line (Yelachenahalli to Anjanapura). On the rest of the line, services will be available from R.V. Road to Nagasandra from 7 a.m to 9 p.m. Normal services from Yelachenahalli to Nagasandra will resume from November 20 at 7 a.m. Trains from Mysuru Road to Baiyappanahalli will run as usual.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ED and I-T Department likely to join probe against KAS officer||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Income Tax (I-T) Department are likely to join the probe against KAS officer B. Sudha, who is under the scanner after the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) conducted raids in a disproportionate assets case. During the raids, the ACB recovered documents of more than 200 properties, and details of 50 bank accounts apart from cash and gold jewellery. Documents pertaining to properties that officials suspect Ms. Sudha has invested in have been recovered from the residence of one of her friends, which was also raided. They are suspected to be ‘benami’ properties. Sources in the ED, Bengaluru, said they are examining the case and given the large number of property documents and bank accounts uncovered during the raids, they would definitely join the probe. Meanwhile, sources in the I-T Department said they were not only keen on probing tax evasion on the KAS officer’s part, but will also look into violations of the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988. At the time of conducting the raids, ACB officials said that Ms. Sudha, who is currently serving in the Department of IT and Biotechnology, was earlier Special Land Acquisition Officer, Bangalore Development Authority (BDA). The majority of irregularities allegedly took place during her tenure in the BDA, they said.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Most districts post fewer than 100 new cases||Continuing its recent streak of posting low numbers, Karnataka reported 2,016 new COVID 19 cases on Friday. According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare bulletin, there are a total of 28,026 active cases in the State. The total number of tests stood at 1,17,999. As many as 17 new deaths were also reported on Friday. With this, the total number of deaths owing to COVID-19 is 11,491, while deaths of 19 COVID-19 patients were because of other reasons. The overall number of positive cases in the State stands at 8,57,928. The total number of recoveries has gone up to 8,18,392 with 3,443 people being discharged on Friday. As many as 781 patients are in the ICU. The State’s positivity rate stood at 1.71%, while the case fatality rate was 0.84%. Among districts, Bengaluru Urban reported 1,030 new cases — the highest among all. Tumakuru had 184 new cases, while all others had fewer than 100 new cases, some even in single digits.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Guidelines revised for international returnees||Guidelines for international travellers returning to Karnataka have been revised. According to the new guidelines released on Friday, all passengers will have to undergo 14 days home quarantine. Exemptions Exemptions will be made in the case of submitting a negative RT-PCR report for test done 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey, which has to be uploaded on the portal https://www.newdelhiairport.in/airsuvidha/apho-registration. They will also have to submit a declaration form vouching for its authenticity, and will be liable for criminal prosecution if found otherwise. Others can opt for a test upon arrival at the airport if there is such a facility to avail of exemption. Exceptions will also be made for pregnancy, death in the family, serious illness, and for parents with children below the age of 10. But they will have to self-monitor their health for 14 days. Business travellers, short-term travellers, and students who are writing exams in Karnataka will be exempted from quarantine if they carry a negative RT-PCR report for test conducted 72 hours before travel. Before boarding, all passengers should have to download Aarogya Setu app, Apthamitra app, and Quarantine Watch app. Only asymptomatic travellers would be allowed to board.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New BJP in-charge for State||Rajya Sabha member Arun Singh, hailing from Uttar Pradesh, has been appointed as the new in-charge of BJP affairs for Karnataka. D.K. Aruna, who is from Telangana has been made co-in-charge. Meanwhile, C.T. Ravi, recently appointed as national general secretary of the party, has been made in-charge of party affairs in Maharashtra, Goa, and Tamil Nadu.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Robbers who targeted lone commuters held||The city police have arrested three men who allegedly robbed lone commuters on the Outer Ring Road in the Banaswadi and K.R. Puram stretch at night. With their arrest, the police claim to have solved at least four cases of robbery. “However, the recoveries made from the arrested indicate that the gang was behind more robberies, many of which could have gone unreported,” said the police. The accused have been identified as Vishnu, 22, Shivakumar, 21, and Sentamil, 22. The police have recovered 40 mobile phones worth over Rs. 2.5 lakh and three two-wheelers from them.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tests ahead of college reopening||As colleges and hostels gear up to welcome back students and staff, the Health and Family Welfare Department has instructed its staff to make arrangements for collecting nasal and throat swabs and testing the same. As per the SOP issued by the government, all teachers, students, and non-teaching staff have to produce a COVID-19 RT-PCR negative report for tests done 72 hours before the day of joining.
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Conference on road safety||A virtual press conference on ‘Issues of road users and possible solutions’ was held by Mother India Care recently to discuss road users’ issues, hear voices of victims, and for the possible solutions to be incorporated in the Decade Action Plan 2021- 2030, a comprehensive national project on road safety strategy. The main spokesperson at the event was Kiara Mittal, a national road safety ambassador and the youngest anchor-editor, a release said. Among the other speakers were an educationalist, psychologist and actor. The virtual ceremony is scheduled for Sunday. It will have a webinar on road safety and an awards ceremony.
14 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Medical check up||BWSSB will hold medical check-up for locomotor disability and hearing impaired candidates who have been selected for various posts under direct recruitment on 1:5 ratio. According to a release, the medical check-up will be held on November 30, and December 1 and 2 at Victoria Hospital. For details, visitwww.bwssb.gov.in
14 November 2020||Benglauru,KARNATAKA||Man kills children, ends life||A guard at an apartment complex allegedly killed his three children — two girls and a boy — before killing himself, at the quarters where they lived at Mico Layout. The incident came to light early on Friday. The deceased have been identified as Janakaraj Bista, 32, Saraswati, 14, Hemanti, 9 and Rajkumar, 3. The family hailed from Nepal and lived at the staff quarters of Ramanashree Enclave, the apartment where Janakaraj worked as a guard.When Janakaraj did not report for duty on Friday, other staffers knocked on his door. When he did not answer, they entered the quarters and alerted the police. The police suspect the incident happened Thursday late night. “Janakaraj’s wife committed suicide a month-and-a-half ago. There is no family to claim the bodies,” said police sources.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)
14 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hassan registers 62 new cases of COVID-19||As many as 62 fresh cases of COVID-19 infection were reported in Hassan district on Friday. With that, the total number of confirmed cases increased to 26,249. Among them, 25,109 have recovered so far while 699 are undergoing treatment. Of them, 24 are in the intensive care unit. So far, 441 have died of the infection in the district. Among the cases reported on the day, five are from Alur, seven from Arkalgud, five from Arsikere, nine from Belur, eight from Channarayapatna, 23 from Hassan and five are from Holenarasipur.
14 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Santheshivara village to be developed||Writer S.L. Bhyrappa’s village Santheshivara in Channarayapatna taluk will be developed at a cost of Rs. 5 crore, Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish said. The DC spoke at a meeting to work out the development plan at his office on Thursday. The State government has provided amount for the village’s development. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had announced the project in his budget earlier this year. The money would be utilised for the development of the village, as per the guidelines of the government. Gowramma Memorial Trust would suggest the architecture and rough design of structures villagers required.
14 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Haveri to get hi-tech medical college in 2021-22||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has said that his government was committed to providing a hi-tech government medical college with all facilities at Haveri and the medical college would start functioning from the academic year 2021-22. Initiating the foundation laying ceremony through a virtual platform from his home office Krishna in Bengaluru on Friday evening, Mr. Yediyurappa said that with the establishment of the medical college, the district would not only get better medical facilities but also the services of 890 medical and non-medical staff. “Once the hi-tech government hospital gets established, the people of the district, who are dependent on neighbouring Dharwad and Davangere districts for better healthcare facilities, would get the same in Haveri itself. The medical college will also pave the way for economic and educational progress of the district,” he said. The Chief Minister said that already 56.10 acres of land had been allotted for the medical college building and the medical college campus would come up at a total cost of Rs. 478.75 crore under the grants of both State and Union governments. Already, the State government has released Rs. 37.23 crore and an administrative officer too has been appointed, he said. Mr. Yediyurappa said that while Rs. 365 crore would be spent for civil works, Rs. 85 crore would be utilised for purchase of medical equipment. A sum of Rs. 28.75 crore would be utilised for power, water supply, digital library and other amenities. The main building of the college would have a 70-bed surgery complex, intensive care unit and ortho units. The Chief Minister said that two hostels for boys and girls with a capacity to accommodate 375 students would be built. Every year, 150 students would be able to get admission to the medical college and in the coming years, steps would be taken to provide admission to 100 post-graduate students and 250 nursing and paramedical students, he said. Mr. Yediyurappa also said that a Rs. 40-crore project for 24 x 7 water supply to the medical college campus and other projects would be sanctioned for the development of the college. Presiding over the function held at the land allotted for the medical college in Haveri, MLA Nehru Olekar made the introductory remarks. Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi, Minister for Health and Family Welfare K. Sudhakar, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, MP Shivakumar Udasi, various MLAs and officials were present.
14 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||CDP to be modified as per GIS||The Comprehensive Development Plan (CDP) for Hubballi-Dharwad, which was approved in 2019, would be modified as per GIS (Geographic Information System) and sent to the State government for approval, Chairman of Hubballi Dharwad Urban Development Authority (HDUDA) Nagesh Kalburgi has said. Speaking to presspersons after the monthly meeting of HDUDA here on Friday, Mr. Kalburgi said that the work on conducting GIS survey of property in the twin cities had been entrusted to a private company and the survey had already begun. Subsequently, consultations would be held with all stakeholders and citizens before finalising it by March next, he said. Clarifying that the drive against illegal layouts would not stop, he said that 177 persons had been issued notice in connection with unauthorised layouts. Mr. Kalburgi said that the development of unauthorised layouts was growing into a big scam. “Residential layouts are being developed without following the proper procedure and taking permission from the government agencies concerned, and they are sold on Rs. 100 stamp paper. Several people have purchased such plots and built houses, but on records the land remains in the name of the original owner. And, in several cases, such plots have been again sold to others thus creating problems for the occupants. To avoid further problems, it has now been decided to get such land registered in the name of the State government,” he said Master plan Earlier, in the monthly meeting, a presentation on the GIS-based master plan for the twin cities was made by a representative of the private agency appointed for the purpose. Briefing the meeting in which Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar and other elected representatives took part, Town Planning Advisor Narayan Shastry said that the GIS-based master plan would be prepared within the next six months after taking into consideration various factors, including sustainable development. As per AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) Yojna guidelines, GIS-based master plan was compulsory and based on population, Hubballi-Dharwad would be getting the status of metropolitan cities in the coming years. The twin cities have been growing at a rate of 20 % in the last 10 years, which was indicative of the growth of a medium-level city. Various factors would be kept in mind while preparing the master plan which would be finalised after holding consultations with the stakeholders, he said.
14 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Poet Airasang passes away||Senior poet known for his simplicity and love for Kannada V.C. Airasang (91) passed away in Dharwad on Friday after a brief period of illness. Known popularly as “Cycle Kavi” (bicycle poet), Airasang had brought out 46 collections of poems, including Shringara Kavya. Known for his simplicity, Airasang used to take his books on his bicycle wherever he went.
14 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||IOCL launches tree plantation drive||Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) has launched a tree plantation drive during the festival season to enhance green cover. This drive will go on till November 16. According to a press release issued by Chief Divisional Retail Sales Manager of IOCL, Ballari divisional office, during the drive, IOCL would plant a sapling on behalf of a customer each time he visits IOCL outlets for refuelling. During the drive, apart from planting a sapling, each customer would get free Xtra Rewards membership from IOCL which would help customers earn reward points, the release said.
14 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Special team to keep a watch on illegal sale of firecrackers||Keeping in mind the restrictions imposed on the use of firecrackers, a special team comprising officials from Kalaburagi City Municipal Corporation and the police has been formed to keep a watch on the sale of crackers during Deepavali. In a release here, Kalaburagi Police Commissioner N. Sathish Kumar said that the team would work round the clock to monitor the sale of firecrackers in the city. “As per a government order, only green crackers can be sold and used. Permission has been given to sell firecrackers only at Sharana Basaveshwara Maidan,” the officer said.
14 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Maharashtra Police raid house of BJP MLA’s kin||Acting on definite information, a special team of the Solapur City Crime Branch of the Maharashtra Police raided a house in Kalaburagi on Sunday last and arrested two persons and seized mobile phones, a car and other things, in all, worth Rs. 38 lakh. The incident came to light here on Friday morning. As per information provided by the police, the car seized in the raid belonged to Jayashree B. Mattimadu, wife of BJP leader and Kalaburagi Rural MLA Basavaraj Mattimud. According to police sources, the Maharashtra Police, which arrived in Kalaburagi, raided, with the assistance of M.B. Nagar Police in Kalaburagi, the house on November 8, the day on which Qualifier 2 of the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2020 was scheduled to be played between Delhi Capitals and Sunrisers Hyderabad at the Zayed Cricket Stadium in Abu Dhabi. The team arrested Atul Suresh Sirshetty of Solapur and Pradeep Mallayya of Bhavanipet, who were said to be engaged in IPL cricket betting, and seized four laptops, 13 mobile phones, modems and other equipment, apart from the car. One more person, Ghoraknath, Ms. Jayashree B. Mattimud’s brother, who is the owner of the house, is absconding
14 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||H.M. Maheshwaraiah hands over charge||H.M. Maheshwaraiah, Vice-Chancellor of Central University of Karnataka (CUK), handed over charge to N. Nagaraju, Professor, Department of English, as per Statute 2(7) of the Central Universities Act 2009, after his extended tenure ended on Friday.Prof. Maheshwaraiah was serving as a provisional Vice-Chancellor since April 19, 2020 after his tenure ended then.
14 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Final degree, PG classes to start on Nov. 17||The Dakshina Kannada district administration on Friday decided to allow final year degree and postgraduate courses classes to start on November 17. Presiding over a meeting on reopening colleges in view of the COVID-19 situation, Additional Deputy Commissioner M.J. Roopa said that colleges may commence classes for final year degree courses and post-graduate courses by following COVID-19 guidelines of the government. Physical attendance in classes, however, is optional for students who may attend classes online in the alternative, she said. While college managements have to make groups of students and allow only 50 % of total students to attend classes, they have to continue online classes for first and second year degree courses, she said. Students and teachers physically attending classes have to compulsorily undergo COVID-19 test three days before the commencement of classes. They can attend classes only if they were COVID-19 negative. Managements have to arrange for thermal scanning and sanitisers at entry and exit points, while everyone has to wear face cover mandatorily. Those with symptoms of fever, cough and cold should not be allowed into college campus, while the campus should regularly be sanitised every day. Ms. Roopa said that students should bring food and drinking water from home. They cannot share books, pens, laptops and other material among themselves. Libraries and canteens should not be opened, she said. Students and teachers should download Arogya Sethu App on their mobile phones. Students may obtain bus passes online through Seva Sindhu portal, she added. District Health Officer Ramachandra Bairy and others were present.
14 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kadalu App to help fishermen launched in Udupi||The Coastal Security Police on Friday launched the Kadalu App for fishermen that will help them in submitting information about their arrival and departure from the fishing harbour using android mobile phones. The Coastal Security Police conceptualised the app and developed it for the Department of Fisheries. It was launched by the Minister for Fisheries, Inland Transport Department and Muzrai Kota Srinivasa Poojary at a fishing awareness programme held at Moodukudu, Krishnapura, near Udupi. Coastal Security Police Superintendent of Police R. Chetan said that the personnel maintained manually the account of fishing boats leaving and entering the fishing harbour. With the manual system, it was difficult for Coastal Security Police to keep count of the number of fishing boats in deep sea and initiate search and rescue operations when there is inclement weather. With the app, those leaving on registered fishing boats can post details about the members onboard and upload their group photos before leaving the harbour. This information has to be uploaded even after returning to harbour with catch. “With this system, we will have clear idea of boats that are in sea at a given time, which will facilitate initiating search and rescue and other operations,” he said. Mr. Chetan said that in the next few days fishermen will get weather updates on the app.
14 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Sea food park on land for medical college opposed||A public notice by the Bannur Gram Panchayat in Puttur about allotment of 40 acres of land for a proposed sea food park in the area has been opposed by people and activists. The gram panchayat in the public notice on November 11 has asked people to file objections, if any, to the allotment of 40 acres of land for the proposed mega sea food park under the Matsya Sampada Yojana of the Union government. This land had been reserved for a proposed Government Medical College. Those having objection to allotment of land for the sea food park should submit their objection by November 18, the notice stated. Janardhana Bhat Sediyapu, an agriculturist, who has been fighting for the medical college in Puttur, said that the proposed move by the State government defeats the setting up of the medical college in Puttur. “It is our persistent demand that led to reservation of this land for the medical college, which is necessary for this region. It is sad to know that this land is being proposed for the sea food park, which is highly unviable for this region,” Mr Sediyapu told The Hindu . Residents, including several doctors, have joined the movement to oppose this decision, he added. During the Rajyotsava celebrations, Minister for Fisheries, Muzrai and Inland Transport Kota Srinivas Poojary said that there is a proposal for setting up a mega sea food park each in Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada.
14 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Right turn at Ullal Junction closed, U-turn opened||The police recently closed down the right turn towards Ullal Main Road at the junction with National Highway 66 in Thokkottu and got an U turn opened near Ambika Road, about 200 m towards Talapady. The move comes after a couple riding a motorcycle was crushed to death under the wheels of a truck while negotiating a right turn from Thokkottu flyover’s service road towards Ullal on October 27. While Ullal Main Road on the right hand side of NH 66 (from Mangaluru towards Talapady) is located immediately after the down ramp of Thokkottu flyover, a right turn was allowed at the same junction. Also, vehicles from the service road to the left of the flyover bound for Ullal were allowed to cross the NH at the same place. Drivers of vehicles on the NH were unable to comprehend vehicles crossing the highway at this point, while this unscientific arrangement was in existence ever since the flyover was commissioned last year. Though the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had provided an U turn a little ahead of the junction near Ambika Road, the facility was never commissioned for reasons best known to the authorities concerned. Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash visited the accident spot on October 28 to take sock of the situation. Mr. Vikash had told The Hindu that prima facie the junction was constructed unscientifically. Vehicles from service roads should not be allowed direct entry into a highway while an immediate right turn to a main road from the highway too was not good traffic management.
14 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Bursting firecrackers around ‘silence zones’ banned in Mysuru||Chadragupta, Commissioner of Police, Mysuru, on Friday, said ‘silence zones’ had been identified across Mysuru and bursting of firecrackers in a radius of 100 metres in these zones had been banned from 6 a.m. of November 13 to 12 midnight of November 16. Making use of the powers vested under the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2020, the Commissioner declared the Mysuru zoo, Kukkarahalli lake area, Karanji lake area, Lingambudhi lake area, parks, hospitals, nursing homes, schools and colleges, courts and places of worship as silence zones and accordingly restricted the bursting of crackers within 100 meters’ radius of these spots during Deepavali. In an order issued ahead of the festival, the Commissioner said noise from crackers causes a lot of inconvenience to senior citizens, patients and animals and birds besides posing health risks. The city is already facing noise and air pollution with the rise in vehicle population. Smoke from crackers release chemicals in the air, causing breathlessness, lung infections and other respiratory complications, Mr. Chandragupta said. “It has become inevitable to take certain steps to minimise the impact of noise and air pollution on senior citizens, patients, animals and birds during the festival. Accordingly, silence zones have been declared in a bid to reduce the risks posed by cracker bursting.” Meanwhile, Mr. Chandragupta cautioned the public against using alcohol-based hand sanitisers while lighting firecrackers and lampa. In a message here on Friday, he said alcohol-based sanitisers catch fire quickly and could cause harm. Therefore, it was important to take extra precautions this Deepavali amidst the pandemic and take special care of children. The cautionary note gains significance since it has become a habit for many to use hand sanitisers now, in view of instances of people suffering burns after sanitiser-soaked hands caught fire. Among the places identified as silence zones, Kukkarahalli, Lingambudhi and Karanji lakes harbour migratory birds and many had started arriving to these lake environs and roosting on the trees abutting the lake surroundings.  It has become inevitable to take certain steps to minimise the impact of noise and air pollution on senior citizens, patients, animals and birds during the festival. Accordingly, silence zones have been declared to reduce the risks posed by crackers.  Chadragupta  Commissioner of Police, Mysuru
14 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 negative report, parents’ approval must to attend college||A COVID-19 negative report of an RTPCR test conducted in the last three days and an approval letter from parents in the stipulated format have been made mandatory for students attending offline or physical classes in colleges falling under the University of Mysore’s (UoM) jurisdiction from November 17. According to a press statement issued by Registrar of the University on Friday, an SOP was finalised by the varsity after Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar’s meetings with officials of Department of Collegiate Education and Social Welfare Department on November 9, 10 and 11. It also decided that the college will offer online classes to students who do not wish to attend the offline classes. The students can come to the college when they wish to clarify a doubt. The other decisions taken during the meetings include a compulsory COVID-19 negative report of RTPCR conducted three days prior to attending the college by all teaching and non-teaching staff. UoM has also made it mandatory for teaching staff to wear a face shield and masks. The meeting decided to ask managements to sanitise the entire college structure, entrance, toilets, classrooms, furniture and books. The students should bring their lunch and water from home as the canteens and libraries would remain closed. UoM has also barred cultural programmes, NCC and NSS activities on campus. Laboratories and project works can be taken up in the college if necessary, but not en masse. Students can take turns to attend, it has decided. College authorities have to make seating arrangements, keeping social distancing in mind.
14 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Land-losers get sites in Nisarga Layout||The Karnataka Housing Board on Friday gave away sites to the land-losers at its KRS Nisarga Layout in Yelwal hobli of Mysuru taluk. Minister for Housing V. Somanna handed over the title deeds of the sites to beneficiaries identified by the KHB at a function held in the presence of Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, KHB Chairman Araga Gnanendra and Chamundeshwari MLA G.T. Deve Gowda. Later, in his speech, Mr. Somanna advised the land-losers who got the sites not to lose them and keep the property for the future. He told KHB officials to open an office in the layout and ensure its proper maintenance, besides warning of lodging criminal cases against them in case of any lapse on their part. Mr. Simha also advised those who had given their lands to the layout project, not to sell the sites distributed at the layout and added that the area would see development appreciating the land prices once the road expansion project to Kushalnagar was taken up. In total, 484 sites had been set aside for distribution to 185 land-losers. In this programme, 137 land losers gotthe title deeds. The sites were distributed through a draw of lots. KHB Chief Engineer T.D. Nanjundappa said the layout had been developed on 496 acres at a cost of Rs. 686.02 crore. As many as 6,309 sites had been formed besides constructing 207 houses and creating 18 CA sites, 12 commercial sites and 54 parks. As many as 2,934 intermediate sites had been allotted and 2,187 sites are remaining to be distributed to the applicants. The layout has 1,188 corner sites and 66 houses had been allotted already, he said.
14 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Three killed in accident||Three persons were killed in an accident involving a two-wheeler and truck in Kollegal taluk of Chamarajanagar district on Friday. The accident took place on the Dhanagere-Sategala Main Road. The victims were identified as David, Sethu and Sheshuraj who were astride the two-wheeler. The deceased belonged to Palanibeedu village near Marthalli. They were heading towards Malavalli from Kollegal and their two-wheeler collided head-on with a truck coming from the opposite direction. The Kollegal Rural Police registered a case and are investigating.
14 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Hundi collections high despite curbs on visits||Male Mahadeshwara temple at M.M. Hills in Chamarajanagar district has accrued more than Rs. 2.21 crore by way of ‘hundi collection’ from devotees in the last two months. The hundis were opened in the presence of Shanthamallikarjuna Swami of Salur Mutt and other officials on Thursday and the count yielded Rs. 2.21 crore. The counting which began in the morning concluded late at night. The collection is high despite restrictions on visits by devotees due to the pandemic and curbs on mass gatherings. Apart from Rs. 2.21 crore in cash, the devotees also donated 40 gm of gold and 1.67 kg of silver. The recent hundi collection at Chamundeshwari temple in Mysuru was also high as nearly Rs. 65 lakh was collected during October alone.
14 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||49 villages in Yadgir district to soon get irrigation facility||BJP MLA from Surpur Narasihma Naik and Congress MLA from Shahapur Sharanabasappagowda Darshanapur have said that 52,000 acres of dry land in Hunsagi and Surpur taluks will soon get irrigation facility as the required grants for a Rs. 549-crore project have been released. Addressing a joint press conference in Hunsagi town on Friday, Mr. Naik and Mr. Darshanapur said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has released Rs. 549 crore to take up the Budihal Lift Irigation Project to irrigate 52,000 acres of dry land in 49 villages falling under the Narayanpur Left Bank Canal network. “Land losers in these 49 village are yet to get irrigation facility, despite several efforts in the past. Mr. Darshanapur and myself have jointly brought pressure to bear on the State government to get the grants sanctioned for the project, as a few villages, though they are in Surpur taluk, fall in Shahapur Assembly constituency” Mr. Naik said. “The project will commence after the process of floating tenders is completed,” Mr. Darshanapur said. Raja Amareshwar Naik, MP, Devanna Malagaladinni, Basavarajswamy Sthavarmath and H.C. Patil were present.
14 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Celebrate Deepavali as per guidelines’||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has appealed to the general public to celebrate Deepavali festival in a peaceful and simple manner while following guidelines issued by the State government in view of the pandemic. Addressing a preliminary meeting in Yadgir on Thursday, Dr. Ragapriya said that people have been celebrating Deepavali festival joyfully but, this year, the government has issued certain restrictions to prevent the spread of COVID-19. It has also issued guidelines allowing bursting of only environment-friendly green firecrackers between 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. Thus, everyone should follow these guidelines and extend cooperation to the district administration while celebrating the festival of lights, she said. The Deputy Commissioner said that children aged less than 10, those aged above 65, pregnant women, lactating mothers, persons suffering from cough, fever and other diseases are strictly not allowed to participate in bursting crackers and those who are allowed should wear face masks compulsorily. Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane, Additional Deputy Commissioner Prakash Rajput, Deputy Secretary of Zilla Panchayat Mukkanna Karigar and an officer from the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board Venkatesh were present.
14 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Yadgir ZP president, member expelled||Yadgir Zilla Panchayat president Basanagowda Yadiyapur and panchayat member Kishan Rathod have been expelled from the Congress’ preliminary membership for a period of six years for violating whip issued to them, a press note issued by party working president Salim Ahmed has said. Following a complaint by DCC president Marigowda Patil Hulkal, the disciplinary committee of the party, as per a direction from KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, has taken action against Mr. Yadiyapur for contesting panchayat president election against the party candidate, and Mr. Rathod for supporting Mr. Yadiyapur. In the election held in July 2020, Mr Yadiyapur, with the support of BJP members, defeated the party candidate to become the panchayat president. Mr. Ahmed said that Mr. Hulkal has now been authorised to file a complaint under the Anti Defection Law before the appropriate authority to seek disqualification of Mr. Yadiyapur and Mr. Rathod.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Flashback||
14 November 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||468 cases in Alappuzha||The district logged 468 COVID-19 cases and 415 recoveries on Friday. The fresh cases include 462 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of four other persons remains unidentified. Two persons who came from other States also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district also recorded two COVID-19-related deaths. Of the new cases, 138 were reported from Alappuzha, 37 from Mannancherry, and 26 from Thamarakulam. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 8,754. Ward 2 and 3 in Vayalar grama panchayat, ward 20 in Cherthala, and ward 43 in Kayamkulam municipality were declared as containment zones. Besides, parts of ward 21 and 22 in Thanneermukkom were also declared as containment zones.
14 November 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Rakthashali yields a bountiful harvest in Alappuzha||It was a day of immense joy and pride for Nayanan C.C., a Health Department employee-cum- paddy farmer from Thirumala ward in Alappuzha municipality on Friday. Back in July, he sowed paddy — Uma variety in five acres and Rakthashali variety in half an acre — on leased land at the Kombankuzhy padasekharam (paddy field), spread over 110 acres. His fellow farmers cultivated Uma variety in the rest of the land. Then came the floods and the paddy field was submerged on August 7. When the waters receded after three weeks, paddy cultivated in 109.5 acres at Kombankuzhy was destroyed. Although the portion where Nayanan sowed Rakthashali, a nearly extinct variety of rice, too was inundated, the rice variety withstood the flood. Harvest songs On Friday, rhythmic harvest songs resonated from the Kombankuzhy padasekharam as the fully grown paddy in half an acre was hand-harvested in the presence of farmers, scientists, and environmentalists. “It was a very good harvest,” says, Nayanan, who is also an external research scholar at the Department of Sociology and Social Work, Annamalai University. “It was my first tryst with the Rakthashali variety. I had decided to cultivate Rakthashali in an organic way in half an acre after knowing about its medicinal value. When the floods inundated the entire field for 21 days, I thought everything was washed away. When the floodwaters receded, paddy in 109.5 acres was destroyed. But, much to the surprise of everyone Rakthashali survived,” he adds. After it survived the floods, several experts and environmentalists visited his paddy field. Rose Mary Francies, Professor (Plant Breeding and Genetics) and Head, Department of Seed Science and Technology, College of Horticulture, Thrissur, says that a scientific study is under way to know whether the variety is flood-resilient. Studies and references “Rakthashali is known for its medicinal characteristics. No studies or references so far point that the variety to be submergence tolerant. When I visited Kombankuzhy after the floods, it looked like a resilient crop. Based on the Kombankuzhy experience, we have started evaluating the submergence tolerance of the rice variety,” Ms. Francies says. Rakthashali, with red husk and grain, is considered uneconomical compared to high-yielding rice varieties. Nayanan bought the Rakthashali seeds from M.K. Sebastian, a farmer based at Kaduthuruthy.  Rakthashali, with red husk and grain, is considered uneconomical compared to high-yielding rice varieties
14 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||24 submit nomination papers in Alappuzha district||Twenty-four candidates submitted their nomination papers for local body elections in the district on Friday. Three persons each filed nominations in the Aroor and Chettikulangara grama panchayat. Two nominations in Thannermukkom and one each in Ala, Champakulam, Chingoli, Ezhupunna, Mannancherry, Thekkekara, Nedumudi, Pathiyoor, Thazhakara, Vayalar and Thycattusserry grama panchayat were received on the second day of filing the papers. In municipalities, two candidates filed papers in Haripad, while one each submitted nominations in Alappuzha, Chengannur and Cherthala.
14 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Poll times bring forest areas into focus||Forest settlements in Idukki come into focus specially during election time when accessing the areas becomes a task for the poll officials. At Edamalakkudy, the remotest tribal grama panchayat in the State, the officials reach there a day in advance and return only after the polling day. The last local body elections saw use of Ham Radio to pass details of polls and voting percentage. This time, the lack of accessibility is a greater question with the road to Edamalakkudy via Pettimudy being washed away in recent landslips. Functional But as per an official of the Edamalakkudy grama panchayat, the road is functional now and hence accessibility is a not a problem. But communication is, and special arrangements have to be made for that. There are also other polling booths in the Idukki Wildlife Sanctuary and forest settlements in Munnar and Marayur that are cut away from the mainstream. Better access An official at the Marayur Sandalwood Division says almost all settlements are electrified and connected with roads and it may not be a problem for officials and voters to reach the polling stations. The mood of the upcoming local body elections in these remote areas is yet to pick up. But once the papers are filed, the scene could be fully poll-charged. “For the candidates at Edamalakkudy, personal canvassing is difficult, as the 22 forest settlements are scattered in a wide area inside the Munnar forest division. There are remote hamlets with less than 15 residents and reaching there is a problem,” says Georgekutty, a former staff at the Edamalakkudy grama panchayat. This is the third local body elections being witnessed at Edamalakkudy after its formation in 2010. However, the camp office of the panchayat still functions at Devikulam, near Munnar. The Special Branch of the Police Department has recommended to the district administration that there be four booths in the grama panchayats of Edamalakkudy and Adimaly where special arrangements are needed for transportation. In the district in total, about 25 booths are considered difficult to be accessed. Special branch The Special Branch has also collected the details of the booths where off-road vehicles are needed for transportation.  This is the third local body elections being held at Edamalakkudy after its formation in 2010
14 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||10 file papers for elections in Idukki||Ten nominations were filed in the district on Friday, the second day of submitting papers for the local body elections. One nomination each to the Azhutha and Elamdesam blocks, two in Kattappana municipality, and one in Thodupuzha municipality were submitted.  Total nominations The nominations filed to the grama panchayats were Vandanmedu (1), Vazhathoppe (2), Pampadumpara (1) and Vathikudy (1). The total number of nominations has reached 17 .
14 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Water level receding in Idukki dam||The water level in the Idukki dam is receding slowly after reaching 2,394 ft during the end of the southwest monsoon. The water level on Thursday was 2,393.52 ft. After the water level crossed the blue alert level, the Kerala State Electricity Board had increased generation at the Moolamattom powerhouse to limit the chances of water release. However, with rain subsiding, the inflow had come down over the past week.
14 November 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Five file papers in Wayanad||Five candidates on Friday filed their nomination papers for the upcoming civic body polls in the district. They include four nominations to Vellamunda grama panchayat and one to Meenangadi grama panchayat. The last date for filing nominations is November 19, and scrutiny of papers will be held on November 20.
14 November 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Webinar on sustainable development in civic bodies||Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP), Wayanad district unit, is organising a webinar on “A Sustainable development approach to civic bodies in Wayanad” from 2.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. on Sunday. Experts will handle various sessions. The public can participate in the programme by using the linkhttps://meet.google. com/bzt-gsfz-rps.
14 November 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||‘Staff of MLA threatened prosecution witness’||The police have identified a personal staff member of K.B. Ganesh Kumar, MLA, as the one who threatened Vipin Lal, a key prosecution witness in the sensational actor assault case in Kochi. According to a report filed by the Bekal police in the Hosdurg First Class Magistrate Court, Pradeep Kumar, office secretary of Mr. Ganesh Kumar, threatened Mr. Lal, who was stationed at Bekal in Kasaragod then. The report said that on January 23, 2020, Mr. Pradeep Kumar went to Bekal in search of Mr. Lal, but could not find him. Through letters too He then went to a jewellery shop in Kanhangad where Mr. Lal’s uncle worked, called his mother and asked her to tell Mr. Lal to change his statement in the court. Mr. Kumar allegedly threatened Mr. Lal several times through letters too. CCTV footage Mr. Lal lodged a complaint with the Bekal police on September 26 when the pressure tactics continued. The police identified Mr. Kumar using the CCTV footage at the jewellery shop and documents submitted at the lodge where he stayed. Meanwhile, V.S. Manoj Kumar, general secretary of the Kerala Congress (Jacob), demanded the resignation of the legislator from the post of Chairman of the Assembly Petitions Committee since a member of his personal staff was facing serious charges. “If the MLA is not ready to resign, the Speaker should expel him,” Mr. Manoj Kumar said.
14 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Housing, canal cleaning top poll issues in West Kochi||Promises to free West Kochi of its housing woes and cleaning of canals are likely to feature in the poll promises for the area’s 28 divisions. Housing is a perennial issue for residents who spend their meagre earnings on rent, said Shameer T.A., a resident of Kalvathy, who helps with unloading work on Willingdon Island. Most residents rely on the harbour and Willingdon Island for work and were hit hard by COVID-19 curbs, he added. Jaifin Kareem, of Sunrise Kochi, a Fort Kochi-based NGO working towards ensuring better housing facilities, said the city’s landless people were mostly concentrated in West Kochi. “In some colonies, water supply is a problem, since residents rely on public taps. Not much has been done to do away with this reliance on public taps,” he said. Rajiv Awas Yojana was a step towards dealing with at least the landless in Thuruthy, but that hit several hurdles, he said. Sandra Morris, a resident of Fort Kochi, who is an office-bearer of a residents’ association, said some development was brought to the area through projects under Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML), but there was still a long way to go. The corporation could also streamline the ro-ro service, besides resuming the Fort Queen boat service, to improve West Kochi’s connectivity, said Padmanabha Mallya of West Kochi Passengers’ Association. Including LDF-backed independent councillors, the LDF had the support of 16 councillors, while there were 11 UDF councillors from the 28 divisions of West Kochi lying on one side of the Thoppumpady bridge. The area had one BJP councillor. “Housing, including the RAY project at Thuruthy, is an issue that will be addressed seriously. The Manthra canal will also have to be cleaned. Modernising the slaughterhouse is also on the agenda,” said M. Anil Kumar, who leads the CPI(M) candidates for the corporation. Outgoing Deputy Mayor K. R. Premakumar said the UDF’s promises would include completing the RAY project, besides faster completion of CSML projects in the area.
14 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||A new milestone for State in green mobility||Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) and hydrogen will follow Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) as cost-effective and environment- friendly fuel for buses, Transport Secretary K.R. Jyotilal has said. Efforts are on to ensure availability of CNG at all refuelling stations. LNG will follow suit, while hydrogen will be a long-term fuel option. A paradigm shift to green mobility is a must to do justice to future generations, he said. Mr. Jyotilal was speaking online at the flagging off of the first pair of private buses retrofitted with CNG kits in Kerala at the Vyttila Mobility Hub here on Friday. The buses operated by Josco Motors, which began operating on the Vyttila- Ernakulam and Aluva-Tripunithura routes, were flagged off by Jafar Malik, Chief Executive Officer of the Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority and Cochin Smart Mission Limited. “Long-term benefits outweigh the initial investment (around Rs. 4 lakh to retrofit CNG kit in a bus). I hope more bus operators follow suit,” he said. “Diesel costs Rs. 75 a litre while a kg of CNG is priced Rs. 56,” said Geo John Palatty, managing director of Metro Fuels, Edapally, which retrofitted CNG kits in the buses. Save Rs. 1,250 a day A bus that travels 250 km a day can save Rs. 1,250 a day. Fuel efficiency too improves marginally. The cost of retrofitting can be recouped in just over a year. The cost of maintenance falls, while the quantum of carbon monoxide emission too decreases considerably. The kits have two-year warranty, he added. Enforcement Regional Transport Officer of Ernakulam Shaji Madhavan said more operators should opt for CNG as fuel for their buses. The two buses are also among the 200-odd vehicles in Kochi with CCTV cameras -- one facing the road and another the bus interior. The other equipment on board are LED passenger information screen, modernised GPS to keep track of location, and panic button, among others. Technical help The technical help for the initiative has been given by the city-based Technovia Infosolutions. Its CEO Nishant Ravindran detailed how the GPS-enabled buses could be tracked by operators using a mobile app .
14 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||SC, ST students urge govt. to waive fee||Students belonging to Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities have urged the Directorate of General Education (Higher Secondary) to grant fee waiver for the first year improvement / supplementary exams in view of the financial crisis facing families following the pandemic outbreak. The fee for first year improvement / supplementary exam per subject is Rs. 175. Similarly, the total fee for first year supplementary / improvement exam and second year exam is Rs. 225. SC/ST students have been hit hard by the financial crisis triggered by the COVID-19 situation. The burden will be more on students appearing for multiple subjects, said M. Geethanandan, co-ordinator, Adivasi Gothra Mahasabha. The students have also requested fee waiver for compartment exams. The fee to be paid for each exam is Rs. 225 (for students registered between March 2009 and March 2020). “Fee payment will not be possible considering financial constraints facing marginalised communities,” said Mr. Geethanandan. Last date extension The candidates have urged the authorities to extend the last date for online registration and payment of fee. They have suggested November 21, 22, and 24 as the last dates for submitting applications, fee payment, and online registration respectively. “Many among us lack access to online and transport facilities to complete the formalities within a short span of time,” they said. Failed candidates Academic groups supporting SC/ST students have requested Tribal Development Officers to identify students who have failed in exams and extend support for submitting applications for supplementary / improvement exams. Poor access The officials can inform students of the last date for submission of forms and fee payment, as many lack access to key information, they said.  SC/ST students have been hit hard by the financial crisis triggered by the COVID-19 situation. The burden will be more on students appearing for multiple subjects M. Geethanandan Adivasi Gothra Mahasabha
14 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cong. fields 48 new faces in corpn. poll||Battle lines have been drawn for polls to the Kochi Corporation, with the Congress leadership releasing the list of 63 candidates, leaving 11 seats for its front partners in the 74-member council. The party announced 18 candidates for the district panchayat which has 27 seats. It will announce three more candidates shortly, taking the total number of contesting seats to 21. Six seats will be earmarked for partners in the front. In Kochi Corporation, the party has fielded 48 new candidates, even as many prominent members of the past council failed to get renomination. Senior leader N. Venugopal, last Deputy Mayor K.R. Premakumar, Shiny Mathew, former chairperson of the Town Planning Standing who unsuccessfully campaigned for the Mayor post, and P.D. Martin and V. K. Minimol, the two chairpersons of standing committees, are also in the fray. The party leadership refused to renominate Gracy Joseph, former chairperson of the development standing committee who fell out of favour with the party leadership following the power-sharing exercise. Releasing the list, Dominic Presentation, UDF district chairman, said the party had not made any electoral adjustments with any organisation outside the front. Mr. Presentation’s response came in the wake of speculation that the UDF may spare a seat for Welfare Party, the political arm of Jam’at Islami. The UDF front partners will announce their own candidates in the coming days. The manifesto of the front will be released shortly, he said. The Congress has left six seats for the Indian Union Muslim League to contest. At the same time, the League faces rebel menace at some of the seats it is contesting including the Kalvathy, Mattanchery and Chakkamadam divisions.
14 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Sections of West Kochiites bemoan financial exclusion||Just over a year ago, Preveesh Prakash, a 27-year-old from Mattancherry, went to buy a laptop in the city. His CIBIL rating and documents, including IT returns, were in order, and sanctioning of a loan by a non-banking financial institution all but looked a mere formality. But as soon as he shared his address and the pin code (682002) popped up, the loan was denied flatly. “They would just say that lending to people from our area was considered ‘risky’ as if ours is a land of fraudsters. It was outright humiliation,” said Mr. Prakash who went on to buy the laptop for ready cash of Rs. 35,000. Shanu, a businessman, had a similar experience when he went to buy an air conditioner and eventually bought it on liquid cash. But not all could afford to react in the same way. When a new-generation bank denied him a two-wheeler loan on similar grounds, K.H. Haneesh, a private company employee from Chullikkal, had to pledge his wife’s ornaments. “A stereotyped image of West Kochi, especially areas on the other side of the Thoppumpady bridge, as a land of financial frauds and goons is being propagated. Being denied the right for financial assistance, people are being pushed towards money lenders,” he fumed. A functionary of the All India Bank Employees Association said there was indeed such negation of financial assistance to people from West Kochi and even coastal areas like Vypeen, mainly by new-generation banks and non-banking financial institutions. “They [banks] might have had some bad experience of defaults in payment of credit card dues and personal loans in the past. But to deny financial service to an entire people based on that past perception is a denial of natural justice,” he observed. However, a young Left-leaning youngster contesting the local body polls refused to entirely blame the financial sector players for the unfair treatment, attributing it to unscrupulous actions by not so small sections from certain areas in West Kochi. “If 60 people out of 100 do something wrong, the rest of the 40 will also end up suffering,” he said. Jacob Joju of Stand Up for Kochi pegged the financial exclusion as part of the progressive usurping of a place of its legacy while creating around it the hollow aura of a heritage town.
14 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Traco Cable gets conductor supply order from KSEB||The State-owned Traco Cable has been given an order worth Rs. 143 crore for conductor production by the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB). This is the first time the public sector company has received such a big order in one bulk, said a communication from the company here on Wednesday. The KSEB order takes the total volume of orders with the company to Rs. 334 crore, Managing Director Prasad Mathew said. He said the total volume of business in the company would now exceed Rs. 250 crore for the current financial year. Capacity raised The public sector company had been able to increase its capacity through modernisation and expansion of its facilities. Traco Cable had a turnover of Rs. 156 crore last year. The cooperation and understanding between the management and the workers had helped substantially increase production and increase the turnover, he said. The Traco Cable units at Irupanam in Ernakulam, Pinarayi in Kannur, and Thiruavalla in Pathanamthitta had registered operational profit during these months when production was curtailed by the lockdown and restrictions, he added. Traco Cable, besides providing devices and equipment to the Kerala State Electricity Board, is also supplying conductors to electricity boards of Karnataka, Punjab, and Rajasthan. Housing sector The company has also been able to make its mark in housing cable production and sales. The housing electricity cable from Traco Cable is much appreciated and the company has appointed dealers across the State.
14 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC orders steady supply of food||The State government should ensure uninterrupted supply of all essentials, including food materials and water, to the tribespeople in the Attappady area, the Kerala High Court ordered on Friday. A Division Bench of the court consisting of Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali passed the order on a Public Interest Litigation filed by P.D. Joseph, a social worker, highlighting the difficulties faced by thousands of tribespeople due to shortage of facilities and staff in the Kottathara Tribal Super Speciality Hospital. The court directed the authorities to hold periodical meetings of all stakeholders to ensure proper functioning of the hospital and other activities undertaken by the Public Works and other departments in the area. Any arrears of payments due to the tribes population should be paid within one month and all other payments made as and when it is due, the court ordered. Supply of medicine Steps for curbing the supply of substance, liquor and illicit liquor to the students and the population should be put in place. Adequate and uninterrupted supply of medicine should be ensured at the hospital and its maintenance works carried out without fail, the court directed. The State should take steps to develop a scheme for the construction of staff quarters to ensure the service of doctors and health workers, the court directed.
14 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||756 new cases in district||Eleven health workers were among the 756 people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Friday. The source of infection of 183 people remains unknown. As many as 115 cases were recorded from Vengola. Vengola panchayat president Swathy Rejikumar said that the figure comprised positive cases from October 30. Since the medical officer in the area had been on leave, data was not entered for a few days, she said. With 707 recoveries, the district’s active case load stands at 10,064. A total of 30,561 people are in quarantine.
14 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Quack arrested at Aluva||The Edathala police on Friday arrested a quack who had been treating patients at a clinic at Kombara near Aluva for the past two months. The arrested is Sangeetha Balakrishnan, 45, of Ranni. She was under surveillance for a while after District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik received a tip-off on her lack of qualifications. The accused was tending to patients when the police team turned up for inspection. The police found her registration documents fake, and that she merely had a pharmacy diploma certificate. A probe has been launched by Edathala Station House Officer P.J. Noble. Mr. Karthik said detailed examinations would be held in the coming days.
14 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Weapons, drugs seized from vehicle, one held||High drama prevailed at Perumbavoor taluk hospital on Thursday night when drugs and weapons were recovered from the vehicle of a man arrested for abusing and even attacking a police team. The arrested was identified as Muhammed Rinshad, 28. Drugs including 108 grams of hashish oil and 4 grams of cocaine powder, weapons, digital balance for weighing and a heating equipment to aid smoking were allegedly recovered from his vehicle. The drama started unfolding when Rinshad confronted and challenged the five accused in a case related to the firing incident at Perumbavoor when they were brought to the hospital by the police team for the mandatory medical check-up. Though the police asked him to move away, he declined and started abusing the police personnel and even started attacking them. More personnel rushed in, following which he was overpowered and arrested and taken to the station. However, he continued with his violent behaviour even there, following which the police grew suspicious and examined his vehicle from which drugs and weapons were recovered. He was produced in court and remanded. K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural), said that his antecedents would be probed further. A team led by Perumbavoor Station House Officer C. Jayakumar, sub-inspector Rins M. Thomas, assistant sub-inspector Reji Jose, and senior civil police officers Shibu P.A., Prajith, and Sharnas made the arrest.
14 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Four arrested with ganja||Excise officials on Friday arrested four persons allegedly with ganja and nitrazepam tablets from North Paravur. The arrested were identified as P.E. Vijin aka “Choota” Biju, of Kottuvally; S.S. Pavin, 24, of Ezhikkara; M.T. Tony, 25, of Njarakkal; M.S. Arun of Kaitharam. A tip-off received by a patrolling team led to the arrest of the youngsters. Excise officials allegedly seized from them 325 grams of ganja and 160 nitrazepam tablets, a hypnotic drug prescribed for relief from anxiety and insomnia. Two two-wheelers belonging to them were also taken into custody. Of the four, Pavin and Tony were remanded by the court. A team led by excise circle inspector S. Nijumon and preventive officer V.S. Haneesh made the arrest.
14 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Audit put on hold for updating software: State||The auditing of accounts in local bodies of the State was put on hold for updating the software and integrating it with the new software of the Central government, the State government has informed the Kerala High Court. The State government made its position known before the High Court when a petition filed by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala in this regard came up for hearing on Friday. Mr. Chennithala objected to a direction issued by the Director of the State Audit Department instructing to stop all audit processing for the financial year 2019-2020. He contented that the auditing of the accounts was postponed following the fear that the reported corruption and scandals in the various poverty alleviation programmes and development projects of the State government would be exposed. The government pleader submitted that the audit for the 2018-19 period was progressing and would be completed in November. The court posted the case for November 17.
14 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Two held on charge of laying honey trap||The Cheranalloor police here on Friday arrested a man and a woman on the charge of laying a honey trap for a youngster and robbing him of valuables. The arrested are Rizwana, 24, of Mayyanad, Kollam, and Althaf, 21, of Ponekkara. The police said the accused had hatched a plot to rob the youngster known to Althaf with Rizwana feigning to fall in love with them. They lured the victim to their rented house at Vishupuram on Wednesday night. He was then made to disrobe, and the accused shot his visuals based on which they blackmailed him and robbed him of his gold chain.
14 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Collector issues norms for green poll||Campaign material for the local body elections must be environment-friendly and biodegradable, according to the guidelines issued by District Collector S. Suhas. Plastic, thread, or ribbon should not be used. Candidates are also barred from using plastic or PVC boards, banners, flags, or festoons. Cotton clothes, paper and polyethylene materials should be used for all poll-related official purposes. Once the polling is over, posters and hoardings should be removed by those who have put them up. If that is not done, they will be removed by the secretary of the respective local body and the expenses will be charged from the persons who put them up.
14 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Spirited battle on the cards in Aluva||The battle for the Aluva Municipality has gathered momentum, with the UDF banking on its development plank against the spirited campaign by the LDF alleging lacklustre performance by the Congress-led regime over the past two decades. The traditional UDF stronghold is likely to witness a keen fight, as the BJP exuded confidence of increasing its representation in the 26-ward council. Lissy Abraham, Chairperson of the outgoing council, placed the allocation of one acre for constructing houses under the LIFE Mission project and setting up homes as part of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana as achievements during her tenure. “The council was successful in giving a push for infrastructure development by constructing roads and renovating footpaths and drainage systems,” she said. Ms. Abraham claimed the municipality had the credit of having utilised the maximum share of government funds. However, she admitted that the municipality had to depend on the Brahmapuram yard under the Kochi Corporation for dumping biodegradable waste. Rajeev Zacharia, Opposition Leader and CPI(M) councillor, alleged that the council was a failure in terms of development and financial management. “The development of the Aluva market and the municipal park remained in cold storage. ,” he said. He pointed out that the unscientific traffic management had resulted in traders vacating the Revenue building at Bank Junction.
14 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cochin Shipyard’s profit falls 47.7% in Q2||Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) reported a 47.7% decline in net profit at Rs. 108.36 crore for the September quarter of the current fiscal. The company had posted a net profit of Rs. 207.57 crore in the same period last year. Revenue from operations fell 32.43% to Rs. 657.40 crore in the quarter under review as compared with Rs. 972.86 crore in the September quarter of last fiscal. The Chennai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) had on March 4 approved the resolution plan submitted by CSL for acquisition of Tebma Shipyards Limited which was undergoing insolvency proceedings, a communication said. In compliance with the NCLT order, the CSL said it had paid the bid amount for the takeover of TSL on September 15. During the quarter, to meet the challenges in the wake of COVID-19, CSL extended hours of operations. This impacted depreciation to the tune of Rs. 134.88 lakh during the quarter, it said.
14 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held on attempt to murder charge||The Aluva East police on Friday arrested a person on the charge of attempt to murder. The arrested man was identified as Manaf, 32, of Aluva. The police said that he was absconding since allegedly attempting to murder a person in a lodge near the Aluva Government Hospital in July. Many cases He was arrested on a tip-off received by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. He was an accused in attempting to murder a sub inspector in Malappuram, sexual abuse cases in Aluva East and Edathala police stations, and in a ganja case in Eloor. The accused was slapped with charges under the Kerala Anti-Social Activities Prevention Act in 2019. A team led by Aluva East Inspector P.S. Rajesh, sub inspectors Vinod R., Shaju T.V., and Suresh P.I., assistant sub inspectors Soji K.V. and Jamal E.K.; and civil police officer O. Nawab made the arrest.
14 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Assembly ruckus: case posted to Nov. 23||A petition of the State government in the Kerala High Court challenging the order of a trial court which refused to withdraw prosecution against CPI(M) leaders following a ruckus in the State Assembly has been posted for November 23. The Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Thiruvananthapuram, had earlier rejected the application of the State government for withdrawal of prosecution of the cases booked against the legislators during the term of the previous United Democratic Front government. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala had also approached the High Court for impleading himself in the case. The State sought time for the Advocate General to argue its position when the case up before the court on Friday.
14 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||347 cases in Kottayam||Kottayam continued to witness a surge in COVID-19 cases with 347 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. According to officials, all but one person contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 45 children and 53 persons above 60 years of age. With 44 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kanjirappally and Manarcad with 21 cases each. Recoveries With 317 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,637 active cases.
14 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Curbs in place again on visitors at Kozhikode, Beypore beaches||The Kozhikode district administration on Friday reinstated curbs on visitors at Kozhikode and Beypore beaches after Tourism and Health authorities pointed to safety threats. Until further notice, no public entry will be allowed at the spots. The difficulty faced by the authorities in handling crowds on the first day of lifting the ban was also instrumental in reinstating restrictions. According to officials, there was a huge turnout on Thursday when the two beaches were thrown open to visitors on an experimental basis in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol. Many were found violating the safety protocol, and the police were finding it hard to manage crowds, they said. In an official communication, District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao on Friday said the decision to reinstate regulations was taken on the basis of reports submitted by the District Tourism Promotion Council and the Beypore sectoral magistrate. Their reports had indicated the possibility of virus spread if visitors went to the spots in large numbers, he said. Lack of facilities Tourism officials said they lacked sufficient human resources or screening facilities to control crowds on beaches. Moreover, multiple open entrances and exits at the destinations made it further difficult to find a feasible solution to the problem, they added. DTPC Secretary Beena Madusoodanan said even the support of volunteers could not be mobilised to control crowds. “Nobody was willing to offer such services. It is very difficult to oversee such a vast area in the absence of public support and cooperation,” she added. A major violation noticed by the Tourism Department on Thursday was the entry of visitors to the two beaches with children below the age of 10. There were also aged persons who were walking around unmindful of safety risks.
14 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Active case pool continues to decline||The active COVID-19 case pool continued the declining trend in the State when only 5,804 people tested positive for the virus and 6,201 others recovered from the infection on Friday. According to the Health Department, there are now 77,390 active cases across the State. The total number of recoveries so far is 4,34,730. The test positivity rate, however, had a slight increase from the previous day’s 9.68% to 9.97%. As many as 58,221 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. 26 deaths The State reported 26 deaths. Six deaths were from Thiruvananthapuram, three each from Kollam, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, and Malappuram, two each from Alappuzha and Palakkad, and one from Kannur. The cumulative death toll has reached 1,822. Among the cases reported on Friday, 4,988 are locally acquired infections and 118 people have come from other States. The source of infection of 643 people is not known. There were 55 health workers among the newly infected persons. Hotspots There are 3,16,923 people under isolation in various districts, 2,98,448 in home or institutional quarantine and 18,475 in hospitals. As many as 2,130 persons were admitted to various hospitals on Friday. Eleven places were declared as hotspots in Pathanamthitta, Palakkad, Wayanad, Kollam and Malappuram districts even as 15 areas were exempted. With this, there are 616 hotspots in the State.
14 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Documenting those who document history||Journalists record history every day. The Kerala Media Academy believes it is time the lives and contributions of the most prominent journalists too are recorded. The academy has entrusted the task to some of the leading filmmakers such as Priyadarshan, Santosh Sivan, Sibi Malayil, V.K. Prakash, Dr. Biju and Anjali Menon. The journalists featured include T.J.S. George, Sashi Kumar, M.T. Vasudevan Nair, K.M. Roy, B.R.P. Bhaskar, Yesudasan, and Udaya Tara Nayar. Stalled by pandemic “Four of the documentaries are ready for screening, while the others are at various stages of production,” Kerala Media Academy chairman R.S. Babu told The Hindu . “The outbreak of COVID-19 has impacted the making of some documentaries.” He said the academy would document 12 journalists in the series. “We wanted to include personalities from different areas in the media,” he said. “So we chose people like Yesudasan and Sivan from cartoonists and among photo-journalists respectively. Not many know that Sivan had clicked news pictures of Jawaharlal Nehru and Lal Bahadur Shastri.” Quality films The film on Sivan is directed by his son Santosh Sivan, one of India's finest cinematographers. “That film has come out beautifully,” said Babu. “The academy assigned only proven filmmakers because we wanted quality films.” The documentaries will be screened on television channels and at film festivals. “We are also planning to stream them through over-the-top (OTT) platforms,” Babu said. “These documentaries will help people know more about our veteran journalists who contributed greatly to society but are rarely acknowledged. Everyone knows that M.T. is a fabulous writer of fiction, but how many are aware of the great work he did as editor of the Mathrubhumi weekly?” Priyadarshan is directing the film on M.T. But its shooting is among those affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Pradeep Nair, a national-award winning director, was able to complete the shoot of his documentary on Roy, though. “I think it is a great initiative by the Kerala Media Academy,” said Pradeep. “When I was doing the research on Roy, I realised how big his contribution has been to Kerala society. It is indeed time that journalists like him are recognised.”
14 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Wrangling in LDF over seat arrangement||The entry of Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) is now posing a trouble for the Communist Party of India (Marxist) in the seat-sharing process for the three-tier local body polls within the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kozhikode district. The JD(S) was offered two seats in the 75-member corporation council while the LJD and the CPI were allotted four seats each. The JD(S) local leaders alleged that those two seats were not winnable for the LDF. In the 27-member Kozhikode District Panchayat, the JD(S) was not given any seat to contest while the LJD, Indian National League (INL) and Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M), a nascent entrant into the LDF, were give a seat each. The CPI(M) leadership had anticipated that such an uneasy situation that would arise in the run-up to the polls as the party would have to satisfy all its constituents, including the Janata Dal (S) and Indian National League (INL). Significantly, to prevent disputes in seat-arrangement, the CPI(M) pushed for the merger of the LJD and the JD(S) in the State. Nothing materialised despite the nine-member committee comprising both the parties holding parleys in Kochi last month. The disgruntlement is also witnessed in the grama pancahayats, municipalities and the block panchayats as well. Local leaders have come out openly against what they allege the step-motherly approach to an old ally while favouring the new entrants. How the internal squabbles within the LDF pan out remains to seen as filing of nomination papers have already commenced and ends on November 19. At the same time, the CPI(M) leaders are hopeful that the contretemps with allies over seat-sharing arrangements would be solved in the coming days. Even the CPI felt that the party had not got its due in the sea-sharing process. The wrangling over the seat-sharing in the local body polls, many believe, will linger on to the Assembly polls next year. The LJD already has an eye on the Vadakara Assembly segment, which is now represented by the JD (S).
14 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||799 more test positive in Kozhikode district||As many as 799 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Friday. Of the newly confirmed cases, 771 persons acquired infection through local transmission. The source is unknown in eight cases. The new positive cases included seven Gulf returnees and 13 who came from other States. In Wayanad A total of 106 persons tested positive for the virus in Wayanad district on Friday. Of the new cases, 106 persons contracted the infection through local contact, while one came from Delhi. There were 160 recoveries. In Malappuram While 588 people tested positive for COVID, 522 recovered from the disease in Malappuram district on Friday. As many as 562 of the newly infected cases contracted the disease through local contact.
14 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Restore Haj embarkation point at Calicut airport’||The Airport Advisory Committee of the Calicut International Airport has urged the Centre to restore the Haj embarkation point at the airport. Committee chairman P.K. Kunhalikutty said several pilgrims travelling for Hajj from north Kerala were using the airport as their embarkation point. The Haj House near the airport has one of the largest facilities to manage movement of Haj pilgrims from the State. Unfortunately, the Haj Committee of India did not list Calicut as an embarkation point this year. Removing the Calicut airport from the list of embarkation points will affect pilgrims from north Kerala, especially the aged ones, Mr. Kunhalikutty said in a memorandum to the Prime Minister. Sources said the Haj embarkation point would be shifted to the Kannur International Airport along with the Cochin International Airport. It was in July this year that the operation of Haj flights was resumed by Saudia (Saudi Arabian airlines). It was after a gap of almost five years. Now, after the Air India Express flight crash at the airport on August 7, the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) abruptly suspended the operation of wide-bodied aircraft from Calicut. It will be in force till a five-member team of the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), probing the crash, submits its report. Earlier, the DGCA had given no-objection certificate to three airlines — Air India, Saudia, and Emirates — to operate wide-bodied aircraft. Many believe that the approval, though obtained due to political pressure, will benefit lakhs of passengers to West Asia. The operation of wide-bodied aircraft from the Calicut airport was banned from May 2015 in the wake of the Court of Inquiry report on the Air India Express Boeing 737 crash in Mangaluru in May 2010.
14 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Call to tighten blasphemy laws||Sunni scholar Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliyar has called for tightening blasphemy laws in the wake of attempts to tarnish the Prophet Mohammed and falsely creating cartoons and promulgating them in the name of free speech. In his address at the 17th International Milad Conference in Kozhikode on Friday, he said the Islamic Sharia did not allow cartooning of the Prophet. Malaysian Minister of Religious Affairs Dr. Zulkifali Mohammed Al Bakari opened the meet online.
14 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Bombs recovered||The Kuttiyadi police on Friday recovered five steel bombs which were found in an abandoned state near a mosque at Kakkuni, near Kuttiyadi. The Bomb Detection and Disposal squad reached the spot around 12 noon to defuse the explosives, which were kept inside a bucket. According to local police, the bombs were first spotted by a group of casual labourers from the area. The country bombs were found very powerful during the inspection of the bomb squad. The police said the explosives were abandoned at the spot with an intention to create public fear. Following the incident, leaders of various political parties called for a detailed investigation. They alleged that it was an attempt to spoil a peaceful local body election.
14 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||CPI(M) to contest in 15 Dist. Panchayat seats||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) on Friday completed seat sharing in the Kozhikode District Panchayat. LDF district convener Mukkom Mohammed announced the list of LDF candidates contesting in the 27 divisions in the district panchayat. The CPI(M) would contest in 15 seats, CPI in three, Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) four, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Kerala Congress (M) and Indian National League (INL) one each and LDF-backed independents two. The CPI(M) candidates would contest from Edachery, Mokeri, Kuttiady, Perambra, Balussery, Eengapuzha, Thiruvambadi, Chathamangalam, Pantheerankavu, Kakkodi, Nanmanda, Atholi, Mepayyur, Maniyur and Nadapuram. CPI candidates would be fielded in Kadalundi, Madavur, and Cherode while LJD candidates would contest from Areekulam, Payyoli Angadi, Azhiyur, and Kattippara. The NCP, KC(M) and INL would contest from Ulliyeri, Kodanchery, and Kunnamangalam divisions respectively.
14 November 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Nine of 12 municipal heads not to seek re-election||Most outgoing municipal chairpersons in the district will not be in the fray when Malappuram goes to polls on December 14. Being the most populous district, Malappuram has 12 municipalities, the largest in any district in the State. Eight of them had women at the helm. As many as six of them have planned to stay away from the electoral fray this time. Among the four outgoing male chairpersons, only one will be in the contest this time. To focus on business C.P. Mohammed Kunhi, LDF’s outgoing municipal chairman in Ponnani, will not seek re-election. He says he will focus on his business but will be active during electioneering. LDF’s M. Mohammed Saleem in Perinthalmanna municipality too will not seek re-election. According to Mr. Saleem, he will continue to remain an active social worker. As Independent However, LDF’s outgoing municipal chairman at Tirur K. Bava Haji is seeking re-election. He says he will contest as an Independent candidate with the support of the LDF. K.K. Nasar, outgoing chairman of Kottakkal Municipality, is the lone male leader among the nine UDF municipal chairpersons. Mr. Nasar said he would stay away from the contest in accordance with the decision of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML). Three terms The party has decided not to field those who completed three terms in local bodies. Parappanangadi municipal Chairperson V.V. Jameela, Tirurangadi municipal Chairperson K.T. Raheeda, Nilambur municipal Chairperson Padmini Gopinath, Kondotty municipal Chairperson K.C. Sheeba, Valanchery municipal Chairperson C.K. Rufeena, and Malappuram municipal Chairperson C.H. Jameela will not be there in the contest. They said that they would abide by the party guidelines, and would continue actively in public life. However, the Indian Union Muslim League’s V.M. Subaida, outgoing chairperson of Manjeri Municipality, and C.K. Subaida, outgoing chairperson of Tanur Municipality, will seek re-election this time. A.P. Unnikrishnan, outgoing District Panchayat President, is yet to take a decision on contesting this time. Mr. Unnikrishnan had represented the IUML in the District Panchayat.
14 November 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Kadalundi celebrates birdwatching day||The Kadalundi Vallikkunnu Community Reserve (KVCR) and the Malabar Natural History Society jointly celebrated National Birdwatching Day marking the birthday of the legendary ornithologist Salim Ali on Thursday. Birdwatching sessions and classes on migratory birds marked the celebrations. Photographer Vijesh Vallikkunnu inaugurated the programme. KVCR management committee chairman P. Sivadasan presided over the function. Secretary M.C. Vijayakumar, birdwatchers K. Shiras, T.P. Basheer and P.T. Shibu addressed the sessions. The team found 40-odd species of birds during an observation conducted in the Kadalundi river basin. They said 16 of them were migratory. Among them were Common redshanks, Whimbrels, and Golden plovers.
14 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||UDF announces 31 candidates in Palakkad||Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy called upon the people to react through the ballot to corruption and favouritism being practised by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in the State. He was speaking after announcing the United Democratic Front (UDF) candidates in the municipality here on Friday. Mr. Chandy announced the names of 23 Congress candidates, seven Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) candidates, and one Janta Dal candidate. Twenty-one more candidates will be announced soon. There are 52 seats in Palakkad municipal council. Congress’s Rajeswari Jayaprakash and B. Subhash will seek re-election when all others are new faces. More than half of the 31 candidates announced on Friday were women. Second list District Congress Committee president V.K. Sreekandan, MP, said the second list of candidates would be announced soon. The Congress is likely to contest 41 seats when the IUML is seeking 10 seats. The following are the UDF candidates: V. Jyothimani (Kalpathy), C.R. Venkiteswaran (Kalpathy East), Vinod Pattikkara (Ayyapuram West), C.N. Uma (Thonipalayam), Malathi Rajan (Valiyapadam), P. Bindu (Puthur South), V. Praveen (Puthur North), K. Madhusudhanan (Sekharipuram), Rajeev Ramanath (Ayyapuram), Sujata Dinesh (Koppam), Rajeswari Jayaprakash (Sulthan Petta), Sudha Vinod (Chirakkad), S. Shailaja (Kenath Paramba), K. Padmavathi (Manappullikkavu), B. Subhash (Civil Sation), K. Sujata (Murikkavu), K. Pradeepa (Vennakkara Central), A. Krishnan (Tirunellaya East), K. Mansoor (Tirunellaya West), Shiny Paulson (Kaikoothu Paramba), Shahana Parvi (Noorani), C.K. Ammalukutty (Pattikkara), Mini Babu (Pallippuram), T.A. Abdul Azeez (Vennakkara South), P.K. Hassanuppa (Kallikkadu), Basheerppu (Olavakkode South), A. Ansar Ali (Parakkunnam), Rajeena Muthalif (Puthuppalli Theruvu), K. Chembakam (Vennakkara), and Sasikumar (Chadanamkurissi).
14 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||UDF will book those who scuttled Walayar case: Chandy||Congress leader and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy said here on Friday that the United Democratic Front (UDF) would not waste any time in taking action against the police officers who scuttled the case of Walayar minor girls. “The death of the minor girls and the weakening of the case by the investigators have shamed Kerala,” he said after visiting the parents of the girls at their house at Walayar. He said the girls’ family did not get justice either from the police or from the government. The government did not take any action on the Haneefa committee report even six months after the report was submitted. “The commission pinpointed the lapses in the investigation and recommended action against those responsible for the lapses. Still no action has been taken against them. They (the officers responsible for scuttling the case) will be brought to book if the UDF comes to power,” he said.  Weakening of case has by investigators has shamed State
14 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||YC’s ‘justice corner’ for Walayar children||The Youth Congress (YC) district committee organised a ‘justice corner’ at Walayar on Friday, seeking justice for the minor sisters found dead in mysterious circumstances. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy inaugurated the protest. V.K. Sreekandan, MP, Youth Congress State president Shafi Parambil, MLA, and Benny Behanan, MP, spoke.
14 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta logs 189 cases||As many as 189 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Friday. Of the fresh cases, 172 persons contracted the virus through local contact, and of this, the contact source of 49 persons are yet to be ascertained. Among the local bodies, Thiruvalla reported 24 cases, followed by Ranni-Pazhavangadi with 164 cases. With 229 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 1,883 active cases.
14 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Occupancy in FLTCs falls to fewer than 200||The occupancy in the COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) run by the city Corporation has fallen to fewer than 200 persons this week with the falling number of positive cases in the region and with a majority of those who have tested positive choosing to isolate at home. The situation is in stark contrast with that a few months ago when the FLTCs run by the local bodies were overflowing with those who tested positive with mild or no symptoms. The Corporation had opened eight FLTCs after initially identifying 19 buildings. Most of the institutional quarantine centres have now been closed down, with only one remaining open now. These centres were meant mainly to quarantine those returning from abroad or other States and not having proper facilities to quarantine at home. Transit point “Now we have only the institutional quarantine centre at Mar Ivanios College, which is serving mainly as a transit point for one or two days for those arriving on flights and heading to other places. The other quarantine centres have been closed down as we no longer need them,” said an official of the Corporation’s health wing. With the administrative committee taking charge from the ruling council in the Corporation ahead of the local body elections, the committee also has the added responsibility of running the FLTCs and institutional quarantine centres. As per the government order issued on Thursday, the committee also should continue the awareness campaigns to ensure physical distancing in public spaces and coordinate with the District Disaster Management Authority and the District Medical Officer to carry out disease prevention activities, field-level COVID-19 tests, and reverse quarantine monitoring. The local body-level FLTC management committee will also see a change at the helm with the Corporation secretary taking charge in place of the Mayor, who had presided over the committee earlier, as per an order issued on Wednesday. The secretary will be included as a signatory for the joint bank accounts, from which spendings are made to run the FLTCs.
14 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heera Group chairman held in cheating case||The Museum police have arrested prominent builder Abdul Rasheed alias A.R. Babu, 66, in connection with a cheating case. The Nedumangad native, chairman and managing director of Heera Group, was apprehended from his house in Kowdiar late on Thursday. He was arrested for allegedly duping a woman who had purchased a flat in the apartment complex the group had constructed at Althara two years ago. According to the Museum police, the accused had purportedly secured a loan from a bank against the flat that he pledged as collateral. It was only after the bank initiated revenue recovery proceedings for non-repayment of the loan that the complainant realised that she had been duped. Five similar cases The accused has been booked under Sections 420 (cheating) and 405 (criminal beach of trust) of the IPC.. The police said there were at least five similar cheating cases registered against him. Soon after he was brought to the police station, the accused complained of uneasiness following which he was admitted to a Peroorkada hospital and then referred to the Government Medical College Hospital. While he has been remanded in judicial custody, the accused is currently lodged at a special treatment cell in the hospital.
14 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Children’s Day functions to be held online today||The Children’s Day functions organised by the Kerala State Child Welfare Council will be held online across the State on Saturday considering the restrictions in place owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. The State-level function will be held at the council hall here at 11 a.m. The child leaders will arrive for the function in an open vehicle and be received at the hall. Day’s message Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Health Minister K.K. Shylaja will deliver the Children’s Day message online. Mr. Vijayan will also release a special stamp on the occasion.  Children’s ‘Prime Minister’ Nanma S. will inaugurate the meeting and ‘President’ Adarsh S.M. will preside over the function. The Children’s Day message this year is ‘The Kerala lesson of livelihood’.
14 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||119 candidates file nomination||As many as 119 nominations were filed on Friday across the State for the upcoming local body polls. With this, the number of nominations received stands at 191, the State Election Commission said. Grama panchayat wards account for the majority of the nominations received on Thursday and Friday - 163. Fifteen nominations each have been filed so far for the district panchayat and municipality elections, eight for the block panchayats and three in the six Corporations combined. Candidates can file their nomination papers till November 19. List of those disqualified The State Election Commission has published the list of local body members who were disqualified under the anti-defection law. The list is available onwww.sec.kerala.gov.in. The disqualification is for a period of six years from the date of the order. Many had continued as members on the strength of stay orders obtained from courts and subject to conditions. Directive Their disqualification does not become null and void on the strength of the stay alone, State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran said. Mr. Bhaskaran has directed returning officers to carefully study the court orders before deciding on their eligibility.
14 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital reports 439 more cases||The COVID-19 case graph in Thiruvananthapuram went up with 439 new cases being reported on Friday. While 727 patients recovered from the disease, the number of active cases in the district stood at 7,028. A total of 5,300 tests were conducted during the past 24 hours. Barring one imported case, all the others acquired the infection through local transmission. These included 13 health-care workers. The sources of infection of 109 people are unknown. Six more people succumbed to the disease in the district. These included a 59-year-old man who hailed from Kanjiramkulam; an 85-year-old man who hailed from Thottakkal; a 62-year-old woman who hailed from Nemom; a 52-year-old woman who hailed from Varkala; a 68-year-old man who hailed from Peroorkada; and a 53-year-old man who hailed from Thiruvananthapuram.  The number of people who were quarantined rose to 25,053 in houses and 184 in various institutions with the district administration instructing 1,744 people to isolate themselves on the day.  Withdrawn  The district administration withdrew containment zones that had been declared at Njandoorkkonam, Ambalathara, Kamaleswaram, Kalippankulam, Sreevaraham, and Karikkakom wards of the Corporation.
14 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||16-year-old girl found charred to death||A 16-year-old girl was found charred to death in her house near Malayinkeezhu on Friday. According to the Malayinkeezhu police, the incident occurred at Perukavu by around 3 p.m. when the deceased was alone at her house. She was purportedly found dead by her mother in the kitchen. The police recovered a bottle that contained kerosene nearby. While the police have initiated a probe, preliminary findings pointed towards the possibility of suicide. The body has been kept at the mortuary of the Government Medical College Hospital here. A case of unnatural death has been registered. Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA: 1056, 0471-2552056.
14 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Illicit liquor den busted: 1 held, 3 others escape||Excise officials busted an illicit liquor den that operated along the Thiruvananthapuram-Kollam border on Friday. One person was nabbed and a large quantity of liquor was confiscated during the crackdown. Undertaken by a team led by Nedumangad excise circle inspector S. Vinod Kumar, the operation was conducted on the basis of information of illicit brewing thriving in the interior forests of the region. The trail allegedly led them to four people involved in the illegal manufacture of liquor near the Kerala Forest Training Institute at Arippa. While the excise officials managed to catch one of them, Shyju of Chithara, three others — Shihabudeen, Saji, and Subhash, all hailing from Arippa — managed to escape after jumping into a river. The excise team confiscated 105 litres of arrack, 400 litres of koda (undistilled spirit), and brewing equipment worth nearly Rs. 1 lakh. A country-made gun was also seized from the area.
14 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poojappura prison set to make footwear||The Poojappura Central Prison, which successfully ventured into the food business, organic vegetable farming, pisciculture, beauty parlour, and petrol pump, is set to diversify further by taking up footwear production. The inmates of the prison have begun to manufacture rubber slippers that will be marketed under the brand name Freedom Walk in the city. Machine set up The Kerala Prisons and Correctional Services Department has established a manual slipper-making machine on the premises as part of their welfare activities. Each pair of slippers will be sold at Rs. 80. Director General of Prisons and Correctional Services Rishiraj Singh will launch the sale of the Freedom Walk slippers at a function in the Jail Cafeteria on Saturday. Actor Chandhunadh G. will receive the first product on the occasion. Deputy Inspectors General of Prisons and Correctional Services S. Santhosh (Jail Headquarters) and P. Ajayakumar (South Zone) and Poojappura Central Prison Superintendent Nirmalanandan Nair will participate in the function.  DGP Rishiraj Singh will launch the sale of Freedom Walk slippers today
14 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police driver found hanging||In an alleged suicide bid, a police driver attached to the Kallambalam police station was found hanging in the restroom of the station early on Friday. The deceased was identified as Manoj, 42, of Palayamkunnu, near Varkala. The incident occurred after he had returned to the station after completing duty on Thursday midnight.  Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA: 1056, 0471-2552056.
14 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||V.V. Rajesh to contest from Poojappura||The Bharatiya Janata Party, which has announced its intention of capturing the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation this time, has decided to field party district president V.V. Rajesh in the Poojappura ward. BJP state president K. Surendran made the announcement here on Friday. By fielding a State-level leader in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation polls, the BJP appears to have given a clear indication of how serious the party, which had won 35 seats in 2015, is about wresting power this time. The ward was represented by BJP’s B. Vijayalekshmi in the last council. A former State secretary and spokesperson of the BJP, Mr. Rajesh had taken over as district president in January. He was the BJP candidate in Vattiyurkavu in the 2011 Assembly elections and in Nedumangad in the 2016 Assembly polls.
14 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KFC loan for 2,000 persons without surety||The Kerala Financial Corporation (KFC) will provide a loan of Rs. 1 lakh each to 2,000 persons without surety in a bid to promote entrepreneurship ventures, Chairman and Managing Director Tomin J. Thachankary said on Friday. Those seeking to set up micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) find it tough to mobilise resources and the KFC intended to provide them a helping hand, he said. Women and transgender persons would get priority. The loan would have to be repaid in three years and those availing themselves of the loan may repay weekly using payment gateways such as Google Pay. The interest rate would be 7%, including the 3% subsidy provided by the State government.
14 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Organic farm||Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary in-charge A. Vijayaraghavan inaugurated an organic farm prepared by the Kerala Municipal Corporation Staff Union on the premises of the slaughterhouse at Kunnukuzhy on Friday.
14 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Election scene hotting up at Varkala||The election scene at Varkala municipality, though dampened by the COVID-19 pandemic this time, is gradually hotting up with the major fronts making progress in the sharing of seats and the battle lines becoming clearer in many wards. The Left Democratic Front (LDF), which hopes to retain its hold over the municipality, has announced its candidates in a majority of the wards. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) will fight from 28 of the 33 seats, while ally Communist Party of India (CPI) will contest from five seats. Bindu Haridas, the CPI(M) chairperson in the last council, will contest the polls from the Pullanikode ward. In 2015, the LDF had captured the municipality from the UDF by winning 18 seats. Clearer picture Meanwhile, the picture in the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) is expected to become clearer in a day or two. The Congress will be fielding its own candidates in most of the seats, but a decision is awaited on the seat for the Revolutionary Socialist Party, which bagged the Teacher’s Colony ward last time, a local Congress leader said. The Bharatiya Janata Party, which harbours hopes of bettering its performance this time in Varkala, will contest in 31 seats. Its National Democratic Alliance (NDA) ally, Bharat Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS), has been allocated the Teacher’s Colony and Puthenchantha wards. In 2015, the BJP had won three seats in the municipal council. The candidates whose names have been announced by their respective parties have begun house visits, adhering to the stringent COVID-19 protocol issued by the State Election Commission. Given the COVID scenario, the Commission had also advised candidates in the upcoming local body elections to use social media platforms as much as possible.
14 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Veterinary Science Congress from today||The 12th Kerala Veterinary Science Congress organised by the Indian Veterinary Association, Kerala, will be held on November 14 and 15. As many as 129 scientific papers focussing on animal health and public health issues will be presented in four sessions at the partially virtual event. The programme would be broadcast live on the Facebook page of the IVA. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the congress online on Saturday.
14 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Farmers plan ‘rural hartal’||Farmers and agricultural labourers in the State will observe a ‘rural hartal’ on November 26 in response to a call by the Left Joint Farmers’ Council as part of a nation-wide agitation against the economic policies and farm reforms of the Centre. The new farm Acts were aimed at promoting contract farming and lining the pockets of wealthy corporates at the expense of farmers, a press note said.
14 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Helpdesk opened ahead of local body polls||A help desk has started functioning at the district Collectorate ahead of the local body elections. Members of the public, representatives of political parties, presiding officers or electoral registration officers can contact the help desk at 0471-2731123 to clear their doubts regarding the election process. The helpdesk will function from 9.30 a.m. to 6.30 p.m on all days, including holidays. District Collector Navjot Khosa said that the helpdesk will function round-the-clock on December 6,7, and 8.
14 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||677 cases in Thrissur||The district reported 677 new COVID-19 cases on Friday while 866 people recovered from the disease. There are 8,536 active cases in the district and 91 patients from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. A total of 49,984 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district so far. The district also reported 41,073 recoveries. According to official statistics, 658 people contracted the disease through local contact on Friday. This included 57 patients above the age of 60 and 105 patients below the age of 10. In all, 5,871 samples were collected on Friday. So far 3,77,783 samples have been tested in the district. As many as 438 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad on Friday.  While 235 of them contracted the virus through contact, there were 191 cases without an identifiable source of infection. Ten cases came from across the border. Among the newly infected persons, there were two heath workers. District officials said 338 people recovered from the disease in Palakkad on Friday. (With inputs from Palakkad)
14 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||33 papers submitted in Thrissur on second day||In all, 33 nominations for local body elections were received on the second day on Friday in Thrissur. They were for the Thrissur Corporation, Irinjalakuda and Chalakudy municipalities, and 13 grama panchayats. Three nominations were received for the Thrissur Corporation, six for Irinjalakuda and one for Chalakudy for the polls. Others were from Aloor, 4, Desamangalam, 3, Anthikkad, 3, Pazhayannur, 2, Melur, 2, Pariyaram, 2, Mulangunnathukavu, 1, Thiruvilwamala,1, Orumanayur, 1, Muriyad, 1, Velukkara, 1, Koratty, 1, and Mattathur, 1. Four nominations were submitted on the first day. Scrutiny of nominations will be held on November 20. There are 26,91,364 voters in Thrissur district, including 14,24,160 women, 12,671,80 men, and 24 transgender persons. Meanwhile, the District Collector asked people to strictly maintain COVID-19 guidelines, especially in containment zones. People were travelling through parallel roads in containment zones and gathering in unlawful manner without adhering to the pandemic protocol, he said. The Collector took administrative charge of the Thrissur district panchayat as the local bodies had completed their tenure.
14 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Opposition stance vindicated: Chandy||Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan going on leave of absence has proved that the allegations levelled by the Opposition against him are correct, senior Congress leader and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy has said. Mr. Chandy was interacting with mediapersons on his arrival at Ramanilayam here on Friday to discuss local body elections. “Mr. Balakrishnan should have taken the step much earlier to avoid controversies. However, the decision, even though late, is a welcome one. People have realised that the allegations against him and his family are right,” he added.
14 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||ASI collapses, dies in Thrissur||Sivadas Kaipanchery, 49, of Anandapuram, an ASI with the Irinjalakuda police station, collapsed and died during duty on Friday. Sivadasan, who collapsed at the station by afternoon was rushed to a hospital but was declared brought dead by doctors.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Nature’s bounty||
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Festive fervour||
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Church festival||
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Under siege||
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Dispelling gloom||
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Resplendent start||
14 November 2020||AVANIGADDA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Pattadar passbook racket busted, 6 held||A six-member gang, allegedly involved in creating fake pattadar passbooks, was busted by the Koduru police on Friday. The gang created fake passbooks, possession certificates of land and tax paid receipts, according to Avanigadda Circle Inspector B.B. Ravi Kumar. Disclosing it to the media here, the CI said based on a complaint lodged by a farmer, Tata Ramprasad, on illegal registration of his land in Mandapakala village, Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu directed Avanigadda DSP M. Ramesh Reddy to investigate it. The team, led by Koduru SI Ramesh and Avanigadda-II SI Suresh, raided a photo studio owned by one Kalisetti Srinivas Rao, and seized nine fake pattadar passbooks. Based on his confession, the police arrested Bellamkonda Govindu, B. Subba Rao, B. Devadasu, Paresi Nancharaiah and Bellamkonda Venkateswara Rao, who obtained fake possession certificates and fake tax paid receipts. They got the land registered on their names by using the fake documents. The photo studio owner was earlier arrested in 2014 in a similar case and is facing trial, the CI said. “The gang members were experts in creating fake land documents. Few more accused in the case would be arrested soon,” said Mr. Ravi Kumar.
14 November 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sparkling start for cracker stalls on Day 1||Firecracker stalls in the city have been receiving good response since Friday. Amid the government’s rule to burst crackers for only two hours and campaigns for green Deepavali, it is to be seen how the sale ends for the traders on Saturday, the festival day. Stall were set up at Engineering College Grounds of Andhra University and at Gajuwaka, Peda Gantyada, Simhachalam, NAD, Madhurawada, MVP Colony and other areas. “We have bought green crackers worth about Rs. 1.5 lakh from Jami in Vizianagaram district keeping in mind the two-hour rule. Friday was good but we are expecting better sales on Saturday. Generally, 60% of the sale happens on Deepavali morning,” said M. Suresh, who has set up a stall at A.S. Raja Grounds in MVP Colony. Traffic police had a tough time controlling traffic. People thronged the stalls with their families, especially their children, who were busy selecting the crackers in the shops. Several people say that firecrackers this year are costing a bomb. “Whatever we ask, they say Rs. 100, Rs. 150 and Rs. 200. The shopkeepers are charging Rs. 300 for a pack of small five cracker boxes. Compared to previous years, the rates are a bit high,” said M. Raja, a private employee from the city. Adhering to the instructions from the city police, stalls were arranged maintaining minimum distance from each other. However people coming to buy crackers were seen ignoring basic COVID-19 norms. Many have ignored wearing masks while shopping. A few customers said that it was better if the district administration had asked to arrange queue lines before the stalls or at least given permission a week before to avoid overcrowding. Puja items Most of the markets were seen packed with people buying puja items for the Deepavali, completely flouting COVID-19 norms. Flowers and fruits were sold at high prices. Sweet shops had also made brisk business. People bought additional sweets to gift to their loved ones. A large number of vendors have arranged stalls of clay ‘diyas’ at many places. Wide varieties of decorative clay diyas were being sold. A dozen regular clay diyas were sold at Rs. 50 and designed ones are being sold at Rs. 100 at some stalls.
14 November 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana High Court permits Sujana Chowdary to fly abroad||BJP Rajya Sabha member Y.S. Chowdary got a breather on Friday when the High Court passed an order permitting him to go abroad on condition that he give an undertaking to the CBI about his return journey. Mr. Chowdary, who is also known as Sujana Chowdary, was restrained by Immigration authorities at Delhi airport on Thursday from flying to USA. They cited a Look Out Circular issued by CBI officials in some bank fraud cases. The MP, living Hyderabad, filed a petition in the form of House motion on Friday challenging the LOC and seeking permission for two weeks for his US trip. The matter was heard by Justice Challa Kodanda Ram of the HC. Sujana Chowdary’s lawyer told the court that the MP wanted to fly to US to see his ailing uncle. The MP’s counsel contended that the Office Memorandum rules issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs state that an LOC gets lapsed automatically after one year unless extended. He maintained that the LOC for Sujana Chowdary was issued in 2019 and had lapsed since it was not extended. Replying to a query from the judge, counsel for the Immigration authorities could not explain if the LOC was extended. CBI counsel told the court that the LOC was extended beyond one year but no material to substantiate it was placed before the court. Considering this and since the petitioner was an MP, the court permitted him to travel abroad. However, the judge made it clear that Mr. Chowdary should inform the CBI of the date on which he would return.
14 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kakinada to have eco-friendly Namma toilets by year-end||Kakinada Municipal Commissioner Swapnil Dinakar has said that an exercise began to identify the locations to set up Namma toilets in the smart city of Kakinada by the end of this year. In an official release on Friday, Mr. Swapnil said that the Namma toilet facility would be set up in a few days at Sarpavaram junction in the city under the Swachh Bharat Mission on a pilot basis. “All the major locations will soon get the facility. The location of the Namma toilets will be available on the online search engines, enabling the users to get to know the availability of the facility in their nearest areas,” said Mr. Swapnil. At a meeting with the staff of the ward secretariats, Mr. Swapnil said that tax collection centres would be opened at each secretariat. “The annual spending on drinking water supply is above Rs. 8.5 crore, but the annual water tax collection is barely Rs. 1.5 crore. The civic body will be able to promise better services such as drinking water supply if the users pay their water tax promptly,” he observed.
14 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Portion of bridge collapses||A portion of a bridge across the Yeleru canal on the outskirts of Samarlakota town in East Godavari district collapsed on Friday. The bridge was built by the British across the Yeleru canal. A lorry loaded with gravel veered into the canal due to collapse of the portion of the bridge. According to Samarlakota Sub-Inspector P.V.L.K. Sumanth, driver and cleaner of the vehicle escaped with minor injuries. The police diverted the vehicular traffic following the incident.
14 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC/ST case against three for allegedly thrashing Dalit||The police on Friday registered a case under the SC & ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against three persons on the charge of beating a 40-year-old Dalit man, D. Krupanandam, under the Uppalaguptam police station limits in East Godavari district. “The three accused have allegedly physically assaulted Mr. Krupanandam of Gollapalli village for allegedly stealing coconuts from their garden in the early hours of the day,” Sub-Inspector G. Venkateswara Rao said. “The accused have been identified as S. Siva Kumar, P. Dorababu and P. Venkatewara Rao, all hailing from Gollapalli. Investigation is under way. No one has been arrested. The victim has been admitted to the government hospital in Amalapuram and his health condition is stable,” Mr. Venkateswara Rao. said.
14 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hand over houses to allottees: CPI||Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary K. Ramakrishna on Friday assured beneficiaries of the low income group housing scheme that the party will keep up its campaign till each and every allottee is handed over a house by the State government. As allottees narrated their woes to Mr. Ramakrishna, who visited some of the houses in Ongole and Kandukur towns in Prakasam district along with CPI leaders on Friday as part of the CPI’s action plan to forcibly occupy the houses from Monday. He said he was perplexed as to why the Jagan Mohan Reddy government was delaying handing over of the houses completed by the Andhra Pradesh Township and Infrastrucutre Development Corporation (TIDCO). “ The government should rise above party lines and hand over the houses to the allottees,” he said. “The CPI will perform house-warming ceremony along with the allotees from Monday if the YSR Congress Party government does not adhere to the Deepavali deadline set by the CPI,” he said.
14 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temple burglary: 2 held||CCTV cameras at the Sri Veerabhadra Swamy temple at Tarlupadu, near T.V.Palli, helped Prakasam police nab two offenders who had allegedly broken into the temple, on Friday. The incident occurred on October 17 night. The accused, ‘Vajrala’ Babu and Ravi, were nabbed near Cumbum Road. The duo got acquainted with Shiva Prasad of Ballikurava and a priest, Ramakrishnachari from Hyderabad, and started striking at old temples for valuables. Special teams were set up to nab their accomplices, police said.
14 November 2020||ONGOLE / NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain, curbs on fireworks dampen Deepavali spirit||Heavy rains as well as restrictions imposed by the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal in the wake of the continuing COVID-19 pandemic have dampened the festive spirit on the eve of Deepavali in south coastal Andhra Pradesh. The PVR Boys High School ground in Ongole, where cracker shops used to attract revellers, was water-logged on Friday, causing untold hardship to the shopkeepers who dared to set up temporary shops. “As I am unsure of breaking even, leave alone making profits, I have decided not to sell crackers this time,” said Srinivasa Rao, who had not missed setting up a cracker shop in the last three decades. However, hawkers selling earthen lamps did a good business as lighting rows of lamps in front of houses is a must during the festival. Sweet shops and textile outlets saw reduced footfalls as people struggled to make both ends meet in view pay-cuts and reduced economic activity during prolonged lockdown.  Word of caution Meanwhile, Prakasam SP Siddharth Kaushal said bursting of only green crackers would be allowed between 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. on Saturday. Revellers should also avoid social gatherings, he said, and advised them not to use sanitisers as they could catch fire.  In case of emergency, people are advised to dial ‘101’ or ‘100’.
14 November 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam records zero deaths, 51 fresh cases||The COVID-19 situation improved further in south-coastal Andhra Pradesh with Prakasam district registering zero deaths and only one patient succumbing to the virus in Nellore district in the last 24 hours. The encouraging trend continued in the region with more patients making a recovery as the total number of fresh cases declined in the region during the period. With one more death, the toll rose marginally to 490 in Nellore district, while it remained unchanged at 575 in Prakasam district, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Friday night. With 144 new cases, the cumulative number of confirmed cases rose to 1,23,186 in south-coastal A.P. The caseload declined to 2,205 as 193 patients recovered during the period. So far, 1,20,406 patients had recovered in the region. Prakasam district registered a low of 51 new cases, taking the total number of positive cases to 60,828. The number of active cases declined further to 745 as 118 patients made a recovery. The recovery rate improved further to 97.82 % in the district as 59,508 patients recovered so far in the district. In Nellore district, 93 new cases took the total case load to 62,358. The caseload slightly increased to 1,460 as only 75 patients were discharged from hospitals during the period. The recovery rate was healthy at 97.65% in the district, where 60,898 patients recovered so far. Meanwhile, Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal exhorted the public to celebrate Deepavali only after ensuring adherence to COVID norms and following the guidelines issued by Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal.
14 November 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Rajamahendravaram to be named after Godavari’||Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat on Friday said that a proposal to name the new district, to be formed with the Rajamahendravaram parliamentary segment, after the Godavari was under consideration by the State government. The Rajamahendravaram parliamentary segment is expected to be declared a new district with Rajamahendravaram city as its headquarters. The Rajamahendravaram parliamentary segment, consists of four Assembly segments in East Godavari district and three Assembly segments — Kovvuru, Nidadavolu and Gopalapuram — in West Godavari district. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, Mr. Bharat said: “The idea of naming a new district with the headquarters in Rajamahendravaram after the Godavari river has been explained to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The proposal is under consideration by the State government”. “The new district of Rajamahendravaram will have the name of Godavari as Kakinada and Amalapuram districts will have different names. In the new district, Rajamahendravaram will become the prime city with the district headquarters on the lines of Visakhapatnam city,” Mr. Bharat told The Hindu . Urban authority Mr. Bharat has also appealed to the Chief Minister to set up an urban development authority comprising the urban bodies of Kovvuru, Nidadavolu and Rajamahendravaram city to speed up the development of the urban bodies. “We have an exclusive plan of developing Rajamahendravaram city and an exercise is in progress to get heritage status for the city,” said Mr. Bharat.
14 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM /VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP ready to face local body polls, says Madhav||Bharatiya Janata Party State general secretary and Member of Legislative Council P.V.N. Madhav has said that the party is geared up for the local body elections and hoped the party will prove its strength at grassroots level. Participating as chief guest in the valedictory of BJP two-day training programme organised at Pydibhimavaram in the Vizianagaram parliamentary constituency on Friday, Mr. Madhav said the people of all 13 districts were eagerly waiting to vote for the party whenever elections were held. “The BJP is sure to prove its strength if elections were held in free and fair manner,” said the MLC stating that neither TDP nor YSRCP can stop the growth of BJP in the State. “Dubbaka by-election has reflected the mood of the Telugu-speaking people. We will win Tirupati Lok Sabha by-election too,” Mr. Madhav said. Training programmes BJP Etcherla constituency in-charge Nadukuditi Eswara Rao alleged the ruling party was using police force to harass BJP leaders. He said the training programme would help the newly joined leaders and activists understand the party’s ideology. Mr. Eswara Rao called upon the activists to propagate the achievements of the Narendra Modi government in villages. BJP senior leaders Pudi Tirupato Rao, S.V. Sanyasi Rao, Reddi Pavani and other leaders were present.
14 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sale of small cars zooms post lockdown||Post lockdown, the automobile industry was in for an unprecedented tumult with the two-wheeler and small car segments witnessing a surprisingly upward curve and the commercial passenger carriers (auto-rickshaws) suffering a sharp dip. Though the April and May of the total lockdown led to zero sales in all segments, the subsequent months witnessed bright sales in small car segment. Shattering industry expectations of a bleak festival-eve sales, the Dasara- Deepavali season turned robust with heavy orders, which translated into higher waiting period for delivery at the retail outlets. The pan India sales of auto-rickshaws reportedly dropped by around 60% and the denting factor was the COVID-19, as people shied away from using public transport for the fear of contracting the infection. On the contrary, the affordable among the regular commuters came forward to buy small cars. “On opening the showroom post lockdown, we sold 26 cars in June, 42 in July, 48 in August, 52 in September and 58 in October. The number is rising every month, which is actually 100% over the corresponding period of 2019,” points out S. Venkataraman of Vijayabharathi Enterprises, dealers of Tata Motors (passenger car division). With the APSRTC buses staying away from the roads during most part of the lockdown, the demand for personal vehicles became more pressing. The two-wheeler sales grew by 14% across India, especially in the rural areas, and the small car segment saw 16% growth. “Those who required commuting on regular basis perceived a need for owning a car. Many employees and frontline warriors in the fight against COVID-19 bought cars in the recent months for continued mobility,” observes G. Balaji Chowdary, the authorised dealer for Hyundai Motors in Tirupati.
14 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two men electrocuted||In separate incidents, two persons died of electrocution in Chittoor district on Friday. Sheikh Jaffar (33) inadvertently came into contact with a live wire while erecting a makeshift outlet to sell crackers in Molakalacheruvu. He died on the spot. His body was shifted to a government hospital and police registered a case. In the second incident, a taxi driver Ramesh (35) suffered an electric shock when he urinated behind an electric transformer in New Indira Nagar area of Tirupati. He too died on the spot.
14 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police officer’s gesture||In a noble gesture, Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Avula Ramesh Reddy spent Deepavali eve with the inmates of PASS Manovikas, a home for destitute persons and children with special needs. He donated rice bags, fruits, snacks and festival gifts to the inmates, apart from a cheque for Rs. 25,000 to the organisers.
14 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic curve takes a further dip||The State’s COVID-19 tally has crossed the 8.5-lakh mark in eight months since the first coronavirus infection reported on March 12. Continuing the downward trend in infections and deaths, the State reported less than 2,000 new cases for the sixth consecutive day. With 1,593 new infections, the cumulative tally has gone up to 8,51,298 and the death toll has increased to 6,847, with 10 more deaths being reported in the past day. The death rate remains at 0.80%. In the past day, 80,737 samples were tested and only 1.97% of them tested positive, registering the lowest single-day positivity rate in nearly the past five months. Also, the total samples tested so far has reached 90.14 lakh. The overall positivity rate has been put at 9.44%. Recovery count With 2,178 new recoveries, the count has gone up to 8,24,189 and the recovery rate slightly increased to 96.82%. Currently, there are 20,262 active cases in the State. Krishna district reported three new deaths, the highest in the State, followed by Visakhapatnam with two deaths. Chittoor, Guntur, Nellore, Vizianagaram, and West Godavari districts reported one death each, while the remaining districts reported zero deaths. The district-wise new infections are as follows: East Godavari (259), Chittoor (225), Krishna (202), Guntur (202), West Godavari (188), Anantapur (105), Nellore (93), Visakhapatnam (90), Srikakulam (58), Prakasam (51), Kurnool (45), Kadapa (43) and Vizianagaram (42). East Godavari’s tally crossed the 1.2-lakh mark and has at least 30,000 cases more than its neighbouring West Godavari, which has the second-highest tally. Both the districts account for 25% of the State’s caseload. The district infection tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,20,050), West Godavari (89,855), Chittoor (81,791), Guntur (70,596), Anantapur (66,023), Prakasam (60,828), Nellore (60,792), Kurnool (59,896), Visakhapatnam (57,143), Kadapa (53,497), Srikakulam (44,921), Krishna (42,819) and Vizianagaram (40,192).
14 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stay physically active to keep diabetes at bay: expert||Diabetes, which is afflicting even the young, can be cured if detected early, says Rakesh Bobba, MD (general medicine) and consultant endocrinologist, Ramesh Hospitals. On the occasion of World Diabetes Day (November 14), which is observed on the birth anniversary of Sir Frederick Banting, who co-discovered insulin along with Charles Best, awareness programmes are being conducted to enlighten people on the causes, symptoms and prevention of diabetes. Speaking to The Hindu on Friday, Dr. Rakesh said, with eight crore patients, India stood second in the world after China. “It is expected that the number may go up to 12 crore in the next five years,” he said. “One in six persons in the world with diabetes is from India. The disease is high in the urban areas than in villages, and about 50% of the people are unaware that they are diabetics. The disease can be cured with weight loss, diet changes, early detection and by doing physical exercises,” Dr. Rakesh said. Risk due to COVID On the effect of COVID-19, he said, “While the risk of death among normal persons is about 1%, it is 10% among diabetics,” he said. “Diabetics are more likely to experience severe symptoms when infected with the virus. If diabetes is under control, they are on a par with others when it comes to getting severely sick,” he said. Referring to diabetes among children, Dr. Rakesh advised parents to avoid serving them junk and fast foods, and stale and fry dishes. “Instead, encourage children to be physically active and do yoga,” he suggested.
14 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Children of NCLP schools celebrate Deepavali||Students of National Child Labour Project (NCLP), Krishna district, celebrated Deepavali festival by following the COVID-19 protocol. They distributed sweets and exchanged Deepavali greetings. More than 500 child labourers and children of nomads, migrated families, semi-orphans, broken and disturbed families are studying in 16 NCLP schools, also known as Special Training Centres (STC), in the district. The students lit the earthen lamps, decorated with flowers and celebrated the festival at the NCLP Office in the city on Friday. They performed puja and prayed the god to relieve the people of COVID and other evils and give them good health, wealth and prosperity. “The students specially painted the earthen lamps and pots with colourful material and celebrated the festival. NCLP is also imparting vocational training for the students in various courses including interior decoration, embroidery, pottery and other courses,” said Project Director D. Anjaneya Reddy. NCLP district coordinator B. Prasanna said that masks, sanitisers and gloves were distributed to the students on the occasion. Sanitiser kits would be distributed to the schools, which would be delivered at their homes, she said. Children’s Day The students also celebrated Children’s Day on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, and recalled the services of the first Prime Minister of India to the nation.
14 November 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor extends Deepavali greetings||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on Friday greeted people on the occasion of Deepavali to be celebrated on Saturday. Mr. Harichandan hoped the festival of lights would bring peace, prosperity and happiness to all in the State. “Deepavali signifies the victory of good over evil. Occasions like these will inspire us to conquer calamities and build a society filled with peace and communal harmony. I pray Lord Jagannath and Lord Sri Venkateswara to shower their blessings on the occasion,” Mr. Harichandan said, and advised people to take all precautions in celebrating the festival in the wake of the pandemic. “I also extend my greetings to all the children in the State on the occasion of Children’s Day on Saturday,” the Governor said. “Children are the future of the nation and they should be nurtured and groomed to become worthy citizens of the nation,” he said. “Children are the real strength of a country and the very foundation of society,” Mr. Harichandan added. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and his wife Bharati met Mr. Harichandan and his wife Suprava at Raj Bhavan and exchanged Deepavali greetings.
14 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Publish White Paper on sand revenue : TDP||The TDP has asked the government to publish a White Paper on the revenue generated through sand mining in the State. Addressing the media on Friday, MLA Gorantla Butchaiah Chowdary accused the YSRCP MLAs and MPs, and their followers of committing irregularities in sand mining and transportation. “The YSRCP leaders have been looting sand . They have transported sand to Hyderabad, Chennai and Bengaluru to make easy money, causing huge loss to the exchequer. The government should publish a White Paper on the revenue generated from mining, sale and transportation of sand, and the seigniorage in the last 17 months,” he said. “The new sand policy will help the YSRCP leaders loot sand further. No Central government institution will come forward to mine sand because of the unfavourable conditions in the State. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and his followers, besides robbing the State of its natural resources, have not been able to generate revenue to the government,” Mr. Butchaiah Chowdary alleged. The construction industry in the State collapsed after the YSRCP came to power, he said. “Construction workers have been thrown onto the road. They have not been provided financial assistance from the Rs. 1,200-crore welfare fund during the pandemic,” he alleged.
14 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) organises Praja Chaitanya Bheri||The Communist Party of India-Marxist CPI(M) organised a Praja Chaitanya Bheri at Ajith Singh Nagar in the city on Friday. CPI(M) State Secretariat member Ch. Babu Rao said that the packages announced by the Central government did not benefit the people in any way. “It is a blatant lie that Rs. 20 lakh crore relief was extended to the people. The packages, in fact, were more of a burden on the people than a relief. There was an economic slowdown as per officials. The economy was retrograding even in the third quarter of the fiscal. Apart from COVID-19, the Central government’s policies are also responsible for the slowdown. The Central government is hoodwinking the people with its claims on GDP and revival schemes. Economists are urging the government to extend Rs. 7,500 assistance per month to the common man for a period of six months. The Central government, however, is not responding,” Mr. Babu Rao said.
14 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police officers seek action against former MP||Members of the Andhra Pradesh Police Officers’ Association have demanded action against former Amalapuram Parliament Member G.V. Harsha Kumar, who allegedly made ‘insulting’ remarks against COVID-19 warriors. The former MP insulted a Sub-Inspector of Police, a medical officer of Razole, a nurse and other staff members by making derogatory remarks against them, said association Krishna district president J. Srinivas Rao in a statement here on Friday. Association Vijayawada city unit president M. Somaiah, while condemning the behaviour of Mr. Harsha Kumar, demanded action against him.
14 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One dead, two hurt in blast||An employee of a private hospital died and two others suffered injuries in a blast in Guntur district on Friday. The injured were admitted to hospital and their condition is stated to be critical. The accident occurred when a cylinder exploded in a private hospital at Mangalagiri. The police registered a case and took up investigation.
14 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Municipal administration dept. gets more funds||A G.O. was issued relating to the budget release order for Rs. 165.186 crore to Municipal Administration and Urban Development Department . The order was issued in relaxation of treasury control and quarterly regulation orders pending provision of funds by obtaining supplementary grants at an appropriate time during the current financial year.
14 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Owners of Bangladeshi ship serve notice for abandonment||The operations to tow out the aground Bangladeshi vessel MV Maa has been called off as the Advance Shipping Limited, management of the ship, has issued a letter of ‘Abandonment’ to the Protection and Indemnity Club, United Kingdom, stating various constraints in taking up the operation. The 3000-tonne MV Maa with 15 crew member on board ran aground near Tenneti Park in Visakhapatnam on October 13, due to inclement weather. The ship was scheduled to be towed out by the Resolve Marine on November 14, during the high tide period. According to company sources, the Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) authorities have not given permission to the company to tow out the ship to the Hindustan Shipyard for dry docking and repairs. As per a senior VPT official, the ship cannot be allowed to pass through the entry channel into the HSL, before the Indian Register of Shipping (IRS) certifies that the ship is sea worthy. “We have only one entry channel to the harbour and in case of any eventualities such as sinking of the ship in the channel will jeopardise the movement of cargo vessels and ships of the Eastern Naval Command,” the official says. IRS certification However, company sources say that getting a certification from the IRS in the present form is not possible, as the ship is aground and is placed between the rocks on the beach. For the IRS to certify the sea worthiness of the ship, the vessel has to be afloat and towed deeper into the water. Only then IRS can conduct a survey, which includes checking the bottom part of hull. The contract with the Resolve Marine expires five to six hours after the ship is salvaged and towed out, and it is not possible to conduct the survey within that period, sources in the company explain. Once the ship moves into the high seas, it cannot be kept there for long as there is no fuel and the ship engines are not operational. The ship has also lost both its anchor and it cannot be kept still at one position and there is always the danger of drifting back to the shore. “The only option now is to tow the vessel to the HSL for dry docking. With no permission from the VPT, the ship management has issued a letter of abandonment to the P&I Club,” said Bhupesh of Navship, an agent for the ship. Now, the P&I Club will take a call as to whether to scrap the vessel or bear the cost of salvaging it, which is said to be a huge amount, sources in the VPT say. Environment hazard The longer the ship stays on the beach, the greater is the threat to the environment. Every ship has some sludge (thick residual oil) left, even after the fuel is drained out. Now, the ship is sitting on the sharp-edged rocks and there is a danger of the hull being ruptured, says Marine Chief Engineer S.V. Durga Prasad, who has also served in the Mercantile Marine Department (MMD).  However, Surinder Gill of the Gill Marines, who was given the contract to drain out the fuel, says that oil including 80,000 litres of sludge has been removed from the vessel manually.
14 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) slams privatisation move||CPI(M) State Secretariat Member Ch. Narasinga Rao has called upon the people to oppose the ‘anti-worker and anti-people’ policies of the Union government. He flagged off a scooter rally organised to protest against the ‘anti-people’ policies of the Centre, at the party city office at Maddilapalem here on Friday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Narasinga Rao alleged that measures were being taken to privatise public sector unions (PSUs) . He recalled that 32 persons had sacrificed their lives seeking the establishment of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). The government was now planning to hand it over to POSCO, he said. The CPI(M) leader said that the Union government has failed to grant the Special Category Status (SCS) and provide special package to backward regions in the State.
14 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Swachh Visakha Walkathon drives home message of cleanliness||Political representatives, officials from Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) and a good number of people took part in the ‘Swachh Visakha Walkathon’ organised with the motto to create awareness over Swachhta practices and clean and green Vizag among the citizens. Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) Chairman Ram Mohan Rao and GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana flagged off the marathon, which started from Kali Matha temple at R.K Beach to YSR Statue near Park Hotel Junction. The participants wore ‘We Support Visakha’ T-shirts during the marathon. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that such walkathons should be organised to sensitise people about the Swachhta practices. Mr. Ram Mohan Rao appreciated the efforts being taken up by the GVMC as part of Swachh Survekshan. He said that people should use toilets set up by the corporation. Waste segregation Ms. Srijana said that the civic body aims at achieving first rank in Swachh Survekshan 2021. She said that every citizen should download Swachhta app, hand over waste by segregating it and also should not to use single-use plastic. She also stressed on the need for creating awareness over Swachh Survekshan. “It is the duty of the teachers to create awareness about Swachh Survekshan among children,” she said, appealing to public to have green and safe Deepavali. MPs M.V.V. Satyanarayana, B.V. Satyavathi and G. Madhavi, YSRCP MLAs G. Amarnath, G. Babu Rao and Karanam Dharmasri, other leaders K.K. Raju, Malla Vijaya Prasad, Joint Collector Venugopal Reddy, GVMC Additional Commissioners and staff attended.
14 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Graduation Day held||The Graduation Day of Dadi Institute of Engineering and Technology(DIET), Anakapalle, was held on Friday. Vice-Chancellor of Dr. BR Ambedkar University, Srikakulam, Koona Ramji, who participated as a chief guest, spoke on the importance of National Education Policy 2020, and advised the students to upgrade their skills in tune with the requirements of the industry.
14 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||National Library Week inaugurated at AU||Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy inaugurated National Library Week celebrations 2020 being organised by Dr. V.S. Krishna Library, Andhra University, here on Friday. Speaking on the occasion, Prof. Prasad Reddy said that libraries should function keeping in view the aspirations and needs of future generations. He said that many students who studied in the library were settled in top positions in the country and abroad. He also highlighted the importance of digital libraries and digitalisation of books. Honorary Librarian K. Visweswara Rao said that many programmes for the library professionals, teachers, and research scholars have been designed through online by inviting resource persons from Bengaluru and Chennai on November 16 and17, he said. Online programmes on “Koha Library software” and “J-gate” will be organised for the library professionals and research scholars of AU and various other institutions during the week, he added Library staff participated in the programme.
14 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 80 new cases and two deaths||Eighty new COVID-19 cases were reported in the district in the last 24 hours as on Friday evening. The district has reported fewer than 100 cases consecutively for the last four days. The tally per day since Monday was 42, 97, 75, 74 and 80. In the last seven days, the total number of cases reported was 621, with an average of about 88 cases per day. A majority of COVID-19 hospitals have very few number of patients as 90% of the patients are opting for home isolation. According to the bulletin, the total number of cases reported from the district since the pandemic broke out is 57,655. As many as 108 persons undergoing treatment for the virus recovered or discharged from the hospitals on Friday. Two persons who were undergoing treatment succumbed to the coronavirus, taking the death toll to 492. The number of active cases has come down below 1,500 after mid-July. The active cases in the district stand at 1,483 as on Friday. Similarly, the recoveries have increased to 55,680, which is almost 96.5% of the total cases.
14 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SBI distributes school kits to children||A school bag each, containing a lunch box, crayon box, notebooks, T-shirt and a cap, was distributed to 626 schoolchildren, by the State Bank of India, Administrative Office, Visakhapatnam, as part of its CSR activity, on the eve of Children’s Day and Deepavali festival, across three coastal districts, on Friday.
14 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dry ration kits distributed to schoolchildren||Dry ration kits were distributed to students of four government schools, under COVID Service activity of the Akshaya Patra Foundation,Visakhapatnam, on Friday. The kits were distributed at GVMC Primary School, Peda Waltair, GVMC Waltair-1 and Waltair-2 Primary Schools and AU Primary School.
14 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No entry for vehicles on Beach Road today||Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Visakhapatnam, G. Adinarayana, said that vehicles will not be allowed on Beach Road between Naval Coastal Battery (NCB) and Park Hotel Junction, including R.K Beach, from 5 a.m. (Saturday) to 12 a.m. (Sunday). A large number of people throng Beach Road in the evening of Deepavali. Keeping in view the COVID-19 situation, the city police have taken the decision, it is learnt.
14 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sainik School: last date for online registration||Officials from Sainik School, Korukonda, in a release on Friday informed that the last date for online registration for admission to classes VI and IX for the academic session 2021-22 is November 19. In a release, they said people can check school website https://aissee.nta.nic.in regularly for more information. For assistance, public can contact helpline nos. (+91) 8287471852, 8178359845, 9650173668, 9599676953 & 8882356803.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu switches vehicle after glitch on NH-65||Telugu Desam Party national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu yet again had to halt and switch vehicles on the NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada), after the vehicle in which he was seated reported technical error, on Friday. Mr. Naidu, who was en route Hyderabad from Amaravathi in his convoy, remained clueless after his SUV stopped abruptly near Kamineni Hospitals at Narketpally at around 6 p.m., and it failed to start. Narketpally police confirmed that Mr. Naidu’s convoy halted for about five minutes, after which he got into the spare bullet-proof SUV and left for Hyderabad. In September, Mr. Naidu’s convoy on this highway was in news, when the SUVs in the series applied sudden brakes to avoid a cow near Choutuppal. No one was hurt and only vehicular damages were reported.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Whistleblower done to death||“We have launched a manhunt to nab Ramesh Reddy and 10 others,” DSP (Jammalamadugu) N. Nagaraju said. The Kondapuram police booked 11 persons. The attack was initially seen as a scuffle between two warring groups within the YSRCP represented by MLA M. Sudheer Reddy and former MLA P. Ramasubba Reddy, as the victim and the accused belonged to the rival camps. However, Gurunatha Reddy’s role as a whistleblower in unearthing the darker side of the compensation came to the fore after the district officials recalled the complaint filed by him two months ago.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Vested interests using Nandyal case for gain’||Muslim Personal Law Board president Altaf Raza has said that the Nandyal incident of a muslim family committing suicide is being used for political gains. “Don’t use the Muslims for vested political interests,” he said while addressing the media on Friday. Mr. Raza said that Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy had ordered a probe into the incident. “Vested interests are trying to instigate the Muslim youth. A conspiracy is being hatched to create a rift between the State government and the Muslims,” he said. Mr. Raza requested the Muslims to exercise restraint and ‘understand the evil designs of vested interests’. “Don't get carried away by the instigations. The government is implementing many welfare schemes for the Muslims. We must stand by the State government and the Chief Minister,” he added.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||The right pick||
14 November 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Performance-linked bonus for SCCL staff||The Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) has disbursed the Performance Linked Reward of Rs. 68,500 each to all the eligible non-executive cadre employees ahead of Deepavali slated for November 14. According to SCCL sources, the amount has been credited to the bank accounts of all eligible employees on a pro-rata attendance basis. All non-executive employees including Badli workers, who had put in not less than 30 actual musters during the financial year (2019-20), received the PLR amount, SCCL added.
14 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SC order on firecrackers brings cheer to traders, buyers||As the boom, boom of crackers began in right earnest in the lanes and bylanes, buyers and traders thronged makeshift cracker shops in Jummerat Bazaar, Purana Pul and other areas of the city on Friday evening. The road stretch between Goshamahal, Begum Bazaar, Jummerat Bazaar and Purana Pul was gridlocked as citizens tried to make last-minute purchases before the big day of lights. “We got permission only a few hours back and we opened the shop. But you can see how many people are here,” said Shyam Chowdhury, visibly relieved to be allowed to get back to business. Other shopkeepers in the area were sullen as they said they lost crucial business over the past few days. “Todays daytime was crucial but we were allowed to open only in the evening. Now, it is a gamble of how many people will buy now and tomorrow. If people make their purchases tomorrow, we might be saved otherwise we are doomed,” said Shankar Singh, who said he borrowed money to invest in the business. Friday’s Supreme Court order modifying the Telangana High Court order in line with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has shifted the focus from a complete ban to the fine print about green crackers. “Namastey anna,” said a trader, when asked about green crackers in his shop at Purana Pul. Other traders were equally evasive about the stock and sale of green crackers. Developed by Indian scientific establishment, including Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, green crackers cause less pollution and decibel level is also lower and limited to a band of 110-125 Db. Conventional crackers trigger a surge in pollution of superfine suspended particulate matter, data from the Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB), over the past few years, shows. The availability, price and popularity of green crackers remains an issue. The SC order triggered a social media celebration of sorts as many people shared their determination to burst crackers on Deepavali.
14 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Normal winter likely from Dec. first week: IMD||Cloudy weather and light rain, which the twin cities and parts of Telangana are currently experiencing for the last couple of days, are because of the ‘easterly trough’ effect, though it is actually active in south coastal Andhra Pradesh, southern Rayalaseema and north Tamil Nadu, bringing in more rain due to the north east monsoon. And, the chill in the nights noticed earlier this week was because of the ‘western disturbance’ from as far as the Caspian Sea and the northern dry winds, say scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD). “We are in a transition phase from monsoon to winter. Winter for Hyderabad and Telangana will set in between December 4-10 as per the normal weather pattern. We do not see any unusual temperature changes and they are likely to remain between 15-19 degree Celsius or slightly below normal temperatures unless there are more northern winds when the temperatures could fall further to 13 degrees or so in the nights,” said A. Sravani, scientist at the Hyderabad Met Centre here. Another ‘easterly trough’ is also on the horizon but this is not going to have any impact on the weather here. Since the monsoon was ‘normal’, IMD scientists do not foresee any major change in winter temperatures this year with the ‘normal conditions’ likely to prevail till the second week of January. After a brief respite, the cool nights will resurface again till the second week of February when the transition period for the onset of summer is likely to happen. She informed that the night temperatures in the north Telangana areas of Adilabad and others will witness chilly weather later into the season when it could come down to 5 degree C. “Generally, the night temperatures will be hovering around 10-15 degree C when the northern winds from the northern states start blowing. Maximum or the day temperatures are to be around 32 to 35 degree C during this period,” adds Dr. Sravani.
14 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana records 997 COVID positive cases||The State on Thursday reported 997 COVID positive cases, bringing the total number of cases to over 2.55 lakh. Four persons succumbed to the virus on Thursday, thus increasing the total number of fatalities to 1,397. The total number of active cases now stands at 17,094. According to the media bulletin issued on Friday, as many as 1,222 patients recovered on November 12, which spiked the total number of recoveries to over 2.37 lakh. The State tested as many as 42,163 samples, and out of this, 18,551 were primary contacts and another 5,059 were secondary contacts. While the number of samples tested at government facilities was recorded as 39,354, those done at private facilities was 2,809. The cumulative number of tests now stands at over 48.12 lakh. There were 391 samples which were awaiting results. The district-wise break-up of positive cases showed that the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits recorded 169 cases, followed by Medchal Malkajgiri district with 85 cases. Rangareddy district recorded 66 cases and Bhadradri Kothagudem district recorded 65 cases.
14 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ordinance to amend new Revenue Act likely||The State government has apparently decided to issue an ordinance amending the new Revenue Act - The Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act, 2020, to facilitate regularisation of land transactions for lands under Sada Bainama (land transactions on plain paper). The Telangana High Court had directed the State government to stop processing of the 6.74 lakh applications received for regularisation of Sada Bainama transactions after October 29 as the new Act superseded the existing legislation, but was without any provisions incorporated about regularisation of the Sada Bainama transactions. The government had to amend the new Revenue Act inserting clause pertaining to regularisation of the Sada Bainama transactions to ensure that the court’s directives did not stop the process of regularisation of lands whose transactions were made on plain papers. Towards this end, the government was left with two options, convening a special session of the Legislature for introducing Bill amending the new Act or take to ordinance route. However, the government appeared to be not in favour of convening the session of the Legislature going by the developments during the day. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has prorogued the proceedings of the Legislative Assembly and Council with effect from November 13. This would in turn mandate issuance of notice for convening the next session of the legislature which would require certain procedures. The government sought two weeks time to file a detailed counter affidavit in the High Court amid questions raised by the Division Bench about the mode in which the applications would be processed under the Record of Rights Act which no longer existed after the enactment of the new Revenue Act.
14 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Stringent action against drunk drivers causing fatal accidents||With a sharp rise in the number of cases concerning drunk driving, the Cyberabad police said they have started taking stringent legal action against persons who indulge in driving under the influence of alcohol and are involved in fatal road accidents. “We would book such people under Section 304 part II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code for which the punishment involves imprisonment up to 10 years,” Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar said on Friday. He said that the standard operating procedure has been put in place to deal with such cases and to ensure strict punishment to the ‘wrongdoers’. “Every single road accident case is monitored by the Road Traffic Accident Monitoring Cell (RTAM) and people involved in the accidents are subjected to blood alcohol concentration tests without fail to identify the persons driving under the influence of alcohol,” the Commissioner said, adding that no one can escape the legal action after committing any road accident under the influence of alcohol. The managements of pubs, which knowingly allow their customers in drunken state to drive the vehicles, will also be dealt under the relevant provisions of law and prosecuted, he said. Also, special teams will work continuously to apprehend the people involved in road accidents and flee the scene, Mr. Sajjanar said, and added that stringent action will be taken against such people for ‘causing disappearance of evidence’, and not helping the injured persons for medical care. Those who do not cooperate for the BAC test will be booked under Section 205 (Presumption of unfitness to drive) of the Motor Vehicles Act, which presumes the drunkenness of such people, the IPS officer of 1996 batch said. “In recent drunk driving accidents in Madhapur and Gachibowli, the accused will be dealt with stringent enforcement of all available provisions of law,” the Commissioner added.
14 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||New fish species found at Kawal bears State name||A new fish species discovered in the hill stream area of Kawal Tiger Reserve (KTR) is among the first vertebrates to bear the name of Telangana. Called Indoreonectes Telanganaensis, the new species of loach, is distinguished by pectoral fins as long as the head, large eyes, nasal barbel reaching the middle of the eye and a number of other distinguishing features. “The hill stream is seasonal and is part of the Godavari river basin but does not flow into the main river directly. It was discovered there,” informed Srinivasulu Chelmala, the corresponding author of the paper published in Zootaxa, a peer-reviewed scientific journal for taxonomists. The research team was led by Krishna Prasad Kante, a scholar from Osmania University. The researchers backed up their claim for the new species with DNA analysis information. Clown loaches are native to the inland water systems in South East Asia. While clown loaches have shorter bodies and pinkish fins and tails, the loach discovered in Telangana is a little less colourful and has a longer body with bands of black. “The naming after Telangana will make scientific people take notice of the new State,” said Mr. Chelmala, who is part of the Osmania University faculty.
14 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||4 cr. litres of milk transported to Delhi||SCR’s ‘Doodh Duronto’ Special introduced during lockdown period between Renigunta and H. Nizamuddin for transportation of milk in order to balance the milk supply in New Delhi has crossed 4 crore litres mark on Thursday. Before the lockdown, milk from Renigunta has been transported to New Delhi through milk tankers by attaching them to the mail and express trains as per regular schedule. But, with all such trains cancelled due to the pandemic, special milk trains were run and the distance between Renigunta and H. Nizamuddin (2,300 km) is being covered in 34 hours. Milk transported through this special train is collected by National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) from more than 3,000 assembling points spread over 13,000 villages in and around Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh. The first ‘Doodh Duronto’ was introduced on March 26 to operate on every alternate day has been enhanced to run on a daily basis from July 15, informed chief PRO Ch.Rakesh on Friday. Doodh Duronto specials, normally run with six milk tankers, having a capacity of 40,000 litres each and so each train transports 2.40 lakh litres of milk. So far, around 167 trips have been operated through 1,020 milk tankers transporting 4 crore litres milk. General Manager Gajanan Mallya has appreciated the consistent efforts of Guntakal division for milk mobilisation to cater to the nation’s needs and for initiatives to enhance freight loading to 5 million tonnes, a press release said.
14 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SBI adopts 15 tigers of zoo park||The State Bank of India (SBI) has announced adoption of 15 tigers of the Nehru Zoological Park in Hyderabad. A cheque of Rs. 15 lakh was handed over by chief general manager Om Prakash Mishra to principal chief conservator of forests R. Shoba here on Friday, in the presence of additional principal chief conservator of forests and director of zoo parks, TS and zoo park curator N. Kshitija near the the tiger enclosure. The adoption programme is a novel way to extend support or care to wild animals and also be a part to the cause of wildlife conservation, said Mr. Mishra. He also participated in the inauguration of release of jackal puppies for public display. A tree plantation activity at “New Aviary” ( parrot world) was also taken up. Senior bank officials Debashis Bhattacharjee and G. Ramakrishna also attended.
14 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Vijayashanti likely to join BJP on November 20 or 21||Congress leader and former MP Vijayashanthi will join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on November 20 or 21 in the presence of BJP president J.P. Nadda in New Delhi. Sources said the date was fixed in consultation with BJP leadership and she is likely to go to New Delhi after Diwali on November 17 or 18. She will be tasked with campaigning in the upcoming GHMC elections and later in Tamil Nadu where the Assembly elections are due next year. Rumours have been doing rounds for the last months of the TPCC Campaign Committee Chairperson moving to her parent party but she kept mum on the speculations. Her entry was apparently put on hold with the emergence of coronavirus and later the BJP top bosses getting busy with Bihar elections. The actor, who made a comeback with to Tollywood with Mahesh Babu’s ‘Sarileru Neekevvaru’ after a long gap has equal following in Tamil Nadu given her Telugu dubbed blockbusters in 80s and 90s. In fact, the BJP itself has been making attempts discreetly to tap well-known leaders in Congress where they don’t see future in the present circumstances. The exercise started much earlier than the Dubbak elections with an eye on the GHMC elections where it wanted to make a difference. Some names that cropped up include former Mayor and TPCC general secretary Banda Karthika Reddy and a few young leaders known well in the city for their political activity and who can serve the party in the long run. In fact, rumours were rife about Ms. Karthika joining the BJP when Union Minister of state for Home, G. Kishan Reddy made a courtesy call at her residence a couple of months ago. A few sitting Corporators of TRS are also in the list and in fact, TRS Corporator from Mailardevpally Division, Tokala Srinivas Reddy has already taken the first step resigning from the Telangana Rashtra Samithi. The Dubbak win has lifted the spirits of the party, particularly with its president Bandi Sanjay taking an aggressive stand and likely to continue further.
14 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sanjay’s shriek may have cost TRS in Dubbak||A shriek may have cost the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in the Dubbak by-polls though it was ahead of its rival by nearly 10% votes 10 days before the polling. Senior Telangana Rashtra Samithi leaders, who are still unable to digest the defeat despite the Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao asking them to put it behind, feel the ‘unnecessary’ arrest of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Bandi Sanjay infused the aggression into the BJP’s campaign. More than the arrest the way he was arrested caused a lot of damage. A police officer literally pinning him down in the vehicle even as Sanjay protested and the scream from his choked throat generated sympathy, a senior Telangana Rashtra Samithi leader felt. “It gave scope for Mr. Sanjay to get more aggressive and the youngsters just caught onto it,” he said wishing anonymity. Mr Sanjay was on his way to Siddipet after the controversial episode of police seizing cash from Telangana Rashtra Samithi candidate Raghunandan Rao’s relatives. He was not allowed to enter Siddipet and whisked away to Karimnagar where he locked himself up in protest. Internal surveys The TRS candidate, according to internal surveys at that time was ahead by nearly 10% votes but the police high-handedness damaged the prospects to a large extent. First the money seizure episode made people believe the BJP’s claim that police was partisan, irrespective of the truth behind it. Vociferous leaders in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) including president Bandi Sanjay and Nizamabad MP Dharmapuri Arvind cashed it on whipping up emotions of youngsters with their aggressive statements, a Telangana Rashtra Samithi leader from Medak argued. The challenge from the Chief Minister on resigning if the BJP proved that it contributed Rs. 1600 of the Rs. 2,116 pension given by the state government and the counter challenge by Mr. Sanjay of hanging himself in Dubbak if the government proved that central government did not give Rs. 240 crore for development in Dubbak just provided the space for further aggression, a senior leader felt.
14 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ordinance on Dharani portal likely||By another ordinance, the State government is likely to give teeth to its work to upload details of non-agriculture lands on Dharani portal. The matter came up at Friday’s Cabinet meeting. In keeping with its promise to issue maroon coloured passbooks for registration of non-agricultural lands, the government had recently embarked on collecting supporting details of individuals from Aadhaar, permanent account number and Passports. However, the High Court had questioned the legitimacy of the government in gathering such information. Therefore, sources, said the Cabinet discussed the possibility of issuing another ordinance to support the government’s work on Dharani portal by amending the new Revenue Act to include non-agricultural properties also. The new Act was originally aimed at only uploading details of agricultural lands on the portal. When registration of non-agricultural lands was completed on Dharani, mutation will take place. The Cabinet also discussed government’s concurrence to the SEC on GHMC elections in a day or two. The government’s concurrence to announce the schedule was mandated by the new GHMC Act.
14 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Final electoral rolls published||Ward wise final electoral rolls have been prepared and published at the offices of the respective Deputy Commissioners of all the 30 circles in GHMC, Tehsildars, and Revenue Divisional Officers in the jurisdiction of the ward concerned for the upcoming GHMC elections, a statement from GHMC Commissioner and Election Authority D.S.Lokesh Kumar informed. The rolls are also available on State Election Commission’s website ‘https://tsec.gov.in’, it said. All the stakeholders may verify and file claims with the Electoral Registration Officers of the assembly constituency concerned in Form 6 if their names are not found on the rolls.   The claims will be accepted till the date of issue of GHMC election notification by the election commission, the statement said. Further, the draft list of a total of 9248 polling stations in respect of all 150 wards of the GHMC has also been published by the returning officers concerned. Final list The list of polling stations is also published in the offices of the Deputy Commissioners, ward offices, RDO offices, and Tehsildar offices concerned. After receipt and disposal of claims, objections and suggestions, up to November 17, up to 5 p.m., the Returning Officer concerned will publish the final list of polling stations on November 21.
14 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Post-tiger attack, Forest dept. constitutes panel||Forest department, through its first official statement on Friday post the death of a tribal youth in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district in a tiger attack, confirmed that the animal was new to the area, and is now found to be on its way towards Maharashtra. The youth Sidam Vignesh from Digada village of Dahegaon mandal, was attacked by the tiger on November 11 when he went into the forest for leaves, after fishing in Peddavagu stream in Girelli forest area of Rebbana range along with a couple of friends. His body was dragged and partly eaten by the animal. Following the incident, the forest officials conducted a thorough search of the area and found pug marks of a tiger. A detailed study of the pug marks showed that they did not match with the pug marks of any of the tigers moving regularly in the area and the surrounding tiger corridor area for the last few years, the statement said. Based on this information, the officials concluded that they are of a tiger which was new to the area. The Conservator of Forests, Adilabad, C.P.Vinod Kumar, in his latest report, mentioned that the big cat had moved towards Penchikalpet Range of Kagaznagar division going by the pug marks. Continuous tracking of the animal indicates that it could be moving back to the forest region of Maharashtra. Seven teams each with five members have been constituted to conduct patrolling of seven villages in the vicinity round the clock. Besides, the villagers have formed their own teams for protection of humans and livestock, the statement said. The Chief Wildlife Warden R.Sobha has, on Friday, constituted a committee to deal with the tiger as per the standard operating procedure issued by the National Tiger Conservation Authority. Headed by Mr.Vinod Kumar, the committee has as its members, Imran Siddiqui from Hyderabad Tiger Conservation Society (HyTiCoS) as nominee of the NTCA, Venkat from the NGO RECAP of Kagaznagar, Veterinary Assistant Surgeon from Kagaz Nagar Shwetha, Sarpanch of Digada village panchayat, and DFO of Kumram Bheem Asifabad, besides the FDO of Asifabad as member-secretary. Meanwhile, the family of the tiger victim has been handed over a cheque for Rs. 5 lakh as compensation through the hands of the legislator Koneru Konappa.
14 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man killed, wife hurt after car rams bike in IT Corridor||A man was killed on his spot while his wife suffered grievous injuries when a luxury car driven by a techie under the influence of alcohol hit their bike at Madhapur in the wee hours of Friday. Madhapur police registered a case under Section 304-II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 185 (Drunk Driving) of the Motor Vehicles Act against Mancham Kasi Vishwanath, 29, of Bachupally. He was also charged with signal jumping. When subjected to breath analysis, Vishwanath's blood alcohol concentration was above 150 mg per 100 ml of blood and he was arrested, Inspector P Ravindra Prasad said. The accident took place around 1.15 a.m. near Cyber Tower junction when the victims, Gautam Dev Gadai, 33, Swetha Sravani, 32, from Kondapur, were returning home from Diwali shopping. Gautham was the manager of Secunderabad Club. According to Mr. Ravindra Prasad, the accused Vishwanath and his friend Koushik consumed liquor at a pub in Jubilee Hills and were on their way to a restaurant in Kukatpally for dinner. At Cyber Tower junction, the accused, who was driving Mercedes Benz car belonging to a politician from a prominent party of neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, jumped the red signal at a high speed and rammed the victim’s bike who were going towards Kondapur, as a result of which the couple fell off from their bike, the officer said. While death was instant for Gautam, his wife Sravani is battling for life in a private hospital at Madhapur. Soon, the accused abandoned the vehicle and sped from the spot. Police who rushed to the accident scene, analysed the video footage of surveillance cameras in the area and nabbed Vishwanath, while Koushik is still at large.  Woman, son killed A mother-son duo were killed when a speeding SUV rammed the scooter they were travelling on at Adibhatla late on Thursday. Death was instant for Samreddy Chandrakala, 48, and her son Samreddy Pradeep, 19, from GVR Colony. Police said that in the midnight, a Tata Safari proceeding towards Ibrahimpatam from Hyderabad hit the victim’s two-wheeler at Ragannaguda on Sagar Highway. Two people travelling in the car suffered severe injuries and are said to be battling for life at a private hospital in Hyderabad.
14 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Act on phone tapping issue’||AICC spokesperson Sravan Dasoju ridiculed Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy’s remarks on the phone tapping issue in Telangana and said he has all the powers to order for investigation as the Union Minister. “Despite being in the constitutional post, and having the competent authority to initiate an investigation on the Chief Minister of Telangana and the Police Dept., how can Mr. Reddy talk like a normal citizen,” he questioned in a statement.
14 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man held, Rs. 18.50 lakh worth booty recovered||A ‘notorious’ attention diversion offender was arrested by the Hyderabad police on Friday, who also seized 33 tolas of gold ornaments, a two-wheeler worth Rs. 18.30 lakh and Rs. 20,000 in cash from his possession. Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar said that the South Zone Task Force team along with Charminar police apprehended Afatab Ahmad Shaik, 39, a fruit vendor from Phoolbagh in Chandrayangutta. He said that Shaik committed 23 offences in various police stations in Hyderabad, Nizamabad and Karimnagar since 2007. Earlier, he was convicted in a rape case and was lodged in Kolhapura jail of Maharashtra. Hailing from Himayat Nagar in Kinwat of Maharashtra, Shaik migrated to Hyderabad when he was 11-years-old.
14 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Don’t burst crackers to curb COVID’||Director of Public Health (DPH) Dr. G. Srinivas Rao on Friday cautioned people against bursting crackers on Deepavali, as this could increase the incidence of COVID-19 in the State. Addressing the media, Dr. Rao touched upon the cold weather conditions and poor air quality being witnessed in the national capital. He said that it was due to this that coronavirus is surviving in the air for longer periods. This could lead to higher possibilities of the public contracting the virus, he added. He urged people, especially those leaving their homes for a livelihood, to exercise caution. Dr. Rao also said that the State has as many as 310 mobile units, testing people at public places. He explained that a lot of time and research go into developing vaccines, and hence, the COVID vaccine too would take time to reach the public. If people do not exercise caution, a lockdown-like situation will arise again, he said.
14 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR on inauguration spree in Sanath Nagar||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao along with his cabinet colleague Talasani Srinivas Yadav attended a series of launches of various newly-constructed public amenities in the Sanath Nagar constituency on Friday. He inaugurated or laid foundation to developmental works worth Rs. 20 crore, a press statement informed. The Minister launched a cremation ground developed with Rs. 3.6 crore in Balkampet, and laid foundation stone for a theme park to be constructed in Nehru Nagar with an estimated cost of Rs. 2.5 crore. Later, he inaugurated a sports complex in Labour Welfare Centre constructed with the cost of Rs. 5 crore, and played badminton there with the Secunderabad Parliament constituency’s TRS in-charge Talasani Sai Kiran Yadav. Later, he launched another sports complex at Ghas Mandi constructed with a cost of Rs. 2.4 crore, a library building with Rs. 3 crore in Adaiah Nagar, and a multi-purpose function hall in Marredpally with an expenditure of Rs. 3 crore. Mr. Rama Rao stressed upon the commitment of the government to ensure better living conditions for city residents. During testing times such as COVID-19 pandemic and heavy rains, the government stood by the citizens and supported them. There had been several doubts about development of Hyderabad during the initial days of State formation, which have been dispelled by the government’s developmental initiatives, he said. In Sanath Nagar constituency alone, works to the tune of Rs. 800 crore have been taken up so far, the Minister said.
14 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Party charity shelled out Rs. 11.50 cr. for relief: Akbar||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) legislator and Floor Leader Akbaruddin Owaisi on Friday said that the party-associated charitable organisations had spent around Rs. 11.50 crore on relief work during the lockdown and flooding of the city, even as he tore into his opponents for criticising the party and alleged that they had ‘done little’ to ameliorate the situation of those in crisis. The relief measures, Mr. Owaisi said, included dry ration packets, cooked food packets, and financial assistance to 23 women whose wedding were planned in the near future, but who lost their belongings during the floods. He also said that kits containing 33 items including clothes, utensils and essential items were given to those who were affected. “During the lockdown, Salar-e-Millat Education Trust gave 1 lakh ration kits, which were not only distributed in Chandrayagutta constituency, but also in areas where people were hungry,” he said, adding that another 1 lakh packs of cooked food were distributed. Mr. Owaisi said that since the flooding, the Owaisi Group of Hospitals has organised several health camps and its 100 doctors have treated around 24,900 patients. Each patient has been given free medicines, worth up to Rs. 3,000 and that a total of Rs. 1.20 crore has been spent to organise these free health camps. He said that several cabs and autos were submerged in flood waters, which had affected livelihoods. The Owaisi brothers-led charitable wing will give financial assistance to repair as many as 46 cars, 36 autos and five two-wheelers. Similarly, financial assistance to 29 kirana and general store owners is being given, he said. He added that the AIMIM had represented to the Telangana government the issue of giving compensation to those whose homes were affected by the floods. Launching a salvo at his critics, he said that he would only accept criticism if his opponents had spent this much money for relief work.
14 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Uttam visits flood-hit Osman Nagar||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy has condemned the TRS government for not helping the residents of Osman Nagar in the Maheshwaram Assembly constituency which remained inundated in water even after one month after heavy rains and floods. Accompanied with senior Congress leaders, he visited Osman Nagar and surrounding areas on Friday and interacted with affected families. Speaking to media persons later, he said that nearly 610 houses were inundated and the government did nothing to either help the affected families or remove the water from the locality. He said Osman Nagar exposes the claims made on flood relief.
14 November 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Agriculture Minister’s open challenge to Kishan||Minister for Agriculture S Niranjan Reddy on Friday threw an open challenge to Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy, asking him to take up the responsibility of preventing the implementation of the Centre's "unwarranted stipulation" restraining the State from paying additional incentive over and above the minimum support price for the "sannalu" variety of paddy. "Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is ready to give additional incentive to the paddy growers keeping in view the larger interests of the farming community,” Mr Reddy said, asking the Union Minister to respond whether he will assume the responsibility of preventing the Centre from "meddling" in the matter. "We are not asking the Centre or the Food Corporation of India (FCI) to spend any additional amount in this regard and expressing our readiness to pay additional incentive for serving the cause of sannalu variety paddy growers," he asserted. Mr Niranjan Reddy was addressing a gathering of farmers after inaugurating the newly constructed Rythu Vedika and a soil testing laboratory in Raghunadhapalem mandal headquarters on Friday. Sharing the dais with Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar and others, Mr Reddy heaped praises on Mr Ajay for constructing the Rythu Vedika with his own funds of Rs 40 lakh in memory of his brother late Puvvada Uday Kumar. Taking a dig at the BJP leaders, Mr Reddy said, "They should take cue from the plethora of farmer-friendly initiatives being implemented by the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government with a pragmatic approach, rendering concrete benefits to the State farming community. The State government is spending a whopping Rs. 60,000 crore per annum on agriculture towards the implementation of the 24X7 free power to the farm sector, Rythu Bandhu, Irrigation and various other schemes meant for the farmers, he noted, daring the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership to implement such "landmark schemes" for the benefit of farmers in the BJP-ruled States. Mr Ajay outlined the role of Rythu Vedikas in mobilising farmers to follow scientific farm practices and improve their income. The Telangana Rashtra Samithi government's pioneering initiatives helped the State make rapid strides in agricultural production and make farming more rewarding for farmers, he noted. Rythu Bandhu Samithi chairman P Rajeshwar Reddy, former Minister Tummala Nageswara Rao, former MLA Puvvada Nageswara Rao, District Collector R V Karnan, and others were present. Later, the Ministers inaugurated three Rythu Vedikas and laid the foundation stones for a marketing godown and various other facilities in Khammam, Wyra and Madhira Assembly constituencies.
14 November 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Drunk youth held for driving away police SUV||A youth in an inebriated condition drove off a police SUV and was later arrested, in an eventful late-night chase on Thursday. Police reported that Miryalaguda Rural Inspector A. Ramesh Babu, who was returning home after monitoring work at paddy procurement, at around 11.30 p.m., stopped his SUV on seeing three shirtless youth sitting on the road and drinking. When the driver got down with the lathi, the three reportedly threw stones and fled the spot near Edulaguda, leaving their two-wheeler behind. And while the driver rushed to one side, and Mr. Ramesh Babu was on the phone to alert a sub-inspector, one of the three persons started the SUV and raced away. The drunk miscreant also rammed the stickered-police SUV into a car in the frenzy, while being chased by another police vehicle, and was finally caught at Allagadapa toll plaza. The notorious driver was identified as one Vamsi of Nereducherla. He was a temporary driver to a police officer in the past. All the three, in their 20s, were booked under relevant charges, the police said.
14 November 2020||SADASHIVAPET (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Rain woes: plucking cotton balls turns tough||P. Mogulaiah is a farmer of Machareddypet in Munipally mandal. He cultivated cotton crop on about 10 acres by taking land on lease. During the harvesting of cotton last year, he signed an agreement with labourers for harvesting this season. He also paid some advance to them. Many farmers from the district who cultivated cotton in Sangareddy district pay in advance to the labourers. The advance ranges between Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 50,000 for a family depending on the farmer and labour. Many farmers arrived last week and erected temporary shelters in open fields near the cotton farms. They started plucking cotton but they were unable to pluck as they used to do so in the past. Usually, every labourer plucks between 50 kilograms to 70 kilograms of cotton every day. They are paid between Rs. 8 and Rs. 10 per kilogram. However, this year, the crop was partially damaged due to the rain and plucking cotton rolls became a tougher task. It has been taking longer time than before. Labourer have been demanding higher pay for their job. “We used to collect about 60 kilograms of cotton every day, earning more than Rs. 500 per day. It has dropped down to 30 kilograms as the cotton got wet due to heavy rains. At one point of time, we were even ready to go back to our native place as the land owners turned down our request to increase the pay. What is the purpose of coming here all the way from about 400 kilometres if we do not get sufficient money for labour?” asked Mr. Mallayya, a labourer from Kurnool. “We have already grown the crop and we can not go anywhere for labour now. It will be an additional burden for us to pay more for labour. At the same, what they are saying is also right. Plucking cotton balls is not an easy task. Hence we have increased the pay for them,” said Mr. Mogulaiah.
14 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Unstable Internet, power cuts add to students’ woes||From attending classes online with unstable internet connectivity, sourcing reading materials that are unavailable online to performing household chores, Delhi University students, spread across the country, are grappling with a variety of issues. So much so that some have complained of escalating mental health issues. Nimisha Pathak, a second year student, was at her home in Madhya Pradhesh’s Sagar district when DU announced the commencement of classes a few months ago. “For almost one and a half months, I was in a remote area without access to proper connectivity due to rains. I did not even have a register to take my notes. Attending nearly seven hours of classes daily with 2 GB data is not enough,” said the Economics Honours student. ‘Inconsiderate DU’ She said she attended classes for the sake of attendances only. “Behind the cameras we are actually crying. My screen-time increased to nearly 10 hours a day in September. At times, there are power cuts, which mean we cannot even charge our gadgets. The problem with DU is that it is not considerate at all.” Diya, a resident of Kerala’s Malappuram district, added that the problems began to mount gradually. “The moment we started having 5-6 hour classes, issues began with the connectivity. While at times it gets disconnected completely, on other instances it shows it’s reconnecting. When it reconnected finally, we had already missed 10 minutes of the lecture. We have no idea how to catch up on what we’ve missed in between,” said Ms. Diya, who studies in a North Campus college. Shoddy service As worryingly, the telecom service providers have been unhelpful as well. “When I contacted the company they said it will take three months to resolve the connectivity issue as my area has a lot of users. By then my semester exams will also be done. This is a huge issue,” said Ms. Diya. Online classes have also not been helpful to differently abled students some of who require study material in an audio format as many teachers refuse permission to record classes, students said. Poorva, president of the Enabling Society of Miranda House College, said: “Most of the reading material that is shared is in the PDF format, which often becomes an issue for students who require material in the audio format. It is an even bigger problem for students who are not from an English-medium background.” “While most teachers are cooperative, there are others who do not permit recording classes. A major chunk of students are suffering,” said Ms. Poorva.
14 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||6,405 police personnel tested positive, 5,440 recover so far||With the steep climb in COVID-19 cases in the city during the festival season, the Delhi police have also witnessed a rise in infections in the force. A total of 6,405 personnel have tested positive so far. However, the recovery rate is impressive, as 5,440 have recovered and resumed their duty. “But unfortunately 23 men died, and most of them were carrying out their responsibilities during the fight to contain the pandemic,” said a senior police officer. The officer added that around 1,000 are either undergoing treatment at hospital or are under home quarantine . The list includes two senior police officers. While one is undergoing treatment at a hospital, the other is recovering and is in home quarantine. In North district, a total 289 policemen were tested positive and many of them have recovered. There are only 34 active cases in the district. Festival rush “Due to festive rush, the policemen deployed in crowded market areas and other places are prone to get infected. For their safety, we have formed a chain of welfare officers. Each welfare officer will take care of around 18 police constables, and in case any police personnel faces health issues then the welfare officer will take care of him,” said the officer. The officer said that they have provided immunity booster kits, face shields, gloves and other safety kits to those deployed on field duty.
14 November 2020||New Delhi,||CM holds meeting on construction of EWS flats||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal convened a meeting with Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) officials on Friday regarding 89,400 EWS flats to be constructed across Delhi by 2025. “We have to provide shelter to every poor person in Delhi. The project should be completed within its due time,” Mr. Kejriwal said. According to the government, the construction of 89,400 flats will be carried out in three phases with 41,400 in the first, 18,000 in the second and 30,000 flats in the third phase. The Delhi government is preparing a detailed rehabilitation and construction plan and architect consultants will be appointed for the project, it said.
14 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Panel to probe allegations against Jamia Hamdard V-C||The University Grants Commission has constituted a fact-finding committee to look into the complaints received against the state of affairs at Jamia Hamdard and study the allegations of financial and administrative irregularities against Vice-Chancellor Seyed Ehtesham Hasnain. The UGC said that it had received a complaint from Hamid Ahmed, Chancellor of Jamia Hamdard against the Vice-Chancellor alleging financial and administrative irregularities. The Vice-Chancellor was requested to submit para-wise responses to the allegations. The committee will study the para-wise responses and see if the university functions according to the rules of the UGC. The committee has been asked to submit its report within three weeks.
14 November 2020||New Delhi,||Chhath- brief||Terming it “condemnable”, the Opposition BJP on Friday demanded that the Delhi government withdraw its decision to ban Chhath Puja at public places in the Capital. “After banning the use of green crackers on Deepavali, the Delhi government has now banned Chhath Mahaparva being celebrated on the banks of the Yamuna,” Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said.
14 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Children’s day- brief||Education Minister Manish Sisodia attended a happiness curriculum class at a government school as part of Children’s Day celebrations. Mr. Sisodia said that it was noteworthy that these classes are being conducted in the midst of COVID-19 crisis. “I’m happy to know that our students have now become teachers of the happiness curriculum by engaging their family members and their friends by spreading the message of the class,” he said.
14 November 2020||New Delhi,||DMRC – brief||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Friday said that on account of Deepavali, the last train from terminal stations will depart at 10 p.m. instead of 11 p.m. on Saturday. Metro train services will run as usual for the rest of the day from 6 a.m. onwards on all lines and 4.45 a.m. on Airport Express Line, officials said.
14 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||Nine held in Gurugram, Faridabad for selling crackers||Nine people have been arrested in Gurugram and Faridabad over the past two days for allegedly selling firecrackers in violation of the NGT direction imposing complete ban on the sale and use of crackers in the National Capital Region. In adherence to the directions of Gurugram Police Commissioner K.K. Rao, Gurugram Police arrested four people from different parts of the district on Thursday for allegedly selling firecrackers. The four have been identified as Roshan Lal, Arun Kumar, Sunil and Gagan. They have arrested four persons on Wednesday too. The Adarsh Nagar police in Faridabad also arrested one.
14 November 2020||New Delhi,||Air quality in Delhi likely to deteriorate today: SAFAR||The air quality of Delhi, Noida, and Gurugram continued to be in the ‘very poor’ category on Friday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The air quality of Delhi is predicted to deteriorate to the high end of ‘very poor’ category on Saturday, even without any emission from firecrackers, as per government-run monitoring agency, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). “Although the level of PM2.5 is predicted to be at the edge of ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’, it is expected to be much better as compared to the past 4 years around the Deepavali period with 0% firecracker emission scenario,” SAFAR said in a statement about Delhi. The AQI of Delhi was 339 on Friday and the values for Gurugram and Noida were 324 and 337 respectively, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. Stubble burning The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5, a chief pollutant, in Delhi was 14% on Friday. “AQI is predicted to remain in the high-end of ‘very poor’ to the lower end of ‘severe’ category on Saturday night. The AQI is likely to start improving from Sunday afternoon onwards,” SAFAR said. The AQI is expected to improve from Sunday afternoon as easterly boundary layer winds are likely and this will lead to only marginal effect of stubble burning to city’s air quality. Also, isolated rainfall is expected on Monday. Both these factors will help in flushing out the impact of any additional locally generated emissions and stubble burning-related impact to reduce the AQI to the lower end of the ‘very poor’ category by late Monday. CAQM’s direction Also, the Commission on Air Quality Management on Friday directed States to strictly implement the National Green Tribunal’s orders to control air pollution, including a ban on firecrackers in Delhi and the NCR.
14 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘70-95% stubble turned into manure in 24 Delhi villages’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday shared the results of bio-decomposer technique used at farmlands in Delhi and urged the Centre and governments of Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh to implement the technique to prevent stubble burning. He said that the bio-decomposer technique, developed by the Pusa Agricultural Institute, had been a success and the impact assessment report across 24 villages in Delhi had shown that around 70-95% of stubble had turned into manure for as low as Rs. 30 per acre. “I want to congratulate you all on the occasion of Chhoti Deepavali , and I pray to God for you and your family to stay healthy. For the last 10-12 years, the smoke from stubble burning in October and November reaches Delhi and travels across northern India, which causes massive pollution in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana,” he said. “I have with me the report prepared by scientists of the Pusa Research Institute assessing the impact of the bio-decomposer technique in 24 villages across Delhi. I want to appeal to the Supreme Court and the Central, Punjab, Haryana and U.P. governments along with all agencies to act on resolving the problem of pollution,” he also said. The Central government has constituted an Air Quality Commission (AQC) to monitor pollution levels in Delhi-NCR and the Delhi government will formally file a petition in the AQC with this report, Mr. Kejriwal said. The Delhi government, he said, will put forward its appeal for the AQC to direct the other States to implement the bio-decomposer technique.
14 November 2020||New Delhi,||2 units sealed in Delhi for polluting Yamuna||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has sealed two polluting units, ordered closure of 15 others, and issued a show cause notice to one unit for polluting the Yamuna that may have led to froth formation in the river. The action was taken during a drive on Wednesday and Thursday to identify industries causing water pollution, according to DPCC officials. The units against which action has been taken were mostly connected to dyeing, washing, and automobiles and many of them did not have effluent treatment plants and thus polluted the river, officials said. Action has been taken against units across the city.
14 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man held for trying to sell firecrackers||A 38-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly trying to sell firecrackers secretly from his grocery shop in north Delhi’s Sarai Rohilla, the police said on Friday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Anto Alphonse said that the accused has been identified as Yogesh, a resident of Shastri Nagar, where he runs his grocery shop. “The man was apprehended and on checking, bags containing 20 kg of crackers were recovered from his possession,” Mr. Alphonse said, adding that a case under relevant sections of the Explosive Act and the Indian Penal Code was registered.
14 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Tourism, govt. will organise virtual edition of ‘Dilli ki Diwali’||Delhi Tourism, in association with the Delhi government, will organise a virtual edition of ‘Dilli ki Diwali’ as part of community Deepavali celebrations here on Saturday in a bid to encourage people to celebrate a safe and cracker-less festival. It will be celebrated with a grand puja, which will be conducted by CM Arvind Kejriwal and his Deputy Manish Sisodia at Akshardham Temple, the government said.
14 November 2020||Pune,||4,543 recoveries in Maharashtra||As opposed to the robust recovery trend in the past few weeks, Maharashtra on Friday reported just 4,543 recoveries against 4,132 new COVID-19 cases. The cumulative recoveries now stand at 16,09,607, with the State’s recovery rate rising marginally to 92.48%. The total case tally has reached 17,40,461, while the active cases have dipped to 84,082. With 127 deaths, the toll has climbed to 45,809. The State’s case fatality rate currently stands at 2.63%. Pune district reported over 450 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,41,056, while 14 deaths saw its toll climb to 7,131. As per the Pune district administration, active cases have come down to 9,373, while the recovery rate stands at 94.72%. Mumbai reported 801 cases to take its total case tally to 2,68,606, of which 13,866 are active. Seventeen fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 10,542. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported more than 200 cases as its tally crossed the 83,000-mark. With five more deaths, the toll stands at 2,060. The Vasai-Virar civic body registered 19 deaths as its death toll surged to 635. Nagpur district reported 281 new cases, taking its case load to 1,08,236, of which 2,943 are active. Eight more deaths took the toll to 2,874. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported 13 deaths, taking its toll to 1,542. With 155 fresh cases, the total case tally has risen to 50,005, of which 3,841 are active.
14 November 2020||Pune,||Activists file complaint over illegal toll collection||A complaint has been filed with the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) against top authorities of the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) and Public Works Department (PWD) over fraudulent tender processing and illegal toll collection for over three years along the Mumbai-Pune Expressway. The complaint filed by Thane-based lawyer-activist Praveen Wategaonkar and Pune-based activist Sanjay Shirodkar names as accused MSRDC managing director Radhyeshyam Mopalwar and PWD secretary Manoj Saunik. According to the complaint, the Cabinet Infrastructure Committee, in a meeting in December 2018, directed the PWD and the MSRDC to take permission of the Bombay High Court as per its judgment in a public interest litigation filed earlier before appointing a contractor for a period of more than three years for toll collection along the expressway. The construction firm, Ideal Road Builders, had been awarded the contract of operation, maintenance and toll collection of the e-way from 2004 to 2019.
14 November 2020||Washington,||No evidence of voter fraud: poll officials||There is no evidence of compromised ballots or corrupt voting systems in the U.S. election, officials said on Thursday, as a top Democrat accused Republicans who refuse to accept President-elect Joe Biden’s win of “poisoning” democracy. Their messages came hours after President Donald Trump once again cried foul, retweeting a baseless claim that an election equipment maker “deleted” 2.7 million votes for him nationwide. Arizona win Mr. Biden, who leads by more than 5 million in the popular vote, cemented his victory late Thursday by winning Arizona, U.S. networks said, flipping the State Democratic for the first time since 1996. Arizona gives Mr. Biden a 290-217 lead over Mr. Trump in the Electoral College, with 270 needed to win the White House. With most Republican lawmakers having yet to acknowledge Mr. Biden’s win, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, the chamber’s top Democrat, accused them Thursday of “denying reality” and “auditioning for profiles in cowardice.” “Instead of working to pull the country back together so that we can fight our common enemy COVID-19, Republicans in Congress are spreading conspiracy theories, denying reality and poisoning the well of our democracy,” he said. Senior U.S. Federal and State election officials meanwhile in a statement rejected Mr. Trump’s claims of fraud, saying that “the November 3rd election was the most secure in American history.” The statement was issued by the Election Infrastructure Government Coordinating Council, a public-private umbrella group under the primary federal election security body, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA). “There is no evidence that any voting system deleted or lost votes, changed votes, or was in any way compromised,” they said. “While we know there are many unfounded claims and opportunities for misinformation about the process of our elections, we can assure you we have the utmost confidence in the security and integrity of our elections, and you should too,” the statement said. It was signed by the heads of the National Association of State Election Directors and the National Association of Secretaries of State — the officials who manage elections at the state level — and by the Chairman of the U.S. Election Assistance Commission. The statement came just hours after Mr. Trump’s retweet, which in addition to claiming 2.7 million “deleted” votes also said hundreds of thousand had been switched from him to Mr. Biden in Pennsylvania and other States. It was the latest in a series of bogus assertions Mr. Trump and Republicans have put forth in order to reject Mr. Biden’s victory. Republican lawmakers such as Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell have stood firm with Mr. Trump by supporting his refusal to concede and backing his legal challenges. Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi weighed in Thursday to demand Republicans stop what she called an “absurd circus” and turn to combatting the pandemic.
14 November 2020||New Delhi,||How South Asia views Biden presidency||Within days of U.S. media declaring Joseph Biden the President-elect, leaders of all South Asian countries, with the exception of Bhutan (which doesn’t have formal diplomatic ties with the U.S.), have congratulated him. The fact that all leaders from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and Pakistan PM Imran Khan, to Nepal’s PM KP Oli, Bangladesh’s Sheikh Hasina, Maldives President Ibrahim Solih and Sri Lanka President Gotabaya Rajapaksa tweeted to Mr. Biden without waiting for the official results, indicates that they each want to reach out to the Democratic administration early in the game, and expect to build on ties with the U.S. in continuation from the past. PM Modi tweeted an old photograph of him and then-Vice President Biden and his government will count on that continuity for Indo-U.S. strategic ties, military exchanges and in building a counter to China in the Indo-Pacific region. This won’t just mean support in times of conflict, such as the current standoff at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), India will seek more support from the U.S. in presenting alternatives to the SAARC region. Most countries in South Asia have higher bilateral trade figures with Beijing than with India or the U.S., and with the exception of India and Bhutan are all part of China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). During the COVID-19 crisis as well, China has made several offers of medical aid, the promise of the vaccine and of debt waivers, and convened South Asian meets. India will also hope Mr. Biden continues Mr. Trump’s policy of pressure on Pakistan over terror, but there is a realistic assessment in New Delhi that Pakistan will have a close working relationship with the U.S. as U.S. troops pull out of Afghanistan, and Taliban cooperation is needed.  Focus on human rights A closer analysis of the other SAARC countries shows that while they will welcome Mr. Biden’s more predictable style as well as his promised actions on issues like Climate Change, immigration, easing trade tariffs, immigration and visas, there will be differences on how they will perceive his policies on “strengthening democracies”, fighting terrorism and radicalism, concerns over human rights, and tackling the China challenge. In her statement, Bangladesh PM Hasina said she hoped to cooperate with the U.S. in “effectively confronting the evils of terrorism, violent extremism, hatred, [and] forced displacements as of the Rohingyas,” indicating that she hoped Mr. Biden’s tenure would mark an exit from Mr. Trump’s travel ban and other policies that appeared to target Muslim countries. In an article for Foreign Affairs magazine in April 2020, Mr. Biden spelt out his foreign policy priorities, which include plans for a global, annual ‘Summit for Democracy’ within his first year in office, where he marked three areas where he will demand commitments from all countries: “fighting corruption, defending against authoritarianism, and advancing human rights.” Most South Asian countries that have been on the receiving end of U.S. pronouncements will watch his moves on human rights cautiously. Sri Lankan President Rajapaksa and his brother Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa have faced U.S. government strictures over allegations of war crimes in the war against the LTTE for example, and will hope to turn the page now. Pakistan too will want to avoid a U.S. focus on minority rights, but will hope that Mr. Biden keeps the spotlight on the situation in Jammu-Kashmir and India. “There is [a] legitimate concern that a Biden administration could mark a return of America’s liberal interventionist agenda focused on human rights, transitional justice and sanctions. Such moralist pressure could push countries like Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bangladesh and Myanmar further into Chinese hands,”explained Constantino Xavier of the Centre for Social and Economic Progress (formerly Brookings India). “Instead, Delhi’s expectation is that the U.S. under Biden would keep Trump’s primary focus on China as the greatest strategic challenge in South Asia.” As a result, the entire region will probably be on tenterhooks until Mr. Biden clarifies his China policy. Continuing Mr. Trump’s confrontational policy with Beijing could cause trouble for those of India’s neighbours who have close ties with China, but not checking China’s aggressions will have a deep security impact in the region. Mr. Biden himself has kept many guessing with his words in the April article, when he said, “the most effective way to meet [China’s] challenge is to build a united front of U.S. allies and partners to confront China’s abusive behaviours and human rights violations, even as we seek to cooperate with Beijing on issues where our interests converge, such as climate change, nonproliferation, and global health security”.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||After days of silence, China congratulates Biden & Harris||China on Friday congratulated Joe Biden and Kamala Harris for their election victory — one of the last major countries to do so — in a belated and measured response that analysts in Beijing said reflected the Chinese leadership’s expectations of a turbulent end to the Trump administration and a continued confrontational relationship with the U.S. “We respect the choice of the American people. We express our congratulations to Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said at a press briefing, in the first acknowledgement from Beijing of the election results. Mr. Wang did, however, stop short of either referring to Mr. Biden as the President-elect or assuming he would be in charge next year, and added that China “understands the result of the U.S. election will be determined in accordance with U.S. laws and procedures”, in an apparent acknowledgement of President Donald Trump’s ongoing effort to question the election result and mount a legal challenge. Careful reaction Beijing’s delayed and careful reaction was in some sense a reflection of lessons learned from 2016 when “the Chinese leadership overwhelmingly, like the rest of the world, put their bet on Hillary Clinton,” Wei Lingling, co-author of Superpower Showdown: How the Battle Between Trump and Xi Threatens a New Cold War , told The Hindu , speaking earlier this week. With Mr. Trump still in office until January 20 — or longer, should he succeed with legal challenges that most experts in the U.S. suggest face tall odds — China’s immediate objective was “to not provoke Trump even further”. ‘Dangerous period’ “For the Chinese, the next two months could potentially be the most dangerous period for the U.S.-China relationship,” Ms. Wei said. Gao Zhikai, a strategic expert in Beijing who is Vice President of the Center for China and Globalisation, said he expected the election “will eventually settle down with Joe Biden as the finally legally ascertained President-elect”. “Let us hope President Trump will come to terms with his presidential defeat and concede to President-elect Biden; let us hope President-elect Biden will use all the wisdom and courage to make sure that the U.S. will do the right things in working for peace, stability and development in the U.S. and in the world,” he said. “China-U.S. relations for the past three years and more have been poisoned and distorted by some people in high positions in Washington. China needs to stand firm on matters of vital interest to its principles,” he added. “China and the U.S. need to reengage and get along with each other. The U.S. will need to come to terms to the imminent reality that China will be an economy larger than the U.S., and an equally important country in terms of political impact in the world. It is important to reset China-U.S. relations as soon as possible, so that these two countries can get along with each other, and avoid coming to blows against each other.” Confrontation Few, however, expect a complete reset, and the leadership in Beijing appears to be bracing for a period of continued confrontation with the new administration in Washington, and for Mr. Biden to not only pursue many of Mr. Trump’s policies, but perhaps to do so more effectively. “The Biden administration would pursue a more strategic approach, working with allies to confront China not just on trade but technology issues,” Ms. Wei said. “Trump’s go-it-alone strategy alienated a lot of allies. Where China dropped the ball was they could have moved faster in terms of cutting agreements with the European Union, Japan, South Korea, but time and again, they have proved they are not willing to make any kind of concession to anyone.” “Two years from now,” she added, “Beijing will miss President Trump.”
14 November 2020||PARIS,||French forces kill al-Qaeda leader in Mali||French ground forces and military helicopters killed a jihadi commander linked with  al-Qaeda in Mali along with four others, the French military said Friday. The operation on Tuesday targeted Bah ag Moussa, military chief for the RVIM Islamic extremist group, who had been on a UN sanctions list and was believed responsible for multiple attacks on Malian and international forces in the country, French military spokesman Colonel Frederic Barbry told reporters on Friday. Surveillance drones helped French forces in Mali identify Moussa’s truck in the Menaka region of eastern Mali, which was then targeted by the helicopters and 15 French commandos sent to the scene, Col. Barbry said. All five people in the truck were killed after they ignored warning shots and fired on the forces, he said. A statement from the French defense minister said Moussa was in charge of training new jihadi recruits.
14 November 2020||DUBAI,||‘Attack on Aramco oil facility foiled’||Saudi Arabia said early Friday it thwarted an attack by Yemen’s Iran-backed rebels that sparked a fire near an Aramco oil distribution centre. In remarks carried by the State-run Saudi Press Agency, an unnamed official at the Ministry of Energy reported that Saudi security forces had intercepted and destroyed two explosives-packed boats that it said Yemen’s Houthi rebels were using to target a major refinery and terminal in the southern Saudi province of Jizan.
14 November 2020||Washington,||Washington, Nov 13, 2020 (AFP) -||The White House is planning for President Donald Trump to serve a second term despite his re-election loss, a top official said on Friday. “We are moving forward here at the White House under the assumption that there will be a second Trump term,” the outgoing President's trade adviser Peter Navarro told Fox Business Network.AFP
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Goods, not protests, stopped in their tracks||November is generally a busy month in Punjab as the wheat crop is all set for sowing. But this year, the air is thick with resistance. On the tenth day of the month, outside the railway station in Shambhu village in Patiala district on the Punjab-Haryana border, farmers gather to agitate against the Centre’s three recent controversial farm laws. They have come to replace a group of farmers who have just left the makeshift site after spending a chilly winter night in protest. On the stage of the makeshift protest site the farmers reiterate their resolve: ‘Long live the unity of 30 farmer outfits’. Farmers trooping in say they are distressed about the Centre’s attitude towards their concerns; they think the Centre is being indifferent and confrontational. But they are not angry with the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government alone; they are also upset with the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal — parties who many allege are working only to gain political mileage ahead of the 2022 Assembly election in the State. The farmers want their voices to be heard and their demands to be met. Their agitation initially halted train services in the State. The farmers say that they stopped protesting on tracks and platforms a few weeks ago, but the Railways are yet to resume operations in the State. Talks between Central Ministers and protesting Punjab farmer unions on Friday ended inconclusively with the government saying that it was open to more talks. The farmers are against the resumption of passenger services, but are angry that the Centre hasn’t resumed goods trains, even though they had lifted the blockade on the tracks. The absence of supply has set off a massive economic crisis that pervades several sectors ranging from farming to manufacturing. ‘Ours is a peaceful protest’ The farmers also say that they will not budge until their concerns are addressed. “We are not squatting on railway tracks or on the platform any more. We have announced that goods trains will be allowed to move. Yet the Central government has not resumed railway services. This is nothing but a confrontational attitude. Our indefinite ‘rail roko’ agitation started on October 1. It was completely peaceful. Can you tell us about any incident of violence? There hasn’t been a single such incident,” says Hazura Singh Mirzapur, a farmer leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) and co-ordinator of the protest at the Shambhu railway station. “We were occupying railway tracks till the afternoon of October 22. After that we vacated the tracks and moved to the platforms. On November 4, members of 30 farmer outfits collectively decided to shift the agitation from railway platforms to nearby vicinities. Since November 5, we have been sitting outside the railway station and protesting peacefully. On October 22, at 3.28 p.m., a goods train passed through this station. That happened the next day too; we have records. But from October 24, the movement of trains was stopped. Why is that,” asks Mirzapur. The 30 farmer outfits, cutting across political affiliations, had first announced on October 21 that they would allow the movement of goods trains till November 5. On November 4, they decided to extend the movement of goods trains till November 20. However, they made it clear that they would not allow movement of passenger trains until their demands were met. The Railways say losses due to the agitation have crossed Rs. 1,200 crore in the last month. Gurbaksh Singh Balbera, another farmer leader, says the farmers are upset that they were not taken into confidence by the Centre before introduction of the new farm laws. Now that they are agitating, the government is giving Punjab step-motherly treatment, he says. “These laws have been imposed on us. We will stop protesting only when they are withdrawn. Farmers are protesting in other States as well, and trains are plying in all those States except Punjab. Why is there step-motherly treatment towards Punjab? As far as the issue of security is concerned, which is being raised by the Railways, the State government has already given us an assurance that the police will extend all their support to the Railways in providing security to enable smooth movement of freight trains,” he says. No trains, no goods As farmers gather to discuss the day’s strategy, Jaspal Singh, a farmer from Mandauli village, points out the problems that people have started facing: “There’s a shortage of urea in the market. Shop owners have told me that new stock will come only after train services are resumed. I have sown wheat in my field and I am now preparing to use last year’s stock of urea. Also, domestic power cuts in the morning and evening for around two hours each are being imposed for the last few days. At night, power cuts for tubewells are in place these days, which is hampering sowing operations.” Sukhchain Singh, a 35-year-old farmer, has purchased wheat seeds recently from Ambala in Haryana as quality seeds are not available in his vicinity. “Earlier I used to get seeds from Ghanaur in Punjab. But this time the dealers have informed me that there’s a shortage of seeds on account of trains not moving. I had to shell out more money to buy seeds,” he says. A few kilometres from the railway station on the Amritsar-Delhi national highway at the Shambhu border, there are also sit-in protests inside two makeshift tents. At one of the sites, under the banner of the Amritsar Kisan Union, associated with the Shiromani Akali Dal, only a few people are present. Lakhvir Singh, vice-president of the union, says the Central government has been acting in a “vindictive manner” against the farmers of Punjab who have raised their voice against the farm laws. “The people of Punjab are being humiliated. Not resuming goods train services is an attempt to impose an economic blockade. Are we not citizens and do we not have a right to protest,” he asks. The adjacent protest site houses a group of people led by a Punjabi actor-turned-activist, Deep Sidhu. The gathering is a mix of the young and old. Ranjit Singh of Mahru village says he is fighting for the “rights of Punjab” and as a Punjabi, he won’t relent. “We are facing power cuts. The local industry is facing a shortage of raw materials as goods trains services have been stopped. It’s the government’s strategy to weaken our movement but we won’t budge,” he says while serving food to his fellow protesters. On the same highway, in Gandian village, a few farmers have blocked entry to a fuel station run by a private company. They say the new farm laws will promote corporate control of food and farming systems, and by protesting outside a “corporate house”, they are conveying the message that they are not willing to accept “corporatisation of farming”. “The biggest fear is that the government will stop purchasing wheat and paddy in the coming years, which will eventually eliminate the Minimum Support Price regime and destroy the ‘mandi’ system. Where will I go then? It’s a conspiracy to phase out farmers from agriculture and let big corporates take over gradually,” says Parvinder Singh, a farmer participating in the protest. “By not resuming goods train services, the government is trying to scare us as it results in a shortage of urea, fertilizers, seeds, etc. But our resolve is only getting stronger. This a battle for our survival and the generations to come.” Sumit, 24, says the government needs to understand that the railway impasse will hit neighbouring areas including Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh, and Jammu and Kashmir. “We produce our own foodgrains and vegetables. We have stocks. If the government thinks that by stopping trains it can pressure us, it is wrong. The people in the neighbouring States could suffer, however, especially the armed forces. With the onset of winter, they may run out of supplies once snowfall blocks the roads to Ladakh and the Valley,” he says. Harvinder Singh of Nagawan village says he has sown wheat in his 15-acre farm with last year’s stocked seed. “I am not worried even if there’s no urea or there are no pesticides available in the absence of train services. The important thing is that I need to stand against these black laws. Otherwise they will spell doom for future generations,” he says. A ripple effect The suspension of goods trains has adversely impacted several sectors including agro-processing, engineering, hosiery, pharmaceutical, textile and power. The supply of raw material has reduced considerably, and delivery of products has come to a near halt. Industry players and economists say that if the blockade is not removed, it could have multiple effects on inter-related value chains across sectors hampering production and livelihoods. “In Punjab, rail traffic had halted for about a month. The loss is not confined to Punjab’s boundaries, this is a loss to the country. As per the Annual Survey of Industries (2017-18), Punjab has 5.4% of the organised manufacturing factories in the country, with 4.5% of the total persons engaged in manufacturing and contributing about 2.2% to the total net value added from the Indian organised manufacturing sector. Further, as per the National Sample Survey Organisation (73rd round), there are 14.56 lakh micro, small and medium enterprises in Punjab with 24.8 lakh employees. According to the latest IMF World Economic Outlook (October 2020), growth projections for India for 2020 is -10.3% for the fiscal year basis starting April 2020. These projections are probably considering only the COVID-19 effects on the economy. But what would be the projections if other internal causes hampering growth were also taken into account such as the ‘rail roko’ in Punjab,” asks Swati Mehta, assistant professor at the Punjab School of Economics, Guru Nanak Dev University in Amritsar. According to the statistical abstract of Punjab (2018 and 2019), says Mehta, commodities like mineral oils and other edible oils, kerosene, jute, cement, iron and steel, electrical goods, fertilizers and chemicals come in bulk to Punjab. “Therefore, the dearth of raw materials that are used mainly in agriculture and the industrial sector is hampering growth. Apart from exporting foodgrains and other agricultural commodities, Punjab exports hosiery and ready-made garments, leather products, sewing machines, electric switch gears and electrical accessories, auto spares, sports goods, hand tools and machine tools. In 2018-19, the value of exports of industrial goods from Punjab was Rs. 1,01,758.38 crore (Statistical Abstract of Punjab, 2019). Thus, the estimated per day loss to Punjab with curbs on exports is expected to be around Rs. 278 crore,” she says. “Missing production deadlines would have a negative impact on future production orders. It will also impede future investment prospects in the State. With the Railways as the cheapest means of cargo transportation, the halting of trains has broken the backward and forward linkages in local and global value chains thus hurting the already COVID-19-hit economies. Hence, in the path of revival, governments at different levels along with other stakeholders should work together to find a path to revive growth and secure jobs of the people,” she adds. A severe blow The crisis triggered by the suspension of goods trains had resulted in the curtailment of agricultural and vegetables supplies in the State. According to the State agriculture department, fertilizer is the most critical input for sustainable production of wheat crop, sowing of which has already started. Punjab receives the supply of fertilizers from Gujarat and other States through the Railways. At present, shortage of urea is being felt in the vegetable-growing areas of the State and the required quantities are being supplemented by moving truckloads of urea from National Fertilizers plants at Nangal and Bathinda. But it will not be possible to transport large quantities of fertilizer through trucks for meeting the requirement of the wheat crop, according to a recent report of the agriculture department. Ashok Sethi, director of the Punjab Rice Millers and Exporters Association, says the agro-processing industry has taken a severe blow in the past few days. “The continuing impasse over the movement of goods trains services has shaken the confidence of the agro-processing industry and has caused distress to rice exporters. Over 2,000 rice export containers are stranded at an inland container depot in Ludhiana for almost two months attracting huge demurrage, which has added to financial losses. Shipping companies are charging about $54 per day and it is estimated that Rs. 25 crore has already been lost. Already rice worth Rs. 5,000 crore is blocked due to non-movement of rail container cargo.” He adds: “It is imperative that the State and Central governments engage in a meaningful dialogue with total sincerity to find a solution to the situation. Their adamant attitude is extremely worrying and any delay will harm the future of rice exports.” Ludhiana-based Vikram Jeet, owner of Newstar industries, engaged in the manufacturing of fasteners including nuts, bolts, studs, rivets and screws, says production has gone down by at least 50% due to non-availability of raw material. “Manufacturing units of cycle parts, auto parts, sewing machines and tractor parts are also facing the same problems. As racks of steel scrap, coal and sponge iron is not coming, the local steel mills and traders have increased the price of steel by about 25%,” he says. The textile industrial unit owners have similar problems. “Since last month, over 5,000 inbound and outbound containers are stuck at the Ludhiana inland container depot. At present, essential raw material including yarns, chemicals and finished goods are not being cleared to meet Diwali sales. This will dampen the business spirit,” says Ramesh Jagota, president, All India Mink Blanket Manufacturers Association. Sachin Khanna, a leading blanket exporter in Amritsar, says, “We had shelled out more than triple the amount to ferry our goods through containers by road to Mudra Port. We have paid Rs. 30,000 extra for each of the five export containers. It’s an extraordinary situation, especially for Punjab due to its location and the problem of logistics.” The suspension of railway services has also taken a toll on the pharmaceutical industry in Himachal Pradesh. “The pharmaceutical units that are booking export consignments through Punjab’s Ludhiana dry port are being drastically affected,” says Rajesh Gupta, president of the Himachal Pradesh Drugs Manufacturers Association. Last week, the State government had stated that it had run out of coal stocks, bringing power generation at coal-based thermal plants in the State to a virtual halt. The daytime power shortage ranging between 1,000 megawatts and 1,500 megawatts has forced the power department to impose power cuts on all residential, commercial and agricultural consumers. The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited says it was left with no generation control. Market rates of power continued to be highly volatile and could spike any time, resulting in an increase in the cost of power purchase, on which the State is now completely dependent to feed its cables. The Railways declined to resume only goods train services in Punjab after protesters cleared the tracks, asserting that they will operate both goods and passenger trains or none at all. All inward and outward goods transportation including essential commodities have been affected adversely in Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, and Himachal Pradesh. “Any decision on allowing the movement of passenger trains will be taken on November 18 at our joint meeting of unions. The ongoing impasse is due to the authoritarian attitude of the Central government and discrimination towards Punjab farmers,” says Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda).  Earlier I used to get wheat seeds from Ghanaur in Punjab. But this time the dealers have informed me that there’s a shortage of seeds on account of trains not moving. I had to shell out more money to buy seeds from Ambala in Haryana. Sukhchain Singh Farmer   The impasse over the movement of goods trains has shaken the confidence of the agro-processing industry and caused distress to rice exporters. Over 2,000 rice export containers are stranded at an inland container depot in Ludhiana for almost two months attracting huge demurrage, which has added to financial losses. It is imperative that the State and Central governments find a solution. Ashok Sethi Director, Punjab Rice Millers and Exporters Association
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Bihar’s result as a new phase in backward politics||A day after the results of the closely contested Bihar Assembly elections were declared, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was ecstatic. After all the party had won 74 seats with an overall vote share of 19.46%, second only to the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) of the Mahagathbandhan which got 75 seats and an overall vote share of 23.11%. Since the BJP contested only 110 seats compared to the RJD’s 144, it is being projected as the ultimate winner in this election, which is waiting in the wings to take up the reins of government in Bihar. On the other hand, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) is being painted as the ultimate loser in this election; the party could win only 43 of the 115 seats it contested, with a vote share of 15.39%. Contrary to this view, while the fortunes of Nitish Kumar are surely on the decline, the BJP’s growth is only marginal, and the RJD has grown exponentially in terms of the social support base.  New social alliance In Bihar, the RJD is said to be the party of Yadavs and Muslims who comprise around a third of the State’s population. The BJP is traditionally a party of upper caste Baniyas who form around a quarter of the State’s electorate. The Extremely Backward Classes, or EBCs, and Mahadalits constitute the remaining 43-odd per cent of the State’s voters. It is a majority of these voters who are said to be Nitish Kumar’s committed vote base. Common political understanding about Bihar is that whenever two of these three parties unite, the grand social coalition that emerges as a result can easily sail through in the elections. This was the case in October 2005, 2010 and even the 2015 Assembly elections. This time, though the National Democratic Alliance which had two of these three parties won, the results actually show that a social churning has set in, altering these traditional socio-political dynamics. RJD versus the others In support of this is the RJD’s performance. The party’s vote percentage continued to stay around 18% over successive elections since 2005, despite occasional increases in the number of seats contested. This was primarily due to the majority of MY, or Muslim-Yadav, votes that it got, and a lack of support from other social sections. Over the years, the RJD had failed miserably in increasing its vote percentage significantly to become a winning party in its own right. This could be called the ‘MY plateau curse’ which shadowed the party. However, if the vote percentage in this election is any clue, then the RJD has certainly overcome the odds by polling 23.11% votes; an increase of around five percentage points. Such an increase is simply impossible without other social sections rooting for the RJD this time. And since upper caste and Baniya voters are still closely associated with the BJP — which too did not suffer any loss in vote percentage — it would be safe to assume that sections of the EBC and Mahadalit voters shifted to the RJD. A 6.7 percentage point decline in Nitish Kumar’s vote when compared to the 2010 elections (when both the Janata Dal (United) and BJP were together) from 22% to 15.3% is very indicative in this respect. Though some of this could be attributed to 26 less seats contested by the JD(U) this time, a large part of it appears to have been caused by a significant shift of JD(U) voters to the RJD. The BJP on the other hand appears to be doing only marginally well when we compare the results now with past trends. While doing so, keeping the 2015 election out of this would be prudent as the BJP contested far more seats then (157) — without the support of the JD(U). The party won 55 of the 102 seats it contested (with a vote share of 15.65%) in the October 2005 Assembly elections, and improved its tally to 91 wins out of 102 seats it had contested with 16.49% votes in 2010. While the number of seats won has come down this time despite an increase in seats contested, the vote percentage has certainly improved. However, if we adjust it to the number of seats contested, which are eight more this time when compared to 2010, an increase of only 1.8 percentage points could be attributed to the party, which pales in comparison with that of the RJD. Revisiting political history This shows that while Nitish Kumar’s JD(U) is on the decline and the BJP has improved only marginally, the RJD is the ultimate gainer in this election in terms of increasing its social support base. But what explains this huge altering of social alliances? The answer would lie in going back to the political history of Bihar. The foundations of the now withering EBC-Mahadalit vote bank of Nitish Kumar (which he carefully crafted during his years in power), are inherent in an old contradiction of Backward politics in Bihar. Socialist parties and leaders such as Ram Manohar Lohia, who gave voice to backward aspirations, had a two-pronged strategy of enabling economic uplift and social justice. Lohia’s emphasis on reservations for the numerically dominant yet socio-economically underdeveloped classes blended an economic agenda with “un-just” social realities, and succeeded in shaping the aspirations of these groups. During the 1970s, the socialists captured political power twice in Bihar and while the identity politics of Lohia was never lost sight of, the economic uplift programme was comfortably forgotten. The diverse social groups supporting socialist politics then were broadly divided into feuding factions of dominant Other Backward Classes (OBCs) such as the Yadavs on the one hand and non-dominant, dispersed yet collectively-significant Backwards, along with some Dalit castes on the other. To enable the non-dominant OBCs to get their fair share in reservations, the ‘Karpoori Thakur Formula’ was adopted by the socialist government of Bihar which provided a quota-within-quota for EBCs. The dominant OBCs tried to get rid of it repeatedly but failed. This created a unique situation; the Backward-lower castes appeared united when opposing upper caste dominance, but within them, the conflict for greater share of resources and power never ceased. It is in this scenario that Lalu Prasad Yadav emerged as a champion of samajik nyay (social justice) and promising dignity to the Backward and low castes, uniting dominant OBCs, EBCs and significant Dalit castes with minorities due to his aggressive secularism. As a result, Lalu Prasad Yadav won two consecutive and decisive victories in the State Assembly elections in the 1990s. However, massive corruption and nepotism, lack of economic mobility, disproportionate benefits to Yadavs and absence of development hollowed the social justice slogan. Sole emphasis on identity and a shunning of emancipatory economic programmes proposed by Lohia brought stagnation to socialist politics, and it is around this time that various social sections other than the Yadavs and Muslims gradually began deserting the RJD. Nitish Kumar acted as a catalyst to this process. Once in power, he consciously promoted an EBC-Dalit consolidation through government policies such as extending EBC benefits to more castes, a 20% quota in panchayats, creating a Mahadalit category, and devising welfare schemes mainly aimed at them. The EBC-Mahadalit voters responded to these changes. While the RJD’s vote share declined from 25.07% in February 2005 to 18% in 2010 elections, that of the JD(U) kept on growing, until this election. Emancipation, social justice While the NDA’s internal squabbles and anti-incumbency have contributed to this, one significant reason for reversal of this trend appears to be Tejashwi Yadav’s attempts to re-integrate the long forgotten economic emancipation programme with the social justice pitch. His insistence on kamai-dawai-padhai-sinchai  (jobs-health care-education and irrigation) and ensuring economic justice after the phase of social justice have certainly rekindled the hopes for a new phase of socialist-backward politics in the State. Rajan Pandey teaches political science at Royal Global University, Guwahati and is associated with the survey agency, People’s Pulse
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Countdown to greater India-Canada convergence||On November 17, the third round of India-Canada Track 1.5 Dialogue, comprising senior diplomats, officials and independent experts, will be addressed by Canadian Foreign Minister François-Philippe Champagne and India’s External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on a virtual platform. The Ministers will deliberate on and define the role of India and Canada in the post-COVID-19 world. This will be followed by a round table of scholars and experts who will go into various facets of the strategic partnership linking the two countries, the new geo-economics of the Indo-Pacific and digital cooperation, particularly in the areas of fintech and artificial intelligence. This promising interaction represents a major, deliberate endeavour to boost the bilateral relationship, helping it to cope with challenges of the third decade of the 21st century. It demonstrates how far the two governments have progressed in just two years, following the setback caused by the differences over the Khalistan issue that surfaced both before and during Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s week-long visit to India in February 2018. And this dialogue creates a template for a judicious merger of government to government (G2G) diplomacy with public diplomacy, and the maturing role of think tanks in the conduct of foreign policy today. Think tanks as the pivot The 1.5 Track Dialogue has been piloted since February 2018 by two think tanks — Gateway House: Indian Council on Global Relations and Canada’s Centre for International Governance Innovation (CIGI). Their deep three-year-long collaboration (https://bit.ly/3ppCMEn and https://bit.ly/35o3TI2) has encouraged the governments to focus on the immediate opportunities available in investment, technology and geopolitical rearrangements. The real turning point came at the dialogue’s second round, held in Mumbai in November 2019, a month after the parliamentary elections in Canada resulted in Mr. Trudeau’s return to power, albeit with a reduced number of Members of Parliament for his party. The new government in Ottawa preferred to be more cautious on sensitive bilateral issues, and more receptive to New Delhi’s view that the larger geopolitical shifts justified a closer convergence of national perspectives. Mr. Jaishankar’s visit to Canada in December 2019 initiated a new phase, consolidating mutual understanding. It laid the ground for more frequent interactions this year, including two virtual meetings between the Prime Ministers and four meetings between the trade ministers conducted digitally. Tensions in China-Canada ties Common challenges of the COVID-19 era accelerated the momentum. Canada’s travails with China, starting with the arrest of Meng Wanzhou, Huawei’s chief financial officer in Canada in December 2018 and the ‘hostage diplomacy’ practised by Beijing which arrested two Canadian nationals, has caused huge stress in Canada-China relations, turning Canadian public opinion against China. This opened the door to a closer relationship with India, with Canadian sympathy for India’s summer of troubles with China’s aggressive intrusions across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh since April 2020. In this backdrop, developments concerning the Indo-Pacific — escalating discontent against Beijing’s aggressive behaviour, strengthening of the Quad and the growing interest of France, Netherlands and Germany to be active players in the region — are of immense relevance to Ottawa. The forthcoming dialogue can deepen the India-Canada convergence on this issue. Many strong points The other major focal point will be the economic and technological cooperation between the two countries. Foreign policy observers highlight the importance of recent positive trends, as below: Canada-India merchandise trade exceeded C$10 billion in 2019; Canada’s cumulative investment, including foreign direct investment and by Canadian pension funds, is a substantive C$55 billion, according to diplomatic sources. Addressing virtually the ‘Invest India’ conference in Canada on October 8 (https://bit.ly/3lG7cjH), Prime Minister Narendra Modi pointed out that mature Canadian investors have been present in India for many years and assured them that no barriers would come in their way. Indian students are increasingly being educated in Canada, and a quarter million of them spent an estimated $5 billion in tuition fees and other expenses last year, a solid contribution to the Canadian economy. Of 330,000 new immigrants accepted by Canada last year, 85,000 i.e. nearly 25%, were from India. The Indian diaspora in Canada is now 1.6 million-strong, representing over 4% of the country’s total population. Like their brethren to the south, they are increasingly mainstreamed in Canadian politics. The principal areas of bilateral cooperation are best defined by five Es: Economy, Energy, Education, Entertainment and Empowerment of women. In particular, the digital domain holds immense potential, given Canada’s proven assets in technology — especially its large investment in Artificial Intelligence, innovation and capital resources, and India’s IT achievements, expanding digital payment architecture and policy modernisation. Divided by geographical distance but united through clear common interests and shared values, India and Canada will begin their steady journey of progress, this time with a laser-like focus on common goals as well. Rajiv Bhatia, a former Ambassador, is Distinguished Fellow, Gateway House. He also served as Consul General in Toronto from 1994 to 1998
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Purveyor of promise||The most heartening aspect of the Centre’s latest announcement to spur the economy, a package worth over Rs. 2.65-lakh crore, is the implied realisation that the economy is not yet out of the woods. Over the past month, with several high frequency indicators registering an uptick, the Finance Ministry has often asserted that a sustainable recovery is under way, hitting out at analysts who hinted that the spike reflected pent-up demand and could be transient. From that standpoint, the fresh stimulus, exactly a month after the LTC cash voucher scheme to revive spending, suggests the government has not taken its eye off the ball while purveying hope and promise. That the package takes cognisance of India’s jobs crisis and seeks to resuscitate the construction sector — the largest job creator — bodes well. One, it acknowledges the spate of job losses in the formal sector, and rural distress, as the pandemic and lockdowns hit home. Second, by pushing urban housing projects, introducing tax sops to help primary sales of unsold units worth upto Rs. 2 crore, and freeing up capital requirements to bid for public contracts, there is demonstration of a commitment to get the maximum bang for each precious fiscal rupee by focusing on a sector with multiplier effects. Apart from creating formal and informal jobs, this would drive up demand for steel, cement and other materials. While some sectors have been lifted with the rising tide of demand (pent-up or otherwise) following the unlocking in September and October, employment-intensive retail, hospitality and tourism remain battered. Therefore, it is encouraging that medium-sized firms in 26 such stressed sectors as well as health care have been brought under an emergency credit scheme originally restricted to MSMEs. But Rs. 2.05-lakh crore of the Rs. 3-lakh crore scheme outlay has already been sanctioned, so additional allocations may be needed for new beneficiaries. Stimuli such as Rs. 1.46-lakh crore as incentives for domestic manufacturing investments in 10 sectors will take years to play out. Terming a Rs. 900 crore outlay for COVID-19 vaccine research a ‘stimulus’ is somewhat disingenuous, as it should have been made in any case. Outcomes in terms of new jobs (or maintaining jobs in stressed sectors) will rely on creating demand for which there is little direct push. It is generous of the government to foot PF contributions worth 24% of salary for two years for people getting jobs between October and June, but it is not enough to nudge firms into hiring just because they get an employee at about 3/4th of salary costs — unless there is a foreseeable demand pick-up. Future measures should be simpler, with a template for economic activities to scale up or down depending on the infection trend. This would help firms plan operations without worrying about the next official diktat under the Disaster Management Act.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Content tracking||The recent decision of the government to bring video streaming services and online news under the ambit of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting was much anticipated, though with some trepidation. This government has, from time to time, made it clear that it is in favour of bringing these digital services under some sort of regulatory framework. Recently, when the Supreme Court asked for its suggestions toward improving the existing self-regulatory mechanism for television media, in a case involving Sudarshan News, the government stated that regulating the digital media was more pressing. More regulation is usually a problematic idea, bringing with it the real risk of censorship. But on one count at least this decision may have some merit, and that is if this is targeted at levelling the playing field by bringing new digital players within the purview of a regulation that non-digital players have been subject to all these years. New movies, before theatrical release, have to get through the certification process of the Central Board of Film Certification. In contrast, video streaming services such as Netflix and Amazon Prime, which have become key distributors for new movies and entertainment content and have gathered millions of subscribers in India in recent years, have not had to follow any such requirement. It cannot be denied that regulation, of the light-touch kind, which serves as an advisory for the content being presented to the viewers, plays a useful role. But is the intent here to create a level playing field, and nothing more? And how will the regulatory mechanisms function? These will be the key questions. The fear is that this will just end up facilitating more governmental interference and censorship, especially problematic when it comes to regulating digital news. There is little to be said about the average politician’s appetite for independent journalism and political satire. In a democracy, whose progress is dependent on free speech, it is important then that regulation is not an excuse to stifle voices, especially those not palatable to the ruling class. There is little doubt that digital media have grown to be influential even if some sections have struggled to make money. The government recognises this, and just a few months ago, introduced new investment rules for digital news media, where a number of legitimate initiatives have now taken shape. It is also important that the government recognises that there is really no reason to have a different regulatory mechanism for digital news. For decades now, the print media and television media have managed themselves in self-regulation frameworks where one of their main goals has been to maintain their independence. Self-regulation is a must, and censorship a definite no-no.
14 November 2020||New Delhi,||Centre to enact mining law reforms in 6-8 weeks: Jain||The Centre is looking at mining reforms, including amendments to the Mining Act and auction rules, Coal and Mines Secretary Anil Kumar Jain said. These were progressing well and in the next six to eight weeks, the reforms were likely to get adopted in the statute book, he added. The statement assumes significance as the mines Ministry had earlier sought suggestions from the general public, the mining industry and other stakeholders on proposed reforms in the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957. “While we are looking at mining reforms, amendments to the MMDR Act, the auction rules, etc, it needs to be mentioned that they are well progressing,” Mr. Jain was quoted as saying in a statement. He was addressing the ‘CEOs Roundtable on Propelling the Mining Industry Forward through Sustainable Technologies for Atmanirbhar Bharat’, organised by FICCI. The Centre was trying to introduce a level playing field between PSUs and the private sector, he said. “We are going to open the sector and reduce the requirement of exploration status. The licensing regime of the coal sector where there are milestones that you need to adhere to when in a mine, they have been lacking so far; we have been introducing them. “There will be a system of incentivising early production. There will be a regime of ‘reward and punish’ in the mining sector,” he added. He further said there had been a sea change in the way industries were working over the years and sustainability was the buzzword in the sector currently.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||‘One of the biggest challenges in India continues to be cash’||Ever since the pandemic broke out, PayPal has seen greater adoption of digital payments across the world, more specifically in smaller towns in India, Anupam Pahuja , the company’s Vice President — India, South East Asia, Middle East and Africa, said in an interview. Edited excerpts:  What is the future of digital payments and cash post-COVID-19 in India? Digital payments have made rapid progress with the support of the government and the regulator creating a favourable regulatory policy and environment. With the onset of the pandemic, digital payments have shifted from a nice-to-have to an essential service, and hence we have seen accelerated adoption. Payments is an important pillar and it is heartening to see payments move from remittances and retail to cross sectoral usage. Post-COVID, we will not see the demise of cash, but its relevance will definitely decline. It’s time to think about the role payments could play in the ecosystem of today and tomorrow. What is the impact of COVID-19 on your business? Our products and services have never been more needed and more relevant. We’ve worked hard in recent years to establish ourselves as one of the world’s most trusted digital payments brands, with substantial reach and scale for both consumers and merchants. And those efforts are clearly paying off. Another interesting trend seen is increased adoption by what we call the ‘Silver Tech’ generation — people in the age group of 50-70 years. Our merchants and our consumers want us to expand our products and services, and we will not let this opportunity pass us by. What is your focus on risk and security? How do you eliminate payments fraud? As adoption of digital payments has increased, there is evidence that online crime and scams are increasing as bad actors exploit vulnerabilities to their advantage. All the technical work around cybersecurity and risk management need to translate into tangible and practical end-user benefits. Here, we have implemented easy to understand ‘Buyer and Seller Protection’ policies, which protect both merchants and consumers across various scenarios as they buy and sell online. How has the company performed in the Indian market since entry? We entered India with an objective to offer a safe and seamless digital payment experience with a focus on enabling MSMEs and the freelancer community. Our global presence, wide acceptance, and focus on risk and security, make us a preferred partner for these merchants. The brunt of the pandemic has been felt by the small and medium businesses. As they look to adopt a digital approach to survive, we are a valuable partner for them. Our cross-border business helps these merchants sell to a global consumer base and thereby recover faster. We have best-in-class partnerships to give these small businesses access to an omni-channel approach and to engage consumers across their touch points. What are the challenges and opportunities in India? India is a key growth market for us. It is home to 6.33 crore MSMEs, out of which 6.30 crore — 99.4% — are micro-enterprises. The number of MSMEs in FY20 has increased by 18.5% to 25.13 lakh units from 21.21 lakh in FY19. Our cross-border business enables these merchants to sell across the globe to our 300 million consumer base. With initiatives like UPI, India Stack, Aadhaar, India’s digital payments journey is poised to take off unlike other countries. One of the biggest challenges in India continues to be cash. With the pandemic, we have seen a significant shift to digital; but to sustain this growth, it is critical to manage risks associated with payments. We have a two-sided network which protects both merchants and consumers. Another challenge is the need for Internet penetration to tier 3 and 4 markets, which will enable deeper penetration of digital payments.
14 November 2020||New delhi,||‘PLI scheme to benefit auto industry over 2020-25 period’||Fitch Solutions Country Risk and Industry Research on Friday said the government’s decision to extend the production-linked incentive scheme to the automobile industry would provide significant benefits to the sector over the next 5 years. It, however, noted that some of the operational risks present in the country would still remain a challenge for many investors despite the incentive. “We believe this policy provides significant upside potential for India’s autos manufacturing industry over 2020-2025, especially in the field of electric vehicles (EVs) and the associated supply chains,” Fitch Solutions Country Risk and Industry Research said in a statement. Citing the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations, it noted that the domestic automotive industry is set to receive a large portion of this incentive fund over the five-year period around Rs. 57,000 crore. ‘Adds to costs’ “However, we note that the elevated operational risks present in the country will remain a challenge for many investors,” it said. “Our operational risk team believes that businesses operating in the country will continue to face additional structural risks stemming from legal risks, security gaps, excessive bureaucracy and patchy utility infrastructure, all of which currently increase the costs of operating in India, particularly compared with China,” it added.
14 November 2020||New Delhi,||Tata Steel profit halves, in talks for sale of Dutch unit||Tata Steel on Friday said its consolidated net profit declined about 50% to Rs. 1,665.07 crore in the September quarter, from Rs. 3,302.31 a year earlier. Total income rose to Rs. 37,376.13 crore, from Rs. 34,762.73 crore, Tata Steel said in a BSE filing. In a separate statement, Tata Steel said it had initiated discussions with Sweden-based SSAB on potential sale of the Tata Steel Netherlands business, including Ijmuiden steelworks. Tata Steel said it had also initiated the process to separate Tata Steel Netherlands and Tata Steel U.K. and will pursue separate strategic paths for the Netherlands and the U.K. businesses in the future. Tata Steel CEO and MD T.V. Narendran said, “Tata Steel has delivered strong results in India with broad-based, market-leading volume growth and strong cash flow generation.”
14 November 2020||MUMBAI,||PM urged to curb cement cartelisation||The Builders Association of India (BAI) has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to constitute a cement regulatory authority for the sector to curb cartelisation and ‘undue profiteering’ by manufacturers. In a letter to the PM, BAI president Mu. Moahan asserted such an authority would prevent manufacturers from indulging in unethical trade practices. “Infrastructure and housing sectors are enablers of economic growth and cement is a basic input,” Mr. Mohan said. “The cement industry, however, indulges in cartelisation for profiteering,” he alleged.
14 November 2020||New Delhi,||TKM suspends 39 at Bidadi, lockout drags||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) on Friday said it had suspended 39 union members at its Bidadi plant in Karnataka for involvement in acts of misconduct and in line with the company’s disciplinary rules even as the facility remained closed for the fourth consecutive day. The firm had declared a lockout at its two plants in Bidadi in Karnataka on November 10 following workers’ union members resorting to a sit-in strike at the factory premises to protest the suspension of a worker.  The two plants have a total installed capacity of 3.10 lakh units a year.
14 November 2020||New Delhi,||FHRAI says ECLGS extension is welcome, but hospitality sector needs specific stimulus package||The Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI) on Friday welcomed the extension of the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme but said the sector needed a specific stimulus package to come out of distress. Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, VP, FHRAI, said it was highly capital- and labour-intensive, and without a specific stimulus, it would continue to bleed.PTI
14 November 2020||Mumbai,||Services exports fall 1.4 pc to USD 17.3 bn in Sept||India’s services exports in September fell 1.4% to $17.29 billion, data from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) showed on Friday. The services exports (receipts) in September 2019 stood at $17.54 billion. Services imports (or payments) also dropped 8.7% to $10.14 billion as against $11.10 billion a year earlier, according to RBI data on international trade in services.PTI
14 November 2020||Melbourne,||Kohli’s absence will impact India: Langer||Australia head coach Justin Langer has hailed India captain Virat Kohli’s decision to take paternity leave during the tour down under but said his absence would affect the visitors during the Test series for the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. Kohli will return home after the opening Test, which ends on December 21. He has been granted paternity leave by the BCCI to be with his actor wife Anushka Sharma for the birth of their first child in early January. The best Langer said he respects Kohli for putting family ahead of cricket. “Virat Kohli is probably the best player I’ve ever seen in my life for so many reasons. Not only batting, his energy and passion for the game, the way he fields,” Langer told newspersons via video conference on Friday. “I cannot believe the energy he displays in everything he does and I’ve got so much respect for him. I’ve also got respect for him in the sense that he’s made this decision (to return for the birth). “He’s a human being like all of us... if I was giving advice to any of my players I would always say never, ever miss the birth of your children because it is one of the great things you’ll ever do,” the former Australia opener said. Kohli will miss the Boxing Day Test in Melbourne (December 26-30), New Year’s Test in Sydney (January 7-11) and the final game at the Gabba (January 15-19). Langer said Kohli’s absence would definitely impact India, but Australia could not afford to lower its guard. “India beat us last time (in 2018-19). They’re a very, very good team, we cannot get complacent for a second with or without Virat,” Langer said. India’s tour of Australia begins with three ODIs, followed by as many T20 Internationals and four Tests. Sticking with Burns Langer, meanwhile, hinted he was likely to stick with Joe Burns in the opening position with David Warner for the first Test despite young Will Pucovski’s incredible form. Burns averaged 32 for Australia last summer and had a below-par start to the Sheffield Shield season with 57 runs at 11.40. The 22-year-old Pucovski, on the other hand, produced successive double hundreds, scoring 202 against Western Australia after an unbeaten 255 against South Australia.
14 November 2020||Paris,||North Macedonia makes history||Hungary came from behind to stun Iceland and secure a place at Euro 2020 on Thursday after North Macedonia qualified for a major tournament for the first time by beating Georgia 1-0 away in its play-off final. It will go into Group F at the delayed Euro, which was postponed for a year to June and July 2021 because of the coronavirus pandemic, and will come up against World Cup holder France, Germany and reigning European champion Portugal. It will play two group games at home in Budapest. Meanwhile, North Macedonia will make its tournament debut after veteran striker Goran Pandev scored the only goal of its game with Georgia in the 56th minute in Tbilisi. The Balkan nation will go into Group C alongside former winner the Netherlands, Austria and Ukraine. It is scheduled to make its debut against Austria in Bucharest on June 13. Slovakia too qualified after beating Northern Ireland 2-1 in extra time in Belfast. Slovakia will go into Group E with Poland, Spain and Sweden. Scotland beat Serbia on penalties to qualify and secure a place at what will be its first major tournament in 23 years. Scotland, which has not qualified for a major tournament since the 1998 World Cup, then triumphed 5-4 in the shoot-out and will go on to play England, Croatia and the Czech Republic in Group D.  The results: Hungary 2 (Nego 88, Szoboszlai 90+2) bt Iceland 1 (Sigurdsson 11); Northern Ireland 1 (Skriniar 88-og) lost to Slovakia 2 (Kucka 17, Duris 110) after extra time; Serbia 1 (Jovic 90) drew with Scotland 1 (Christie 52) after extra time, Scotland won 5-4 on penalties; Georgia 0 lost to North Macedonia 1 (Pandev 56).
14 November 2020||Chennai,||M. Ashwin may have the most potent googly in India now||Murugan Ashwin has, arguably, the most potent googly in contemporary Indian cricket. Spin Legend Anil Kumble, also the coach of Kings XI Punjab, had a quick look at him and decided what he wanted from the 30-year-old Tamil Nadu bowler. Kumble told Murugan, “There is a fair amount of venom in your googlies. And you spin it big. I want you to bowl more googlies, not just against the left-handers but right-handers too.” Blessing Having Kumble as coach was a ‘blessing’ for Murugan. “He wanted me and Ravi Bishnoi, a leg-spinner who has come from under-19 ranks, to be attacking, be looking for wickets. Our role definition was very clear,” he said. Before every match, Kumble would have an interaction with Mururgan and Bishnoi, and the discussion would be specific to each ground, each pitch and each batsman. We had a plan in place for every batsman,” said Mururgan who picked up 10 wickets in nine matches at a creditable economy rate of 7.46. He recalled one such instance when the plan worked. Murugan bowled in the PowerPlay overs against Sunrisers Hyderabad's attacking opener Jonny Bairstow. Murugan spun the ball without providing width to Bairstow. The increasingly restless Bairstow began reverse sweeping without success. Murugan recalled, “The plan was to keep the ball close to him so that if he missed a sweep, he would be leg-before or bowled. Bairstow missed and the stumps were rearranged.” Murugan said. “I try to be quicker through the air and impart revs on the ball. I want the ball to spin big and spin both ways. Occasionally, I would flight the ball but those deliveries would be a little wider.” Someone who uses the crease capably, Murugan’s googly spun more than anybody else's in the IPL as research showed. And he turns his leg-breaks big. Spin bowling is a lot about deception he says and does have a slight pause in his action which enables him to spot the early movement of the batsman. Subtle difference And then he disguises his wrist position and the point of release. For instance, the difference between the wrist position for a googly and a top-spinner is only subtle. If the batsman fails to pick it, he could be walking back. Murugan spoke about the spirit in the Kings XI camp and its stirring fightback to come from behind and almost make it to the playoffs. “We believed we were playing good cricket all through.” Spinners mature late and Murugan’s best years could be ahead of him.
14 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Luca Soccer Club inks deal with Cosco||The Malappuram based Abreco Luca Soccer Club has inked a three-year deal with prominent sports goods manufacturer Cosco. Cosco will supply balls and other equipments to the club. Kit sponsor The club has also roped in a Lucknow-based Krishna Pickles as its travel kit sponsor for this season. The Dubai-based freight company Abreco LLC had become the owners of the club in September. The club this month has opened soccer schools in Tanur, Areekode, Vazhikadavu and Ucharakadavu in Malappuram district. The club has also invited application from children above six years of age for its soccer schools. Multi-layered coaching The club has promised a multi-layered coaching programme by specialist coaches to its trainees. Coaching will be given during weekends where trainees will be exposed to modern training methods. There will be dedicated match days and tournament for trainees. For details contact 750881921 and 6282372055.
14 November 2020||Chennai,||Varun makes a big impact for KKR||From not playing competitive cricket for more than a year to finding his way into national reckoning, it has been a roller-coaster ride for Varun Chakravarthy, thanks to his exploits in the IPL for Kolkata Knight Riders this year. The 29-year-old leg-spinner from Tamil Nadu was one of the finds of the tournament where he flummoxed batsmen, scalping 17 wickets from 13 matches. Things fell in place “When I did not play the first match against Mumbai Indians, I didn’t think I was in the scheme of things. But once I played in the second match, I realised I was in the mix and, things fell in place after that,” said Varun speaking to The Hindu . During the season, he became the frontline spinner for KKR which boasts of Sunil Narine and Kuldeep Yadav but was unfazed by the challenge. “I was in a good rhythm and that gave the coaches the confidence to back me. Sunil and Kuldeep were constantly helping me through the tournament as well.” The spinner had memorable moments like picking up a five-wicket haul against Delhi Capitals and bowling M.S. Dhoni twice. For Varun, though the icing on the cake was Indian great Sachin Tendulkar talking about his bowling in a video, terming it as “mind-boggling”. The spinner from Chennai made his name after a tremendous TNPL in 2018 following which he was picked by Kings XI Punjab for Rs. 8.4 crore. But he played only one game in 2019 before a shoulder injury that kept him out for a long time. Despite that, KKR picked the mystery spinner for Rs. 4 crore in the auction last year. “It was a tough time. I feared I might not play again. From the day after the auction, I worked at the KKR academy in Mumbai for eight hours a day for about three months. Being close to the ground helped me get back on track,” said Varun. Shoulder injury After being initially picked for the tour of Australia for the T20Is next month, a shoulder injury has put him on the sidelines. Despite the setback, the call-up is an indication that he will be a name to reckon with, once he is back to full fitness, especially with the T20 World Cup to be held in India next year.
14 November 2020||Augusta,||Johnson joins lead on day of record scores||England's Paul Casey fired a seven-under 65 to own a two-stroke clubhouse lead as darkness halted Thursday's opening round of the 84th Masters. Casey, chasing his first Major title, matched the lowest Major round of his career to seize the lead over Americans Webb Simpson and Xander Schauffele. Play halted Also on the course at five-under through 10 holes was American Justin Thomas, who opened with four birdies on his first five holes and birdied the 10th before play was halted. A thunderstorm struck only 35 minutes after competition began at Augusta National and left the field of 92 idling for nearly three hours, ending any chance of the late starters finishing before sunset. World No. 1 Dustin Johnson and England's Justin Rose were both three-under through nine holes. Four-time Major winner Rory McIlroy, trying to complete a career Grand Slam with a Masters victory, was on level par through nine holes. McIlroy is looking to join Tiger Woods, Jack Nicklaus, Gary Player, Ben Hogan and Gene Sarazen as the only career Slam winners.  Woods in good nick Meanwhile, Woods showed the form to threaten for a 16th Major title. He produced his first bogey-free Masters round since 2008 to share fourth on 68.  The scores: 65: Paul Casey; 67: Webb Simpson, Xander Schauffele; 68: Hideki Matsuyama, Lee Westwood, Louis Oosthuizen, Patrick Reed, Tiger Woods; 69: Jazz Janewattananond, Jon Rahm, Tony Finau, Matt Wallace.
14 November 2020||London,||Nadal desperate to prove himself||Rafael Nadal says he is determined to improve his poor record on indoor courts as he bids to win the ATP Finals, starting on Sunday, for the first time in his illustrious career. Just one of the Spaniard’s 86 singles titles has come on an indoor hard court, back in Madrid in 2005. Nadal said there were a number of factors for his failure to shine indoors, including fatigue at end-of-season events and a preference for other surfaces. “We can find excuses or reasons but at the end of the day the numbers are the numbers,” Nadal said. “I think I have played less indoors than in other places without a doubt.”  The groupings:   Tokyo 1970: Novak Djokovic, Daniil Medvedev, Alexander Zverev and Diego Schwartzman.   London 2020: Rafael Nadal, Dominic Thiem, Stefanos Tsitsipas and Andrey Rublev .
14 November 2020||Cary (USA),||Prajnesh shocks Sock, enters quarterfinals||Prajnesh Gunneswaran celebrated his 31st birthday with a memorable 6-7(3), 6-2, 7-6(5) victory over the former World No. 8 Jack Sock of the US in the pre-quarterfinals of the $52,080 Challenger tennis tournament here on Thursday. In a three-hour marathon, Prajnesh came up with a strong display in the gripping climax. In the quarterfinals, Prajnesh was scheduled to play qualifier Thomaz Bellucci of Brazil.  The results:   $52,080 Challenger, Cary, US: Pre-quarterfinals: Prajnesh Gunneswaran bt Jack Sock (US) 6-7(3), 6-2, 7-6(5).   $15,000 ITF men, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt: Doubles (semifinals): Arnaud Bovy & Gauthier Onclin (Bel) bt Alastair Gray (GBr) & Siddhant Banthia 6-4, 6-4.   $15,000 ITF women: Quarterfinals: Elina Avanesyan (Rus) bt Rutuja Bhosale 7-5, 2-6, 6-1. Doubles (semifinals): Valentina Ryser & Lulu Sun (Sui) bt Michaela Bayerlova (Cze) & Sathwika Sama 6-3, 6-1.   Quarterfinals: Gray & Banthia bt Vladyslav Orlov (Ukr) & Arjun Kadhe 6-4, 7-5.   $25,000 ITF women, Orlando, US: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Sarah Hamner & Ashlyn Krueger (US) bt Gabriela Ce (Bra) & Ankita Rana 6-7(3), 6-1, [11-9] .
14 November 2020||Buenos Aires,||Argentina held by Paraguay||Argentina had to come from behind to draw 1-1 with Paraguay in a World Cup qualifier at La Bombonera on Thursday, and Lionel Messi had what might have been a winning goal disallowed in the second half. A Nicolas Gonzalez goal brought Argentina back level after Angel Romero’s penalty put Paraguay in front at the home of Boca Juniors. It thought it had gone in front in the 58th minute when Giovani Lo Celso pulled the ball back for captain Messi to sidefoot low into the net, but the goal was eventually disallowed for a foul by Gonzalez at the beginning of the move. At least Argentina recovered from falling behind midway through the first half, when Romero — who plays in Argentina for San Lorenzo — converted a penalty awarded for a foul by Lucas Martinez Quarta on Newcastle United’s Miguel Almiron. The home side lost midfielder Exequiel Palacios to injury soon after, but his replacement Lo Celso delivered the corner for VfB Stuttgart forward Gonzalez to head in the equaliser four minutes before half-time. After his disallowed goal, a frustrated Messi also had a free-kick tipped onto the crossbar by Paraguay goalkeeper Anthony Silva. Paraguay remains unbeaten having previously drawn with Peru and won in Venezuela. The sides are in action again on Tuesday, when Argentina plays Peru in Lima and Paraguay hosts Bolivia. Thursday’s other game in South American qualifying saw Ecuador claim a second win in three outings in the round-robin tournament as Carlos Gruezo’s late penalty gave it a 3-2 victory over Bolivia in La Paz. Neymar injured The action continues on Friday with Brazil notably hosting Venezuela in Sao Paulo as it chases a third straight win in qualifying. It will be without Neymar, who has not recovered from an adductor injury suffered playing for Paris Saint-Germain recently.  The results: Bolivia 2 (Arca 37, Martins 60) lost to Ecuador 3 (Beder Caicedo 46, Mena Delgado 55, Gruezo 88-pen); Argentina 1 (Gonzalez 41) drew with Paraguay 1 (Romero 21-pen).
14 November 2020||London,||Southgate drops Grealish start hint||England manager Gareth Southgate has indicated Jack Grealish could be in line for his first competitive full international start after the Aston Villa captain impressed in a friendly against the Republic of Ireland. Grealish, following several fine displays at club level, starred in an attacking role on the left flank during a 3-0 win at Wembley and set up Jadon Sancho for arguably the best goal of the game. It was just a second England start for the 25-year-old, who could have represented the Republic after playing for it at youth level. England now completes its European Nations League group campaign with matches away to Belgium on Sunday and at home to Iceland three days later. Southgate substituted Grealish after an hour, along with club colleague Tyrone Mings, and the England boss said he had done so with a view to the team’s upcoming fixtures “The two boys both played Sunday as well and we have got an eye on the next two matches,” he said. Roy Keane was among those who admired Grealish’s performance, with the former Manchester United and Republic captain saying the Villa star was reaping the rewards of being within the England camp. “This guy is going onto great things, no doubt in my mind,” Keane told ITV. “Jack has said his experience coming into the England squad, working with top players, you cannot beat it. “You talk about coaching, I think sometimes you learn more from working with better players and we can see that, even from a couple of appearances he has had for England.”
14 November 2020||Paris,||Still all to play for in the Nations League affected by the pandemic||Despite many criticising the decision to go ahead with the tournament during the coronavirus pandemic, amid travel difficulties, matches behind closed doors, and with injuries piling up, the UEFA Nations League limps to a finish over the next week. For the third month running European national teams are playing a double-header of Nations League matches, and many are throwing in friendlies too, despite the ongoing complications caused by the health crisis. England’s fears England feared its game against Iceland next Wednesday might be moved to a neutral venue because its opponent is due to play Denmark away three days earlier. Denmark is the subject of a UK travel ban due to concerns over a new strain of COVID-19 linked to mink farms, and the idea of England moving the Iceland game to a neutral venue in Germany or Albania had been raised. However, the UK government issued a travel exemption to the Icelandic side and the game will go ahead at Wembley. Elsewhere, players are absent after testing positive for COVID-19, among them Eden Hazard, who is set to miss Belgium’s games with England and Denmark. Niklas Suele, Kai Havertz and Emre Can are missing for Germany, while Edin Dzeko is out for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Wissam Ben Yedder for France. And it’s not just the players: Italy coach Roberto Mancini also had to go into quarantine after contracting the virus. The injuries Then there are the injuries, with players struggling to keep up with the demands of a packed schedule. England’s Liverpool defender Joe Gomez this week succumbed to a serious knee injury. Spain’s Ansu Fati and Germany’s Joshua Kimmich also suffered knee injuries just before this international break. The winners of the four groups in League A will advance to the finals, which UEFA has pencilled in for October next year. Portugal is the holder after winning the inaugural edition on home soil in 2019, and the reigning European champion faces World Cup holder France in Lisbon on Saturday in a crunch game — whoever wins will be through to the finals, while a draw keeps things alive until the final Group 3 matches on Tuesday. In contention Poland, Italy and the Netherlands are all fighting it out in Group 1, while Belgium is in pole position in Group 2 and can knock out England with a win in Leuven on Sunday. Denmark is still in contention in that group too. In Group 4, just one point separates Spain, Germany and Ukraine with two rounds left. It could all come down to Spain’s clash with Germany in Seville on Tuesday. Rejuvenated Scotland Hot on the heels of its penalty shoot-out win over Serbia which secured qualification for Euro 2020, a rejuvenated Scotland can clinch promotion to the elite League A. Steve Clarke’s side currently tops League B, Group 2 by four points from the Czech Republic. A win in Slovakia on Sunday will therefore do the job, otherwise it has another chance to secure top spot in Israel on Wednesday. Wales is hoping to secure first place in League B, Group 4, with a one-point lead over Finland and home games against the Republic of Ireland and the Finns to come.
14 November 2020||Johannesburg,||Mthethwa threatens to de-recognise CSA||Sports Minister Nathi Mthethwa has threatened to use his statutory powers for withdrawing recognition of Cricket South Africa if the members of CSA council don’t recognise the interim board “immediately”. The Cricket South Africa members’ council on Thursday decided not to recognise the nine-member interim Board of Directors appointed by Mthethwa two weeks ago, citing technicalities in terms of CSA’s Memorandum of Incorporation. Regrettable “I find it most regrettable that you have purported to take the decision not to recognise the interim Board,” Mthetwha wrote in a five-page letter addressed to CSA’s acting president Rihan Richards according to www.iol.co.za. “I implore you and the Members’ Council to re-visit this decision immediately, and to afford the necessary recognition to the interim Board, failing which, I will exercise my powers under the Act and issue a directive in that regard.” Richards had said that there was a “breakdown in the relationship” between the Members’ Council and the interim board — the two bodies that were supposed to clean up CSA’s governance structures. Defies logic Mthethwa said it “defies logic” that the relation can break down in just two weeks. “The game has lurched from one crisis to the another on an almost daily basis. In the circumstances, I would be failing in my statutory and constitutional duty not to intervene in what is nothing other than the poor governance of a sport which is a national asset.”  Former CEO Haroon Lorgat, who had stepped down in 2017 after rift with board members following the failure to launch the now-defunct Global T20 League, was named in the interim board, something which the member council didn’t approve of as it was concerned about his conflict of interest. Lorgat was still the CEO in 2016-2017, a period which has been covered by the Fundudzi report, which was commissioned earlier this year to probe poor governance of CSA. Reasons behind failure of Global T20 league also forms part of the investigation, the report of which was used to fire Lorgat’s successor Thabang Moroe for financial misconduct. Mthethwa, however, assured that Lorgat would recuse himself from all discussions relating to the Global T20 League.  I would be failing in my statutory and constitutional duty not to intervene in what is nothing other than the poor governance of a sport which is a national asset   Former CEO Haroon Lorgat was named in the interim board, something which the member council didn’t approve of as it was concerned about his conflict of interest
14 November 2020||Bengaluru,||KSCA T20 final to be held next week||The KSCA Twenty20 final and the KSCA Division I, Group II final, both put off earlier this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, will be held next week, the Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA) announced. This marks the first official cricket tournament action since the long hiatus forced by the pandemic. The two finals were the only two uncompleted fixtures from the previous KSCA season. All other tournament fixtures were completed before COVID-19 struck hard. The Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) — use of sanitisers, temperature checks, ban on using saliva on the ball and so on — will be in place to ensure players’ safety, KSCA spokesperson Vinay Mruthyunjaya said. The KSCA Twenty final, between Swastic Union CC (1) and Vultures CC, will be held at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium on November 17. The Division I, Group II final, between DTDC SC and Canara Bank, will be held at KSCA (T) ground on November 18.
14 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bopanna satisfied with his season||It has been a fascinating season with all the uncertainties and Rohan Bopanna is happy to have salvaged the best tennis in the bargain. After winding up the season with the Paris ATP Masters quarterfinals, the 40-year-old Bopanna is back at his tennis academy in Bengaluru, providing guidance to youngsters. Having returned to the professional circuit after lockdown with a quarterfinals in the US Open, and following it up with good wins on clay before winding up on the hard courts in the final leg, Bopanna was understandably satisfied at his ability to get the best out of himself on both surfaces. COVID tests “I must have done about 35 COVID tests. They were so different. In one place we had to just gargle water and spit for the test. In some places, they really drilled into our nose and throat,” recalled Bopanna.  With suitable caution and measures, Bopanna was happy that many different levels of players, from national champion Niki Poonacha to the youngsters learning the technique, were back on court at his academy, getting ready for the season ahead. “I wish I had such a facility when I was growing up. It would have cut the time taken for growth by so many years. “Instead of wasting energy on facing the multiple challenges, one could have just focused on tennis and got better,” said Bopanna. With seasoned coach M. Balachandran managing the programme with a battery of competent coaches and other experts at the Sports School, Bopanna said that he would close his other centre and focus on tennis in one place. No clarity There is not so much clarity about the professional season ahead with Australia demanding a two-week quarantine for players visiting the country for the tennis events including the Australian Open. “The request is to be able to train during quarantine period. All events are supposed to be held in Melbourne. The other events like Doha are being shifted to a later date. There is no sign of the Pune ATP,” said Bopanna. The answers will come in due course of time, and the players may have to fly to Australia in December. For the moment, Bopanna is happy to be home with family and spend quality time with his trainees.
14 November 2020||BENGALURU:,||It’s Anjeze vs Speedster for Karnataka Police Trophy||Anjeze and Speedster may fight out the finish of the Karnataka Police Trophy (1,400m), the main event of the races to be held here on Saturday (Nov. 14). False rails (width about 5.5m from 1,600m to the winning post) will be in position.  B.A.R.I. PLATE (1,400m), rated 00 to 20, 2.00 p.m.: 1. Hitomi Sakuma (3) R. Ravi 60, 2. My Vision (4) Chethan G 60, 3. Mrs Thatcher (2) Mark 59.5, 4. Perfectgoldenera (9) T.S. Jodha 59, 5. Annalease (8) Saddam H 58.5, 6. Proudwish (10) Sai Vamshi 58.5, 7. Master Of War (5) Tousif 58, 8. Lovely Sierra (11) Ashhad Asbar 57.5, 9. Fierce Fighter (7) A. Imran 57, 10. Altair (6) Afsar Khan 55, 11. Love Music (1) P.P. Dhebe 54.5 and 12. Phoenix Reached (12) Irvan 53.5.  1. Perfectgoldenera,   2. Fierce Fighter,   3. Love Music   CHINTAMANI PLATE (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 4-y-o & over, 2.30: 1. Legendary Princess (9) Srinath 60, 2. Torosanto (3) Rayan 60, 3. Apollo Bay (2) P.P. Dhebe 59.5, 4. Splash (4) Suraj 58.5, 5. Konichiwa (1) Darshan 58, 6. Light Of Love (12) A. Imran 58, 7. Pastiche (7) D. Patel 58, 8. Desert Mirage (6) Kiran Rai 56, 9. Legend Is Back (5) R. Pradeep 56, 10. Nerva (8) M. Prabhakaran 56, 11. Grecian Light (11) Sai Vamshi 55.5 and 12. Barog (10) Afsar Khan 54.5.  1. Splash,   2. Legendary Princess,   3. Nerva   CHILDREN’S DAY PLATE (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms), 3.00: 1. Dreams Ahead (7) R. Pradeep 57, 2. Four Wheel Drive (9) Arshad 57, 3. Griffin (8) Anjar Alam 57, 4. Hope Island (5) Antony 57, 5. Pissarro (12) Zervan 57, 6. Praia Do Cassino (6) P. Surya 57, 7. Twinkle Feet (1) Ashhad Asbar 57, 8. Activated (11) R. Girish 55.5, 9. Glorious Logan (10) D. Patel 55.5, 10. Lake Tahoe (4) Trevor 55.5, 11. Mystic Eye (3) Kiran Rai 55.5 and 12. Sparkling (2) Darshan 55.5.  1. Pissarro,   2. Lake Tahoe, 3. Griffin   MASTER KEY PLATE (1,600m), rated 15 to 35, 3.30: 1. Casey (8) M. Naveen 60, 2. Dontbreaktherules (11) Chetan K 59.5, 3. Incitatus (3) B. Dharshan 59.5, 4. Ekalavya (6) T.S. Jodha 59, 5. Drusilla (1) Trevor 58.5, 6. Arabian Mist (4) Neeraj 57, 7. Sovereign Legend (10) Mark 57, 8. Armenia (9) Khurshad 56.5, 9. He’s The One (7) Darshan 55.5, 10. Track Striker (5) Kiran Rai 55.5, 11. Super Gladiator (2) Rayan 54 and 12. Unifier (12) Md. Aliyar 53.5.  1. Drusilla,   2. Arabian Mist,   3. Ekalavya   KARNATAKA POLICE TROPHY (1,400m), rated 60 & above, 4.00: 1. Northern Alliance (4) M. Prabhakaran 60, 2. Anjeze (6) Trevor 59.5, 3. Manchester (7) Arshad 57, 4. Set To Win (9) M. Naveen 57, 5. Angelino (2) R. Marshall 56, 6. Depth Charge (8) Rayan 55.5, 7. Peluche (3) Ashhad Asbar 55.5, 8. Thailand (5) Antony 54, 9. Speedster (1) J.H. Arul 52.5 and 10. Starry Wind (10) Jagadeesh 52.  1. Anjeze,   2. Speedster, 3. Angelino   ROYAL CALCUTTA TURF CLUB CUP (1,400m), 3-y-o, (Terms), 4.30: 1. Ansaldo (4) Srinath 57, 2. Lagarde (1) Suraj 57, 3. Miss Pareil (2) Neeraj 51.5 and 4. Watchmystars (3) Trevor 51.5.  1. Lagarde, 2. Watchmystars   CHINTAMANI PLATE (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 4-y-o & over, 5.00: 1. Amazonite (9) Md. Aliyar 60, 2. Songkran (1) Trevor 59.5, 3. Dragon Mountain (4) Suraj 59, 4. Alexandre Dumas (6) R. Ravi 58.5, 5. Princess Pride (8) Chetan K 58.5, 6. Ozark (7) Zervan 58, 7. Gold Mist (10) P. Surya 57, 8. Estella (2) J.H. Arul 56.5, 9. Paradiso (5) Darshan 56.5, 10. Charmaine (12) Arshad 55.5, 11. King Creole (11) Indrajeet 55.5 and 12. Premier Premises (3) Irvan 52.  1. Dragon Mountain,   2. Songkran,   3. Ozark   RED BARON PLATE (1,400m), rated 30 to 50, 5.30: 1. Bold Move (8) Vaibhav 60, 2. Wings Of Desire (1) Arshad 58.5, 3. Ultimate Speed (4) Darshan 57, 4. Secretsuperstar (9) R. Manish 56.5, 5. Venus Bay (5) Ashhad Asbar 56, 6. Hokkaido (2) Suraj 55.5, 7. Jersey Legend (11) Rayan 55.5, 8. Cosmic Feeling (10) Chethan G 55, 9. The Corporal (7) Zervan 55, 10. Helenka (3) Kiran Rai 54.5, 11. After Hours (12) J.H. Arul 54 and 12. Papparazi (6) Neeraj 54.  1. Papparazi,   2. Hokkaido,   3. The Corporal  Day’s best: Splash  Double: Pissarro - Legarde  Jkt: 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8; Tr (i): 3, 4 and 5; (ii): 6, 7 and 8.
14 November 2020||Christchurch,||Windies squad clears final COVID test||The West Indies cricket contingent cleared the third and final round of COVID-19 tests on Friday and will be leaving for Queenstown for the first warm-up match against New Zealand-A beginning on November 20. The team has been in isolation since arriving here on October 30 for the T20I and Test series. All members had cleared the first two rounds of testing. The series begins with the opening T20I in Auckland on November 27, followed by the second and third game in Mount Maunganui on November 29 and 30. It will be followed by two Tests in Hamilton (Dec. 3-7) and Wellington (Dec. 11-15). Ahead of the series, West Indies is scheduled to play two tour games on November 20-22 and November 26-29 at John Davies Oval. Interestingly, the West Indies squad was stripped of the right to train while in managed isolation after players were found to have breached rules during their 14-day quarantine. Seven West Indies players — T20I skipper Kieron Pollard, Test captain Jason Holder, Fabian Allen, Shimron Hetmyer, Keemo Paul, Nicholas Pooran and Oshane Thomas — were in the UAE for the IPL, which concluded on November 10. West Indies Cricket said the players had reached Auckland and would now be in isolation for two weeks.
14 November 2020||Berlin,||Hunker down — Low to team||Germany head coach Joachim Low has told his stars to knuckle down and take control of their Nations League group, starting against Ukraine on Saturday, after three draws and just one win in their mediocre campaign so far. The three-time European champion hosts Ukraine in Leipzig on Saturday, then faces Spain in Seville on Tuesday. Victories in both of its final two Nations League games would see Germany win the group. “We must definitely use both games, and our matches in March, to find our game and establish ourselves,” said Low, with one eye on next June’s Euro 2020 finals. Squeezing past Germany squeezed past a determined Ukraine side with a 2-1 win in Kiev last month. Both Germany and Ukraine are level on six points, one behind group leader Spain, which faces bottom side Switzerland in Basel on Saturday. Low is wary of a dogged Ukrainian side coached by former Chelsea striker Andriy Shevchenko, which has already beaten Spain and Switzerland in the group. “We will have to overcome a lot of resistance and have extremely good solutions ready if we want to hold our own against Ukraine,” Low said on Friday. Defensive problems Germany is unbeaten in its last 11 games, but the statistic masks defensive problems, exposed by last month’s 3-3 draws against both Switzerland and in a friendly with Turkey. In its Nations League games so far, Germany surrendered the lead three times to draw with Spain and twice against the Swiss. Bayern Munich wingers Serge Gnarby and Leroy Sane are set to play either side of Chelsea striker Timo Werner. Manuel Neuer captains the side and will equal Sepp Maier’s Germany record of 95 appearances for a goalkeeper. With Real Madrid midfielder Toni Kroos suspended, Leon Goretzka is set to partner Ilkay Gundogan in the defensive midfield. Despite this season’s congested fixture list due to the coronavirus pandemic, Low says he sees the value of the Nations League and is demanding two final performances. “The competition has a certain importance and if we beat Ukraine, we would be in a good position” before the final match against Spain, added Low.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Self effort is indispensable||All scriptures teach the fundamental truth that the purpose of life is to transcend the cycle of birth. The Kenopanishad says that there can be no greater loss than the failure to realise the purpose of life during this birth itself. It claims that there is no need for several future births, if only one comprehends and internalises this truth and is determined to make the best use of this chance. It depends on the earnestness with which one approaches this challenge without giving in to any slackness. The Gita too asserts that it is each one’s responsibility to prevent oneself from drowning in the ocean of samsara, especially when every jiva is fortunate to have the grace of God and the teachings of the sastras, pointed out Swami Omkarananda in a discourse. The aim should be to raise the quality of life and be vigilant not to slip into the grip of base tendencies. One’s merits and demerits are of his own making and therefore each one is his own friend and also his own enemy. Tiruvalluvar has captured this truth with his matchless brevity of expression when he says that there is no greater enemy for a man than laziness and no greater friend than self effort. How can one hope for any achievement by merely thinking about it without actually going into the brass stacks of action and effort? Can a sleeping lion hope that its prey will automatically enter its mouth? But, great rewards are hidden in each one’s sincere and diligent cultivation of self effort. It is the seed for the development of inner sterling qualities, the most invaluable and permanent assets that accompany the self in its journey across the cycle of birth. The Lord promises to ferry the jiva across this sea of samsara provided one is aware of His Paratva, and engages in dhyana and bhakti yoga.
14 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Gokulam signs Mukhammad||Gokulam Kerala has signed Afghan midfielder Sharif Mukhammad for the new I-League season. The 30-year-old has played for clubs in Russia and Sweden. His last club was Maziya, Maldives. He is a regular starter for the Afghan National team. “I am going to play for an Indian club for the first time," Mukhammad said. “I thank Gokulam Kerala for giving me an opportunity. I have already spoken with the coach and I am eagerly waiting to arrive in India.”
14 November 2020||ISTANBUL,||Verstappen fastest||Red Bull's Max Verstappen was fastest in Turkish Grand Prix practice on Friday while Lewis Hamilton slammed the slippery surface ahead of a race that could crown him Formula One champion for a record-equalling seventh time.  Verstappen lapped in one minute 35.077 seconds in the morning. Alexander Albon was second in the opening session but Ferrari's Charles Leclerc was best of the rest after lunch. Mercedes moved back up the timesheets, with Valtteri Bottas third fastest by the end of the day and Hamilton fourth.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Aman slams century, Ishan scalps five||A match-winning 140-ball 156 by Aman Gurnani and a five-wicket haul by Ishan Singh saw LB Shastri Club beat Hari Singh Academy by 99 runs in the BR Sharma memorial tournament.  The scores: LBS Club 260/6 in 40 overs (Aman Gurnani 156) bt HSA 161 in 34.3 overs (Pragam Sharma 64, Manav Goyal 34; Ishan Singh 5/22).    Left-arm spinner Hitesh Gemini picked up three wickets for just nine runs and was supported well by other bowlers as Haryana Academy beat SS Sports Club by nine wickets to enter the quarterfinals of the Unique Cup T20 tournament.  The scores: SS Sports Club 89 in 19.1 overs (Naksh Kumar 39; Hitesh Genini 3/9, Raunak Dabas 2/10, Akhil Kohar 2/16, Kabir Bishnoi 2/17) lost to Haryana Academy 90/1 in 8.1 overs (Kuldeep Dewatwal 46 n.o., Devender Lochab 32 n.o.).     Saurabh Deshwal (45) and Jayant Khowal (four for six) helped Manthan Academy beat GR Academy by 103 runs in the Vicky Bandrey memorial under-16 tournament.  The scores: Manthan Academy 165 in 37.4 overs (Saurabh Deshwal 45; Shubham Saini 4/31) bt GR Academy 62 in 27.2 overs (Jayant Khowal 4/6).    Saiansh Kumar picked up four wickets as M-10 Academy beat Turf Academy by five wickets in the Turf Youth Cup under-13 tournament.  The scores: Turf Academy 80 in 26.1 overs (Abhiraj Singh 34; Saiansh Kumar 4/18) lost to M-10 Academy 85/5 in 19.2 overs (Sahej Wahi 25 n.o.).    Akhil Sorout’s fighting 47 and three wickets by Priyanshu Kumar helped WCL edge past SN Dubey Academy by one wicket with one ball to spare in the Satish Sharma memorial under-16 tournament.  The scores: SND Academy 162 in 38 overs (Aryan Kumar 78; Priyanshu Kumar 3/15) lost to WCL 166/9 in 39.5 overs (Akhil Sorout 47; Alakshendra Kumar 4/37).
14 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA:,||Big win for SS Interiors||SS Interiors scored a 114-run win over ABHICC in the GOSPORTS Cup T20 cricket league here on Friday. Batting first, SS Interiors scored 154 in 20 overs with T.K. Ganesh (57, 45b, 5x4, 2x6) and Harsha (33) being the main scorers. In reply, ABHICC folded up for 40 in 12.4 overs with Rehil and Ujwal being the main wicket-takers.  The scores: SS Interiors 154 in 20 overs (T.K. Ganesh 57, Harsha 33, Venu 3/21) bt ABHICC 40 in 12.4 overs (Rehil 4/8, Ujwal 3/17).   APCPDCL 108/9 in 18 overs (Prabhakar 34 n.o., Sunil 3/14) bt Healers XI 61 in 12.1 overs (Sekhar 4/16).     Hyderabad Handball Association elections will be held on December 6 at Akshara International School (LB Nagar) from 11.30 a.m., according to a media release. The president and secretary of member associations are eligible to participate in the elections. In their absence, two members, duly authorised jointly by the president and secretary, may attend.     The National Mineral Development Corporation will organise an online chess tournament for children on November 15 as part of its 63rd Foundation Day celebrations. The event is open for boys and girls in the junior (I to VII standard) and seniors (VIII to XII) sections. Students from schools based out of Telangana and NMDC-sponsored and supported schools in Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh may participate in the open category. Those interested may enrol and participate by visiting the link www.nmdcsports.com .
14 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Tendulkar donates medical equipments to Assam hospital||Sachin Tendulkar has donated medical equipments to a charitable hospital in Assam, a move that will benefit over 2,000 children coming from underprivileged families. Tendulkar has donated equipments required in the Paediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) and Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) to the Makunda Hospital in Karimganj district.PTI
14 November 2020||CHENNAI,||FC Goa links up with RB Leipzig||Indian Super League team FC Goa has inked a three-year strategic partnership deal with Bundesliga giant RB Leipzig. Speaking at a webinar on Friday, Leipzig technical director Christopher Vivell and FC Goa director of football Ravi Puskur said the focus would be on youth football development and scouting of young talent.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 10:12 IST,||Sudoku - November 14, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||#Tweets with Nature||A stunning image of four Amur falcons perched on a tree, tweeted by conservationist Vivek Menon (@vivek4wild) kickstarts a discussion on the conservation story of the falcons that have just landed in Nagaland now en route to Africa. Manish Hariprasad’s (@manishhariprasad) photograph of the mighty steppe eagles, the largest eagles found in India, is an arresting image that draws attention to their dwindling numbers and endangered status. The peregrine falcon photographed at Sambhar Lake, Rajasthan, by Arpit Deomurari (@deomurari) is part of a tweet packed with information on the raptor’s renowned speed — it can go up to 320 kilometres/hour. Backyard wonders It is a showcase of raptors from across the country under the hashtag #RapchikRaptors on the @IndiAves page. Take a quick scroll and you aretreated to a mind-boggling collection of birds posted under varied hashtags: #flycatcherfridays #backyard birds, #laughingthrushthursdays and more. “We come up with catchy themes for hashtags every week to keep the interest going,” says Goldy Rajiv Santhoji, who founded the IndiAves community on Twitter along with Rocky Singh (@Ornithophile who anchors the show Highway On My Plate with Mayur Sharma) and Mumbai-based Manish Hariprasad, a filmmaker and birding enthusiast. “During lockdown, we started this platform to encourage people to tweet photographs of wildlife, birds and animals and motivate the twitteratti to speak up for Nature,” adds Goldy, who has been a birder for 25 years and spent his winters in Coimbatore as a child. “I saw so much fauna and flora around here that my love for Nature and birding blossomed here. The wetlands next my house near the Cheran Bus Depot was a haven for birds” The handle showcases photographs of birds of India and birds clicked anywhere in the world by Indian photographers. The core team includes Colonel(Retd) Pankaj Sharma (@trooper) who runs Indian Birds on Facebook, the largest online community on birds in the Indian Subcontinent, Shalini Elassery and Chandrakala Rathnam of Kenneth Anderson Nature Society, an NGO working on wildlife conservation in the Melagiri region of Tamil Nadu.Pankaj has documented over 1,000 species (of the total 1,350 in India) from across Kerala, the Northeast, Gujarat, and Kashmir. “I take young people on birding trips in and around Delhi, where in the city you can spot more than 60 species.” “We want people to appreciate the wealth of biodiversity,” says Rocky over phone from Nainital. “The hashtags with themes like #storksundays puts those birds in the spotlight, and drive the engagement.” Rocky, who has been birding and photographing birds for over 25 years, says IndiAves is a place where people express their passion. “I encourage the spirit of love and passion for wild and outdoors in children. Being a part of IndiAves amplifies that cause. We have enthusiasts from the North, South, East and West putting out information, and knowledge-sharing happens. A few professional photographers jumped on board, which is a big plus.” For seasoned birders like Christy Bharath, an independent bird watcher from Chennai, IndiAves brings back the joy of surprise in birding. “ I went, “Wow!” when I saw Aseem Kotharia’s post on parrotbills. A set of four lovely birds in a combination of brown and grey colours, and an accompanying note on how the distinctive, strongly arched, parrot-like bills give the birds the name. I have been posting bird photographs, especially owls, with their hashtags for the past three months because I want to contribute to the learning experience.” “Every hashtag tells a story,” says Shalini Elassery talking to us on WhatsApp call from Israel. “It is also about honouring local bird guides, the unsung heroes who have phenomenal knowledge on wildlife. Be it Tripura, Uttarkhand or Rajasthan, there are so many guides who are never appreciated or acknowledged. It is happening on IndiAves now,” says Shalini with pride. “Knowledge dissemination is key. I have been into birding for the last 15 years but I have gained a deeper insight into ornithology.” Chandrakala says every activity is aimed at engaging youngsters. “We ran a bird quiz for beginners and non-birders. Once there is curiousity, they start thinking about protecting their habitat and so on.” Shalini mentions that some of the themes like #wildlife week, #WorldMigratoryBirdDay, #backyardbirds were revelations. “People came up with amazing photos of reptiles, mammals, birds, and butterflies. It ignites conservation at the grassroots. A woman in Mumbai identified over 100 species from her balcony during the pandemic.” She adds, “The platform gives us a voice to work alongside the Forest Departments, too. We retweet and comment on every post. Our ultimate aim is that every birder will eventually become a conservationist.” Goldy mentions that Priyanka Gandhi’s son Raihan Rajiv Vadra follows @IndiAves. “When such young personalities start following wildlife, it gives us a ray of hope.”  Learn from the best  Follow @Kothiala, @ adityadickysin, @Saket_Badola, @ParveenKaswan @vivek4wild
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Mum’s the word||With two films of hers releasing this Deepavali, Urvashi has made a steady re-entry into mainstream Tamil cinema. It is not that the 51-year-old actor has anything left to prove considering her body of work. However, being a part of Soorarai Pottru and Mookuthi Amman is reassurance for the industry’s top filmmakers that the quality performer in her is intact even as she enters the fifth decade of a long career. In both films, Urvashi plays the mother to the central character. “ Mookuthi Amman focusses almost all its runtime on this family: a mother, her three daughters and son, and her father-in-law,” says Urvashi. Playful mind Produced by Vels Film International, Mookuthi Amman marks the directorial debut of NJ Saravanan and RJ Balaji. If you are wondering what it is like working with a man who has gained the affection of cricket fans in Tamil Nadu with his interesting commentary during the recently-concluded IPL, it is as you would imagine. “Balaji is very playful. In the middle of the shoot, as I walk into the set after preparing myself to play a serious scene, he would switch to commentator mode. I have wondered ‘what sort of a director is this boy?’,” she smiles. Her transition from playing girl-next-door roles in the ‘80s to now playing “mom-next-door” roles, as she puts it, has followed an interesting trajectory. Urvashi may even be appearing in more number of mother roles than she prefers, something she indirectly hints at: “I don’t like to repeat myself. Several times, filmmakers have approached me with a reference of a role that I played in some film and they want to slot me in a similar character in their film. I don’t prefer that.” Deep dive Even so, playing a mother is no mean task since the character’s arc depends on the film’s genre: meaning, playing mother to Suriya in Soorarai Pottru is starkly different to playing one to RJ Balaji in a comedy like Mookuthi Amman . Urvashi, however, wants filmmakers to explore more angles to a female character. The change, she believes, will happen when directors think beyond superficial writing. “What importance a woman is afforded in society is what will reflect in films. Patriarchy tells women to not hold individual opinions and that her only objective is to get married, give birth, look after the husband and leave the critical thinking to male members. And so in a movie, too, we rarely explore the mom’s character traits.” The reason, she believes, that this remains the case even in 2020 in Tamil cinema is not for want of female writers. “It is just that the easiest way of doing business is to make a film about a hero,” she says, adding, “Why are most ‘family audiences’, the majority of whom are women, watching TV serials? If our directors observe the pattern, they will realise that the numbers of women coming to theatres went down because there is seldom any importance attached to a female character in most films.” Mookuthi Amman streams on Disney+ Hotstar from today.   Urvashi’s transition to playing “mom-next-door” roles, has followed an interesting trajectory
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Rolling the dice||Anurag Basu’s Ludo, currently streaming on Netflix, is a genre-blending multi-starrer that discusses life and death, right and wrong. What was his inspiration to write such a seemingly ambitious film after his previous one, Jagga Jasoos , a musical adventure, failed at the box-office? “I had two ideas: to make a fun film or to make one with four-five genres,” Basu explains, “I started writing the second. Initially, for two or three days, I couldn’t think of anything. I wondered if I could pull it off. But it just happened.” It just happened, he says, as if the script wrote itself. But such answers are characteristic of Basu. For, he comes across as a filmmaker, who goes by instinct than intellect. Ranbir Kapoor, the lead actor in Basu’s previous two films, had said in an interview that he would cancel a 40-day shoot on the third day. Abhishek Bachchan, who plays one of the lead characters in Ludo , says he never discloses the entire script to his actors. “Working with dada [Basu] is a bit like opening presents. As an actor, you’re kind of looking forward to going on set the next day to discover what you’re going to do and how you’re going to do it.” All this makes his process interesting. The filmmaker discusses that and more about Ludo in this interview. Excerpts: Actors of your films have said that you don’t disclose the entire movie to them and that you don’t have a script. You are a spontaneous filmmaker... Their performances are good in my films. And, this is because of my process. Giving them less information helps the film. The actors give their 100% and the performance is organic. And, I do have a script. It’s not possible to make a film without one. But I decide on how much I want to share, when to share and with which actors. I think my biggest problem is I don’t commit to the scenes until the last minute. I thrive on some magic happening on set. You suddenly see a table or a window and your scene changes. And, I can’t find this inspiration, sitting at home in front of my laptop.   Ludo is probably your biggest film in terms of the cast. Was this also the most difficult to write and direct?  Writing, yes. But not to direct — that was a cakewalk. Even Life In A Metro had many characters. But that was easier because the genre was the same and the character arcs were similar. In Ludo , every character is different. And, when you watch the film, it should be wholesome — with a beginning, middle and end. It shouldn’t be like you are watching four-five different films within the movie. So, I felt like a music conductor conducting separate pieces and putting it together. There was a risk of this becoming noise and not a melody. Was the film intended as an OTT release? What’s your take on OTT platforms?  Ludo was supposed to be released in theatres. But it kept getting delayed. Then, we gave in. But it was a blessing in disguise because it will reach larger audiences now. And, OTT platforms are improving the taste of the Indian audience. More people are becoming cinema-literate. And, because of that, Indian cinema will change. But theatres won’t go away because cinema is meant for community viewing.  Ludo , due to its multiple storylines and overarching philosophy, reminded one of Thiagarajan Kumararaja’s Super Deluxe . Did you watch the film?  No. Super Deluxe came out when I was shooting Ludo . I heard about it and asked my ADs to go and watch the film and see if anything was similar and we needed to change it. But thankfully we didn’t have to. It’s amusing that a film similar to Ludo released when I was making it. But it’s good that these kind of films are getting made and are being accepted.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||In a happy space||“It feels surreal that I survived,” laughs Janani Iyer about completing 10 years in the film industry. She regards it an achievement, especially for someone from a non-film background. “My journey has been great. I am here because of my love for acting and doing films that give me scope for performance.” Janani looks forward to a slew of upcoming films. She has finished working in Ve zham , directed by Sandeep Shyam. A murder mystery, it is a film she signed for immediately after she came out of Bigg Boss 2 , the reality show that made her a household name. The film also sees her work along with her Thegidi co-star Ashok Selvan. “The song ‘Vinmeen’ from the film is popular even now,” she mentions and says Vezham has been an exciting outing. “I had to perfect the body language of a writer,” she states about her preparation for her role. “The film has an interesting plot. I play an intense, strong-headed, independent woman who takes charge of her life. She takes the lead to propose to the man she loves. We shot the film mostly in Chennai and the post-production work including dubbing is over. Now, we have to wait and watch if the film releases on the big screen or the OTT platform.” She is equally thrilled about another upcoming film where she will be paired with Prabhu Deva. Janani is also a part of an OTT anthology directed by Deekay (who has done films like Yaamirukka Bayamaen and Kavalai Vendam ). “It’s a horror comedy with five segments. I play the lead in one of them; we filmed it during lockdown,” says Janani adding OTT has opened up great opportunities for her. “I want to experiment more as long as good scripts come my way.” Janani has also started a clothing line called The Hazel Avenue, an exclusive virtual store for hand-picked western outfits. She was recently part of a panel where she spoke on embracing a healthy lifestyle with almonds, organised by Almond Board of California. Does she follow Bigg Boss 3 ? “Not really. I just saw the opening episode. I want to tell participants, be yourself and let the best person win. My request to viewers is that don’t troll or abuse the participants. It’s only a TV show for entertainment. ”  My journey has been great. I am here because of my love for acting and doing films that give me scope for performance
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the sun shine in||“The pandemic has been good for us,” says Dhinakar Perumal, who owns the Nirmala Nilayam Retirement Community campus near Siruvani, 15 kilometres from Coimbatore city. “COVID-19 gave us ample time to revisit traditional architectural designs such as the sky-lit courtyard that lets sunlight to filter in and disinfect the building,” he says. The compact villas for senior citizens modelled after the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards of the US, also use the traditional Open To Sky (OTS) design, where an area in the house directly opens to the sky and is covered by fibre or translucent glass. “Nothing like sunlight to sanitise homes,” says architect Manikandan Ilango who has designed the villas. He has done projects across South India for over two decades and is also working on green villas. “Healthy living is the keyword now. Our vernacular buildings with courtyards were designed with forethought. At NNRC, we have used natural sunlight wherever possible. OTS is a traditional concept that we lost along the way. It is now making a comeback.” Dhinakar says the project took off when he started looking for a retirement home for his mother. “Retirement communities abroad pack in a lot of fun. I frequented some in the suburbs of Malden, Massachusetts, during my stay in Boston,” says Dhinakar adding how watched the community play pétanque, basketball, croquet and frisbee. He adds, “That’s the kind of retirement home, a place buzzing with energy that I wanted for my mother. I found none. Though she passed away the same year, I decided to go ahead with the project in her memory.” More people are opting for sky-lit courtyards, especially during the pandemic, says Bengaluru-based Sathya Prakash Varanashi who specialises in sustainable architecture. “All traditional homes around the world, in Japan, India, Europe or Africa have OTS courtyard in the centre. We avoided it in modern day buildings, because of mosquitos or the fear of rainwater coming in. Now, we cover it with window grill for security and use glass for light.” Sathya Prakash, who has designed homes in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu for over two decades says sunlight inside homes ensures continuous circulation of fresh air. “It is best to have the ceiling at 15 or 20 ft high to accommodate the courtyard. This way, inside spaces look larger and better.” He lists out other advantages too: the ability to bathe in sunlight right inside your homes and get a dose of Vitamin D. Located at Theethipalayam, off Siruvani Road, at the foothills of the Western Ghats, the sprawling campus of NNRC has spaces earmarked for pottery, sculpting and painting. A gazebo that has a double-layered tile roofing and open sides all around stands tall in the middle of the property. Says Dhinakar, “This open space also has natural light coming in from all directions and it can be used to learn arts, music, yoga or just to meditate. We have OTS primarily in spaces that are wet like bathrooms, utility areas, and kitchen. The ceiling is kept at 11 ft to ensure better air circulation in rooms. The portico uses traditional Kerala style double-layered tiled roof for a cooling effect.” He adds, “In Chettinad homes in Karaikudi, it is called ‘muttu kattu veedu’ where the design helps conserve water. We have drawn the theory from there and implemented it differently.” Bird song and blue skies The OTS concept has gained traction among people designing holiday homes away from the city, who want to bring Nature back into their lives, says Mumbai-based Neha Arte, an artist and environmental architect who works with sustainable designs and green buildings. “OTS works beautifully for green buildings that are basically about creating energy efficient, healthy and comfortable spaces. It saves energy as it reduces the need for artificial lighting and mechanical ventilation,” she adds. Then, there are added perks such as views of lush treetops and bursts bird song that enhance the indoors, when it is so closely connected with the outdoors. To know more on OTS, call 96773-33697/ 9677333025 or visit the NNRC pages on YouTube and Instagram.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Art that is inclusive||Akila Vaidyanathan from Coimbatore was misty-eyed when she saw her son Nishant Sriram’s paintings displayed at the second edition of eCAPA 2020 exhibition. He is one among the 59 participants with intellectual disabilities taking part in this virtual show organised by The Art Sanctuary, an NGO based in Bengaluru. “Nishant is autistic and was interested in art from a young age. This is his first exhibition and he has exhibited seven of his works inspired by Nature and patterns. I never thought he would be showcasing his works and selling them one day,” she says. There are 190 artworks including paintings, photographs, installations and clay sculptures at the ongoing event. The themes range from wildlife to abstract art. The NGO received around 500 entries and the works were selected by artist Bose Krishnamachari, founder member and president of Kochi Biennale Foundation. “Bose suggested not to set a theme, since he didn’t want to restrict their creativity in any way. We have participants with autism, cerebral palsy, Fragile X Syndrome, dyslexia, Down’s syndrome and global mental retardation,” says Shalini Gupta, Founder Trustee of the NGO. The first edition of eCAPA was in 2019 at Stir Gallery, Delhi. “We sold half of the works then. I was planning for this year’s edition when the pandemic struck, forcing me to move online. Basic details of the artist are available with each artwork on the website.” The artists were trained to pack and courier their works to the NGO. “All these little steps help them to be self-reliant,” she says. The Art Sanctuary, which was launched in 2019, conducts regular workshops on art, theatre, storytelling, photography and dance for people with intellectual disabilities. “The sessions are online now. We have professionals to take the sessions.” In addition, they also provide a platform for people to showcase their talents. “My daughter has Down’s Syndrome and she is a photographer and a coder. When she created her website and uploaded photographs, a lot parents told me that they don’t have a platform to put up the works of their children. Finally, it was during my trip to the Kochi-Muziris Biennale in 2018 that I decided to set up,” says Shalini. Mumbai-based Usaid Shaikh, who is autistic, has exhibited four of his paintings. His mother, Fatima Shaikh says, “Art helps him to express himself better. An exhibition like this is important in bringing inclusivity.” Shalini has plans to hold this exhibition every year. “People are ready to acknowledge talents of those with intellectual disabilities. It is a joy to see the smiles on participants. I still remember how a photographer danced with joy when he sold a photograph he took last year.”  The exhibition is on till January 26, 2021. For details, visit: theartsanctuary.in or call 9810255297.   Info you can use Price ranges from Rs. 500 to Rs. 80000 On till 26 January 2021 Visithttps://www.theartsanctuary.in/for details Call 9810255297 for details
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Slow-cooked pork, now a call away||“The Coimbatore palate likes it spicy,” says Radhica Muthappa of Bengaluru-based Curly Sue Pork, which specialises in slow-cooked pork, prepared Coorg style. “It’s been over a month since we started cold chain transport of frozen pork delicacies from Bengaluru to the city. People here loved our Coorg style pandi curry and chilli pork. They posted photos and feedback on our Instagram page. A generous amount of Coorg’s parangi malu , a local chilli also called ‘bird’s eye chilli’ goes into the preparations,” she says. Curly Sue Pork started off as a hobby kitchen two years ago by husband and wife Uttam Muthappa and Radhica, both of whom are from Coorg. “My husband loves to cook and I have a chef’s background.” Formerly kitchen executive at The Park and Burgundy restaurants in Chennai, Radhica combined her technical know-how of nutrition and professional cooking and his passion for food and they jointly perfected slow-cooking. “The meat is cooked between four and eight hours. It locks in the flavours, retains moisture — the result is succulent meat and a fragrant gravy. The pork cooks in its own fat that lends it a nice flavour,” explains Radhica. They cook through the week at their centralised kitchen in Bengaluru. “Our preparations travel well. They carry reheating instructions — we recommend heating them gently on a stove and can be stored for three to four days in the refrigerator,” she adds. Uttam and Radhica also share ideas on how best to use their dishes. For example, Radhica says chilli pork is versatile and can be had with burgers or hot rice. And, pulled pork, which is cooked for eight hours, can be used in a tortilla wrap or tossed with pasta to make a complete meal. “We have ready-to-cook burger patties that can be prepared in under 10 minutes; apart from bread, these also go well with rice, rotis and idlis ,” she adds. While they get most ingredients from Coorg, the couple grows herbs like rosemary and thyme in their home garden. And the pork comes from the same place their family has been buying from for the last 50 years. Most importantly, she says, no preservatives or additives are used in the dishes. “We use kachampuli vinegar traditionally brewed at our estate as a preservative for Coorg dishes. For pork vindaloo, we use coconut vinegar from Goa and pulled pork has apple cider vinegar. We grow our pepper and use hand-pounded masalas. We do the hard work — slow cook the meat, taste it and then pack it to make it convenient for you.”  For details, call 99000-26681, 82966-97096.   On the menu Pandi curry Chilli pork BBQ pulled pork Goan pork vindaloo Liberation burger patties
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||A role to remember||Danesh Razvi is basking in his newly acquired fame post the release of Netflix series A Suitable Boy . Adapted from Vikram Seth’s novel of the same name, Danesh plays Kabir Durrani in the six-episode series directed by Mira Nair. Though the show received mixed response from critics and audience, Danesh admits to being “overwhelmed” by the feedback he got for his role. “It is a little out of my comfort zone,” says the 27-year-old, who is a graduate of the UCLA School of Theater, Film and Television, Los Angeles. He, however, has his priorities sorted. “I want to work in good films... projects that I feel passionate about. I don’t want to do things just because I can get paid better,” he says, over a Zoom call from Mumbai. Edited excerpts: So how did Mira Nair find you? It is a yoga connection (laughs). She attends the yoga class taught by my mother. That is how I know her.  What was your brief for the role?  I grew up in Mumbai but the story is set in North India during the post Partition years. Mira and I would discuss about what attitude a character set in that era would possess. She said things like: ‘It’s about relating to the people who have been through hell’. The insight helped me get into the character. However, I had to work on my cricketing skills (laughs). I didn’t really play cricket growing up, so I had to learn how to play the game like a superstar! How is life post the series?  It has been great. Even strangers have reached out to me through social media and phone to share their feedback and appreciation. But you are not really active on social media... I am learning to use social media frequently. I should be using it for work, but I don’t know how to handle it (laughs). I don’t mind promoting something that I am passionate about but I don’t like the approach of selling on social media to get the job. One’s acting chops is what should get someone an acting job, and not social media. It is not my thing but I will grow into it, maybe. What is your take on the criticism of A Suitable Boy ?  If we are talking about the criticism on the show being in English, I want to say the book is written in English, and so we speak English. The show was picked up by an English production house to be made for the BBC, but we have dubbed it in Hindi too for our audience. If the show was picked up by an Indian production house, then things would have been different... unfortunately, that did not happen. We are proud of our work, but everyone is entitled to their opinions. Any upcoming projects?  I’m busy reading scripts at the moment, and I am in talks to finalise my first feature film. We are likely to begin shooting in January 2021.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Will you help Lilly recover?||When rescued, Lilly’s hind leg was completely crushed, leaving her open to infection and in pain. After a thorough assessment of her injuries, her leg was amputated to give her the best chance of recovery. Lilly is sweet and optimistic and even after surgery, she was up and about, looking for fun and cuddles. While she is doing well, little Lilly’s road to recovery is not yet complete, and we are looking for a kind sponsor to support her ongoing care needs. To know more about sponsoring a rescued soul, please get in touch on the number given below.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||A pond a day||R Manikandan was watching TV at his home in Sundarapuram when the news flashed on the screen: he had won the Best Water Warrior Award-South Zone for the year 2019. It was conferred by the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti, Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation. “I was informed about it in January, but was asked not to share it with anyone till the official announcement was made. Even my family came to know about it through the news broadcast,” says the 38-year-old. He is the founder of the NGO Kovai Kulangal Padhukaapu Amaippu that works to protect water-bodies in the district. Manikandan has been working towards the revival of ponds and lakes for three years now. “Over these years, our team has cleaned six lakes, two canals and four check-dams. I have also created a Miyawaki forest with 7,500 native varieties of trees on the bunds of Vellalore tank,” he says. His NGO has around 200 active members including professionals and students who volunteer on weekends. “During lockdown, we cleaned Vellachi kuttai near Kuppanur; Makali Amman Kovil kuttai near Chennanur and Kadaikaran kuttai at Devarayapuram. All the three ponds are in catchment areas of river Noyyal.” The process involved clearing overgrown bushes, deepening the ponds and strengthening the bunds. “This is important as it recharges groundwater, which helps vegetation in the area, which will in turn facilitate rainfall. It is all interdependent,” he says. While Manikandan is happy about the recognition, he understands that it comes with a huge responsibility. “I will continue this work till I know all the water-bodies in the city are clear,” he says. So far, the team has collected information on 900 ponds in Coimbatore from the District Rural Development Agencies. “We plan to check each one and revive those that are neglected. We are also on a mission to find information on water-bodies in the city, he says. “Once done, the data will be uploaded on our website and can be accessed by anyone.” Manikandan says that the most common issue that plagues water-bodies is the dumping of garbage. “Take the example of Coimbatore, that has the Noyyal running through it. It is choked with sewage and solid waste and therefore our drinking water comes from the Bhavani,” he says. “This should change. We should learn to take care of local natural resources.”  His NGO has 200 professionals and students who volunteer on weekends
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Basil||This friendly and healthy soul is 11 months old. Vaccinated and sterilised, she is waiting to meet you.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Clark||At around two-and-a-half years of age, this fluffy and friendly boy is good with dogs and humans alike. He is vaccinated and sterilised.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Helen||This friendly and energetic girl needs a loving family. Vaccinated and sterilised, she is also great with other dogs.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Muffin||This little girl is cute and playful. Vaccinated, she will be sterilised at the appropriate age. All pets get free lifetime veterinary care, free annual vaccinations, and free spay/neuter surgery at appropriate age from Humane Animal Society (HAS). Contact Humane Animal Society @ 93661 27215 from 9 am to 5 pm.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Art on the walls||Artrendz Art Gallery holds a virtual art exhibition of paintings by 21 artists from Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu. It will feature 41 works done using mediums such as acrylic, pen, and knife on canvas. “This is our first virtual art exhibition and we plan to use Zoom and YouTube. Those interested can get in touch with us and the links will be shared with them before the event,” says Vigneshraj R, who owns the Gallery.  The exhibition is on from November 15 to 17; 11 am to 1 pm and 6 pm to 7 pm.   Call 8148407465 or mailartrendzartgallery@gmail.comfor details.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Mum’s the word||With two films releasing this Deepavali, Urvashi has made a steady re-entry into mainstream Tamil cinema. It is not that the 51-year-old actor has anything left to prove considering her body of work. However, being a part of Soorarai Pottru and Mookuthi Amman is reassurance for the industry’s top filmmakers that the quality performer in her is intact even as she enters the fifth decade of a long career. In both films, Urvashi plays the mother to the central character. “ Mookuthi Amman focusses almost all its runtime on this family: a mother, her three daughters and son, and her father-in-law,” says Urvashi. Playful mind Produced by Vels Film International, Mookuthi Amman marks the directorial debut of N.J. Saravanan and RJ Balaji. If you are wondering what it is like working with a man who has gained the affection of cricket fans in Tamil Nadu with his interesting commentary during the recently-concluded IPL, it is as you would imagine. “Balaji is very playful. In the middle of the shoot, as I walk into the set after preparing myself to play a serious scene, he would switch to commentator mode. I have wondered ‘what sort of a director is this boy?’,” she smiles. Her transition from playing girl-next-door roles in the ‘80s to now playing “mom-next-door” roles, as she puts it, has followed an interesting trajectory. Urvashi may even be appearing in more number of mother roles than she prefers, something she indirectly hints at: “I don’t like to repeat myself. Several times, filmmakers have approached me with a reference of a role that I played in some film and they want to slot me in a similar character in their film. I don’t prefer that.” Deep dive Even so, playing a mother is no mean task since the character’s arc depends on the film’s genre: meaning, playing mother to Suriya in Soorarai Pottru is starkly different to playing one to RJ Balaji in a comedy like Mookuthi Amman . Urvashi, however, wants filmmakers to explore more angles to a female character. The change, she believes, will happen when directors think beyond superficial writing. “What importance a woman is afforded in society is what will reflect in films. Patriarchy tells women to not hold individual opinions and that her only objective is to get married, give birth, look after the husband and leave the critical thinking to male members. And so in a movie, too, we rarely explore the mom’s character traits.” The reason, she believes, that this remains the case even in 2020 in Tamil cinema is not for want of female writers. “It is just that the easiest way of doing business is to make a film about a hero,” she says, adding, “Why are most ‘family audiences’, the majority of whom are women, watching TV serials? If our directors observe the pattern, they will realise that the numbers of women coming to theatres went down because there is seldom any importance attached to a female character in most films.”  Urvashi’s transition to playing “mom-next-door” roles, has followed an interesting trajectory
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Dal Bukhara at home||There was a time as a child, when I wanted to be an ice cream seller. I thought I’d have a van full of the stuff all to myself. The dream remained unfulfilled, but something equally good happened to one of our friends: She went and joined the ITC group of hotels. Thanks to her job, she got us the most delicious ham tarts from ITC Maurya for every celebratory occasion. Over the years, ham, sadly, gave way to chicken, but even now, when someone says ITC, I think of those crispy-creamy pastries. There is, of course, a lot more to ITC than the ham or chicken tarts. Most people love the food of Bukhara, which serves what is described as northwest frontier cuisine. I am not greatly fond of Bukhara, but I have had memorable meals at Dum Pukht, the restaurant where you get some divine Awadhi food; and at West View, where the chefs would gently sizzle a steak or prepare pork chops that you’d not forget. To cut a long story short, here’s some good news for those who like the food of ITC: It has started a home delivery service called Gourmet Couch. In this terrible age of the pandemic, when people are still wary of going out to restaurants, even the high-end ones, many luxury hotels have decided to come to us. You sit at home, look at the menu, place your order, and the food arrives at your doorstep. I got one such hamper from Gourmet Couch last week. If you do want something from Bukhara, I would recommend its burrah kabab. Now burrah kababs, as most of us know, are really difficult to cook to perfection. They have to be somewhat charred, but not overdone, as that leads to a bitter taste. The Gourmet Couch burras (Rs. 2,299) were superb — well done, yet still juicy, a combination that is hard to get. We also enjoyed the mutton Dum Pukht biryani (Rs. 1,575). The rice was long grained and had all the mild flavours of a good biryani, with just the right fragrance of mace and kewda . The murgh handi korma (Rs. 1,599) was delightful. The chicken pieces — boneless drumsticks — were tender, and I loved its smooth gravy. Clearly, the masala had been strained, and the outcome was a velvety dish. I am afraid the galouti kabab didn’t work for me. The meat was too densely packed, which made it more like a shammi kabab than a galouti . I am not very fond of Dal Bukhara (Rs. 950) either, as I tend to find it a bit too smoky. The meal ended with superb gulab jamuns (Rs. 599) — which were huge, soft and juicy. The menu includes food from its Italian kitchen (crusted stuffed chicken served with roasted baby potatoes and veggies, Rs. 1,250), and the Indian section includes hara kabab Awadhi (Rs. 1,099), mirch baigan ka salan (Rs. 1,225) and shahi nihari (Rs. 1,625). My friend in ITC communications tells me that a ‘no contact’ protocol is followed for all deliveries. There are mandatory temperature checks for chefs and other staffers, and the food — packed in corn starched clamshell, corrugated paper boxes — is delivered in their own fleet of cars. The service is open from 11:30 am to 3 pm and 6:30 pm to 10:30 pm (call 011-66325137). All in all, Gourmet Couch is good news. Stay home, stay safe – and eat well. What could be better than that? The writer is a seasoned food critic
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I enjoy the liberties of OTT’||The year 2000 was unforgettable for Abhishek Bachchan. His first film alongside débutante Kareena Kapoor, Refugee , by JP Dutta, premièred in June and it garnered more attention than it would have if the newcomers weren’t from the first families of Hindi cinema. In a recent interview with Rajeev Masand, Bachchan recalled how he and Kapoor were nervously clutching each other’s hands during a special preview show for the cast’s families in Mumbai. It’s been a long two decades since that night. Over the years, the actor has dealt with hits, flops, acclaims and criticisms, but he vividly remembers that première even today. Likewise, 2020 will be etched in Bachchan’s memory forever. In his 20th year in films, he was looking forward to the release of two exciting projects: Amazon Prime Video’s Breathe: Into The Shadows , and Ludo , directed by Anurag Basu, a filmmaker he’d wanted to collaborate with for a while. The year was supposed to break a dry spell on screen for Bachchan who was last seen in Anurag Kashyap’s 2018 film, Manmarziyan , which itself had come after a two-year gap. But just days after Breathe... — his web series début in July — he and his family contracted Covid-19. With everyone at home having recovered now, his focus is back on work. “I’m itching to be in front of the camera again,” Bachchan says, as he talks about Basu’s working style and the difference between web series and film on OTT: This is your 20th year in cinema. How has your approach to films and acting changed from your début? The passion is the same. My inquisitiveness is the same. So is the hunger to learn and improve. The one thing that has changed is that there is a bit more ease and comfort in front of the camera. Apart from Anurag, what made you sign up for Ludo ? Just that. We got into the story and the script after I agreed to come on board. Working with dada [Anurag] is a bit like opening presents. You don’t know what’s going to be inside. He plays his cards close to his chest and doesn’t like to divulge too much to the actors. As an actor, you’re always looking forward to going on set the next day to discover what you’re going to do and how you’re going to do it. In that sense, there’s a mystery around working with him. Is this mystery difficult for you to deal with as an actor? No, as I used to work like that at the beginning of my career. For Refugee , JP Datta had the same process and he didn’t want the actors to rehearse or come prepared. Things work differently today. Everything is done before you go on set: there is extensive homework, rehearsals and readings. I can understand if the newer actors prefer that, but I thoroughly enjoyed Anurag’s way of working.  Breathe... was an Amazon Prime series, Ludo is a Netflix release and your next film, The Big Bull , is going to be on Hotstar. What is your take on OTT platforms? It is wonderful. The kind of exposure you get on a streaming platform is something that we might not have got previously. Ludo released in over 190 countries simultaneously and that’s a fantastic reach not just for me, but for Indian cinema. There is, however, a distinction between a film and a web series, and you can’t generalise them as OTT content. The approach towards making these two should be different. The writing process, especially. For a web series, you have the luxury of time and can deep-dive into characters, the sub-layers and subtexts. You can’t do that in a film. I am enjoying the liberties that come with the medium. OTT platforms are a boon and the future; they are here to stay. Having said that, one of my greatest experiences in life is still watching a film on the big screen. Does OTT-specific content liberate you from the commercial constraints of big-screen films? To a certain extent, yes, as you’re not required to convince your audience to travel to a movie theatre and buy tickets. They can watch the film whenever they like, so certain commercial requirements are not required. Hence, you’ll see more new faces. I can concentrate purely on performing. But the way you look, the way you dance, the way you sing, the way you romance, the way you fight, all these things matter in cinema. Did your experience with Covid-19 change the way you look at your life and work? Towards my work, I don’t think there’s any change. For an actor to sit at home for eight months is a tough job. I have a house filled with professionals, so that was different for all of us. Despite suffering from this virus and understanding its severity, I got so much time with my family, which is a rarity. In a sense, I enjoyed this lockdown. I’m not going to complain. I’m just happy that everybody’s safe and healthy.  Working with dada [Anurag] is a bit like opening presents. You don’t know what’s going to be inside
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Majama With Joe Mama||Priya Joe- bhai Biden, Firstly, hardik subha congratulations on your win. We always knew it would be you. The fact that Diwali coincides with your victory, let us be clear, is no coincidence. Our infallible panchang clearly mentions US’s return to Ram Rajya in 2020. So the fireworks you’ll be seeing from space over our great land are entirely in your honour. Might as well share this with you now: while the general belief was that the diya lighters and thali clangers were chanting ‘Go-Corona-Go’ a few months ago, if you listen carefully to the new, remastered footage, you will realise our patriots were actually chanting ‘Go-Donald-Go’. We didn’t want to reveal that too early. As you well know, all our master strokes are announced with such sheer suddenness that even Alfred- bhai Hitch murga can’t see them coming. We fooled you, too, didn’t we, by loudly declaring ‘Ab ki baar , etc’ at that big do in Houston, lol! That was a classic bait and switch, dost. It is called statecraft. Which is just like paper craft. (Both use glue and glitter to make flimsy things look grand.) What you didn’t know is that every arrhythmic dancer, off-key singer and idiot performer at that event knew we meant the opposite. And voted for you! It is just like how we talk of Gandhi ji ’s values here when we are actually referring to you-know-who’s, rofl. As you know, our culture is all about grand spectacle. And by that, we don’t mean Bulgari, lmao. If you have checked our epics, Baahubali 1 and 2, you’d know what we mean. So it is time you visited our ancient, wise, all-knowing land, Joe- bhai . We will arrange a spectacular event for you. In fact, it could have a mellifluous, rhyming/alliterative name, as is our custom. How about Maidan Pe Biden? Or Majama With Joe Mama ? Or Kem Cho , Joe? Then there is Kamala- ben , of course. You have to bring her. She is our beti , after all. Just like Indira- ben . Not that one, the other one, the Nooyi- wallah . There is also Padma- ben Lakshmi. Did you know all these girls are Madrasis? That means they don’t know Hindi. But we still respect them deeply. That is how tolerant we are. Anyway, coming back to Kamala- ben Harihar, we could have an event for her, too. Like Goddess Saraswati, she could emerge from a lotus. Her name means lotus, by the way. And we could call it Lotus Mein Flotus (we do know she isn’t the First Lady but so what). Let’s talk menu. Fusion is how we are seeing it. Dhokla burgers, for a start. That is two theplas with a dhokla in the middle. To be washed down with chilled thandai -shakes. Say yes, Joevardhan Bidendas. It’ll be fun. We have, after all, explained how we were always for you. Now it is time for rib-crunching hugs and thigh-slapping laughs. We will give you double dose of Coronil, worry not. You’ll be perfectly safe. We could fly in our seaplane over our Ganga Maiyya . We could gossip about Nehru and Edwina. You could ride in the bullet train (not the real thing, the scale model that Sambit ji plays with). You could do an interview with Arnab... if he is free. So much to do. If that isn’t enough, see how much we totally have in common. You are from Delaware. We are known for software. You worked with Obama. We are full of Majama. You have White House. We have Tejo Mahalaya. You have Vin Diesel ... So do come. Yours sincerely, 1.3 Billion Indians Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The Beaune identity||On one Sunday every November, all roads in Burgundy lead to the small town of Beaune. Here, the Hospices de Beaune, a charitable almshouse built in the 15th century, is the site of the world’s most famous wine auction. This year, however, things will be different. Covid-19 will change the scale, size and excitement of the 160th edition of the auction, but the magnificent wines of Bourgogne (the preferred French name for Burgundy) will remain the same. Last November, I had watched an entirely different Beaune at work and play. On the Hospices de Beaune weekend, there had been festivity in the air: the small town bursting at the seams with weekend visitors, the hotels sold out, the wine bars and restaurants jammed with tourists sipping Chablis and eating jambon persillé . Revellers had spilled on to the streets, wine glasses in hand, disregarding the cold, drizzly weather. This year there will be no massive crowds thronging the courtyard of the Hotel Dieu with its multi-hued tiled roof, the site of the Hospices de Beaune museum. Instead, the auction will happen with strict protocols in place for appointments, seating of the buyers (limited to 250 instead of the usual 600) and social distancing. And to keep the fans happy, the event will be live streamed. “The tastings are limited, with pre-appointments to be confirmed for six people every 15 minutes,” says Christian Ciamos, export director of Domaines Albert Bichot, the major Bourgogne négociant . Among the new rules: compulsory masks, strict on-time arrival by potential buyers, socially-distanced seating, and restricted numbers of staff numbers. What will remain constant is the Christie’s team of auctioneers who will once again work in well-oiled tandem through the marathon auction in the grand hall of Hôtel Dieu, exhorting buyers to pay just a little more.  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Agam Darshi: Adding to the diversity||There’s plenty to be excited about filmmaker Deepa Mehta’s drama, Funny Boy . The coming-of-age story, of a boy growing up gay in Sri Lanka during the Tamil-Sinhalese conflict, is Canada’s pick for the 93rd Oscars. Still weeks shy of release, it is on most ‘must-see’ lists. And the adaptation of Shyam Selvadurai’s 1994 award-winning novel is also cementing the popularity of South Asian storylines — coming as it does on the heels of the recent BBC production of Vikram Seth’s A Suitable Boy and ahead of the 2021 release of Aravid Adiga’s The White Tiger on Netflix. Riding the buzz is the cast and crew, especially Agam Darshi, the Punjabi Sikh-Canadian actor who plays the protagonist Arjun Chelvaratnam’s (aka Arjie) aunt, Radha. The actor-writer-director-producer says she always knew she would work with Mehta; she just didn’t know when. The opportunity came with Funny Boy, after the Indo-Canadian director saw Darshi’s audition tape and said, “You caught something in Radha, and I couldn’t look away.”  Stories that need telling   Funny Boy is a complex story, with several themes running concurrently, including ideas of identity, self-worth, sexuality and displacement. Darshi, 33, is amazed that a 26-year-old novel — which is set in the 1970s and 80s — can resonate so acutely in 2020. “You think the world changes fast, but it doesn’t and that’s a shame,” says the mother of four-year-old twin boys, over a video call from Saskatchewan, Canada. “Homosexuality is still illegal in many parts of the world, criminalised in Sri Lanka, and a source of shame for South Asians all over the world. We are still struggling with these issues.” Slated to release on December 4 in Canada and internationally (in the US and the UK) on December 10, Darshi feels privileged to be “a part of exactly the kind of film the world needs right now”. She adds, “I had read the script several times, but really there’s nothing quite like watching two young, brown men fall in love on screen. It will make some people uncomfortable while others will feel that finally the world sees them.” The award-winning Los Angeles-based actor, who has appeared in films such as Final Destination 3 , Colossal , and Kingsway , describes her character, Radha, as spoiled, loving and loved. “Her journey is to impart love and excitement for life to Arjie,” she shares. “She comes from a Tamil upper class Christian household. Returning home to Colombo after studying in Toronto, she has seen the world in a different way. When Arjie’s entire family thinks he’s a funny boy, Radha doesn’t see anything wrong with him. She thinks he is perfect.”   Finding her own path   Born in Birmingham, UK, Darshi was three years old when she moved to Canada with her parents. She remembers the awe she felt when her parents took her to a drive-in theatre in Montreal, to watch The NeverEnding Story . “It was the first time that I felt the magic of film and storytelling,” she says, adding how, later on, she was drawn to stories like Anne of Green Gables and Little Women . “Troublemakers always resonated with me,” says Darshi, who has an adventurous streak herself — most recently, she scaled Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania. “I loved Jo March from Little Women because she didn’t do what was expected of her. I would have loved to play her, but I am not white,” she laughs. Growing up as a Sikh girl in Canada, however, she recalls how little of herself she saw in popular culture, “not even in the films of my favourite directors Noah Baumbach, Sofia Coppola and Woody Allen”. Rather than wait for the parts, Darshi did the next best thing. She wrote, produced and directed short films. She is a strong addition to the growing list of Indian American, British and Canadian actors — from Dev Patel and Mindy Kaling to Archie Punjabi and Ritu Arya — who are pushing the envelope today. Darshi is currently scouting locations for Indians in Cowtown , her feature film directorial debut, which she has written (one of six scripts accepted into the Whistler Film Festival’s Praxis Screenwriting Lab) and will also act in. “It is a dramedy with levity about family, forgiving and moving forward. It is inspired by the character-driven films I love.” She will also join the cast of Disney Channel’s original movie, Spin, in Toronto. She plays the mother of a South Asian girl who is a DJ, in the Manjari Makijany directorial.   Holding out for hope   An activist for race equality in media, Darshi co-founded the Vancouver International South Asian Film Festival (VISAFF). As she writes on her website, the festival (currently in its 10th edition) “focuses on ‘bridging the gap’ between South Asian talent and mainstream audiences”, by breaking stereotypes. “My film, which has a regular Sikh Punjabi family living in Canada, isn’t about identity in the traditional sense — where people are in a new world and holding on to old traditions. That is a tiring theme that has been recycled many times,” she explains, adding that “we have moved on. I feel Canadian and that I belong here; but I am also an Indian girl and [as one] I feel like I belong here too”. She wants to see more stories that touch on themes of humanity, lighter films that are more hopeful and positive. Streaming services are one of the tools that she believes will help this. “They have evened out the playing field. [For example, not only can] the whole world watch Funny Boy at the same time, but as the world gets smaller, such films will have more impact. Access to films and filmmakers will also keep improving.” All of this facilitates representation, too. Having one Mindy Kaling, one Hasan Minhaj or one Kumail Nanjiani in the industry is not enough. “It used to be such a white boys’ club and so much about who you knew. But now you are able to write a story that represents you and you will find someone with a similar perspective, so that story will get seen,” she concludes.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Rajputs with the golden guns||The skyline of Jodhpur is pinned in place by the mammoth silhouette of Mehrangarh on Bhaucheeria Hill and the regal dome of the Umaid Bhawan Palace on Chittar Hill. Between the two is defined the spirit of Marwar, forged by the sword in a thousand bloody battles in the heat of the Thar. Through the centuries down to the First World War’s Haifa in 1918 — considered the last great cavalry action in military history — the Jodhpur Lancers were known for their reckless charge with only sword and lance. The Rajputs first encountered the firearm at the battle of Khanwa (1526) fought between Babur and Rana Sanga of Mewar. “The Rajputs had never seen anything like it before,” says Gaj Singh II, erstwhile ruler of Jodhpur (and head of the House of Rathore) in his foreword to Robert Elgood’s The Maharaja of Jodhpur’s Guns . The book, published by Niyogi Books and Mehrangarh Museum Trust, is an amalgamation of historic Indian firearms, and is said to be the first on the subject. Mehrangarh, built in 1452 by Rao Jodha and described by English writer Rudyard Kipling as ‘the work of angels, fairies and giants… built by titans and coloured by the morning sun’, has been home to an extraordinary museum and centre of culture since 1972, when Gaj Singh II transformed the fort. It is also where some of the 350 guns whose images feature in the book, rest.  By the barrel  The UK-based Robert Elgood, an expert on the historic arms of Hindu India and the Islamic world, brings to his work a lifetime of passion for medieval armoury. With a degree in Islamic History from the School of Oriental and African Studies, London, a DPhil in Indian Anthropology from Oxford, and work experiences with Sotheby’s and the Wallace Collection, Elgood says, “My interest in arms and armour began at an early age. Islamic Arms , which I edited, comprising articles by international scholars, was published in 1979. I was invited to work in the newly-formed Islamic Department at Sotheby’s as an expert on Oriental arms.” Those years set off a series of books — on the arms collection of Shaikh Hasan al Thani in Qatar; Arms and Armour of Arabia ; and the first book on Islamic firearms by the owner of the Tareq Rajab Museum, Kuwait in 1995. Reading The Maharaja of Jodhpur’s Guns is like travelling from the 15th to the 20th century at a steady canter on a hardy Marwari horse. The first aspect of the book that strikes the reader is Elgood’s extraordinary research, spanning centuries, continents and private collections. In discussing the transfer of military and firepower technology through war and trade, he makes the subject integrated across Europe, the Arab and Turkish worlds, India and China. However, the detailed conquests of marauding horsemen and warriors in chain mail may interest only the avid historian. For the lover of the aesthete, there is the rest of the book — over 300 pages of fine pictures of miniature paintings sourced from the Chester Beatty Library, Dublin; the Musee Guimet, Paris; and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York; among others. There is also a detailed catalogue on every kind of gun that has been fired on the subcontinent. With fine brushstrokes, Elgood discusses the invention of gunpowder, its arrival in India, the matchlock guns of the Portuguese Eastern empire, the Sindhi jezails with their exquisite muzzles, powder flasks made of mother of pearl, and sporting guns that were the highlight of game shooting expeditions. Elgood, who had earlier catalogued the Maharaja of Jodhpur’s edged weapons, says he worked his “way through the maharaja’s personal possessions selecting any object that seemed interesting and high quality”. British gunmakers Holland and Holland and Purdeys also made their records available to him.  Tales of the brave  The book names many of the early guns of Jodhpur as matchlocks made in India. The design was essentially Mughal, copied from the Safavids of Iran, who, in turn, copied from the Turks who were inspired by the weaponry of the European armies they fought. “The Rajput warriors despised guns, believing that a brave man should fight his enemy up close. They were usually paid more for a wound with a sword than the same wound caused by a gun,” says Elgood. This, however, did not discourage Gaj Singh II’s grandfather, Maharaja Umaid Singh, from possessing some fine weapons, including a priceless enamelled 12-bore gun. His father, Maharaja Hanwant Singh, set up a gun factory in Mehrangarh. “In the 19th century, the use of European guns became widespread in princely India and the Jodhpur armoury contains examples of the very best hunting guns,” says Elgood, adding, “Maharaja Umaid Singh was a great shikari and Maharaja Hanwant Singh was an expert gun designer. The Jodhpur collection, therefore, includes superb 20th century guns including a gold Colt automatic. The ivory grip bears the inscription as given by Umaid Singh to his son on his 21st birthday.” There are also pages from the 1926 hunting diary of Maharaja Umaid Singh that make for some interesting and humorous reading, and tales of how a disguised .22 pen pistol came to be auctioned as part of the Mountbatten Collection. Be it history that draws you or stories of brave adventure, the book is a record of why India’s royalty continues to remain the stuff of legend and how the firearm came to be for the Rathores, as treasured as the “Marwari horse and the sacred sword”. Published by Niyogi Books, The Maharaja of Jodhpur’s Gunsis priced at Rs. 4,500.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Skip these ‘bombs’||Festivals in India have managed to stay rooted in the past and yet get a tech upgrade. It is the worst combination ever, one that replaces all the right feelings with robotic precision. We stick on to inexplicable rituals that are performed with much fervour, like invoking a sky-full of deities right into our shanty little 2BHK (with terrace and servant’s room), but we don’t make any space for empathising with others who are in our physical proximity and could really use a hug. Then, technology steps in to really hold up a mirror to our hollowed out existence — playing prayers on Spotify because no one remembers the words or, worse still, their significance, looking up the right way to put a vermilionteeka,or with which hand to do theaarati(was it anti-clockwise)? Festivals are a farcical parody of what they were originally intended for. They rob days like Diwali of all their joyous mirth. At the risk of sounding like a party pooper, here are four things I could do without this year, but also the next, and the next...  Greetings: It surprises me how people mix sincere emotions with obligations. Sending cheesy, generic, forwarded wishes along the lines of, “May this Diwali/New Year bring you/your loved ones health/wealth/joy and may God/Almighty/Guruji shower you with his/their blessings” convey nothing at all. Stop. You really want to make my Diwali brighter, call me, or better yet, send me a gift, the kind that I can feel solid between my hands and not one that, as per the adage, “only counts in thoughts”.     Gifts: While on gifts, let’s get this clarified too. Every year India plays the great game of pass-the-parcel where gifts are received and forwarded. Much like Newton’s Law, no new gifts have been made or used in the last five decades, they simply exchange hands and get passed around endlessly. I bet if we actually opened one we won’t find anything useful but it will certainly have great museum value, and a blemish of a carbon footprint. So if you want to send me something, work on trying to, and make it meaningful and relatable.     Firecrackers: Honestly, I have difficulty recreating the scene where the revered Lord Rama returns with his devoted family to his heavenly kingdom amidst sounds of “Seetirockets” and “Lakshmi/Golabombs”. Was He returning to Operation Desert Storm? Would He not have just turned around and promptly gone back to the forest where the air was cleaner and the environs, silent and peaceful? Please remember that henceforth. Firecrackers are a ridiculous waste of resources and harm too many elements. You really want a spectacular display, feed a few hundred and hear them thank you. But if philanthropy is lost on you, then simply burn a few wads of Rs. 2,000 notes and in that silence you will hear the sound of your incurable stupidity shouting out loud!     Card g ames: Honestly, a good ol’ taash party is the most binding ritual of Diwali that exists nowadays. And it is not going away because not even a deadly virus has abated people’s interest in gambling their savings away. But at least it is an honest love for something that everyone understands and believes in. It is that one moment of sincerity that people allow themselves: the hope, the anxiety, the rush, the joy and the fall are all real. I wish the prayer ceremonies were half as connecting or meaningful. Not that I care for either. My only gripe is this: please serve the bloody dinner at an earthly hour. As someone who has a gag reflex to throwing his money away on pure chance, I am (and often in Delhi, Katy Perry) courteous enough to attend your ridiculous parties, so please be civil and feed me at an appropriate time. I couldn’t care less for who got a trail and which variation is being played next (or maybe I could care lesser); I am merely here for your top-shelf booze, the fancy catering, and to watch some fledgling Bollywood starlet belittle themselves with your overtly enthusiastic family.  This column is for anyone who gives an existential toss.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Can you sell wellbeing?||Paro’s website declares that it is “an invitation to pause”. Ironic for a brand that was forced to do just that during the lockdown, stilling sales as well. In fact, the website, which currently does not involve e-commerce (this will take about four or five months) encapsulates the brand very well.Parogoodearth.comtells you it is woven from the same threads as its ‘mother’ Good Earth (grand dame Anita Lal has called it Good Earth’s soul). The Sanskrit shloka as you enter the site invites you to a world of Vedanta and India’s current rediscovery of it; and its founder Simran Lal’s messages on the blog give you a glimpse into her personal journey that’s intertwined with the brand’s formulation and development. On the personal front, Simran says the lockdown was “precious”, “fabulous”, “just amazing”, especially with the time saved on the commute. On the work front, it was “initially very hard” but then the time was used in reprioritising. “[The brand has] evolved in the sense that people today, thanks to the lockdown, are being forced to look within, look out for things they can connect with. Sutradhar, which is our online blog, has got much more traffic now than earlier. More men have come to our site (@parogoodearth on Instagram) and shop there,” she says, adding that they have seen a 55% increase in follower base since the lockdown. On ground, amidst the almost anachronistically glitzy residents of luxury mall The Chanakya’s ground floor — international legacy brands Hermes, Saint Laurent, and Tiffany and Co. — Paro holds its own with its black frontage and gold lettering. Simran says that while ideally the store could have been a standalone, say set in a courtyard, the mall setting has helped make it accessible. The Indian way Much like a live Sadhguru session, there is no space for ugliness at Paro. Simran uses the word “beautiful” 16 times across many different topics as we speak. In fact, though Paro’s overarching theme is soukya (wellbeing) and swasthi (auspicious) — from which she tells me the word swastika is derived — what you see as you enter the store are the clothes and jewellery. So there is also an emphasis on shringar (beautification). The idea is to celebrate the body as a temple, and this approach consequently keeps it well, says Simran, rejecting monk-like austerity as a western concept. I wonder if the name in Devanagari script may distance the two-year-old brand from a southern audience that’s already reeling from assaults on its language and culture. But context counts for a great deal, and in Delhi, it is a representation of a throwback to a pre-Mughal era. “The idea is not to exclude but to open up a world that people don’t know anything about,” says Simran, of Paro being perceived as exclusionary. Its rooting in ‘ancient Indian practises’ with a section called the Sacred Agni, the fact that speakers at events Paro has organised have included David Frawley who also writes for the right wing magazine Swarajya , and that its newsletter is titled Seasonal Rhythms talks to those who follow a Hindu way of life. Post pandemic strategy Paro will be increasing its focus on yoga and deep sleep offerings, says Simran, with the brand expanding to 2,947 square feet, taking in space from what used to be Good Earth’s Shalimar. Look forward to a new ‘sleep’ section at The Chanakya comprising GOTS-certified organic bed and bath linen, pillows, bolsters, oils, fragrances, etc. The store currently has a collection ofbandhanisaris in Bangalore silk and a Cashmere collection, with stoles (from Rs. 25,000) and shawls (Rs. 35,000 onwards) made “exclusively by Kashmir Loom for Paro”. There are incense sticks made of pure herbs and resins, and a signature panch agni oil (Rs. 1,500) for a steady flame, organic camphor, diyas (Rs. 3,500) and other similar items. However, its therapy rooms that offered facials, foot and body massages, are not functional and the apothecary who helps customers blend essential oils is not available for consultations yet. A contemporary take There was a time when women ‘of a certain age’ dedicated themselves to prayers and sacred rituals — this is its modern day avatar, where you can shop for havan kunds (sacrificial fire) and resin blends for burning, all in a mall, even as you grab achocolat au pain. It is when youth has fled and frailty is suddenly palpable that you lapse into the rhythm of routine with nasya oil, silver tongue cleaners (Rs. 1,500), and pretty neti pots. Simran says that while older women are the natural fit for the brand, she’s surprised at the number of young women who engage, too. Considering the brand is Simran — she’s studying Vedanta, Ayurveda and Sanskrit, and herself follows a series of daily micro rituals or dincharya , to connect with nature and still the mind — it is going to be difficult to replicate the experience of Paro’s philosophy online. “The vision is never to create too many Paro spaces because we’re so personal and so intimate,” she says. Instead, she hopes everyone will connect with its Indianness, its philosophy that we seem to have lost over the years.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Diwali ready: the jacket||Now that Zoom celebrations are par for the course, all the festive garments from 2020 will definitely see another outing in the coming year. And jackets have been getting a lot of attention for their versatility. From the runway (Suket Dhir’s brocade blazers) to retail (W’s bomber jackets) there is something for every budget. Here are our craft-forward picks. Compiled by Susanna Myrtle Lazarus
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Saturation point||Sometimes all it takes is one item to provide colour during the festivities. Top tenets during the pandemic-reset — sustainability, upcycling, traditional craft — come together in Ekaya X Misho. The collaboration uses recycled sterling silver, tapping into Gujarat’s silversmithing traditions, as well as fabric leftovers from Ekaya’s Banarasi brocades. Palak Shah, CEO and founder, Ekaya, says, “It was about celebrating the versatility of timeless textiles and doing every inch — rather literally — due justice.” The lightweight line starts at Rs. 5,500 on ekaya.in and mishodesigns.com. Tribe Amrapali’s Ghungroo silver charms bangle comes with enamel work and rawa detailing. Priced at Rs. 19,000, it is currently sold out on the site, but can be made to order. Details: tribeamrapali.com. Nicole Kidman’s wardrobe in HBO’sThe Undoinghas been the topic of much discussion, especially her metallic Givenchy gown in episode one. Although the $6,643 (approx Rs. 3.88 lakh) gown seems to be sold out, there’s something similar from the brand on Bergdorf Goodman (at $9,900/ Rs. 7.46 lakh). Or substitute with Marchesa Notte’s cold-shoulder gown on Neiman Marcus (at Rs. 72,034).
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Overheard Celebs: From the folks behind cult Instagram pages Comments by Celebs and Overheard in LA, comes @overheardcelebs, a virtual “anti-gossip journal”. The feed is a curation of interactions that common people have had with A-List celebs. Like when Harry Styles offered to watch a stranger’s dog as they went to the store or when Tom Hanks took a selfie on an unattended iPhone.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebrate with AR||Get festive on your social media platform of choice today. Light diyas with your finger, choose different patterns of Rangoli or admire floating lanterns in the sky with Snapchat’s six new Diwali-themed lenses. Instagram’s ‘Share your light’ filter is inspired by mandalas, and is available with greetings in English, Hindi, Marathi, Telugu, Tamil, Bengali and Urdu. Twitter is asking users to #LightUpALife with positive conversations on the platform, and a new emoji that sparkles when using dark mode on the app.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Music for everyone||Musician’s Digistage, a platform for young artistes, curates a lineup for the weekend, featuring sitar, tabla, flute and vocals. These will be followed by a guest performance by Indian classical vocalist Ronkini Gupta. On November 15 and 16 at 8 pm. Tickets from Rs. 290 on insider.in. Get your party on with EDM artistes from India and Sri Lanka in a virtual arena. ‘From The Scratch’ features a three-hour setlist that includes Mr Bose, Revoic and Ambroz. Today from 7.30 pm. Tickets from Rs. 99 on in.bookmyshow.com.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Virtual sightings||After Prince Yaduveer Singh Bera launched India’s first virtual leopard safari, he’s now teamed up with immersive experience provider Vibecity to bring the experience to school children. Aimed at spreading awareness about wildlife conservation among the youth: @vibecity.club on Instagram. Join Chennai’s Crocodile Bank virtually today to meet their baby reptiles. The 45-minute session doesn’t have an age limit. At Rs. 150 on November 14 at 11.30 am on Google Meet. To register,mail education@ madrascrocodilebank.org
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Seeds in your cracker||Microgreens ladi, a phoenix chakkar and hemp bombs are a part of Gram Art Project’s ‘green’ Diwali offerings. The organisation based in Madhya Pradesh is selling these paper crackers filled with seeds as an alternative to commercial, explosive ones. On gramartproject.org. Good Karma Foundation’s Wicksdom has elders residing in old age homes handcrafting wicks for oil lamps. The organisation gives them cotton yarn free of cost and retails the product to individuals and institutions. goodkarmafoundation.org
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Alternative sweets||Fab Cafe has launched a festive menu with vegan, gluten-free and dairy-free options. Think berry and cashew cheese ice cream, wheat-free caramelised banana cake and fruitpayasam.At fabcafe.menu Chennai’s Terra EarthFood laddoos offer a healthy alternative to traditional mithais. Variations include millet, peanut, fennel-pumpkin seed, ragi-fruit and nut, cinnamon and turmeric-cardamom. A box of 20 laddoos is priced at Rs. 800. At their Adyar, Alwarpet and Neelangarai stores. terraearthfood.com
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Gratitude garments||Evoluzione’s latest is The Gratitude Edit. Choose from pre-made curated boxes that include clothing as well as picks from their wellness and gourmet section. Or customise (a minimum of 10 orders) with three to seven items per box. Details on evoluzionestyle.com. Call for queries.9840388026 Online, both Fashion Design Council of India and IMG Reliance are supporting #Local4Diwali. Shop from local vendors and weavers to support their business, and tag your handloom garments on social media.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Festive watchlist||Diwali film releases have moved online, with Suriya’sSoorarai Pottruon Prime Video, Akshay Kumar’sLaxmiion Disney Plus Hotstar andLudoon Netflix. Add some international flavour to your watchlist with the ongoing European Union Film Festival. Choose from 42 films spanning six genres and 36 languages. The lineup includes six short films on climate change as well as Indian dramasCourt(Chaitanya Tamhane) andAparajito(Satyajit Ray). Free registration. Details: euffindia.com
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Festive advertising: Cadbury seems to have hit a sweet spot with their AI-powered ad campaign, that highlights local businesses in select pincodes. Not all festive ads have been met with the same enthusiasm, however. Case in point: Tanishq’s commercial that came under fire and had to be withdrawn for promoting a cracker-free Diwali. The hope is that Indian brands continue to push the envelope.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I enjoy the liberties of OTT’||The year 2000 was unforgettable for Abhishek Bachchan. His first film alongside débutante Kareena Kapoor, Refugee , by JP Dutta, premièred in June and it garnered more attention than it would have if the newcomers weren’t from the first families of Hindi cinema. In a recent interview with Rajeev Masand, Bachchan recalled how he and Kapoor were nervously clutching each other’s hands during a special preview show for the cast’s families in Mumbai. It’s been a long two decades since that night. Over the years, the actor has dealt with hits, flops, acclaims and criticisms, but he vividly remembers that première even today. Likewise, 2020 will be etched in Bachchan’s memory forever. In his 20th year in films, he was looking forward to the release of two exciting projects: Amazon Prime Video’s Breathe: Into The Shadows , and Ludo , directed by Anurag Basu, a filmmaker he’d wanted to collaborate with for a while. The year was supposed to break a dry spell on screen for Bachchan who was last seen in Anurag Kashyap’s 2018 film, Manmarziyan , which itself had come after a two-year gap. But just days after Breathe... — his web series début in July — he and his family contracted Covid-19. With everyone at home having recovered now, his focus is back on work. “I’m itching to be in front of the camera again,” Bachchan says, as he talks about Basu’s working style and the difference between web series and film on OTT. This is your 20th year in cinema. How has your approach to films and acting changed from your début? The passion is the same. My inquisitiveness is the same. So is the hunger to learn and improve. The one thing that has changed is that there is a bit more ease and comfort in front of the camera. Apart from Anurag, what made you sign up for Ludo ? Just that. We got into the story and the script after I agreed to come on board. Working with dada [Anurag] is a bit like opening presents. You don’t know what’s going to be inside. He plays his cards close to his chest and doesn’t like to divulge too much to the actors. As an actor, you’re always looking forward to going on set the next day to discover what you’re going to do and how you’re going to do it. In that sense, there’s a mystery around working with him. Is this mystery difficult for you to deal with as an actor? No, as I used to work like that at the beginning of my career. For Refugee , JP Datta had the same process and he didn’t want the actors to rehearse or come prepared. Things work differently today. Everything is done before you go on set: there is extensive homework, rehearsals and readings. I can understand if the newer actors prefer that, but I thoroughly enjoyed Anurag’s way of working.  Breathe... was an Amazon Prime series, Ludo is a Netflix release and your next film, The Big Bull , is going to be on Hotstar. What is your take on OTT platforms? It is wonderful. The kind of exposure you get on a streaming platform is something that we might not have got previously. Ludo released in over 190 countries simultaneously and that’s a fantastic reach not just for me, but for Indian cinema. There is, however, a distinction between a film and a web series, and you can’t generalise them as OTT content. The approach towards making these two should be different. The writing process, especially. For a web series, you have the luxury of time and can deep-dive into characters, the sub-layers and subtexts. You can’t do that in a film. I am enjoying the liberties that come with the medium. OTT platforms are a boon and the future; they are here to stay. Having said that, one of my greatest experiences in life is still watching a film on the big screen. Does OTT-specific content liberate you from the commercial constraints of big-screen films? To a certain extent, yes, as you’re not required to convince your audience to travel to a movie theatre and buy tickets. They can watch the film whenever they like, so certain commercial requirements are not required. Hence, you’ll see more new faces. I can concentrate purely on performing. But the way you look, the way you dance, the way you sing, the way you romance, the way you fight, all these things matter in cinema. Did your experience with Covid-19 change the way you look at your life and work? Towards my work, I don’t think there’s any change. For an actor to sit at home for eight months is a tough job. I have a house filled with professionals, so that was different for all of us. Despite suffering from this virus and understanding its severity, I got so much time with my family, which is a rarity. In a sense, I enjoyed this lockdown. I’m not going to complain. I’m just happy that everybody’s safe and healthy.  Working with dada [Anurag] is a bit like opening presents. You don’t know what’s going to be inside
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I enjoy the liberties of OTT’||The year 2000 was unforgettable for Abhishek Bachchan. His first film alongside débutante Kareena Kapoor, Refugee , by JP Dutta, premièred in June and it garnered more attention than it would have if the newcomers weren’t from the first families of Hindi cinema. In a recent interview with Rajeev Masand, Bachchan recalled how he and Kapoor were nervously clutching each other’s hands during a special preview show for the cast’s families in Mumbai. It’s been a long two decades since that night. Over the years, the actor has dealt with hits, flops, acclaims and criticisms, but he vividly remembers that première even today. Likewise, 2020 will be etched in Bachchan’s memory forever. In his 20th year in films, he was looking forward to the release of two exciting projects: Amazon Prime Video’s Breathe: Into The Shadows , and Ludo , directed by Anurag Basu, a filmmaker he’d wanted to collaborate with for a while. The year was supposed to break a dry spell on screen for Bachchan who was last seen in Anurag Kashyap’s 2018 film, Manmarziyan , which itself had come after a two-year gap. But just days after Breathe... — his web series début in July — he and his family contracted Covid-19. With everyone at home having recovered now, his focus is back on work. “I’m itching to be in front of the camera again,” Bachchan says, as he talks about Basu’s working style and the difference between web series and film on OTT: This is your 20th year in cinema. How has your approach to films and acting changed from your début? The passion is the same. My inquisitiveness is the same. So is the hunger to learn and improve. The one thing that has changed is that there is a bit more ease and comfort in front of the camera. Apart from Anurag, what made you sign up for Ludo ? Just that. We got into the story and the script after I agreed to come on board. Working with dada [Anurag] is a bit like opening presents. You don’t know what’s going to be inside. He plays his cards close to his chest and doesn’t like to divulge too much to the actors. As an actor, you’re always looking forward to going on set the next day to discover what you’re going to do and how you’re going to do it. In that sense, there’s a mystery around working with him. Is this mystery difficult for you to deal with as an actor? No, as I used to work like that at the beginning of my career. For Refugee , JP Datta had the same process and he didn’t want the actors to rehearse or come prepared. Things work differently today. Everything is done before you go on set: there is extensive homework, rehearsals and readings. I can understand if the newer actors prefer that, but I thoroughly enjoyed Anurag’s way of working.  Breathe... was an Amazon Prime series, Ludo is a Netflix release and your next film, The Big Bull , is going to be on Hotstar. What is your take on OTT platforms? It is wonderful. The kind of exposure you get on a streaming platform is something that we might not have got previously. Ludo released in over 190 countries simultaneously and that’s a fantastic reach not just for me, but for Indian cinema. There is, however, a distinction between a film and a web series, and you can’t generalise them as OTT content. The approach towards making these two should be different. The writing process, especially. For a web series, you have the luxury of time and can deep-dive into characters, the sub-layers and subtexts. You can’t do that in a film. I am enjoying the liberties that come with the medium. OTT platforms are a boon and the future; they are here to stay. Having said that, one of my greatest experiences in life is still watching a film on the big screen. Does OTT-specific content liberate you from the commercial constraints of big-screen films? To a certain extent, yes, as you’re not required to convince your audience to travel to a movie theatre and buy tickets. They can watch the film whenever they like, so certain commercial requirements are not required. Hence, you’ll see more new faces. I can concentrate purely on performing. But the way you look, the way you dance, the way you sing, the way you romance, the way you fight, all these things matter in cinema. Did your experience with Covid-19 change the way you look at your life and work? Towards my work, I don’t think there’s any change. For an actor to sit at home for eight months is a tough job. I have a house filled with professionals, so that was different for all of us. Despite suffering from this virus and understanding its severity, I got so much time with my family, which is a rarity. In a sense, I enjoyed this lockdown. I’m not going to complain. I’m just happy that everybody’s safe and healthy.  Working with dada [Anurag] is a bit like opening presents. You don’t know what’s going to be inside
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Majama With Joe Mama||Priya Joe- bhai Biden, Firstly, hardik subha congratulations on your win. We always knew it would be you. The fact that Diwali coincides with your victory, let us be clear, is no coincidence. Our infallible panchang clearly mentions US’s return to Ram Rajya in 2020. So the fireworks you’ll be seeing from space over our great land are entirely in your honour. Might as well share this with you now: while the general belief was that the diya lighters and thali clangers were chanting ‘Go-Corona-Go’ a few months ago, if you listen carefully to the new, remastered footage, you will realise our patriots were actually chanting ‘Go-Donald-Go’. We didn’t want to reveal that too early. As you well know, all our master strokes are announced with such sheer suddenness that even Alfred- bhai Hitch murga can’t see them coming. We fooled you, too, didn’t we, by loudly declaring ‘Ab ki baar , etc’ at that big do in Houston, lol! That was a classic bait and switch, dost. It is called statecraft. Which is just like paper craft. (Both use glue and glitter to make flimsy things look grand.) What you didn’t know is that every arrhythmic dancer, off-key singer and idiot performer at that event knew we meant the opposite. And voted for you! It is just like how we talk of Gandhi ji ’s values here when we are actually referring to you-know-who’s, rofl. As you know, our culture is all about grand spectacle. And by that, we don’t mean Bulgari, lmao. If you have checked our epics, Baahubali 1 and 2, you’d know what we mean. So it is time you visited our ancient, wise, all-knowing land, Joe- bhai . We will arrange a spectacular event for you. In fact, it could have a mellifluous, rhyming/alliterative name, as is our custom. How about Maidan Pe Biden? Or Majama With Joe Mama ? Or Kem Cho , Joe? Then there is Kamala- ben , of course. You have to bring her. She is our beti , after all. Just like Indira- ben . Not that one, the other one, the Nooyi- wallah . There is also Padma- ben Lakshmi. Did you know all these girls are Madrasis? That means they don’t know Hindi. But we still respect them deeply. That is how tolerant we are. Anyway, coming back to Kamala- ben Harihar, we could have an event for her, too. Like Goddess Saraswati, she could emerge from a lotus. Her name means lotus, by the way. And we could call it Lotus Mein Flotus (we do know she isn’t the First Lady but so what). Let’s talk menu. Fusion is how we are seeing it. Dhokla burgers, for a start. That is two theplas with a dhokla in the middle. To be washed down with chilled thandai -shakes. Say yes, Joevardhan Bidendas. It’ll be fun. We have, after all, explained how we were always for you. Now it is time for rib-crunching hugs and thigh-slapping laughs. We will give you double dose of Coronil, worry not. You’ll be perfectly safe. We could fly in our seaplane over our Ganga Maiyya . We could gossip about Nehru and Edwina. You could ride in the bullet train (not the real thing, the scale model that Sambit ji plays with). You could do an interview with Arnab... if he is free. So much to do. If that isn’t enough, see how much we totally have in common. You are from Delaware. We are known for software. You worked with Obama. We are full of Majama. You have White House. We have Tejo Mahalaya. You have Vin Diesel ... So do come. Yours sincerely, 1.3 Billion Indians Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Can you sell wellbeing?||Paro’s website declares that it is “an invitation to pause”. Ironic for a brand that was forced to do just that during the lockdown, stilling sales as well. In fact, the website, which currently does not involve e-commerce (this will take about four or five months) encapsulates the brand very well.Parogoodearth.comtells you it is woven from the same threads as its ‘mother’ Good Earth (grand dame Anita Lal has called it Good Earth’s soul). The Sanskrit shloka as you enter the site invites you to a world of Vedanta and India’s current rediscovery of it; and its founder Simran Lal’s messages on the blog give you a glimpse into her personal journey that’s intertwined with the brand’s formulation and development. On the personal front, Simran says the lockdown was “precious”, “fabulous”, “just amazing”, especially with the time saved on the commute. On the work front, it was “initially very hard” but then the time was used in reprioritising. “[The brand has] evolved in the sense that people today, thanks to the lockdown, are being forced to look within, look out for things they can connect with. Sutradhar, which is our online blog, has got much more traffic now than earlier. More men have come to our site (@parogoodearth on Instagram) and shop there,” she says, adding that they have seen a 55% increase in follower base since the lockdown. On ground, amidst the almost anachronistically glitzy residents of luxury mall The Chanakya’s ground floor — international legacy brands Hermes, Saint Laurent, and Tiffany and Co. — Paro holds its own with its black frontage and gold lettering. Simran says that while ideally the store could have been a standalone, say set in a courtyard, the mall setting has helped make it accessible. The Indian way Much like a live Sadhguru session, there is no space for ugliness at Paro. Simran uses the word “beautiful” 16 times across many different topics as we speak. In fact, though Paro’s overarching theme is soukya (wellbeing) and swasthi (auspicious) — from which she tells me the word swastika is derived — what you see as you enter the store are the clothes and jewellery. So there is also an emphasis on shringar (beautification). The idea is to celebrate the body as a temple, and this approach consequently keeps it well, says Simran, rejecting monk-like austerity as a western concept. I wonder if the name in Devanagari script may distance the two-year-old brand from a southern audience that’s already reeling from assaults on its language and culture. But context counts for a great deal, and in Delhi, it is a representation of a throwback to a pre-Mughal era. “The idea is not to exclude but to open up a world that people don’t know anything about,” says Simran, of Paro being perceived as exclusionary. Its rooting in ‘ancient Indian practises’ with a section called the Sacred Agni, the fact that speakers at events Paro has organised have included David Frawley who also writes for the right wing magazine Swarajya , and that its newsletter is titled Seasonal Rhythms talks to those who follow a Hindu way of life. Post pandemic strategy Paro will be increasing its focus on yoga and deep sleep offerings, says Simran, with the brand expanding to 2,947 square feet, taking in space from what used to be Good Earth’s Shalimar. Look forward to a new ‘sleep’ section at The Chanakya comprising GOTS-certified organic bed and bath linen, pillows, bolsters, oils, fragrances, etc. The store currently has a collection ofbandhanisaris in Bangalore silk and a Cashmere collection, with stoles (from Rs. 25,000) and shawls (Rs. 35,000 onwards) made “exclusively by Kashmir Loom for Paro”. There are incense sticks made of pure herbs and resins, and a signature panch agni oil (Rs. 1,500) for a steady flame, organic camphor, diyas (Rs. 3,500) and other similar items. However, its therapy rooms that offered facials, foot and body massages, are not functional and the apothecary who helps customers blend essential oils is not available for consultations yet. A contemporary take There was a time when women ‘of a certain age’ dedicated themselves to prayers and sacred rituals — this is its modern day avatar, where you can shop for havan kunds (sacrificial fire) and resin blends for burning, all in a mall, even as you grab achocolat au pain. It is when youth has fled and frailty is suddenly palpable that you lapse into the rhythm of routine with nasya oil, silver tongue cleaners (Rs. 1,500), and pretty neti pots. Simran says that while older women are the natural fit for the brand, she’s surprised at the number of young women who engage, too. Considering the brand is Simran — she’s studying Vedanta, Ayurveda and Sanskrit, and herself follows a series of daily micro rituals or dincharya , to connect with nature and still the mind — it is going to be difficult to replicate the experience of Paro’s philosophy online. “The vision is never to create too many Paro spaces because we’re so personal and so intimate,” she says. Instead, she hopes everyone will connect with its Indianness, its philosophy that we seem to have lost over the years.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Rajputs with the golden guns||The skyline of Jodhpur is pinned in place by the mammoth silhouette of Mehrangarh on Bhaucheeria Hill and the regal dome of the Umaid Bhawan Palace on Chittar Hill. Between the two is defined the spirit of Marwar, forged by the sword in a thousand bloody battles in the heat of the Thar. Through the centuries down to the First World War’s Haifa in 1918 — considered the last great cavalry action in military history — the Jodhpur Lancers were known for their reckless charge with only sword and lance. The Rajputs first encountered the firearm at the battle of Khanwa (1526) fought between Babur and Rana Sanga of Mewar. “The Rajputs had never seen anything like it before,” says Gaj Singh II, erstwhile ruler of Jodhpur (and head of the House of Rathore) in his foreword to Robert Elgood’s The Maharaja of Jodhpur’s Guns . The book, published by Niyogi Books and Mehrangarh Museum Trust, is an amalgamation of historic Indian firearms, and is said to be the first on the subject. Mehrangarh, built in 1452 by Rao Jodha and described by English writer Rudyard Kipling as ‘the work of angels, fairies and giants… built by titans and coloured by the morning sun’, has been home to an extraordinary museum and centre of culture since 1972, when Gaj Singh II transformed the fort. It is also where some of the 350 guns whose images feature in the book, rest.  By the barrel  The UK-based Robert Elgood, an expert on the historic arms of Hindu India and the Islamic world, brings to his work a lifetime of passion for medieval armoury. With a degree in Islamic History from the School of Oriental and African Studies, London, a DPhil in Indian Anthropology from Oxford, and work experiences with Sotheby’s and the Wallace Collection, Elgood says, “My interest in arms and armour began at an early age. Islamic Arms , which I edited, comprising articles by international scholars, was published in 1979. I was invited to work in the newly-formed Islamic Department at Sotheby’s as an expert on Oriental arms.” Those years set off a series of books — on the arms collection of Shaikh Hasan al Thani in Qatar; Arms and Armour of Arabia ; and the first book on Islamic firearms by the owner of the Tareq Rajab Museum, Kuwait in 1995. Reading The Maharaja of Jodhpur’s Guns is like travelling from the 15th to the 20th century at a steady canter on a hardy Marwari horse. The first aspect of the book that strikes the reader is Elgood’s extraordinary research, spanning centuries, continents and private collections. In discussing the transfer of military and firepower technology through war and trade, he makes the subject integrated across Europe, the Arab and Turkish worlds, India and China. However, the detailed conquests of marauding horsemen and warriors in chain mail may interest only the avid historian. For the lover of the aesthete, there is the rest of the book — over 300 pages of fine pictures of miniature paintings sourced from the Chester Beatty Library, Dublin; the Musee Guimet, Paris; and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York; among others. There is also a detailed catalogue on every kind of gun that has been fired on the subcontinent. With fine brushstrokes, Elgood discusses the invention of gunpowder, its arrival in India, the matchlock guns of the Portuguese Eastern empire, the Sindhi jezails with their exquisite muzzles, powder flasks made of mother of pearl, and sporting guns that were the highlight of game shooting expeditions. Elgood, who had earlier catalogued the Maharaja of Jodhpur’s edged weapons, says he worked his “way through the maharaja’s personal possessions selecting any object that seemed interesting and high quality”. British gunmakers Holland and Holland and Purdeys also made their records available to him.  Tales of the brave  The book names many of the early guns of Jodhpur as matchlocks made in India. The design was essentially Mughal, copied from the Safavids of Iran, who, in turn, copied from the Turks who were inspired by the weaponry of the European armies they fought. “The Rajput warriors despised guns, believing that a brave man should fight his enemy up close. They were usually paid more for a wound with a sword than the same wound caused by a gun,” says Elgood. This, however, did not discourage Gaj Singh II’s grandfather, Maharaja Umaid Singh, from possessing some fine weapons, including a priceless enamelled 12-bore gun. His father, Maharaja Hanwant Singh, set up a gun factory in Mehrangarh. “In the 19th century, the use of European guns became widespread in princely India and the Jodhpur armoury contains examples of the very best hunting guns,” says Elgood, adding, “Maharaja Umaid Singh was a great shikari and Maharaja Hanwant Singh was an expert gun designer. The Jodhpur collection, therefore, includes superb 20th century guns including a gold Colt automatic. The ivory grip bears the inscription as given by Umaid Singh to his son on his 21st birthday.” There are also pages from the 1926 hunting diary of Maharaja Umaid Singh that make for some interesting and humorous reading, and tales of how a disguised .22 pen pistol came to be auctioned as part of the Mountbatten Collection. Be it history that draws you or stories of brave adventure, the book is a record of why India’s royalty continues to remain the stuff of legend and how the firearm came to be for the Rathores, as treasured as the “Marwari horse and the sacred sword”. Published by Niyogi Books, The Maharaja of Jodhpur’s Gunsis priced at Rs. 4,500.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Skip these ‘bombs’||Festivals in India have managed to stay rooted in the past and yet get a tech upgrade. It is the worst combination ever, one that replaces all the right feelings with robotic precision. We stick on to inexplicable rituals that are performed with much fervour, like invoking a sky-full of deities right into our shanty little 2BHK (with terrace and servant’s room), but we don’t make any space for empathising with others who are in our physical proximity and could really use a hug. Then, technology steps in to really hold up a mirror to our hollowed out existence — playing prayers on Spotify because no one remembers the words or, worse still, their significance, looking up the right way to put a vermilionteeka,or with which hand to do theaarati(was it anti-clockwise)? Festivals are a farcical parody of what they were originally intended for. They rob days like Diwali of all their joyous mirth. At the risk of sounding like a party pooper, here are four things I could do without this year, but also the next, and the next...  Greetings: It surprises me how people mix sincere emotions with obligations. Sending cheesy, generic, forwarded wishes along the lines of, “May this Diwali/New Year bring you/your loved ones health/wealth/joy and may God/Almighty/Guruji shower you with his/their blessings” convey nothing at all. Stop. You really want to make my Diwali brighter, call me, or better yet, send me a gift, the kind that I can feel solid between my hands and not one that, as per the adage, “only counts in thoughts”.     Gifts: While on gifts, let’s get this clarified too. Every year India plays the great game of pass-the-parcel where gifts are received and forwarded. Much like Newton’s Law, no new gifts have been made or used in the last five decades, they simply exchange hands and get passed around endlessly. I bet if we actually opened one we won’t find anything useful but it will certainly have great museum value, and a blemish of a carbon footprint. So if you want to send me something, work on trying to, and make it meaningful and relatable.     Firecrackers: Honestly, I have difficulty recreating the scene where the revered Lord Rama returns with his devoted family to his heavenly kingdom amidst sounds of “Seetirockets” and “Lakshmi/Golabombs”. Was He returning to Operation Desert Storm? Would He not have just turned around and promptly gone back to the forest where the air was cleaner and the environs, silent and peaceful? Please remember that henceforth. Firecrackers are a ridiculous waste of resources and harm too many elements. You really want a spectacular display, feed a few hundred and hear them thank you. But if philanthropy is lost on you, then simply burn a few wads of Rs. 2,000 notes and in that silence you will hear the sound of your incurable stupidity shouting out loud!     Card g ames: Honestly, a good ol’ taash party is the most binding ritual of Diwali that exists nowadays. And it is not going away because not even a deadly virus has abated people’s interest in gambling their savings away. But at least it is an honest love for something that everyone understands and believes in. It is that one moment of sincerity that people allow themselves: the hope, the anxiety, the rush, the joy and the fall are all real. I wish the prayer ceremonies were half as connecting or meaningful. Not that I care for either. My only gripe is this: please serve the bloody dinner at an earthly hour. As someone who has a gag reflex to throwing his money away on pure chance, I am (and often in Delhi, Katy Perry) courteous enough to attend your ridiculous parties, so please be civil and feed me at an appropriate time. I couldn’t care less for who got a trail and which variation is being played next (or maybe I could care lesser); I am merely here for your top-shelf booze, the fancy catering, and to watch some fledgling Bollywood starlet belittle themselves with your overtly enthusiastic family.  This column is for anyone who gives an existential toss.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Agam Darshi: Adding to the diversity||There’s plenty to be excited about filmmaker Deepa Mehta’s drama, Funny Boy . The coming-of-age story, of a boy growing up gay in Sri Lanka during the Tamil-Sinhalese conflict, is Canada’s pick for the 93rd Oscars. Still weeks shy of release, it is on most ‘must-see’ lists. And the adaptation of Shyam Selvadurai’s 1994 award-winning novel is also cementing the popularity of South Asian storylines — coming as it does on the heels of the recent BBC production of Vikram Seth’s A Suitable Boy and ahead of the 2021 release of Aravid Adiga’s The White Tiger on Netflix. Riding the buzz is the cast and crew, especially Agam Darshi, the Punjabi Sikh-Canadian actor who plays the protagonist Arjun Chelvaratnam’s (aka Arjie) aunt, Radha. The actor-writer-director-producer says she always knew she would work with Mehta; she just didn’t know when. The opportunity came with Funny Boy, after the Indo-Canadian director saw Darshi’s audition tape and said, “You caught something in Radha, and I couldn’t look away.”  Stories that need telling   Funny Boy is a complex story, with several themes running concurrently, including ideas of identity, self-worth, sexuality and displacement. Darshi, 33, is amazed that a 26-year-old novel — which is set in the 1970s and 80s — can resonate so acutely in 2020. “You think the world changes fast, but it doesn’t and that’s a shame,” says the mother of four-year-old twin boys, over a video call from Saskatchewan, Canada. “Homosexuality is still illegal in many parts of the world, criminalised in Sri Lanka, and a source of shame for South Asians all over the world. We are still struggling with these issues.” Slated to release on December 4 in Canada and internationally (in the US and the UK) on December 10, Darshi feels privileged to be “a part of exactly the kind of film the world needs right now”. She adds, “I had read the script several times, but really there’s nothing quite like watching two young, brown men fall in love on screen. It will make some people uncomfortable while others will feel that finally the world sees them.” The award-winning Los Angeles-based actor, who has appeared in films such as Final Destination 3 , Colossal , and Kingsway , describes her character, Radha, as spoiled, loving and loved. “Her journey is to impart love and excitement for life to Arjie,” she shares. “She comes from a Tamil upper class Christian household. Returning home to Colombo after studying in Toronto, she has seen the world in a different way. When Arjie’s entire family thinks he’s a funny boy, Radha doesn’t see anything wrong with him. She thinks he is perfect.”   Finding her own path   Born in Birmingham, UK, Darshi was three years old when she moved to Canada with her parents. She remembers the awe she felt when her parents took her to a drive-in theatre in Montreal, to watch The NeverEnding Story . “It was the first time that I felt the magic of film and storytelling,” she says, adding how, later on, she was drawn to stories like Anne of Green Gables and Little Women . “Troublemakers always resonated with me,” says Darshi, who has an adventurous streak herself — most recently, she scaled Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania. “I loved Jo March from Little Women because she didn’t do what was expected of her. I would have loved to play her, but I am not white,” she laughs. Growing up as a Sikh girl in Canada, however, she recalls how little of herself she saw in popular culture, “not even in the films of my favourite directors Noah Baumbach, Sofia Coppola and Woody Allen”. Rather than wait for the parts, Darshi did the next best thing. She wrote, produced and directed short films. She is a strong addition to the growing list of Indian American, British and Canadian actors — from Dev Patel and Mindy Kaling to Archie Punjabi and Ritu Arya — who are pushing the envelope today. Darshi is currently scouting locations for Indians in Cowtown , her feature film directorial debut, which she has written (one of six scripts accepted into the Whistler Film Festival’s Praxis Screenwriting Lab) and will also act in. “It is a dramedy with levity about family, forgiving and moving forward. It is inspired by the character-driven films I love.” She will also join the cast of Disney Channel’s original movie, Spin, in Toronto. She plays the mother of a South Asian girl who is a DJ, in the Manjari Makijany directorial.   Holding out for hope   An activist for race equality in media, Darshi co-founded the Vancouver International South Asian Film Festival (VISAFF). As she writes on her website, the festival (currently in its 10th edition) “focuses on ‘bridging the gap’ between South Asian talent and mainstream audiences”, by breaking stereotypes. “My film, which has a regular Sikh Punjabi family living in Canada, isn’t about identity in the traditional sense — where people are in a new world and holding on to old traditions. That is a tiring theme that has been recycled many times,” she explains, adding that “we have moved on. I feel Canadian and that I belong here; but I am also an Indian girl and [as one] I feel like I belong here too”. She wants to see more stories that touch on themes of humanity, lighter films that are more hopeful and positive. Streaming services are one of the tools that she believes will help this. “They have evened out the playing field. [For example, not only can] the whole world watch Funny Boy at the same time, but as the world gets smaller, such films will have more impact. Access to films and filmmakers will also keep improving.” All of this facilitates representation, too. Having one Mindy Kaling, one Hasan Minhaj or one Kumail Nanjiani in the industry is not enough. “It used to be such a white boys’ club and so much about who you knew. But now you are able to write a story that represents you and you will find someone with a similar perspective, so that story will get seen,” she concludes.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Diwali ready: the jacket||Now that Zoom celebrations are par for the course, all the festive garments from 2020 will definitely see another outing in the coming year. And jackets have been getting a lot of attention for their versatility. From the runway (Suket Dhir’s brocade blazers) to retail (W’s bomber jackets) there is something for every budget. Here are our craft-forward picks. Compiled by Susanna Myrtle Lazarus
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Saturation point||Sometimes all it takes is one item to provide colour during the festivities. Top tenets during the pandemic-reset — sustainability, upcycling, traditional craft — come together in Ekaya X Misho. The collaboration uses recycled sterling silver, tapping into Gujarat’s silversmithing traditions, as well as fabric leftovers from Ekaya’s Banarasi brocades. Palak Shah, CEO and founder, Ekaya, says, “It was about celebrating the versatility of timeless textiles and doing every inch — rather literally — due justice.” The lightweight line starts at Rs. 5,500 on ekaya.in and mishodesigns.com. Tribe Amrapali’s Ghungroo silver charms bangle comes with enamel work and rawa detailing. Priced at Rs. 19,000, it is currently sold out on the site, but can be made to order. Details: tribeamrapali.com. Nicole Kidman’s wardrobe in HBO’sThe Undoinghas been the topic of much discussion, especially her metallic Givenchy gown in episode one. Although the $6,643 (approx Rs. 3.88 lakh) gown seems to be sold out, there’s something similar from the brand on Bergdorf Goodman (at $9,900/ Rs. 7.46 lakh). Or substitute with Marchesa Notte’s cold-shoulder gown on Neiman Marcus (at Rs. 72,034).
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Overheard Celebs: From the folks behind cult Instagram pages Comments by Celebs and Overheard in LA, comes @overheardcelebs, a virtual “anti-gossip journal”. The feed is a curation of interactions that common people have had with A-List celebs. Like when Harry Styles offered to watch a stranger’s dog as they went to the store or when Tom Hanks took a selfie on an unattended iPhone.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebrate with AR||Get festive on your social media platform of choice today. Light diyas with your finger, choose different patterns of Rangoli or admire floating lanterns in the sky with Snapchat’s six new Diwali-themed lenses. Instagram’s ‘Share your light’ filter is inspired by mandalas, and is available with greetings in English, Hindi, Marathi, Telugu, Tamil, Bengali and Urdu. Twitter is asking users to #LightUpALife with positive conversations on the platform, and a new emoji that sparkles when using dark mode on the app.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Music for everyone||Musician’s Digistage, a platform for young artistes, curates a lineup for the weekend, featuring sitar, tabla, flute and vocals. These will be followed by a guest performance by Indian classical vocalist Ronkini Gupta. On November 15 and 16 at 8 pm. Tickets from Rs. 290 on insider.in. Get your party on with EDM artistes from India and Sri Lanka in a virtual arena. ‘From The Scratch’ features a three-hour setlist that includes Mr Bose, Revoic and Ambroz. Today from 7.30 pm. Tickets from Rs. 99 on in.bookmyshow.com.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Virtual sightings||After Prince Yaduveer Singh Bera launched India’s first virtual leopard safari, he’s now teamed up with immersive experience provider Vibecity to bring the experience to school children. Aimed at spreading awareness about wildlife conservation among the youth: @vibecity.club on Instagram. Join Chennai’s Crocodile Bank virtually today to meet their baby reptiles. The 45-minute session doesn’t have an age limit. At Rs. 150 on November 14 at 11.30 am on Google Meet. To register,mail education@ madrascrocodilebank.org
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Seeds in your cracker||Microgreens ladi, a phoenix chakkar and hemp bombs are a part of Gram Art Project’s ‘green’ Diwali offerings. The organisation based in Madhya Pradesh is selling these paper crackers filled with seeds as an alternative to commercial, explosive ones. On gramartproject.org. Good Karma Foundation’s Wicksdom has elders residing in old age homes handcrafting wicks for oil lamps. The organisation gives them cotton yarn free of cost and retails the product to individuals and institutions. goodkarmafoundation.org
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Funny business||Funny Buzzness gig series returns after a gap of seven months, with standup comic Daniel Fernandes who promises to crack you up in Hindi, English for an hour @ Novotel HICC Hyderabad. The live gig on November 21 from 6 pm, will have extensive safety measures in place. Will Daniel bring into play Shadows, his latest stand-up comedy special that he’s touring with, across India and beyond ?That would take you through six years of his journey. Book tickets of Rs. 499 on www.bookmyshow.com
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Theatre is back||This year, the 15th Qadir Ali Baig Theatre Festival will be abridged over a weekend. Following an inaugural play at the restored historical Moazzam Jahi Market on November 18, plays from Kalidas to Mrozek, mythologicals and lockdown stories; Dastangoi and monologues to comedy and dramatised reading by directors like K.V. Subbanna, Heeba Shah, Mohammad Ali Baig will be presented from November 20 to 22 @ Radisson Blu Plaza. Details and bookings on www.bookmyshow.com. Online streaming at a later date.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Festive watchlist||Diwali film releases have moved online, with Suriya’sSoorarai Pottruon Prime Video, Akshay Kumar’sLaxmiion Disney Plus Hotstar andLudoon Netflix. Add some international flavour to your watchlist with the ongoing European Union Film Festival. Choose from 42 films spanning six genres and 36 languages. The lineup includes six short films on climate change as well as Indian dramasCourt(Chaitanya Tamhane) andAparajito(Satyajit Ray). Free registration. Details: euffindia.com
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Festive advertising: Cadbury seems to have hit a sweet spot with their AI-powered ad campaign, that highlights local businesses in select pincodes. Not all festive ads have been met with the same enthusiasm, however. Case in point: Tanishq’s commercial that came under fire and had to be withdrawn for promoting a cracker-free Diwali. The hope is that Indian brands continue to push the envelope.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I enjoy the liberties of OTT’||The year 2000 was unforgettable for Abhishek Bachchan. His first film alongside débutante Kareena Kapoor, Refugee , by J.P. Dutta, premièred in June and it garnered more attention than it would have if the newcomers weren’t from the first families of Hindi cinema. In a recent interview with Rajeev Masand, Bachchan recalled how he and Kapoor were nervously clutching each other’s hands during a special preview show for the cast’s families in Mumbai. It’s been a long two decades since that night. Over the years, the actor has dealt with hits, flops, acclaims and criticisms, but he vividly remembers that première even today. Likewise, 2020 will be etched in Bachchan’s memory forever. In his 20th year in films, he was looking forward to the release of two exciting projects: Amazon Prime Video’s Breathe: Into The Shadows , and Ludo , directed by Anurag Basu, a filmmaker he’d wanted to collaborate with for a while. The year was supposed to break a dry spell on screen for Bachchan who was last seen in Anurag Kashyap’s 2018 film, Manmarziyan , which itself had come after a two-year gap. But just days after Breathe... — his web series début in July — he and his family contracted COVID-19. With everyone at home having recovered now, his focus is back on work. “I’m itching to be in front of the camera again,” Bachchan says, as he talks about Basu’s working style and the difference between web series and film on OTT: This is your 20th year in cinema. How has your approach to films and acting changed from your début? The passion is the same. My inquisitiveness is the same. So is the hunger to learn and improve. The one thing that has changed is that there is a bit more ease and comfort in front of the camera. Apart from Anurag, what made you sign up for Ludo ? Just that. We got into the story and the script after I agreed to come on board. Working with dada [Anurag] is a bit like opening presents. You don’t know what’s going to be inside. He plays his cards close to his chest and doesn’t like to divulge too much to the actors. As an actor, you’re always looking forward to going on set the next day to discover what you’re going to do and how you’re going to do it. In that sense, there’s a mystery around working with him. Is this mystery difficult for you to deal with as an actor? No, as I used to work like that at the beginning of my career. For Refugee , J.P. Datta had the same process and he didn’t want the actors to rehearse or come prepared. Things work differently today. Everything is done before you go on set: there is extensive homework, rehearsals and readings. I can understand if the newer actors prefer that, but I thoroughly enjoyed Anurag’s way of working.  Breathe... was an Amazon Prime series, Ludo is a Netflix release and your next film, The Big Bull , is going to be on Hotstar. What is your take on OTT platforms? It is wonderful. The kind of exposure you get on a streaming platform is something that we might not have got previously. Ludo released in over 190 countries simultaneously and that’s a fantastic reach not just for me, but for Indian cinema. There is, however, a distinction between a film and a web series, and you can’t generalise them as OTT content. The approach towards making these two should be different. The writing process, especially. For a web series, you have the luxury of time and can deep-dive into characters, the sub-layers and subtexts. You can’t do that in a film. I am enjoying the liberties that come with the medium. OTT platforms are a boon and the future; they are here to stay. Having said that, one of my greatest experiences in life is still watching a film on the big screen. Does OTT-specific content liberate you from the commercial constraints of big-screen films? To a certain extent, yes, as you’re not required to convince your audience to travel to a movie theatre and buy tickets. They can watch the film whenever they like, so certain commercial requirements are not required. Hence, you’ll see more new faces. I can concentrate purely on performing. But the way you look, the way you dance, the way you sing, the way you romance, the way you fight, all these things matter in cinema. Did your experience with COVID-19 change the way you look at your life and work? Towards my work, I don’t think there’s any change. For an actor to sit at home for eight months is a tough job. I have a house filled with professionals, so that was different for all of us. Despite suffering from this virus and understanding its severity, I got so much time with my family, which is a rarity. In a sense, I enjoyed this lockdown. I’m not going to complain. I’m just happy that everybody’s safe and healthy.  Working with dada [Anurag] is a bit like opening presents. You don’t know what’s going to be inside
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Majama With Joe Mama||Priya Joe- bhai Biden, Firstly, hardik subha congratulations on your win. We always knew it would be you. The fact that Diwali coincides with your victory, let us be clear, is no coincidence. Our infallible panchang clearly mentions US’s return to Ram Rajya in 2020. So the fireworks you’ll be seeing from space over our great land are entirely in your honour. Might as well share this with you now: while the general belief was that the diya lighters and thali clangers were chanting ‘Go-Corona-Go’ a few months ago, if you listen carefully to the new, remastered footage, you will realise our patriots were actually chanting ‘Go-Donald-Go’. We didn’t want to reveal that too early. As you well know, all our master strokes are announced with such sheer suddenness that even Alfred- bhai Hitch murga can’t see them coming. We fooled you, too, didn’t we, by loudly declaring ‘Ab ki baar , etc’ at that big do in Houston, lol! That was a classic bait and switch, dost. It is called statecraft. Which is just like paper craft. (Both use glue and glitter to make flimsy things look grand.) What you didn’t know is that every arrhythmic dancer, off-key singer and idiot performer at that event knew we meant the opposite. And voted for you! It is just like how we talk of Gandhi ji ’s values here when we are actually referring to you-know-who’s, rofl. As you know, our culture is all about grand spectacle. And by that, we don’t mean Bulgari, lmao. If you have checked our epics, Baahubali 1 and 2, you’d know what we mean. So it is time you visited our ancient, wise, all-knowing land, Joe- bhai . We will arrange a spectacular event for you. In fact, it could have a mellifluous, rhyming/alliterative name, as is our custom. How about Maidan Pe Biden? Or Majama With Joe Mama ? Or Kem Cho , Joe? Then there is Kamala- ben , of course. You have to bring her. She is our beti , after all. Just like Indira- ben . Not that one, the other one, the Nooyi- wallah . There is also Padma- ben Lakshmi. Did you know all these girls are Madrasis? That means they don’t know Hindi. But we still respect them deeply. That is how tolerant we are. Anyway, coming back to Kamala- ben Harihar, we could have an event for her, too. Like Goddess Saraswati, she could emerge from a lotus. Her name means lotus, by the way. And we could call it Lotus Mein Flotus (we do know she isn’t the First Lady but so what). Let’s talk menu. Fusion is how we are seeing it. Dhokla burgers, for a start. That is two theplas with a dhokla in the middle. To be washed down with chilled thandai -shakes. Say yes, Joevardhan Bidendas. It’ll be fun. We have, after all, explained how we were always for you. Now it is time for rib-crunching hugs and thigh-slapping laughs. We will give you double dose of Coronil, worry not. You’ll be perfectly safe. We could fly in our seaplane over our Ganga Maiyya . We could gossip about Nehru and Edwina. You could ride in the bullet train (not the real thing, the scale model that Sambit ji plays with). You could do an interview with Arnab... if he is free. So much to do. If that isn’t enough, see how much we totally have in common. You are from Delaware. We are known for software. You worked with Obama. We are full of Majama. You have White House. We have Tejo Mahalaya. You have Vin Diesel ... So do come. Yours sincerely, 1.3 Billion Indians Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Rajputs with the golden guns||The skyline of Jodhpur is pinned in place by the mammoth silhouette of Mehrangarh on Bhaucheeria Hill and the regal dome of the Umaid Bhawan Palace on Chittar Hill. Between the two is defined the spirit of Marwar, forged by the sword in a thousand bloody battles in the heat of the Thar. Through the centuries down to the First World War’s Haifa in 1918 — considered the last great cavalry action in military history — the Jodhpur Lancers were known for their reckless charge with only sword and lance. The Rajputs first encountered the firearm at the battle of Khanwa (1526) fought between Babur and Rana Sanga of Mewar. “The Rajputs had never seen anything like it before,” says Gaj Singh II, erstwhile ruler of Jodhpur (and head of the House of Rathore) in his foreword to Robert Elgood’s The Maharaja of Jodhpur’s Guns . The book, published by Niyogi Books and Mehrangarh Museum Trust, is an amalgamation of historic Indian firearms, and is said to be the first on the subject. Mehrangarh, built in 1452 by Rao Jodha and described by English writer Rudyard Kipling as ‘the work of angels, fairies and giants… built by titans and coloured by the morning sun’, has been home to an extraordinary museum and centre of culture since 1972, when Gaj Singh II transformed the fort. It is also where some of the 350 guns whose images feature in the book, rest.  By the barrel  The UK-based Robert Elgood, an expert on the historic arms of Hindu India and the Islamic world, brings to his work a lifetime of passion for medieval armoury. With a degree in Islamic History from the School of Oriental and African Studies, London, a DPhil in Indian Anthropology from Oxford, and work experiences with Sotheby’s and the Wallace Collection, Elgood says, “My interest in arms and armour began at an early age. Islamic Arms , which I edited, comprising articles by international scholars, was published in 1979. I was invited to work in the newly-formed Islamic Department at Sotheby’s as an expert on Oriental arms.” Those years set off a series of books — on the arms collection of Shaikh Hasan al Thani in Qatar; Arms and Armour of Arabia ; and the first book on Islamic firearms by the owner of the Tareq Rajab Museum, Kuwait in 1995. Reading The Maharaja of Jodhpur’s Guns is like travelling from the 15th to the 20th century at a steady canter on a hardy Marwari horse. The first aspect of the book that strikes the reader is Elgood’s extraordinary research, spanning centuries, continents and private collections. In discussing the transfer of military and firepower technology through war and trade, he makes the subject integrated across Europe, the Arab and Turkish worlds, India and China. However, the detailed conquests of marauding horsemen and warriors in chain mail may interest only the avid historian. For the lover of the aesthete, there is the rest of the book — over 300 pages of fine pictures of miniature paintings sourced from the Chester Beatty Library, Dublin; the Musee Guimet, Paris; and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York; among others. There is also a detailed catalogue on every kind of gun that has been fired on the subcontinent. With fine brushstrokes, Elgood discusses the invention of gunpowder, its arrival in India, the matchlock guns of the Portuguese Eastern empire, the Sindhi jezails with their exquisite muzzles, powder flasks made of mother of pearl, and sporting guns that were the highlight of game shooting expeditions. Elgood, who had earlier catalogued the Maharaja of Jodhpur’s edged weapons, says he worked his “way through the maharaja’s personal possessions selecting any object that seemed interesting and high quality”. British gunmakers Holland and Holland and Purdeys also made their records available to him.  Tales of the brave  The book names many of the early guns of Jodhpur as matchlocks made in India. The design was essentially Mughal, copied from the Safavids of Iran, who, in turn, copied from the Turks who were inspired by the weaponry of the European armies they fought. “The Rajput warriors despised guns, believing that a brave man should fight his enemy up close. They were usually paid more for a wound with a sword than the same wound caused by a gun,” says Elgood. This, however, did not discourage Gaj Singh II’s grandfather, Maharaja Umaid Singh, from possessing some fine weapons, including a priceless enamelled 12-bore gun. His father, Maharaja Hanwant Singh, set up a gun factory in Mehrangarh. “In the 19th century, the use of European guns became widespread in princely India and the Jodhpur armoury contains examples of the very best hunting guns,” says Elgood. He adds, “Maharaja Umaid Singh was a great shikari and Maharaja Hanwant Singh was an expert gun designer. The Jodhpur collection, therefore, includes superb 20th century guns including a gold Colt automatic. The ivory grip bears the inscription as given by Umaid Singh to his son on his 21st birthday.” There are also pages from the 1926 hunting diary of Maharaja Umaid Singh that make for some interesting and humorous reading, and tales of how a disguised .22 pen pistol came to be auctioned as part of the Mountbatten Collection. Be it history that draws you or stories of brave adventure, the book is a record of why India’s royalty continues to remain the stuff of legend and how the firearm came to be for the Rathores, as treasured as the “Marwari horse and the sacred sword”. Published by Niyogi Books, The Maharaja of Jodhpur’s Gunsis priced at Rs. 4,500.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Diwali ready: the jacket||Now that Zoom celebrations are par for the course, all the festive garments from 2020 will definitely see another outing in the coming year. And jackets have been getting a lot of attention for their versatility. From the runway (Suket Dhir’s brocade blazers) to retail (W’s bomber jackets) there is something for every budget. Here are our craft-forward picks. Compiled by Susanna Myrtle Lazarus
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Can you sell wellbeing?||Paro’s website declares that it is “an invitation to pause”. Ironic for a brand that was forced to do just that during the lockdown, stilling sales as well. In fact, the website, which currently does not involve e-commerce (this will take about four or five months) encapsulates the brand very well.Parogoodearth.comtells you it is woven from the same threads as its ‘mother’ Good Earth (grand dame Anita Lal has called it Good Earth’s soul). The Sanskrit shloka as you enter the site invites you to a world of Vedanta and India’s current rediscovery of it; and its founder Simran Lal’s messages on the blog give you a glimpse into her personal journey that’s intertwined with the brand’s formulation and development. On the personal front, Simran says the lockdown was “precious”, “fabulous”, “just amazing”, especially with the time saved on the commute. On the work front, it was “initially very hard” but then the time was used in reprioritising. “[The brand has] evolved in the sense that people today, thanks to the lockdown, are being forced to look within, look out for things they can connect with. Sutradhar, which is our online blog, has got much more traffic now than earlier. More men have come to our site (@parogoodearth on Instagram) and shop there,” she says, adding that they have seen a 55% increase in follower base since the lockdown. The Indian way Much like a live Sadhguru session, there is no space for ugliness at Paro. Simran uses the word “beautiful” 16 times across many different topics as we speak. In fact, though Paro’s overarching theme is soukya (wellbeing) and swasthi (auspicious) — from which she tells me the word swastika is derived — what you see as you enter the store are the clothes and jewellery. So there is also an emphasis on shringar (beautification). The idea is to celebrate the body as a temple, and this approach consequently keeps it well, says Simran. I wonder if the name in Devanagari script may distance the two-year-old brand from a southern audience already reeling from assaults on its language and culture. “The idea is not to exclude but to open up a world that people don’t know anything about,” says Simran, of Paro being perceived as exclusionary. Its rooting in ‘ancient Indian practises’ with a section called the Sacred Agni, the fact that speakers at events Paro has organised have included David Frawley who also writes for the right wing magazine Swarajya , and that its newsletter is titled Seasonal Rhythms talks to those who follow a Hindu way of life. Post pandemic strategy Paro will be increasing its focus on yoga and deep sleep offerings, says Simran, with the brand expanding to 2,947 square feet, taking in space from what used to be Good Earth’s Shalimar. Look forward to a new ‘sleep’ section at The Chanakya comprising GOTS-certified organic bed and bath linen, pillows, bolsters, oils, fragrances. The store currently has a collection ofbandhanisaris in Bangalore silk and a Cashmere collection. There are incense sticks made of pure herbs and resins, and a signature panch agni oil (Rs. 1,500) for a steady flame, organic camphor, diyas (Rs. 3,500) and other similar items. However, its therapy rooms that offered facials, foot and body massages, are not functional and the apothecary who helps customers blend essential oils is not available for consultations yet. A contemporary take There was a time when women ‘of a certain age’ dedicated themselves to prayers and sacred rituals — this is its modern avatar, where you can shop for havan kunds (sacrificial fire) in a mall, even as you grab achocolat au pain. It is when youth has fled that you lapse into the rhythm of routine with nasya oil, silver tongue cleaners (Rs. 1,500), and pretty neti pots. Simran says that while older women are the natural fit for the brand, she’s surprised at the number of young women who engage, too. The brand is Simran — she’s studying Vedanta, Ayurveda and Sanskrit, and herself follows a series of daily micro rituals or dincharya , to connect with nature and still the mind — who . hopes everyone will connect with Paro’s Indianness and philosophy.
14 November 2020||Guwahati,||Assam’s border dispute shifts to Nagaland now||Assam’s border row with its neighbours in the Northeast has shifted from areas adjoining Mizoram to Nagaland. Days after a semblance of normalcy returned to the Assam-Mizoram border, five organisations based in Assam’s Karbi Anglong district have threatened to impose an economic blockade against Nagaland on November 20. “Lotha and Tangkhul tribal people of Nagaland, backed by their State administration, have been encroaching upon areas inside the Daldali Reserve Forest in Karbi Anglong. We will enforce the blockade and may go for more such measures if the two State governments do not meet to resolve the border issue,” said Simeon Rongphar, president of the Karbi Students’ Association. Forest officials in Karbi Anglong have also raised concerns over encroachment by people from Nagaland by removing pillars demarcating the 512.1-km border between the two States. Prahlad Kro, Assistant Conservator of Forest and Sub-Divisional Police Officer John Das had inspected the “extent of encroachment” on November 11. “The issue needs to be discussed between the two governments,” Mr. Das said. The Nagaland government has allegedly issued land allotment certificates to the encroachers in Assam. There are similar reports from the Dissoi Valley Reserve Forest in Assam’s Jorhat district. Jorhat district officials said Assam police personnel erected a temporary camp in the area on November 11 soon after their Nagaland counterparts erected a shed and refused to budge from their position. Efforts were on to pursue the Nagaland authorities to vacate the area.  Nagaland denies charge The Nagaland government has denied “illegal occupation” of land in Assam, claiming that its police personnel were keeping vigil within the State’s periphery. At least 350 people have lost their lives on Assam’s periphery, mostly along the boundary with Nagaland since 1965. A majority of the victims have been from Assam.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Saturation point||Sometimes all it takes is one item to provide colour during the festivities. Top tenets during the pandemic-reset — sustainability, upcycling, traditional craft — come together in Ekaya X Misho. The collaboration uses recycled sterling silver, tapping into Gujarat’s silversmithing traditions, as well as fabric leftovers from Ekaya’s Banarasi brocades. Palak Shah, CEO and founder, Ekaya, says, “It was about celebrating the versatility of timeless textiles and doing every inch — rather literally — due justice.” The lightweight line starts at Rs. 5,500 on ekaya.in and mishodesigns.com. Tribe Amrapali’s Ghungroo silver charms bangle comes with enamel work and rawa detailing. Priced at Rs. 19,000, it is currently sold out on the site, but can be made to order. Details: tribeamrapali.com. Nicole Kidman’s wardrobe in HBO’sThe Undoinghas been the topic of much discussion, especially her metallic Givenchy gown in episode one. Although the $6,643 (approx Rs. 3.88 lakh) gown seems to be sold out, there’s something similar from the brand on Bergdorf Goodman (at $9,900/ Rs. 7.46 lakh). Or substitute with Marchesa Notte’s cold-shoulder gown on Neiman Marcus (at Rs. 72,034).
14 November 2020||Guwahati,||Arunachal to hold rural polls after two-year delay||The poll panel in Arunachal Pradesh has scheduled the much-deferred panchayat and municipal elections simultaneously on December 22, after a delay of almost two years. This will be the second election in the Northeast during the COVID-19 pandemic after the rural and civic polls in Mizoram in October. The elections to the Bodoland Territorial Council in Assam have been cleared but a date has not been announced. The elections got delayed due to the amendment to the existing acts and rules for conversion of the panchayat system from three-tier to two-tier and municipal councils to municipal, State Election Commissioner Hage Kojeen said on November 12. “We had done the groundwork for holding the polls in April-May. The COVID-19 outbreak caused further delay,” he said. Public notice for the elections would be issued by returning officers on November 24 and the last date for filing nomination papers would be December 2. “The scrutiny of the documents will take place on December 4 and the last date for withdrawal of the nominations is December 7. The votes will be counted on December 26 and the entire process will be completed by December 31”, he said. COVID-19 guidelines Separate COVID-19 guidelines have been issued for election officials, candidates and political parties, he noted. Arunachal Pradesh has 25 zilla parishads with 241 constituencies and 2,215 gram panchayats with 8,436 seats.
14 November 2020||Guwahati,||ULFA(I) names new deputy commander||The outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent, or ULFA (I), has appointed Michael Asom as its new deputy commander-in-chief. Replaces Rajkhowa Asom replaces Drishti Rajkhowa, who surrendered formally before the Army and the Assam police on November 12, a statement issued by the outfit said on November 13. “We have granted retirement to Major General Drishti and appointed Major General Michael Asom in his place,” the ULFA (I) ‘commander-in-chief’, ‘Lt General’ Paresh Baruah said in the statement. Not much is known about Asom. Intelligence officials said he had been with the outfit for a long time and was elevated to the post of ‘chief staff officer’ four years ago.
14 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan bags award for water management||Rajasthan has bagged third prize among the top States under the National Water Awards-2019 for its outstanding work in the field of water resources management. The award given in the general category recognises the State’s achievements in water use efficiency, water harvesting and micro-irrigation with solar pumps. State Water Resources Secretary Naveen Mahajan received the award from Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu at a virtual event earlier this week. Mr. Mahajan said here on Friday that this was the seventh prize in the water sector received by the State during the last 15 months.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebrate with AR||Get festive on your social media platform of choice today. Light diyas with your finger, choose different patterns of Rangoli or admire floating lanterns in the sky with Snapchat’s six new Diwali-themed lenses. Instagram’s ‘Share your light’ filter is inspired by mandalas, and is available with greetings in English, Hindi, Marathi, Telugu, Tamil, Bengali and Urdu. Twitter is asking users to #LightUpALife with positive conversations on the platform, and a new emoji that sparkles when using dark mode on the app.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Music for everyone||Musician’s Digistage, a platform for young artistes, curates a lineup for the weekend, featuring sitar, tabla, flute and vocals. These will be followed by a guest performance by Indian classical vocalist Ronkini Gupta. On November 15 and 16 at 8 pm. Tickets from Rs. 290 on insider.in. Get your party on with EDM artistes from India and Sri Lanka in a virtual arena. ‘From The Scratch’ features a three-hour setlist that includes Mr Bose, Revoic and Ambroz. Today from 7.30 pm. Tickets from Rs. 99 on in.bookmyshow.com.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Virtual sightings||After Prince Yaduveer Singh Bera launched India’s first virtual leopard safari, he’s now teamed up with immersive experience provider Vibecity to bring the experience to school children. Aimed at spreading awareness about wildlife conservation among the youth: @vibecity.club on Instagram. Join Chennai’s Crocodile Bank virtually today to meet their baby reptiles. The 45-minute session doesn’t have an age limit. At Rs. 150 on November 14 at 11.30 am on Google Meet. To register,mail education@ madrascrocodilebank.org
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Seeds in your cracker||Microgreens ladi, a phoenix chakkar and hemp bombs are a part of Gram Art Project’s ‘green’ Diwali offerings. The organisation based in Madhya Pradesh is selling these paper crackers filled with seeds as an alternative to commercial, explosive ones. On gramartproject.org. Good Karma Foundation’s Wicksdom has elders residing in old age homes handcrafting wicks for oil lamps. The organisation gives them cotton yarn free of cost and retails the product to individuals and institutions. goodkarmafoundation.org
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Gratitude garments||Evoluzione’s latest is The Gratitude Edit. Choose from pre-made curated boxes that include clothing as well as picks from their wellness and gourmet section. Or customise (a minimum of 10 orders) with three to seven items per box. Details on evoluzionestyle.com. Call for queries.9840388026 Online, both Fashion Design Council of India and IMG Reliance are supporting #Local4Diwali. Shop from local vendors and weavers to support their business, and tag your handloom garments on social media.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Festive watchlist||Diwali film releases have moved online, with Suriya’sSoorarai Pottruon Prime Video, Akshay Kumar’sLaxmiion Disney Plus Hotstar andLudoon Netflix. Add some international flavour to your watchlist with the ongoing European Union Film Festival. Choose from 42 films spanning six genres and 36 languages. The lineup includes six short films on climate change as well as Indian dramasCourt(Chaitanya Tamhane) andAparajito(Satyajit Ray). Free registration. Details: euffindia.com
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Festive advertising: Cadbury seems to have hit a sweet spot with their AI-powered ad campaign, that highlights local businesses in select pincodes. Not all festive ads have been met with the same enthusiasm, however. Case in point: Tanishq’s commercial that came under fire and had to be withdrawn for promoting a cracker-free Diwali. The hope is that Indian brands continue to push the envelope.
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Chocolate olfactory||COLOCAL, an artisanal chocolate brand built on the bean to bar concept, has launched its flagship at Dhan Mill, Chhattarpur. It features a chocolate factory along with casual café dining. Locally grown cacao is sourced from Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Besides Hot and cold chocolate, cacao cold brew, chocolate tarts, and more chocolate concoctions, the menu has a mix of Italian and Continental fare (sourdough pizzas and handmade pastas, for instance). At Dhan Mill, 100 Feet Road, Chhattarpur
14 November 2020||November 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Overheard Celebs: From the folks behind cult Instagram pages Comments by Celebs and Overheard in LA, comes @overheardcelebs, a virtual “anti-gossip journal”. The feed is a curation of interactions that common people have had with A-List celebs. Like when Harry Styles offered to watch a stranger’s dog as they went to the store or when Tom Hanks took a selfie on an unattended iPhone.
