15 April 2020||New Delhi,||PM extends lockdown till May 3; tougher restrictions at hotspots||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced the extension of the current nationwide lockdown till May 3, with intensive containment measures at hotspots till April 20 in order for areas to qualify for any relief measures and freedom of mobility, especially for hawkers and daily-wage workers. He added that detailed guidelines on the contours of this extended lockdown would be issued by the government on Wednesday. Addressing the nation via a televised broadcast, Mr. Modi said while the efforts to fight the novel coronavirus were keeping the situation under control, it was not time to relax one’s guard, adding that the economic cost “may appear big, but is not so when compared to the lives of our citizens”. Inputs from States “After speaking to all States and even based on suggestions from our citizens, the lockdown has been extended to May 3. Till April 20, identified hotspots will see even more strict checks and only when there is some success in dealing with the outbreak in designated hotspots will some freedom of mobility be granted, that, too, under strict conditions,” Mr. Modi said. “I keep in my mind our poor brothers and daily-wage workers when I speak of opening spaces, but even if one case emerges from these hotpots, the lockdown will be back in place again,” he stressed. He said Indians had displayed exceptional discipline and resolve during the lockdown and managed to keep the number of cases at a level that was favourable compared to several rich countries. “Even before our first case, we had put in place screening at airports for international travellers and quarantine measures; when we hit 550 cases, we went in for a strong lockdown, and if you compare where we are at with the number of our cases, our situation — with our limited resources — is still better than other, richer countries,” he said. Help for farmers He mentioned that the government was making all efforts to help farmers with the ongoing rabi harvest and procurement and said the country had adequate stocks of both food and medicines. He said he wanted the country to follow seven steps or a new set of saptapadi (traditionally associated with a Hindu wedding ceremony).
15 April 2020||Mumbai /Delhi,||Teltumbde, Navlakha surrender to NIA||Civil rights campaigner Gautam Navlakha and scholar and activist Anand Teltumbde surrendered to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday in New Delhi and Mumbai respectively for their alleged involvement in the Bhima-Koregaon riots of 2018. Mr. Teltumbde, an engineer and IIM graduate who taught at IIT-Kharagpur, was booked for his alleged links to the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) and remanded to NIA custody till April 18 by a special NIA court in Mumbai. The NIA court in Mumbai, however, did not take up Mr. Navlakha’s remand application because of jurisdictional issues, and he will be produced before a Delhi court on Wednesday. The Supreme Court had on April 8 ordered Mr. Navlakha and Mr. Teltumbde to surrender after rejecting their anticipatory bail pleas. The case against them was transferred from the Pune police to the NIA in January. Both have been charged under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Earlier, in 2018, the Pune police arrested activists Sudha Bharadwaj, Shoma Sen, Surendra Gadling, Mahesh Raut, Arun Ferreira, Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Vernon Gonsalves and Varavara Rao, for their alleged involvement in the Bhima Koregaon riots. Hope for speedy trial Before surrendering to the NIA, Mr. Navlakha said in a statement, “My hope rests on a speedy and fair trial for myself and all my fellow co-accused. This alone will enable me to clear my name, and walk free, having also used the time in jail to rid myself of acquired habits.” He also referred to concerns expressed by those close to him about having to surrender at a time when the pandemic was raging and the courts were releasing many detainees from jail.
15 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka’s COVID-19 toll touches 10||With two more deaths reported on Tuesday, the COVID-19 toll touched the double digit mark in Karnataka. Four deaths reported back to back on Monday and Tuesday is a matter of concern, admit health officials. Tuesday saw 13 new positive cases in all, taking the total in Karnataka to 260, including 10 deaths and 71 discharged people. Of the deaths reported on Tuesday, one was a 76-year-old male patient, a resident of Hindupur who was admitted in a private hospital in Bengaluru on April 12, while the other was a 69-year-old male from Vijayapura. A 55-year-old man in Kalaburagi and a 65-year-old man in Bengaluru passed away on Monday. All the four deaths have no foreign travel history and had been admitted after they developed severe acute respiratory illness. The Kalaburagi man and his wife, who has also tested positive, had come in contact of a person who had returned from Delhi. Meanwhile, it has emerged that the 65-year-old man died at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD) at 3.30 a.m. on Monday after collapsing in the washroom. He had gone from one government hospital to another before he was finally admitted in the RGICD on Sunday. However, the report confirming him, a resident of Attiguppe area, as a COVID-19 patient came on Monday evening. The person, who had several comorbidities, including cardiac issues, first went to the RGICD after he developed severe respiratory distress. However, he was sent to Sri Jayadeva Institute of Chest Diseases as doctors felt his cardiac problems needed to be attended first. “From Jayadeva, he was referred to Victoria Hospital as doctors there felt his respiratory distress was a sign of COVID-19,” said C.N. Manjunath, Jayadeva institute director. But, when the family called Victoria Hospital, they were asked to take him back to the RGICD as the former is now admitting only COVID-19 cases. “We have 41 positive cases here and it is risky to admit any non-COVID-19 case,” said Asima Banu, nodal officer of the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre. The family then took him to a private hospital, and when refused admission there, took him back to the RGICD where he was admitted around 5.30 p.m. on Sunday in a critical condition. “Within hours, his condition worsened. He wanted to use the washroom, where he collapsed and breathed his last. His samples were collected and the report confirmed the infection on Monday,” sources said.  “It is unfortunate that the patient had to be shifted from one hospital to another in a critical condition. This not only delayed treatment, but also increased the number of people who came in contact with him,” said Dr. Manjunath. Asked if doctors at Jayadeva would have been exposed to the patient, Dr. Manjunath said he was wheeled into the triage area in the hospital where doctors and nurses use PPE and N95 masks regularly and hence there could not be any exposure. “However, we have quarantined two doctors, five nurses, and three group ‘D’ staff who were on duty that day for 14 days,” he said.
15 April 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,||Migrant workers in State give vent to their feelings||Thousands of migrant workers, who have been put up in camps and shelter homes since the imposition of the nationwide lockdown in March, came on to the road, saying they wanted to go home. As news of the Centre extending the lockdown till May 3 spread, the labourers became impatient and entered into arguments with the managements on Tuesday. The labourers, hailing from Odisha, Bihar, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Telangana, and Tamil Nadu, were eking out their living by working in chilli, paddy and maize fields, construction sites, brick kilns, aqua industries and spinning mills. After the lockdown, many industries suspended their operations. However, a majority of workers were kept in camps and shelter homes. About 65,000 migrant labourers and more than 10,000 homeless and beggars were staying in shelter homes and night shelters in the State. About 50 migrant workers of Odisha staying in a camp in Mohan Spintex Limited at Mallavalli village in Krishna district demanded that the management release them. When there was no response, they came out of the gates and started raising slogans. Police enter the scene On being alerted, the Veeravalli police rushed to the scene and tried to pacify the labourers. “We were told that we would be sent back to our villages today, but the situation changed after Centre extended the lockdown. We cannot stay here indefinitely as we have to take care of our parents and families,” said a labourer fighting back tears.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Longer lockdown essential to break chain of infection: govt.||India on Tuesday registered an increase of 1,211 COVID-19 cases and 31 deaths in the past 24 hours, making it the largest spike in cases since January. The total number of cases stands at 10,363, with 339 deaths. As many as 1,036 persons have been discharged after treatment, the Union Health Ministry said. Following the Prime Minister’s announcement of extension of the lockdown till May 3, the Ministry said the move was essential to break the chain of transmission. “As per the World Health Organization data, 76,498 confirmed cases and 5,702 deaths were reported across the world on Monday and it is due to our collective effort that in a large country like India, we have been able to restrict the numbers,” Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said. According to reports from the State Health Departments, the death toll rose to 390, with 11,350 cases overall of which 9,791 are active ones. Mumbai alone reported 204 cases, taking the total number of affected people in the city to 1,753, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said. The death toll in the city stood at 111 with 11 more fatalities. More beds “Health Ministry is continuously working with States/UTs to strengthen the health infrastructure in the country,” Mr. Agarwal said. “As of now, a total of 602 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals with 1,06,719 isolation beds and 12,024 ICU beds have been developed,’’ he added.
15 April 2020||Bhopal,||Bhopal gas survivors left in the lurch||Four of the five patients who died of COVID-19 in Bhopal were survivors of the city’s 1984 gas tragedy, and were suffering from respiratory illnesses that made them more vulnerable to the disease. One of the patients was denied ambulance service and admission by two private hospitals, another by one private hospital and the third by both a private and a government-run hospital. While two of them could be admitted to a private hospital at the last minute, one died on way to hospital. “If the BMHRC had been open for us, we could have gone there,” said Gaurav Khatik, son of the first patient to die of COVID-19 in Bhopal, aged 52, on April 6. He had managed to collect Rs. 90,000 with friends’ support for the brief treatment of his father, who was asthmatic, at a private hospital. No option After the State government converted the ICMR-run Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC) into a dedicated COVID-19 hospital on March 23, the facility closed its doors to the survivors of the methyl isocyanate leak from a pesticide plant in the city in 1984, which killed thousands and caused deformities and congenital diseases in lakhs. They are now left with no other government-run superspeciality hospital. Tens of patients, including 28 from the pulmonary ward, the most from any department, were shunted out. According to the eight community health centres of the BMHRC, from 1998 to 2016, 50.4% of gas-affected patients suffered from cardiovascular problems, 59.6% from pulmonary problems and 15.6% from diabetes, illnesses that make patients susceptible to the coronavirus. The Principal Secretary of Public Health and Family Welfare had said alternative arrangements had been made for them at the six State government-run hospitals. Yet, Aman Yadav’s 52-year-old father was sent away by the Pulmonary Medicine Centre, one of the six hospitals he approached after being denied admission by a private hospital. The next day on April 11, he walked till the ward of the government-run Hamidia Hospital, gasping for breath, and died. “He had earlier undergone treatment for tuberculosis at the gas relief hospital. His situation worsened every year with the change of season,” said Mr. Yadav.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||More COVID-19 containment zones demarcated in city||Thirteen new COVID-19 containment zones were demarcated in the GHMC purview on Tuesday, in addition to the 126 already existing, taking the total number of containment zones to 139 in the city. The new zones are indicative of the freshly identified COVID-19 positive cases in the city. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had, at Monday’s review meeting, asked officials to pay special attention to the city in view of the highest number of novel coronavirus cases identified here. As per the guidelines issued by the government, GHMC has to demarcate the surrounding locality of the house where a COVID-19 positive case has been identified, as containment zone. Movement of people into and out of the containment zones is severely restricted, in order to arrest the spread of the disease. Residents inside the zones are to stay strictly inside their homes, and not venture out. The zones will be kept under 24x7 surveillance, and teams are to visit each household to monitor the health of inmates, and identify more suspected cases. As on Tuesday, a total of 1,398 persons have been under home quarantine in the city. A statement from GHMC said the control room with the helpline number 040-21111111 set up for citizens’ assistance during lock down received a total of 326 calls on Tuesday. Of these, nine pertained to suspected coronavirus infection cases. Ten calls were made for ambulance and 20 for ration. Calls with food requests were also received from seven containment areas and the information was forwarded to Annapurna Mobile Teams. Intensive spraying of disinfectant solution was taken up in all government health centres, hospitals, containment zones, and home quarantine areas by the disaster response forces, and GHMC Entomology wing.
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Corpn. to test 40,000 samples by May 3||With 211 COVID-19 cases in the city limits as on Tuesday, the Chennai Corporation plans to go in for widespread testing, collecting over 40,000 samples by the time the extended lockdown ends on May 3. “As many as 10,000 samples will be taken from residents of 80 containment zones where positive cases have been reported,” said Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash. Pointing to the need to also collect samples from residents across the city, he said that the civic workers would collect 40,000 samples in all by the end of April. “A total of 30,000 samples will be taken from residents of areas where positive cases have not been reported. This sample size of 40,000 is 0.5% of the city's population. The sample strength is good and it will give good results in terms of finding trends,” he said. “At least 600 samples were collected earlier. On Tuesday, 800 more were collected. Our goal is to achieve 2,000 samples per day,” he said, requesting residents not to consider testing a taboo. “Once our test results indicate an improvement, we will be able to tackle this medical emergency,” he said. “The Corporation will set up 35 centres for sample collection. We have already started 16 centres. Doctors and technicians on deputation have been trained for the purpose,” he added. Meanwhile, the Corporation made it possible for residents to view containment spots in the city through the GCC Corona Monitoring App. The updated app now has a map that shows an embedded view of the areas that have been identified as containment zones. The app, launched early this month, gives residents the options of reporting symptoms as well as crowded spots, based on which action can be taken. As part of its door-to-door survey, the Corporation has identified 3,886 persons with symptoms across the 15 zones in the city as on April 13. Among them, 3,274 persons were identified as having been cured, while the Corporation would follow up on 612 persons in the coming days. The Corporation had identified 12,047 containment blocks across 15 zones and, for verification, nearly 11,678 persons had been appointed. As part of the monitoring plan in place for containment zones in the city, the ciivic body had surveyed over 81 lakh houses, officials said.
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Trains, flights stay suspended||The Railways on Tuesday said all passenger services, including premium trains, mail/express trains, suburban trains and the Kolkata Metro Rail, will continue to remain suspended till May 3. In addition, advance reservation will not be allowed “till further notice”. The ban on domestic and international flights was also extended until May 3.page 8
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Not enough testing: Rahul||India delayed the import of COVID-19 testing kits, the key to fighting the pandemic, and is now “nowhere in the game” of mass testing, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said on Tuesday. Taking to Twitter, Mr. Gandhi claimed the testing levels rank among the lowest, even lower than the least developed countries like Laos, Niger and Honduras.Page 8
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Bandra standoff||
15 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Toll climbs to 12 in State||The State reported five more deaths and 44 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday evening, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department and bulletins by respective district administrations. So far, the State has reported 484 positive cases and 12 deaths, while 16 patients have recovered. There are a total of 455 active cases in the State. Two people died in Guntur and one each in Krishna, Kurnool and Nellore districts. A 55-year-old man of Vijayawada, who was admitted to the Government General Hospital on April 5, died on April 12.The victim was a contact of another positive patient who has a history of travel to Punjab. In Nellore, a 56-year-old doctor died on Monday. He was admitted to hospital on April 3 and shifted to a private hospital in Chennai on April 6 at the request of the family. Doctor tests positive In Anantapur, there was alarm after a 35-year-old doctor in the microbiology laboratory tested positive. The cases in Guntur district, which has turned into a major hotspot, crossed the 100-mark. In the last one day alone, 21 fresh cases have been reported, taking the total to 114. Krishna district reported eight new positive cases and Kurnool, which is another major hotspot, reported seven new cases. Anantapur reported five new cases and Nellore reported one more case. Kadapa reported two new cases. Meanwhile, four patients have recovered and were discharged from their respective hospitals. The tally so far is Kurnool (91), Nellore (56), Krishna (44), Prakasam (42), Kadapa (33), West Godavari (23), Chittoor (23), Visakhapatnam (20), Anantapur (21) and East Godavari (17).
15 April 2020||Hyderabad,||State tally: 52 more cases, one death||The spike in coronavirus positive cases continued with 52 more persons testing positive for the virus in different parts of the State. One more person succumbed to the virus taking the death toll in the State to 18. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits continued to register more cases with the total tally reaching close to 250 against 216 on Monday. There is a spike in cases in Vikarabad district where the cases have gone up to 29. Suryapet with 23 cases, Medchal with 22 and Warangal Urban with 21 are among districts with high incidence of the COVID-19 cases, according to Health Department on Tuesday.
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||State set for stricter lockdown||The Karnataka government is set for stricter implementation of lockdown to contain COVID-19 and the situation will be reviewed on April 20 for possible relaxation of norms. “The next one week is crucial,” said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday, while promising non-interruption in agricultural activity. In Bengaluru city and other parts of the State, public transport will continue to remain off the road.Page 3
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,||31 fresh cases in T.N.||Tamil Nadu reported 31 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, the lowest since the start of April. The total number of COVID-19 patients in the State now stands at 1,204. The day also saw 23 patients discharged across the State, taking the total number of cured persons to 81. So far, 12 patients have died due of COVID-19. The number of samples lifted for testing increased by 6,509 since Monday, the highest so far. Till date, a total of 19,255 samples have been tested in the State. For the first time, the Health department gave out details of the number of individuals tested for COVID-19 — 15,502.  Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said that of the 31 patients, 21 were connected to the "single source event", one had an inter-State travel history and nine were contacts of COVID-19 patients. The day’s count included 16 women. Dindigul recorded the highest number of cases with nine. Chennai had five patients, while Thanjavur recorded four cases and Tenkasi had three. There were two patients each in Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Nagapattinam, and one each in Cuddalore, Salem, Sivanganga and Kanniyakumari. Six patients were sick but none required ventilator support. In the last 24 hours, 69 patients hospitalised for severe acute respiratory infection were screened for COVID-19, and none tested positive, Dr. Rajesh said. Among the COVID-19 patients, 33 were under the age of 10. Dr. Rajesh clarified that persons were discharged only after completion of the 14-day quarantine period.  Containment measures  She said that containment activities continued wherever persons tested positive for COVID-19. “Zonal teams have been formed. Twelve senior IPS and IAS officials have been posted for monitoring the implementation of containment measures, checking for proper lifting of samples, contact tracing and adherence to physical distancing,” the Health Secretary said. “We want to limit the cases within the containment zones as far as possible. Today, the number of cases is 31. We have to wait and watch in the coming days,” she added. With the State awaiting approval of the Indian Council of Medical Research for trial of convalescent plasma therapy, she said that T.N. was framing protocols for the trials. “We need the willingness of patients who have recovered and been discharged. We are creating a database of the patients and have readied a format to get their willingness,” Dr. Rajesh said. When asked about higher testing numbers in States such as Maharashtra and Kerala, Dr. Rajesh said that Tamil Nadu recorded its first COVID-19 case in early March and it was important to take into account when other States first reported cases and look at the testing numbers over a period of time. “We have lifted samples from 15,502 individuals from the time the first case was reported. We do not have any shortage of staff in the laboratories, and all facilities are functioning well,” she said. The Health Secretary said additional staff were posted at the laboratories to ensure that testing was done 24x7. In addition, the department had identified required equipment in the departments of Higher Education, Animal Husbandry and Agriculture and was shifting them to its laboratories, she added. “We started by screening travellers from Wuhan. When COVID-19 spread to other parts of China, those coming from other provinces of China were screened as per the travel advisory. This is an imported disease. As far as Tamil Nadu is concerned, after we had cases from the single source cluster, we have traced their primary and secondary contacts. All international travellers and their contacts were also traced and tested. Now, whoever has influenza-like illness is also being tested,” she said. On masks, Dr. Rajesh said that triple layer masks, N95 masks and personal protective equipment were for hospital staff. “Among the public, persons in the vulnerable group, such as those above 60, those with diabetes and hypertension, or undergoing cancer treatment, or persons who underwent organ transplant, should wear triple layer masks. Healthy individuals can wear reusable masks made at home.” She said dialysis was required by nearly 15,000 patients across the State, and measures to ensure that they underwent dialysis thrice a week had been taken by involving the 108 ambulance service. As of date, a total of 38,139 persons were under home quarantine and 135 in government quarantine facilities. A total of 1,870 persons were admitted to isolation facilities. Of the total 19,255 samples lifted, 1,204 persons had tested positive, 13,234 samples had returned negative. Testing of 777 samples was under process, while 4,040 samples were repeats of the same patients, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine.
15 April 2020||Patna,||Jail for spitting tobacco in public in Bihar||The Bihar government on Monday passed an order that said anyone caught spitting tobacco or pan masala in public would invite six months in jail or a penalty of Rs. 200. Spitting tobacco in public places poses a threat to public health, said the health department.
15 April 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal welcomes lockdown extension||Welcoming Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to extend the nationwide lockdown till May 3, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to migrant workers on Tuesday to stay put and not believe in rumours that inter-State buses were available to ferry them.
15 April 2020||New Delhi,||Two deaths, 51 new COVID-19 cases in Delhi||Two more deaths and 51 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Tuesday, taking the toll to 30 and the total number to 1,561. In all, 16,282 samples have been tested for the virus so far. As many as 2,455 people are in quarantine facilities and 11,984 people under home quarantine in the city.
15 April 2020||Coimbatore,||Screening of people on roads begins||The Health Department has started screening of people with thermal scanners on roads at various locations in Coimbatore city from Tuesday.
15 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Bescom to bill consumers an average of 3 months||With meter readers not being able to do their work due to the lockdown and some apartments not letting them in, the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) has decided to bill domestic consumers on an average of the previous three months’ consumption.
15 April 2020||HUBBALLI,||Ambedkar remembered||Amid the lockdown restrictions, the district and taluk administrations observed the 129th birth anniversary of B.R. Ambedkar in a simple manner in the districts of Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri and Uttara Kannada on Tuesday. In Dharwad, Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar offered floral tributes to Ambedkar in a simple celebration at the Deputy Commissioner’s office auditorium. Various organisations limited the celebrations to just garlanding Ambedkar’s statue in their respective towns and cities in these districts.
15 April 2020||MANIPAL,||Kasturba Hospital to re-start OPD services||Kasturba Hospital will re-open its regular out-patient department (OPD) services for a few specialities here on Wednesday. These services, including General Medicine, Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Medical Oncology, Surgical Oncology, Radiotherapy Oncology, Paediatric Haemato-Oncology, Cardiology, Nephrology and Urology, will be available from 8.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.
15 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Prohibitory orders in city till April 20 midnight||City Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao imposed prohibitory orders for six days from Tuesday midnight to April 20 midnight. He directed police personnel to intensify the enforcement and ensure that there was no unnecessary movement on the road.
15 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Uncertainty over SSLC examination continues||The uncertainty over the SSLC and PU examinations continues with the locknown now extended till May 3. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said once lockdown is lifted, he would convene a meeting with officials and decide on a fresh timetable.
15 April 2020||Chennai,||Quarantine space for 10,000 created||The Chennai Corporation has created “safe quarantine spaces” for 10,000 persons in various parts of the city. Launching one such facility at the Chennai Trade Centre on Tuesday, Commissioner G. Prakash said the quarantine spaces will have controlled medical supervision.
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Private players to make rapid test kits soon||Quite a few healthcare players in Tamil Nadu have come forward to manufacture COVID-19 rapid test kits and other medical equipment following the announcement of special package for such industries by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami.
15 April 2020||VILLUPURAM,||Man released from quarantine traced||A week after a Delhi-based COVID-19 positive man went missing after he was released from quarantine from the Villupuram Government Hospital due to a “clerical error”, a special police team from Villupuram traced him to Pattalam in Chengalpet district on Tuesday.
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,||96-year-old man dies of COVID-19||A 96-year-old man, who had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), died at the Government Medical College Hospital in Karur on Tuesday. With this, the State has reported 12 deaths of COVID-19 patients.
15 April 2020||New Delhi,||Ban on trains, flights to stay until May 3||The Indian Railways on Tuesday said all passenger train services, including premium, mail, express and suburban trains and the Kolkata metro rail, will continue to remain suspended till May 3. In addition, advance reservation, including e-tickets, will not be allowed “till further notice”. A Railways official said that the move will lead of the cancellation of about 39 lakh tickets booked from April 15 to May 3. The temporary ban on domestic and international flights on Tuesday was also extended until midnight of May 3. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had banned international flights from March 23 and the ban on domestic flights came into effect two days later, that is, March 25. The suspension follows the announcement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend the nationwide lockdown by almost three weeks. For all the cancelled trains, full refund will be given to the passengers. Online facility for cancellation of tickets will remain functional. The Railways added that a full refund will also be given to those passengers who cancel their advance bookings for trains that have not been cancelled yet “as a goodwill measure”. For passengers who had bookings on the cancelled trains, refunds will be automatically remitted by the Railways online. However, for a booking done over counters, refunds can be taken up till July 31. “Resumption of train services as may be warranted in consideration of public safety, keeping in view the emergent situation, shall be announced in due course,” the Railways’ statement said. “All counters for booking of rail journey tickets for reserved/unreserved travel at railway stations and outside railway station premises shall remain closed up to 24:00 hrs of May 3, 2020,” it added. However, to ensure the flow of essential supplies in various parts of the country, movement of goods and parcel trains will continue. No word on repatriation The government is yet to announce measures for repatriation of Indians stranded around the world. There have been demands from within the aviation sector to stop airlines from allowing advance booking until the lockdown is lifted, so that passengers don’t get their money stuck with airlines. But the government is yet to release any guidelines on this issue. There is no restriction on cargo flights. The government has taken the help of passenger airlines like Air India, IndiGo and SpiceJet, apart from BlueDart, for the transportation of essential medical supplies within the country as well as to Shanghai, Hong Kong and Colombo. IndiGo has announced that it would resume flights from May 4. It said it will be initially operating with a slightly curtailed capacity, which it will increase in the subsequent months, including to international routes. Former Railway Board Chairman Ashwini Lohani, during a video conference of the travel and tourism industry, said, “Railways stopped for one or two days when Gandhi ji  died. After that, during the railway strike of 1974, in some pockets, services were affected. But this is the first time [after the assassination of Gandhi] that Railways has stopped across the country.”
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICMR suggests testing of pooled samples||Stating that the number of COVID-19 cases in India is rising, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is now advising the feasibility of using pooled samples for molecular testing of patient samples. The council has said that it is critical to increase the numbers of tests conducted by laboratories. “Positivity rate in cases is still low. Hence, it may help to use the pooled samples for screening. A pooled testing algorithm involves the PCR screening of a specimen pool comprising multiple individual patient specimens, followed by individual testing (pool de-convolution) only if a pool screens positive. As all individual samples in a negative pool are regarded as negative, it results in substantial cost savings when a large proportion of pools tests negative,” it noted in a one-page advisory. The advisory is aimed at increasing capacity of the laboratories to screen increased numbers of samples using molecular testing for COVID-19 for the purpose of surveillance. “But pooling of sample is not recommended in areas or population with positivity rates of >5% for COVID-19. Preferable number of samples to be pooled is five, though more than two samples can be pooled, but considering higher possibility of missing positive samples with low viral load, it is strongly discouraged to pool more than five samples, except in research mode,” the advisory says. The ICMR has noted that a feasibility study was conducted at DHR/ICMR Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow. Feasibility scenario “It has been demonstrated that performing real-time PCR for COVID-19 by pooling five samples of TS/NS (200 ul/sample) is feasible when the prevalence rates of infection are low. All individual samples in a negative pool to be regarded as negative. De-convoluted testing is recommended if any of the pool is positive. Pooling of more than five samples is not recommended to avoid the effect of dilution leading to false negatives,” the advisory said. It has now recommended sample pooling for real-time RT-PCR screening for COVID-19 (based on the KGMU study). The study has recommended that it should be used only in areas with low prevalence of COVID-19 (initially using proxy of low positivity of less than 2% from the existing data). Still, a watch should be kept on increasing positivity in such areas. In areas with positivity of 2-5%, sample pooling for PCR screening may be considered only in community survey or surveillance among asymptomatic individuals, strictly excluding pooling samples of individuals with known contact with confirmed cases and health care workers (in direct contact with care of COVID-19 patients). Sample from such individuals should be directly tested without pooling.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||SoI maps add heft to Arogya Setu app||To “complement” the Arogya Setu App, a government endorsed application that helps trace the contacts of those who may have been infected by COVID-19, the Survey of India (SoI), the country’s apex map maker, has made public a trove of maps. This could improve geospatial data as well as help develop maps that could be customised to a variety of ‘COVID-related applications’ such as healthcare facilities, infection clusters and disaster management, according to officials associated with the project.  Geospatial information “The platform is initially expected to strengthen the public health delivery system of the State and Central governments and subsequently provide the necessary geospatial information support to citizens and agencies dealing with the challenges related to health, socio-economic distress, and livelihood challenges,” the Department of Science and Technology, which oversees the SoI, said in a press release. “The mobile application has been customised to collect COVID-19 specific geospatial datasets through community engagement to augment the response activities by government to the pandemic.” Officials said that the maps wouldn’t be directly useful to the general public and was aimed at government agencies which require geospatial information. “If a response team needs location specific data on a hotspot that information can be given by Sahyog (the SoI’s mobile application),” Pankaj Mishra, Deputy Surveyor General (Technical) told The Hindu . In his address announcing the extension of the lockdown on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged Indians to use the Arogya Setu application and “inspire others to download the app as well”. To be effective, it requires users to keep their device’s Bluetooth and location history ‘on’ as much as possible. Users will be alerted, without disclosing identity, if they are in the vicinity of someone who’s tested positive. It also helps the government trace contacts of those infected to execute quarantining. Critics say that Arogya Setu and applications like Sahyog that link to it, could infringe privacy as there wasn’t clarity on how data would be shared between the two applications. “If location data from Arogya Setu is transferred to the other application, then it is a problem. But if it is a one way transfer from Sahyog to Arogya Setu, then it is more about privacy protection within the latter application,” said Prasanth Sugathan, Legal Director, Software Freedom Law Centre, India. Arogya Setu’s terms of use were unclear on several aspects including how long data would be stored, what would happen to it once the pandemic ceased, who else the data was being transferred to, he added. The government has said that data would be collected only for managing the pandemic.
15 April 2020||Mumbai,||Migrants protest outside Bandra station||Over a thousand migrant workers gathered outside the Bandra railway station on Tuesday afternoon, demanding that they be sent home at the earliest as they are unable to sustain themselves during the lockdown. The police had to resort to a lathi charge to disperse them. In an address to the State on social media in the evening, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray appealed to migrant workers to maintain calm. CM’s address In his Marathi and Hindi address, Mr. Thackeray said a rumour about the resumption of outstation train services could have led to the crowding. The Chief Minister said the State was investigating the incident, and those playing politics during a pandemic would be punished. “The reason is that they felt trains would start from April 14 and they can go home. Someone must have put this in their mind,” he said. The State government is in talks with the Centre to help migrant workers return home, the Chief Minister added. The Bandra police said, people started gathering outside the Jama Masjid near Bandra station around 4 p.m. The numbers soon swelled to around 1,500. “The people mostly were workers from other States and they demanded that they be sent home as the lockdown, which was supposed to end on Tuesday, had been extended. Personnel from the Bandra police station, including senior officers, immediately rushed to the spot,” Mumbai Police spokesperson Pranaya Ashok said. An officer with the Bandra police said the numbers grew even as senior police officers tried to explain that there were no means of transport available. The workers, mostly daily wagers, said they were unable to survive without work and income. ‘Cannot defy orders’ “They said they were getting tired of surviving on the kindness of strangers. We told them that we understood their plight, but could not defy orders issued by the Central and State governments and certainly not at a moment’s notice. Even as we were trying to disperse the gathering, some of them became physically aggressive, and the sentiment spread throughout the crowd,” the officer said, Another officer said when repeated announcements on loudspeakers failed to calm the workers and the situation was getting out of hand, the police resorted to lathi charge. “We suspect that this was an instigation as it is hardly possible for such a large group to gather at short notice. The fact that they gathered at a spot far from Bandra Terminus, where outstation trains depart from the city, suggests that the intention was to create disturbance rather than seek help from the government. We are conducting inquiries to verify this,” he said. Mr. Ashok said strict bandobast has been put in place in and around the area to prevent another flare-up. Preliminary inquiries have indicated that most of the workers are residents of localities near Bandra station. Officers said a truck was distributing rations to migrant workers in the area before the numbers swelled. “We have CCTV footage of the incident and are registering an FIR in connection with the matter,” Joint Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Vinoy Kumar Choubey said.
15 April 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai records 216 more cases, 11 deaths||Mumbai has recorded 216 new COVID-19 cases and 11 more deaths on Tuesday. The total tally has now touched 1,756 and the death toll stands at 112, making the city the COVID-19 hotspot of the country with the highest number of cases as well as fatalities. On Tuesday, nine of the 11 victims had co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma, heart disease and obesity. Among them, a 52-year-old man had a past history of tuberculosis while a 65-year-old woman had active tuberculosis. While co-morbid conditions have been a common thread among the COVID-19 fatalities in the city, the rapidly increasing death toll has become a major cause of concern for the State. Mumbai alone contributes nearly 62% of Maharashtra’s deaths. This has led the State government to form a seven-member committee to look into the high death rate in the city. Avinash Supe, former dean of civic-run KEM Hospital who is a part of the committee, said the first meeting had been scheduled on Wednesday. Milind Nadkar, Head of Medicine department of KEM Hospital; Nitin Karnik, Head of Medicine from Sion Hospital; Chaya Rajguru from JJ Hospital’s Community Medicine department; Vidya Nagar from JJ Hospital’s Medicine department and Subhash Salunkhe, Technical Adviser to the State on pandemic control, are part of the committee headed by Sadhana Tayde from the Directorate of Health Services.
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,||India to get 15 million PPE kits from China||Indian companies and government entities have placed orders for 15 million personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and 1.5 million rapid testing kits from China, officials said on Tuesday. The Indian government is calling on China to fulfil those orders, amid concerns over tightened regulations on exporting such equipment by Chinese authorities following criticism from several European countries over the quality of exports. “We are in the process of, or have already completed, contracting for 15 million PPE kits, consisting of gowns, masks, gloves, goggles, etc. and nearly 1.5 million rapid testing kits of all kinds, some of which have already been delivered,” India’s Ambassador to China Vikram Misri said at an online press briefing from Beijing. A substantial amount of India’s national PPE supply is coming from China. These orders, both from the government and private sectors, were placed on a commercial basis. China had separately donated 170,000 PPE coveralls, the Health Ministry said on April 6, which would add to the 387,473 PPEs available in the country as of that date. Test kits delivered More than 5,00,000 testing kits from China have already been delivered to various entities, while a further 1 to 1.5 million test kits are at different stages of procurement and production. India has since tried to ramp up production and imports, including from China, which is a major producer of both PPEs and testing kits. Mr. Misri called on China to ensure that supply chains remained open and for all placed orders to be fulfilled. While India “appreciate[d] efforts by China to ensure the quality of goods exported”, it also called on Beijing to fulfil previously placed orders with companies that were licensed by Indian authorities to export to the Indian market. China imposed new regulations to tighten checks on April 10, following concerns over the quality of exports expressed in several countries. “In some cases, some of the orders placed recently were placed before regulations came into effect that limited and restricted the number of companies from China that can export to India,” Mr. Misri said. “ Given that the products are licensed for import to India, it will be a welcome step for Chinese authorities to expedite the registration of these products. Our expectation is that these well-established companies will fulfil their contractual obligations.” Mr. Misri said there were “more than half a dozen” orders in different stages of processing, and India’s current understanding was delivery schedules remained on course. “We have a schedule that stretches from deliveries starting tomorrow [April 15] until the end of the month, when half a dozen consignments ordered by different entities in India will be delivered,” he said. “Our understanding is the registration process has been initiated and we have requested the Chinese government to expedite the registration process of companies so that export orders already processed and ready to ship can be sent on their way to India. We hope this request can be facilitated by the Chinese government.” T.N. order There have also been concerns over some orders being diverted. The Tamil Nadu government said this week that 50,000 testing kits it had ordered from China were diverted to the U.S. “We have seen media reports but not come across authoritative reports of supplies intended for India having been diverted,” Mr. Misri said.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||We are nowhere in the game: Rahul||India delayed the import of COVID-19 testing kits, the key to fighting the pandemic, and is now “nowhere in the game” of mass testing, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said on Tuesday. Taking to Twitter, Mr. Gandhi said the testing levels ranked among the lowest, even lower than the least developed countries such as Laos, Niger and Honduras. Though he didn’t refer to Mr. Modi’s speech, he sought to counter the Prime Minister’s claim that India took preventive steps even before a single case was reported in the country. “India delayed the purchase of testing kits & is now critically short of them. With just 149 tests per million Indians, we are now in the company of Laos (157), Niger (182) & Honduras (162). Mass testing is the key to fighting the virus. At present we are nowhere in the game,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted hours after Mr. Modi’s address to the nation. Addressing reporters through video conferencing, senior Congress leader Manish Tewari said Mr. Modi didn’t spell out the steps taken by his government during the three-week lockdown and only mentioned what he expected the citizens to do until May 3. “The Prime Minister spelt out what he expects the people of India to do but he did not spell out what his government is doing for the people of India,” Mr .Tewari said, adding that though the Congress supported the extended lockdown, there were several concerns. At the party’s official briefing, the Congress leader posed several questions like the government’s plan for migrant labourers, availability of testing kits, harvesting of the rabi crops, restoration of essential commodities supply chain and action against employers who are sacking staff during such a crisis. “The first thing which we expected the Prime Minister to address was: what does his government intend doing with regard to these millions of migrants who are stuck on various borders or various States? Are you going to allow them to go back to their homes? Is there a calibrated plan to facilitate their travel?” asked Mr. Tewari. In a series of tweets, former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram also targeted Mr. Modi’s speech. “It is obvious that livelihood for the poor — their survival — is not among the priorities of the government. The poor have been left to fend for themselves for 21+19 days,” Mr. Chidambaram said.
15 April 2020||New Delhi,||Workers face heat, hunger as lockdown is extended||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of the countrywide lockdown by another 19 days, there is only one question resonating among the 300-odd construction workers living in sheds in the shadow of under-construction luxury apartments near the Noida Expressway: why couldn’t the government arrange transport for them to return to their homes? The workers haven’t been paid since the one-day ‘Janta Curfew’ of March 22. Their days stretch empty between arrival of the vehicle that delivers food — once around 1 p.m. and then at 7 p.m. “It’s the government’s wish, to extend or end the lockdown, we really don’t care. The least they could have done is to take us home instead of leaving us here to slowly roast in this kiln,” says Shanktula, a worker, pointing at the tin roofs of the labourers’ sheds. She holds a plate of rotis and a steel bowl of watery dal. “Who do I feed this to — to my children or my husband or myself,” she asks. Next to her, Halki Bahu, from Damoi, in Madhya Pradesh is also carrying food back to her shed. As we speak, the rotis wrapped up in the pallu (end) of her saree fall down; she picks them up, dusts them and tucks them back into her saree. “This is all the food that my children will get today,” she says. “How can I throw it away?” Children from the workers’ colony run towards the rare car that passes by on the Expressway, hoping that it is someone bringing food. When the car drives away without stopping, they still linger on near the entrance to the construction site till the security guard herds them back into the shanties with his baton. The two meals have been arranged by the builder. The labourers complain that they haven’t got even a kilogram of food grains promised by the government. “He [the Prime Minister] announced notebandi (demonetisation) just like this one fine day. He stands at a pulpit and lectures. He says stay at home, I will stay here locked up under this tin roof for three months if he provides food for me and my family,” says Tahir, who hails from Katihar in Bihar. A supervisor at the site, who didn’t want to be named, said the builder had been providing food hoping that the construction activity would resume from Wednesday as the lockdown was to end on Tuesday. But now he is not sure how long the builder can continue providing for the workers.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hits to Health Ministry, ICMR websites soar||The average daily user visits to the websites of the Health Ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have skyrocketed from 8.04 lakh in the first week of March to 3.24 crore in the last week of the month as people look for updated information on the COVID-19 pandemic. “...In such challenging times, citizens look up to a source of genuine information. As the current situation is unveiling, the traffic on the websites of the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare and the ICMR has gone up significantly as people look for information about the pandemic,” a senior official from the National Informatics Centre (NIC), the IT arm of the government, told The Hindu . During March itself, the count of visitors on these websites increased from approximately 56.3 lakh in the entire first week of the month to 22.68 crore during the last week of the month, the official added. Tracking portals Additionally, the official said that various State centres of the NIC are working with the State governments to develop “tracking and management portals to help the State and the district administration to combat the pandemic”, similar to those already launched in Kerala and Meghalaya. On enabling work from home for the entire government during the lockdown, the official said there were some challenges such as configuring virtual private network (VPN) access — core to enabling government employees to work from their homes, to large number of employees in a span of three or four days was a herculean task. Work from home “Keeping in mind the safety of our own people, most of our team members at NIC were also working from home, hence executing change at different levels was difficult with a limited manpower in the office. Availability of laptops or a home desktop for every resource was another challenge,” the official added. Videoconferencing With social distancing norms in place, NIC’s videoconferencing service was extensively used by government officials, including President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, besides Union Ministers, Governors and Chief Ministers. “In the month of March, the NIC helped in facilitating over 2,300 videoconferencing sessions of over 60,000 hours across the country, held at all levels of governance,” the official said.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Local bodies told to give gear to sanitation workers||The National Safai Karamcharis Finance and Development Corporation (NSFDC) has asked local bodies to ensure that all sanitation workers are provided personal protective equipment (PPE) to remain safe during the novel coronavirus pandemic. Union Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Thawarchand Gehlot said on Tuesday that the NSFDC, which is a government undertaking under the Ministry, had issued an advisory to all municipalities and panchayats for ensuring safety of sanitation workers and waste collectors. The April 7 advisory said sanitation workers and waste collectors, including informal workers, were among the “silent groups of people who are working tirelessly to prevent the spread of the coronavirus”. “When it comes to risking their lives for the protection of others, in the present times, they are at par with doctors, healthcare workers and policemen,” the advisory said. Mandatory orientation All local bodies were asked to put in place a standard operating procedure for the safety of sanitation staff. There should be mandatory orientation for sanitation workers on COVID-19, social distancing norms and precautionary measures, it said. The local bodies were asked to provide equipment, including masks, gloves, gumboots and jackets, as well as soaps and hand sanitisers for helping maintain hygiene.
15 April 2020||Patna,||You could end up in jail for spitting tobacco in Bihar||The Bihar government on Monday passed an order that said anyone caught spitting tobacco or pan masala in public places would invite imprisonment of six months or a penalty of Rs. 200. “Spitting tobacco in public places poses a threat to public health in view of the COVID-19, encephalitis, tuberculosis, swine flu or other viral diseases. Under Section 268 and 269 of the IPC, the offender will be punished with either six months in jail or a penalty of Rs. 200,” said the Health department. Centre’s directive Earlier, the Central government had urged the State governments to ban the use of tobacco in public places as a step to contain the spread of the pandemic. The State government also asked all the District Magistrates and the SPs for effective implementation in their respective areas. However, many in the State believe that the implementation of the order would pose a difficult task for officials as 25.9% of people use tobacco. “Bihar, by and large, has a rural base and many people here use smokeless tobacco in the form ofkhaini. It will be very difficult for officials to restrict people from using it,” said village youth Deepak Kumar. North Bihar’s Vaishali, Samastipur and Sitamarhi districts are the largest producers of tobacco in the State. More patients The number of COVID-19- patients has gone up to 66 in the State. A 40-year old man from Nalanda tested positive on Monday night. Along with Siwan, Begusarai and Nawada, the Health Department has started home screening of people in Nalanda district as well. These four districts have been marked as COVID-19 hotspots in Bihar.
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||A tale of trauma that ended well for this Srinagar mother||Irfan Masrat, 35, a mother from Srinagar’s Natipora area, offered to stay round the clock with her COVID-19 positive daughters, one four-year-old and the other seven-year-old, for 19 days and described nursing them as “the most traumatic experience of her life”. Ms. Masrat was crestfallen when the two minor daughters in the family tested positive for COVID-19 on March 26. It was just two days after the test on Ms. Masrat’s 58-year-old father-in-law, who had returned from Saudi Arabia on March 16, turned out to be positive. “My daughters are very much attached to their grandfather and would spend time with him. When the test reports came positive, it shook the earth beneath me. My children were down with a disease which has no cure and no medicine to rely on. The word ‘positive’ sounded unbearable,” Ms. Masrat said in an interview. She pledged to be with her daughters, whose bodies were hosting the novel coronavirus but without any major symptoms, in the isolation ward of the Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial (JLNM) Hospital for 19 days. “It comes naturally to mothers to shield their children. I wished I could have contracted the virus and that my children could instead have been safe. My elder daughter did feel feverish for some time but it subsided with paracetamol. It was traumatic to wake up every day and pray that no COVID-19 symptoms should take over my kids,” said Ms. Masrat, who would sleep on a bed nearby in the quarantine ward wearing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) even through the night. Always in a mask, she worked on a routine for her children and took all necessary precautions: disposing of used tissues, changing masks and ensuring hand hygiene. “I prepared them mentally as if I was infected with the virus and they needed to stay away from me. I did not even touch or hug my four-year-old daughter. My daughter kept asking ‘if she was well why isn’t she allowed to go home’. It was painful. But they cooperated,” Ms. Masrat said. Ms. Masrat’s family was split up by the COVID-19 infection. Her father-in-law was in the Chest Disease Hospital battling the virus and other family members were isolated in a quarantine centre set up in the National Institute of Technology. She was all alone nursing the children in the JLNM hospital. “The staff, including doctors of the hospital, made us feel comfortable. They joined me in my prayers for my children’s well being. I took it as Allah’s test on us. Thankfully, we passed it with all patience,” she added.  Tabasum Shaw, Deputy Medical Superintendent of the JLNM Hospital, said the minor girls were counselled on not touching surfaces. “Toys, crayons and drawing sheets were provided for distraction and to prevent any mental trauma,” Dr. Tabasum added. The medical official said the mother was also tested before being discharged from the hospital on Monday, with all the staff members joining to cheer them as they left. “The father of the girls has also tested negative. The girls will now spend 14 days in home quarantine,” she added.
15 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Doctors step in as fear stalls woman’s funeral||Three doctors in Odisha’s Sambalpur district came forward to help perform the last rites of a woman, who died of tuberculosis, after villagers refused to allow her remains to be brought to her house, suspecting COVID-19 infection. Following a prolonged illness, Shanti Tanti, 50, died of tuberculosis at the VSS Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (VIMSAR), the premier government-run facility in western Odisha, on Monday. No cash left Being a daily wager, her husband Suresh Tanti did not have enough cash to hire an ambulance to take the body to their native place. Three young doctors — senior resident Shankar Ramchandani and postgraduate students Tushar Behera and Rajesh Meher — crowd-funded Rs. 4,600 needed for the ambulance. However, when Mr. Tanti reached his village Kumarmunda in Sundargarh district, 220 km away from Burla, he was stopped by the villagers. “My wife’s body was not allowed to enter the village. My fellow villagers suspected that she had died of COVID-19 and her body could spread coronavirus,” said Mr. Tanti. While returning, he tried to abandon the body, but the ambulance driver dissuaded him from doing so. Moved to Sambalpur The driver informed the doctors at VIMSAR and Mr. Tanti was advised to go to the public crematorium at Sambalpur. However, in a cruel twist, the last rites couldn’t be performed there as Mr. Tanti was not carrying his wife’s Aadhaar card. “Death is itself a big tragedy. We could not stand like mute spectators when a man forced by circumstances was found running from pillar to post. We decided to intervene. We went to the crematorium. In our presence, Mr. Tanti conducted the last rites,” said Dr. Ramchandani. Earlier, the Odisha government had announced that the last rites of all those who died of COVID-19 would be performed under government supervision so that the chances of infection could be nullified.  “The awareness has not percolated to the ground. People should have known that when a premier institute like VIMSAR had allowed a body to be cremated in village, the death could not have been related to COVID-19,” said Dr. Meher.
15 April 2020||New Delhi,||Sonia lauds frontline workers in the fight against COVID-19||Hours before Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation on Tuesday to extend the nationwide lockdown until May 3, the Congress party released a video in which party president Sonia Gandhi lauded the citizens for showing restraint by staying indoors. She also expressed confidence that India will emerge victorious in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic soon. “Today, your support in dealing with the crisis due to coronavirus is no less patriotism. The country is able to fight this virus only because of your help and support. I do not have words to thank you,” she said. Highlighting the efforts of the “corona warriors” like doctors, health workers, sanitation workers, police and security personnel and government officials, in fighting the pandemic despite inadequate personal protection, Ms. Gandhi also referred to reports of discrimination against doctors. “This is quite wrong and our civilisation and culture doesn’t allow it,” she said in her message. The Congress chief also extended her party’s solidarity in the fight against COVID-19. “I assure you that whether the Congress party is in power or in opposition, we will stand by you in this battle. I am confident that, with a high morale, we will emerge from this crisis very soon. You stay at home and be safe,” she said. “Stay in your houses. Wash your hands repeatedly and step out only if it’s absolutely essential. And always cover your face with a mask or gamcha (towel) or a chunni (stole). All of you should co-operate in this fight,” she added
15 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||78 new cases, 2 deaths in Gujarat||Gujarat’s tally of COVID-19 infection cases has jumped to 650 with 78 new cases recorded on Tuesday. The death toll rose to 28 with two more deaths Vadodara and Bhavnagar. So far 59 patients including 11 on Tuesday have been discharged from the hospitals after treatment. As per the State Health Department’s data, 555 patients are under treatment and stable while eight are said to be critical and on ventilator support. In Gujarat, so far 15,984 samples have been tested, of which 650 have tested positive and remaining 15,334 tested negative. Ahmedabad has the largest number of cases with more than a dozen infection hotspots in the city where so far 14 people have already died and 373 have found infected. Complete lockdown To control the spread of virus in the city, the State government has decided to bring enter walled city area and Danilimda under strict curfew from Wednesday to April 21. During the curfew period, only women will be allowed to go out for buying essentials like grocery, milk and vegetables bteween 12noon and 4 p.m. No men or children will be allowed to leave their homes. The decision to impose curfew as a special measure to enforce lockdown more forcefully was taken after Chief Minister Vijay Rupani held a review meeting in which Congress party legislators representing those hotspots were also invited to seek their cooperation. “It is necessary to enforce the lockdown completely in those pockets in the city,” CM said in the meeting. Earlier, the civic body had declared the walled city area as a buffer zone and had hardened lockdown measures by completely regulating entry and exit in those parts from where large number of cases have been recorded, triggering fears of community spread of the viral disease.
15 April 2020||Bhopal,||Indore records 105 cases in a day||Indore recorded 105 new positive cases of COVID-19 on Monday, the steepest hike for the most populous city in Madhya Pradesh in a day. The new cases included two residents of Assam, said Pravin Jadia, Indore Chief Medical and Health Officer. While the condition of 13 patients who were undergoing treatment remained critical, 37 had died of the illness so far, Mr. Jadia said. According to the officer, 37 patients have recovered from the illness in the city. On Tuesday, 45 new cases were recorded in Madhya Pradesh, taking the count to 740. So far, 53 persons have died of the illness in the State. As many as 16 persons tested positive for the illness in Bhopal on the same day. Meanwhile, 13 persons from the State Health Department and their family members tested positive in the past two days, taking the count relating to the Department to 87. This makes up more than half of the total 158 cases in Bhopal. On Monday, the Deputy Secretary in the Madhya Pradesh Directorate of Medical Education had tested positive. He is the fourth bureaucrat in the State to have contracted the disease.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ordnance Factory Board to make 1.1 lakh coveralls||The Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) has started making coveralls, conforming to the ISO Class 3 exposure standards, to combat COVID-19, the Defence Ministry said on Tuesday. An initial order of 1.1 lakh from HLL Lifecare Ltd. (HLL) will be completed in 40 days. “The manufacture of hand sanitiser is on a war footing, and more than 70,000 litres has already been supplied to different agencies,” the Ministry said in a statement. The OFB has also developed and started supply of special two-metre tents, made up of waterproof fabric, mild steel and aluminium alloy. These tents can be used for medical emergency and quarantine. Two facilities have been established in Chennai and Kanpur for blood penetration tests. The OFB is also trying to produce face masks.
15 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Western U.P. farmers facing more than just COVID-19||Despite repeated government assurances, farmers in western Uttar Pradesh are struggling to come to terms with the nationwide lockdown. Some are short of labour, some are waiting for the government to buy their produce and others are grappling with “forced social distancing”. In Rampur Moti village in Meerut, Prakushal Chaudhary has to make do with only two labourers to harvest wheat crop spread over 12 bighas. “Usually it requires at least six labourers but this year we have a shortage because of the fear of coronavirus. Also, Muslim labourers from nearby villages are not being allowed because two-three people have been found infected. There is no discord, but why take a chance,” he said, adding many farmers are cutting the crops themselves. In Chaudhary Lakhpath Singh village near Pilakhwa town of Hapur district, Dinesh Kumar shared a different experience. “We are getting cheap labour this year because construction workers have returned home in large numbers and they have nothing to do. Their wives used to work on the farm, but this year they are also helping them out. The barter has come down from 50 kg wheat for harvesting a bigha to 35 kg to 40 kg.” He said the concern was that many farmers in the region hadn’t received payment for their sugarcane crop. “Three mills in the region, including the Simbhaoli sugar mill, haven’t paid the dues to farmers. It would have helped us at this time to buy diesel and transport the wheat crop to mandis.”  MGNREGA workers Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Dharmendra Malik said the government should allow the MGNREGA workers to help in harvesting to overcome the paucity of labour. “The government could pay its part, the rest could be compensated by the farmer. Also, the process should be eased out in places which are not hotspots. You can’t expect the farmer to access his field after taking permission from a sub-divisional magistrate. Right now, the district administration is making big announcements but the constable on the ground is using his own mind. The supply chain of the spare parts of combines should be maintained,” said Mr. Malik. In the Mathura region, the wheat crop has already been harvested and is lying at homes of farmers. “We are waiting for the government mandis to open and start registration. What is happening is private players are trying to buy wheat at Rs. 1,750 to Rs. 1,800 a quintal, when the government rate is Rs. 1,925 a quintal. The delay will force farmers who need money to sell their crop at a lower price,” said Mohd. Ehtesham from Sahar village. “We used combines to cut the crop and have to pay its rent. The administration said the process would start from April 15 but the scenario suggests that there would be a delay,” he said. Also, farmers in the region are waiting for the compensation of the crop they lost because of hailstorm in February and March. “The compensation had started coming but was suddenly stopped when this coronavirus started spreading,” he said.
15 April 2020||New Delhi,||Lockdown norms can’t be diluted: NDMA||The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) on Tuesday issued an order under the Disaster Management Act directing Chairman, National Executive Committee, that existing lockdown measures be continued to be implemented in all parts of the country till May 3. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla is the chairman of the committee. Road map soon Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba will hold a videoconference on Wednesday with Chief Secretaries of all States to discuss the road map in the wake of the extended lockdown. The Ministry has issued an order to all States and UTs on the lockdown measures imposed. According to the order, with the extension of the lockdown, all restrictions that have been imposed in various sectors, and on various activities, will continue to remain in force. The communication says that as per the orders issued by the MHA under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the States and Union Territories cannot dilute restrictions imposed via the guidelines. The first set of such guidelines to be followed by States for “containment of COVID-19 epidemic” was issued on March 24 under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, invoked for the first time in the country.
15 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Amid lockdown, hunters eye rhino horns||The COVID-19 lockdown has activated poachers who had been forced into lying low for more than a year. At least six thwarted attempts have been made within a week in and around Assam’s national parks. Wildlife officials have not ruled out the possibility of the poachers trying to strike while the demand for animal body parts, specifically the rhino horn, remains low due to the impact of the pandemic on the grey market and make a killing later when it rebounds. And the lockdown has inadvertently made it easier for the poachers by thinning the ranks of the network of local people who had hitherto been a critical part of the anti-poaching campaign by tipping off forest officials on any suspicious movements near the parks. On April 11, a member of the Special Rhino Protect Force received bullet injuries during an encounter with a group of poachers in the Biswanath division of the Kaziranga National Park (KNP). The police in Biswanath district arrested six people for attempted poaching and assault two days later. The police in Sonitpur district arrested five people on April 13 involved in attempted poaching at the Nameri National Park.    Officials said eight people had so far been arrested in five cases of attempted poaching. While two people with a track record were arrested in Golaghat district for trying to kill a rhino that had strayed out of the KNP, the six arrested after the encounter in Biswanath district were first-timers.
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Longer lockdown key to breaking infection chain’||He added that the Ministry has now issued guidelines to control COVID-19 spread in high density areas. “The Office of Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India has issued guidelines for controlling spread of COVID-19 in densely populated areas. The emphasis of this manual is to bring frugal sanitary and hygiene solutions & measures with focus on community shared toilet, washing or bathing facilities,” noted the Ministry. “218 Lifeline Udan flights carrying 377.50 tonnes essential medical cargo have been sent to different parts, particularly in north-east region, hilly States and Island territories,” said Mr. Agarwal. R. Gangakhedkar, the Indian Council of Medical Research’s head of the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases-I, said that over 2.31 lakh persons have been tested so far. He said India has received its first batch of testing kits and added that it would be “getting another 37 lakh rapid test kits soon which should have us covered”. “We have mentioned earlier that we have kits that could last for 6 weeks. This new consignment of RT-PCR kits will be more than sufficient,’’ said Dr. Gangakhedkar. Responding to a question on whether India was doing enough tests, Mr Agarwal said, “We are doing COVID-19 testing as per our sampling criteria. Non-criteria based testing can result in sub-optimal use of testing kits.” “Besides, we are progressively widening our sampling zone, we are testing those who have severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) or influenza-like illnesses,” he said.  (With PTI inputs)
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM silent on measures for workers, says CITU||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address on Tuesday to announce the extension of the lockdown was silent on what the government was doing for the welfare of workers hit by the economic impact of the pandemic, the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) said in a statement. “He [the Prime Minister] remained tragically silent on what his government is going to do to facilitate the success of the lockdown period and ensure physical and human survival of the poorest section of working people running into several crores,” the statement issued by CITU general secretary Tapan Sen said. The union demanded urgent steps to ramp up testing for COVID-19, protection of livelihoods of workers and immediate transfer of money to workers in the unorganised sector. Chandan Kumar of the Working People’s Charter said while the Prime Minister said certain measures would be announced on Wednesday, the need of the hour was the prioritisation of migrant and daily wage workers in all government schemes.
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Teltumbe, Navlakha surrender to NIA||“Draconian provisions of UAPA are not accompanied by stricter procedures regarding evidence, especially electronic, considering the stringent punishment provided for under the Act; the procedures, which otherwise provide tighter rules regarding evidence, are instead made elastic. Under this double whammy, jail becomes the norm, and bail an exception. In this Kafkaesque domain, process itself becomes punishment,” Mr. Navlakha stated. In Mumbai, Prakash Shetty, special public prosecutor for NIA, sought Mr. Teltumbde’s custody for 10 days stating that the agency needed to probe the role of the accused in detail. In its remand application, NIA claimed that Mr. Teltumbde’s call data record of his mobile phone showed that he was in contact with people accused in the case and that “he was present at the place of offence on relevant period”. The agency also claimed that Mr. Teltumbde was the convenor of the programme, and that he had received funds from the CPI (Maoist), and also claimed that electronic articles seized showed his complicity. The agency also pleaded that they may be allowed to handcuff the accused because of COVID-19 pandemic to avoid physical contact. Defense lawyer Arif Siddique opposed NIA’s plea stating that Mr. Teltumbde has been out since a year and half and under the protection of courts from arrest, and stated that Mr. Teltumbde had not done anything illegal during this period so his custodial interrogation was not necessary. Mr. Teltumbde’s lawyers also contested that the accused was not arrested but had surrendered before the court. After considering the arguments the court remanded Mr. Teltumbde to NIA custody till April 18.
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Bhopal gas survivors left in the lurch||On April 8, even Sanjay Maithil’s 80-year-old father, asthmatic, was denied admission by a private hospital. Earlier he was treated at the BMHRC. “We faced a lot of trouble getting him admitted to both private and government hospitals,” he recalled. Gas tragedy survivors and those with lung ailments are the most vulnerable to the coronavirus, said Tarun Kumar Pithode, Bhopal Collector. “We have designated the BMHRC as the COVID-19 hospital for the survivors only. We have appointed a nodal officer for them too. And private hospitals can’t deny admission. We will act against them.” Two of them died even before they tested positive for COVID-19, and the third wasn’t shifted to the BMHRC even after testing positive. On Tuesday, the Bhopal Group for Information and Action filed an application for urgent hearing with the Madhya Pradesh High Court regarding the denial of medical facilities at the BMHRC to the survivors, which had reportedly caused deaths of three survivors suffering from non-COVID-19 ailments. Confirming that four of the deceased were the tragedy’s survivors, Purnendu Shukla, member of the Supreme Court Monitoring Committee, said its chief, retired Madhya Pradesh High Court Judge V.K. Agarwal, had informed the court that the arrangements for survivors at the BMHRC should not be disturbed. Rachna Dhingra of the group said, “What we feared is happening now. If the government doesn’t focus on the survivors, there will be more deaths.”
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Tougher curbs in hotspots, says PM||“I want you all to take care of the elderly in your home, especially those with co-morbidities, as they are especially vulnerable. To be vigilant in maintaining the lockdown and social distance, use face masks, especially home-made face masks. The advisory issued by the Ayush Ministry of measures to boost immunity should also be followed, and please download the AarogyaSetu App, and encourage others to do so, as well. Try and help out the poor and indigent, be sympathetic to colleagues and avoid retrenchments in this challenging time. Accord respect and dignity to corona warriors like doctors, health workers, sanitation workers, police and others. Your efforts exemplify what is meant by the phrase ‘We the People of India’ in our Constitution. It is true homage to Babasaheb Ambedkar on his birth anniversary,” he said.
15 April 2020||Mumbai,||Six new cases in Dharavi||Dharavi reported six new cases and two deaths on Tuesday. With this, Dharavi has reported 55 cases, with seven deaths. Meanwhile, cases in Mumbai’s G South ward consisting of Worli, Prabhadevi crossed the 300 mark with a total of 308 cases. Of the two who died in Dharavi on Tuesday, one is a 52-year-old man from Kalyanwadi who died on Saturday. Another is a 52-year-old man from Muslim Nagar. Among the other new cases are a 27-year-old man from Muslim Nagar, a 19-year-old woman and a 55-year-old man.
15 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Migrant workers in Surat take to the streets again||For the second time in less than a week, hundreds of restless migrant workers in Surat came out on the road, complaining about the lack of food and demanding that they be allowed to return to their home towns, even as the authorities extended the lockdown to contain the coronavirus pandemic till May 3. More than 500 workers, mostly engaged in textile and embroidery work in factories, came out on Tuesday evening, asking police and other officials to allow them to go back to their villages. Most of the workers are from Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Tamil Nadu. “They are restless and anxious to return to their villages,” a police official from Surat told The Hindu . After being persuaded by the authorities, the crowd that had gathered in the Varachha area, a hub for migrant workers employed in the diamond factories and textiles units of the city, dispersed amidst shouting that they wanted to go back home. Meanwhile, Congress legislator Imran Khedawala, who attended a review meeting held by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani regarding imposition of curfew in the city, tested positive for the virus on Tuesday night.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. targeting critics, says Amnesty||Amnesty International India has said that the surrender of activists Anand Teltumbde and Gautam Navlakha to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Bhima-Koregaon case was an extension of the government’s crackdown on dissent. Avinash Kumar, executive director of Amnesty International India, said: “Even during a pandemic, the government is targeting those critical of the government. When rights to expression and peaceful protest are weakened, everyone stands to lose.”
15 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Media freedom is under attack’||Over 3,500 jurists, academics, actors, artists and writers in a statement expressed shock at the action of the Uttar Pradesh government and police against news portalThe Wireand its founding editor Siddharth Varadarajan for an “entirely factual story” related to COVID-19 and religious events. The action is a direct attack on freedom of the media, the signatories said. They called upon the U.P. government to drop all criminal proceedings against Mr. Varadarajan and withdraw the FIR.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. ignored Ambedkar, says Nadda||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Tuesday accused the Congress of denying due respect to Constitution framer B.R. Ambedkar, adding that it was the Modi government that followed and “fulfilled his vision”. Mr. Nadda was addressing party workers in a video message to mark the 129th birth anniversary of Dr. Ambedkar. Despite severe opposition, Ambedkar never compromised on his values and raised issues of social inequality and discrimination, Mr. Nadda said. “It is unfortunate that during the lifetime of Babasaheb when the Congress was in power, it never gave him the respect due to him,” he added.
15 April 2020||New Delhi,||Livelihood issues ignored, says Yechury||Extending lockdown without concrete measures to tackle the spread of COVID-19 and without addressing the grave issues of livelihood and hunger is meaningless, the CPI(M) said on Tuesday. “The PM listed tasks that the people should implement during the extended lockdown. But nothing concrete on what the government will do. People were waiting for much needed relief for a large number of our poor, marginalised and migrant labour,” CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said. “The rescue package announced by the Modi government is merely 1% of the total GDP while even a far smaller country like Malaysia is spending 16% of the GDP,” he said.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army doctor tests positive for virus in Delhi||An Army doctor, a Lieutenant Colonel, posted in Delhi has tested positive for COVID-19. His family and several people who had contact with him have been quarantined, Army sources said. “After one person tested positive, actions as per protocol like quarantine of other residents, sanitation of common areas in the Block and contact tracing are in progress,” an Army source said on Tuesday. The doctor was part of the team involved in the preparation of Army quarantine facilities and coordination of the COVID-19 relief efforts, another source stated. The first case in the Army was a 34-year-old jawan from the Ladakh Scouts regiment, based in Leh. The jawan has since fully recovered. Later, two personnel tested positive — a Colonel (doctor) based in Kolkata and a junior commissioned officer (JCO) based in Dehradun.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Special plane to fly out Brazilians||More than 350 Brazilians and foreigners will be flown out of India on Tuesday night on an Ethiopian airline-chartered aircraft, several sources confirmed. The flight will depart from New Delhi at 11 p.m. and stop over in Mumbai en route to Sao Paulo. More than 50 special flights have been operated to at least 17 countries since March to repatriate foreigners, including nationals of Australia, Germany, the U.K., Switzerland, Canada, Qatar, Israel and Malaysia.
15 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Fall kills man in Shillong hospital where doctor tested positive||A 26-year-old man undergoing rehabilitation from drug addiction fell to his death from a Meghalaya hospital that was sealed on Monday night after a doctor there tested positive for COVID-19. Police in Meghalaya capital Shillong said the man died on the spot after falling from a considerable height from the window of Bethany Hospital on Tuesday morning. He was from Mawkyrwat in South West Khasi Hills district.
15 April 2020||Mumbai,||If no case in 3 days, Goa can become green zone: CM||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said if the State managed to continue with no new COVID-19 case over the next three days, then by April 17 it could well become a green zone, and restrictions could be eased with caution and social distancing. Announcing the deferment of the opening of government offices by five days to April 20, Dr. Sawant said that out of the seven COVID-19 cases detected in Goa earlier, five patients have recovered from the viral infection while two are undergoing treatment.
15 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Patnaik says infections ‘going down’ in Odisha||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday expressed satisfaction over the containment of the COVID-19 outbreak in the State and said that the number of new infections was on the decline. “I am pleased to see that the coronavirus [infection] statistics are levelling in the State and going down,” said Mr. Patnaik. The State has recorded a total of 56 positive cases so far.
15 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Industrial units can’t pay full wages during lockdown’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has urged the Centre to reconsider its directive to industrial and commercial establishments to pay full wages to workers during the lockdown. He has asked the Centre to hit upon an innovative solution to protecting the interests of workers without causing industry any irreparable damage. He said the directive would have huge financial implications for such establishments, which might go bankrupt with no income.
15 April 2020||Patna,||Prashant Kishor questions lockdown extension||Poll strategist and former Janata Dal (United) leader Prashant Kishor on Tuesday questioned the Centre’s decision to extend the nationwide lockdown for another 19 days. “It’s pointless to endlessly debate the rationale & modalities of the #lockdown2.The real question however is what happens if we don’t get the desired result even by staying the course on our chosen path till 3rd May? Do we have an alternative plan or the will to course correct?” Mr. Kishor tweeted after the Prime Minister’s announcement.
15 April 2020||New Delhi,||Employers get extension for filing ESI contribution||The Employees’ State Insurance Corporation has extended the deadline for employers to file ESI contributions for February and March to May 15, the Union Labour and Employment Ministry said in a statement on Tuesday. “The country is dealing with a very challenging situation due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Many establishments are temporarily closed and workers are unable to work,” the Ministry said.
15 April 2020||New Delhi,||WHO lauds India’s “tough and timely” actions against coronavirus||The World Health Organization on Tuesday lauded India’s tough actions against the spread of COVID-19. “A six-week lockdown to facilitate effective physical distancing, coupled with the expansion of core public health measures such as detection, isolation and tracing contact of coronavirus positive people, would go a long way in arresting the virus spread,” said WHO’s Southeast Asia regional director Poonam Khetrapal Singh.PTI
15 April 2020||Chandigarh,||App-based doorstep diesel delivery service reaches Haryana cities||Humsafar, an app-based doorstep diesel delivery service provider, has now launched its services in major cities of Haryana, which earlier was earlier limited to Delhi-NCR. “Our primary objective is to help hospitals, farmers and housing societies in these tough times,” said Sanya Goel, Director and Founder of Humsafar. The areas where the service is now available include Panipat, Karnal, Sonipat, Hisar, Ambala, Rohtak, Bahadurgarh, Faridabad, Rewari and Gurugram.
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Private firms race against time to manufacture rapid test kits||Quite a few healthcare players in Tamil Nadu have come forward to manufacture the much sought-after COVID-19 rapid test kits and other medical equipment, following Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s announcement of a special package for such industries. “We are in the final stage of R&D for rapid test kits and we hope to hit the market soon. Our test kits should be out by May,” said G.S.K. Velu, chairman and managing director of Trivitron Healthcare, which is also into manufacturing ventilators, PPE and hand sanitisers. With manufacturing units in Chennai, Visakhapatnam and Mumbai, Trivitron aspires to end the country’s dependence on China for rapid test kits. “By May, we hope to be able to manufacture these kits in large numbers. We have also identified suppliers for raw materials,” Dr. Velu told The Hindu . M. Arumugam, managing director of Broadline Technologies Private Ltd., said his company was working on an automated ventilator model. He has also been collaborating with CSIR-Central Electrochemical Research Institute, Karaikudi, and the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research. “We are in the testing stage now, and after obtaining certification from the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories, our product should be out soon,” Dr. Arumugam said. Private players had commenced work on the manufacture of ventilators, PPE, rapid test kits and N95 masks, a senior official in the State government told The Hindu . Besides, there were other players manufacturing sanitisers, regular masks, etc. “Since it is not mandatory to inform the government before production, we don’t know the actual number of players who have commenced operations,” he said. At least three major automobile companies have tied up with smaller players to manufacture ventilators, as the smaller players offered specific technical expertise, while the larger ones offered overall support and space. “Besides, there are some who have commenced operations in Coimbatore,” the official said. Around eight players have commenced operations for manufacturing PPE.
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Safe quarantine spaces created to accommodate 10,000 across city||The Chennai Corporation has created "safe quarantine spaces" for 10,000 persons in various parts of the city. Launching the safe quarantine facilities at the Chennai Trade Centre on Tuesday, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said that these spaces would have controlled medical supervision. "The safe quarantine spaces at IIT Madras, Anna University and other major Central government institutions in areas like Guindy will house persons who have symptoms. We have 10,000 beds ready. Four urban community health centres of Chennai Corporation have also been converted into safe quarantine spaces," he said. The Corporation has also identified marriage halls and other private buildings for creating safe quarantine spaces in the city, in addition to spaces in major institutions, he added. Replying to a query on the need for masks, Mr. Prakash said that the order to wear them was issued to protect residents from infection. “Residents can make their own masks using two-layered cotton cloth. Residents can also use a handkerchief as a mask by modifying it a bit. We have asked all our 20,000 conservancy workers to wear masks at work. There have been cases of violations which should not be generalised,” he said. “The Chennai Corporation has discontinued the practice of spraying chemicals on buildings and spraying chemicals on persons for disinfection. It will give a false sense of security against the pandemic,” he said. Answering a query on the permission for an all-party meeting on Wednesday, Mr. Prakash said that civic officials would hold discussions with the Chennai Police Commissioner on the meeting and its impact on the spread of COVID-19 in the city.
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Handicrafts experts in dire straits||Makers of handicrafts in Tamil Nadu are in dire straits as the market for their products have vanished in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown. They have also lost their customers from foreign countries since the lockdown is in force. “In Tamil Nadu 40-types of handicrafts are made and around 15 lakh artisans depend on the trade for their livelihood. The annual turnover is Rs. 200 crore and earns good foreign exchange. But the pandemic has changed our life upside down,” said ‘Erode’ R. Radhakrishnan, general secretary of Shrusti, Tamil Nadu Artisans Welfare Association. The manufacturing and sale of bronzes, stone and wood carvings, Natchiarkoil lights, brass pates, lace embroidery, Vadasery temple jewellery, coconut shell carvings and musical instruments have come to a standstill. “Tamil Nadu is in the forefront when it comes to exporting these products. Now the artisans do not know from where the next meal will come,” Mr Radhakrishnan said. The artisans of Kanyakumari have borne the brunt more since 30 of the 40 handicrafts are made in the district. A total of 5 lakh people get employment directly and indirectly from the trade and the district earns Rs. 12 crore every year. “The mainstay of our customers are tourists who visit Kanniyakumari regularly. The lockdown has deprived us of our livelihood and the government should extend assistance to the artisans,” said Jeya Cruz, an award-winning artisan from Kanniyakumari district. He said the artisans had registered themselves with the Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation and the government could easily identify them to release monetary assistance. Mr. Radhakrishnan said the Centre could allot grant through the Office of the Development Commissioner for Handicrafts and it should be done immediately for the benefit of the artisans. “There are a lot of other artisans who have not registered with the government body. They also need the government’s support. In normal times we can reach out to them. The lockdown has prevented us from travelling,” Mr Radhakrishnan said.
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Arrivals from other States ensure sufficient stock of rice in T.N.||Despite panic-buying by consumers during the COVID-19 lockdown, adequate stock of rice is being maintained in the State, thanks to arrivals from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Odisha and Karnataka. The secretary of the Tamil Nadu Rice Mill Owners and Wholesale Dealers’ Federation, A.C. Mohan, said Tamil Nadu was getting paddy from the first week of April following the timely intervention of agriculture officials. The southern parts of the State would get rice from Thanjavur; areas like Tiruppur, Kangeyam and Arani from Karnataka; and Chennai and the surrounding areas from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Odisha. “The officers spoke to their counterparts in other States and ensured trucks carrying paddy/rice and even empty trucks going to pick up supplies were given passes and travelled smoothly between various points,” he said. The State requires an estimated 91 lakh tonnes of rice per year, of which 65 lakh tonnes are produced in Tamil Nadu. The rest comes from outside. “Due to transport restrictions, we are unable to get paddy from West Bengal and Gujarat. But the present arrivals are enough to ensure supply during lockdown,” Dr. Mohan said. D. Thulasingam, federation president, said they also ensured that the prices would not be increased due to higher demand. “Families have been buying even two to three times in this situation. We also request supermarkets to sell at nominal prices,” he said. Most mills in the State are managing with half their labour strength.  Tamil Nadu requires an estimated 91 lakh tonnes of rice per year, of which 65 lakh tonnes are produced in the State
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police take serious note of bid to spread communal hatred||Stung by reports that attempts were being made to discriminate against Muslims by linking them to the spread of novel coronavirus in some districts, the Tamil Nadu police issued an alert to all commissioners and superintendents of police to take suo motu cognizance of the “inflammatory situation”. According to police sources, senior police officers across the State were told to initiate stringent action against those spreading “communal hatred”. Acting on specific inputs that a common pathway was closed to prevent Muslims from entering a village in Tenkasi district and another instance where some families were asked to vacate their rented houses in Erode district, Tamil Nadu Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy instructed the police officers to take firm action in consultation with the district administration and ensure communal amity, sources said. At Panboli near Sengottai in Tenkasi district, a common pathway earlier used by Muslims was closed to prevent them from entering the village. Some Muslim families living in a “majority Caste Hindu” inhabitation near Perundurai in Erode were pressurised to vacate the houses. Similar situations were shape in Tirunelveli district, sources said. The incidents followed media reports focussing on the link between the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi and the spread of coronavirus in Tamil Nadu. Since many COVID-19 patients were referred to as “Delhi returnees”, Hindus in some areas were trying to avoid Muslims, sources said. “An incident has come to notice in a village near Perundurai, where three Muslim families in rented occupations were being forced to vacate and leave the village. Though they pleaded that they did not have any travel history or contact with Delhi returnees, the majority people are unrelenting…they (the Muslims) do not want to lodge a complaint and antagonise the locals,” a senior police officer told The Hindu . The State intelligence sent out an alert cautioning the police that if the situation was not diffused at the earliest, it may snowball into a communal problem, paving the way for extremist elements to “interfere” and “inflame”. Police were told to resolve the issue amicably and maintain communal harmony, the sources said, adding that the campaign to boycott fruits/vegetable shops owned by the Muslim community members was thwarted by effective coordination with leaders of religious groups.
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More camps in pipeline for testing in containment zones||There are plans to increase the number of camps from 26 to 40 to draw samples from residents for COVID-19 testing in containment zones in Chennai on Wednesday, said Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. The Minister, shortly after inspecting COVID-19 facilities readied at the Communicable Diseases Hospital (CDH) in Tondiarpet on Tuesday, said, “The Chief Minister has instructed us to test more. Accordingly, the Health Department, along with the Chennai Corporation, has set up 26 camps in the city. The Corporation’s doctors and paramedical staff are drawing samples from residents at these camps, as per protocol, with adequate protective gear.” With the ongoing containment plan, family members of persons who have tested positive and all their contacts have been identified with help from the police and the Revenue Department, he said. “We are encouraging them to come to the camps and get tested. The results will be available the next day. The works is being expedited,” he said. “As the number of camps increases, we will be able to carry out the containment plan effectively and lift samples from everybody,” he said. Facilities scaled up At the CDH in Tondiarpet, individual rooms have been readied, with a total of 200 beds, for treating COVID-19 patients. They will be utilised if the need arises. The hospital has scaled up its facilities to accommodate 200 patients, the Minister said. “The number of beds has been increased at CDH as a precautionary measure,” he said. Overall, adequate isolation facilities for COVID-19 are being set up across the State, he added.  The CDH in Tondiarpet has scaled up its facilities to accommodate 200 patients C. Vijayabaskar Health Minister
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt . allows fishing, but not direct sale to consumers||Though fishermen using traditional craft and motorised boats have been allowed to fish during the lockdown, selling directly to consumers has not been allowed. Issues pertaining to sale of fish have created problems in many villages, including in Kasimedu, from where fishers of 14 hamlets operate. M. D. Dayalan of Indian Fishermen Association said there were discrepancies in the information passed on to villages and the local officials, which led to villages deciding to not go fishing. “The order by the Central government said that fishing activities could be resumed. If fishermen are to go for fishing just for self consumption, only one or two boats per day would do. They need cash in hand for which they have to sell their catch,” he said.  To avoid crowding An official of the Fisheries department clarified that the idea was not to allow consumers come to the fishing harbours or fish landing centres to avoid crowding. “Local vendors are tying up with traders who will supply fish in different localities. Wholesalers can also buy fish, those tie ups too are being made,” he said. A total of two lakh fishermen are directly employed in traditional and motorised sector and another two lakh labourers indirectly depend on this sector. Minimum crew Fishing is being permitted with minimum crew members on a rotational basis, without auctioning. In major fishing harbours and fish landing centres, where congregation of boats is higher, only a maximum of 300 motorised boats would be allowed and they could return only in a staggered manner.
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,000 new tenements being readied for health workers, migrant labourers||Hectic activity is on at NTO Kuppam near Tiruvottiyur for the past one week with workers erecting electricity poles, installing overhead cable and fixing electricity meters. The maintenance staff of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (TANGEDCO) have been giving finishing touches to the new tenements belonging to the Tamil Nadu Slum Clerance Board (TNSCB) at Tiruvottiyur. The TNSCB is getting more than 1,000 tenements in the city ready for accommodating health workers, migrant labourers and stranded travellers. “Many nurses and doctors who are residing on the outskirts of the city and are providing medical treatment for COVID-19 patients do not want to go home. They wish to stay within the city. Hence, it was proposed to get ready our new tenements for the Greater Chennai Corporation to use the facility,” said a senior official of the TNSCB. The board has finished construction work in NTO Kuppam near Tiruvottiyur and K P Park in Periamet on a war-footing and has provided water and electricity connections to the tenements in case the civic body or any other government department needs for using them as part of coronavirus preventive measures. The slum board official said that migrant labourers and other homeless people were housed in temporary shelters without adequate personal distancing. In case, the civic body wants to house the migrant labourers and homeless people, the tenements could be used. A senior Tangedco official said all new electricity connections have been stopped, but based on the request of the TNSCB, a large number of electricity staff were pressed into the job of providing power connections to the tenements within a fortnight with senior officials in the northern region directly monitoring the work at the tenements.
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prime Minister’s speech was a disappointment, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation on Tuesday was “as usual a disappointment to the people”, since it did not cover the issue of relief to be rendered during the period of the COVID-19 lockdown, which has been extended till May 3. “People are not expecting advice alone from the Prime Minister. They need relief material, essential commodities and financial assistance to sustain themselves,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. He said a majority of the Indian population were reeling from poverty and unemployment, facing caste discrimination and eking out a livelihood as daily wagers. “Their lives have been shattered by the lockdown; and what assistance has the PM extended to them? Doesn’t the government have a responsibility to save them?” the DMK leader asked. He said former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram’s argument that the Prime Minister could allocate Rs. 65,000 crore of the Rs. 30-lakh crore Budget to help the poor was justified. “Is the Prime Minister not able to understand the truth even 21 days after the lockdown [began]?” he asked. Mr. Stalin said that while the Centre had not sanctioned the funds sought by the State government, it had also suspended the MPLADS for two years and prevented the State governments from purchasing medical equipment directly. “These decisions are not in the interest of the people. They want to know when you (Mr. Modi) are going to supply medical equipment. When are you going to give a speech that will answer the people’s question?” the DMK leader said. Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri has questioned the country’s rate of testing for COVID-19. In a statement after the Prime Minister’s address to the nation on Tuesday, Mr. Alagiri said India was testing only 105 persons per 10 lakh population, whereas South Korea’s figure was 6,931, Italy 6,268, the U.K. 1,469 and the U.S. 1,480. “It looks like Mr. Modi is not bothered that India is among the nations with the lowest testing rates,” he said. Mr. Modi had addressed the nation four times so far, but had not made any announcement about investments to increase and upgrade medical infrastructure or financial measures to protect crores of people who had lost their livelihood due to the lockdown, he said. Mr. Alagiri said that while the U.S. had set aside $2 trillion — 10% of its GDP — for the fight against COVID-19, India had allocated just Rs. 15,000 crore. “This is not even 1% of our GDP,” he said.  People are not expecting advice alone from the Prime Minister. They need relief material, essential commodities and financial assistance
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dedicated fleet of ambulances caters to suspected COVID-19 cases||A dedicated fleet of ambulances has been transporting persons with suspected symptoms of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) across the State. These vehicles, numbering 120, transport 300 persons a day on an average. They are disinfected after each trip. The Health department had earmarked ambulances to cater to COVID-19 patients and those with symptoms of the disease. Accordingly, a separate team of pilots and emergency medical technicians (EMT) was created for the purpose, officials said. “As of now, we have 120 ambulances earmarked for COVID-19. This is likely to increase depending on the requirement. Each of these ambulances has adequate personal protective equipment (PPE) for the pilots and EMTs. We have provided each vehicle with kits containing sprayers and disinfectants, including hypochlorite. After admitting someone to a hospital, the staff disinfect the ambulance. It takes about half-an-hour to one hour,” said M. Selvakumar, State head of operations, GVK EMRI, which operates the ambulance service in T.N. Both the pilot and the EMT dispose of the PPE as per protocol and get ready for the next trip, he said, adding, “The team members have been trained to use PPE and carry out disinfection work. We work closely with the district authorities, and they are also trained locally by government doctors and health authorities.” None of these ambulances are deployed for any other purpose, he said. “If persons with suspected symptoms of COVID-19 are at a primary health centre or a government hospital, our ambulances pick them up and take them to the government medical college hospital. Also, those who test negative for COVID-19 are dropped home,” he added.
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||All-party meet planned via video-conference||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday said the all-party meeting slated for April 15 to discuss and evaluate the relief measures taken by the government during the COVID-19 lockdown would be done through video-conferencing on April 16 as the police had denied permission. “Even though we gave an undertaking that adequate distance would be maintained at the meeting, the State government had used the police to issue notice for denial of permission,” he said in a statement. He said the DMK decided to hold an all-party meeting since the Chief Minister held a meeting with his Cabinet colleagues, Chief Secretary, officials, medical professionals and even with religious heads. MDMK general secretary Vaiko wondered whether Tamil Nadu had a dictatorial government to deny permission for the all-party meeting. He said Prime Minister and Chief Minister held Cabinet meetings. “Chief Ministers of many States conducted meetings. How can the government deny permission to all-party meeting,” he said.
15 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Motorists without mask fined Rs. 500||The city police on Tuesday began imposing Rs. 500 fine on motorists who were moving without wearing masks. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash on Monday announced that under the relevant provisions of the Epidemics Control Act and the Public Health Act, all persons are required to wear masks when they step out of their houses. A senior police officer said, “We were conducting special drive at all check points from Tuesday morning. We book cases under section 179 of Motor Vehicles Act (Disobedience of orders, obstruction and refusal of information) and Rs. 500 was imposed as fine on motorists who did not wear masks.”
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Will raise funding issue with BJP leadership’||Tamil Nadu BJP president L. Murugan on Tuesday said he will take up the issue of additional funds sought by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to combat COVID-19 in the State with the party leadership in Delhi. Speaking to the media, Mr. Murugan said the Centre had approved the use of funds such as local body funds and mineral funds, among other sources, for the purpose of flattening the curve of COVID-19. He said, “The Centre has allotted funds and has also approved the use of other funds. But we will bring this issue (shortage of funds) to the attention of the Central leadership and ask them to consider the State government’s request.” He said BJP cadre had distributed food packets, ‘Modi kits’ that contain rations, and masks to over 37 lakh people so far.
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||96-year-old man dies of COVID-19||A 96-year-old man, who had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), died at the Government Medical CollegeHospital in Karur on Tuesday. With this, the State has reported 12 deaths of COVID-19 patients. In a statement, the Health Department said the patient, a resident of Dindigul, was admitted to the hospital on April 9. He developed severe breathlessness, and did not respond to treatment. He died at 6.40 a.m. on Tuesday. Doctors at the hospital said the patient was disoriented and unable to talk since his admission. His condition worsened over the last two days, hospital authorities said. The patient had contracted the virus from his grandson.
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four held for murder||The K.K. Nagar police on Tuesday arrested four persons for allegedly murdering a 20-year-old youth who is suspected to have stolen a high-end bike from their area in Kannigapuram. Police said that the bike owned by Ramachandran, 20, went missing. After lodging a complaint, he and his friends searched for the bike. Recently, Ramachandran learnt that a youth had circulated a photograph posing with the bike. They traced the youth to Kattupakkam. The youth claimed that the bike was used by his friend. With that clue, Ramachandran and his friends caught Akash who allegedly stole the bike. According to police, Ramachandran and his friends took Akash to a house and brutally attacked him to find out where the bike was. The attack resulted in death of Akash, police said.
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Migrant labourer held||With the help of CCTV footage, the Ambattur police have unravelled the mystery behind death of a 60-year-old man and nabbed a migrant labourer who had stoned him to death. A patrolling team on Monday morning found a senior citizen struggling for life on Vellalar Street. The person, identified as Krishnamurthy, was admitted to RGGGH where he succumbed to injuries. A blood stained stone was recovered. After scrutiny of CCTV footage, police found that that he was stoned to death by a youth. The suspect Rafiful Islam, 24, was a migrant labourer. He was arrested by police.
15 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||L&T supplies ventilators||Larsen & Toubro Ltd has supplied 100 beds with mattress, 2 ventilators, 7 Bipap ventilators, and 20 multiparameter monitors to the King Institute.
15 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Screening of people on roads begins in Coimbatore||The Health Department on Tuesday began screening people for symptoms of COVID-19, using thermal scanners on roads in Coimbatore city. City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan said the screening was done at various locations in the city with health workers on different shifts. The workers were provided personal protective equipment. People having fever or other symptoms of influenza will be referred to hospital for consultation with a doctor. Meanwhile, the police on Tuesday continued random stopping of vehicles at various locations for 30 minutes to reduce movement of people. Police personnel also issued them advisory using public addressing systems. On Monday, the police arrested 585 persons in 546 cases and seized 499 vehicles for violating the prohibitory order in Coimbatore city and rural limits. Those arrested were released on bail.   Special Correspondent adds  The shifting of testing equipment from the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) to test samples for COVID-19 will take the total number of testing facilities in the district to five. Collector K. Rajamani said the equipment would be shifted late Tuesday night or Wednesday morning and this would be the second facility at CMCH. The other testing facilities are: two at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital and a private laboratory. With five testing facilities, the district could test 1,000 samples a day, the Collector said. As of Tuesday, the number of samples tested stood at 525. Mr. Rajamani also said that of the 1,400 samples collected by the Department of Public Health and the Coimbatore Corporation in the last three days, he had directed 400 samples to be sent to Chennai as a special case. The increased testing of persons who were secondary and tertiary contacts of COVID-19 positive persons would help in containing the spread of the virus.  Corporation lifts   swab samples  For the second day on Tuesday, the Coimbatore Corporation lifted samples from various areas in the city. Sources said medical officers attached to various urban primary health centres had on Monday night collected samples from nearly 80 persons in Vilankurichi, over 35 persons in R.S. Puram, and a like number in Thudiyalur. The exercise continued on Tuesday with samples being taken from people in Pillaiyarpuram, Sundarapuram and Kuniamuthur. The samples were sent to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for test. The sources said that the medical officers had completed lifting samples on Monday by 11 p.m. and had resumed their duty by afternoon on Tuesday. Their ability to lift samples hinged on the Department of Public Health giving them viral transport medium (VTM) kits to safely collect and transport the samples.
15 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Samples lifted from 40 police personnel after social worker tests positive||The Health Department collected swab samples of around 40 police personnel and a few medical professionals at a primary health centre (PHC) in Coimbatore on Tuesday, after a 61-year-old social worker, who had interacted with them, tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. The swab samples of around 40 police personnel attached to the Thudiyalur police station and staff of a PHC in the same area were collected on Tuesday, Health Department sources said. The social worker, a resident of Kothari Nagar, had flown from Delhi to Coimbatore on March 23. A few persons from Coimbatore, who had attended a religious conference at Nizamuddin, one of the largest sources of COVID-19 infection in the State, were his co-passengers. The man was engaged in the distribution of food to the needy in Thudiyalur area, allegedly after he tested negative for COVID-19 twice. It was also alleged that he distributed food to police personnel. An official from Thudiyalur police station said the man served food packets to migrant workers in the area and not to the police. However, the officer said that a few policemen took a selfie with the social worker, who also visited the station. Collector K. Rajamani said it was being verified whether he had also visited the Coimbatore Collectorate. The Health Department was yet to identify the migrant workers who received food packets from the social worker. An official said, on condition of anonymity, that the swab sample of the social worker had been subjected to COVID-19 testing only once, and the result returned positive on Monday. This means the man was engaged in food distribution without undergoing home quarantine for 28 days, starting March 23 — the day he returned from Delhi.
15 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 affected doctor pleads for drug on WhatsApp group||A post-graduate medical student of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) who tested positive for COVID-19 was removed from a WhatsApp group of doctors on Monday after he pleaded for hydroxychloroquine, an anti-malaria drug recommended for the treatment. After the Medical Superintendent of CMCH removed the PG student from the WhatsApp group, a screenshot of the chat which was taken by someone from the group was circulated among the medical fraternity, drawing wide criticism. The PG student who pleaded for the drug in the group and another PG student tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. They reportedly contracted the disease while performing their duty in the COVID-19 ward at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital recently. The two PGs were members of the WhatsApp group in which doctors from CMCH and ESI Hospital are members. They were shifted to the COVID-19 ward at ESI Hospital on Monday evening and one of them asked for hydroxychloroquine at 7.45 p.m. Within minutes, he was removed from the group. A senior official with ESI Hospital said the doctors were given the drug immediately after the request was raised in the group. ‘Removal only incidental’ While only one of the two PG doctors made the appeal on Whatsapp, both of them who tested positive were removed from the group. When contacted, CMCH Medical Superintendent T. Sadagopan, also the admin of the group, said he was removing the PG doctors from the group to make it an exclusive group of teachers when the request for drug was being made. Therefore, the removal of these two persons was merely incidental, he said. R. Narayanababu, Director of Medial Education, Tamil Nadu, who visited CMCH on Tuesday enquired with Dr. Sadagopan about the incident. The DME also instructed the hospital administration to make necessary arrangements for the functioning of the hostel mess for PG students and house surgeons, the staff of which vacated the place after the two PGs tested positive on Monday. He also instructed the CMCH administration to conduct COVID-19 test for all the post-graduate students and house surgeons. PG students and house surgeons had alleged that the CMCH administration did not provide them breakfast and lunch on time on Tuesday and dinner on Monday. Meanwhile, the gents’ hostel at CMCH was fumigated on Tuesday as the two PGs who tested positive had visited the place prior to being admitted to hospital.
15 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MLA appeal to Collector||M. Karthik, DMK MLA, has called upon the district administration to ensure food and safe accommodation for the medical personnel at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. He said in a release that there was a complaint that the doctors treating COVID-19 patients at the hospital did not have adequate personal protection equipment. It had also come to his notice that the medicos treating the patients did not have enough food or water at their place of stay. Focussing on the needs of the doctors and medicos was important, especially in the wake of two post-graduate medical students at the Coimbatore Medical College testing positive.
15 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore boy’s COVID-19 highlights vulnerability of conservancy workers||The plight of conservancy workers who handle household (domestic) biomedical waste such as mask and gloves during tje COVID-19 outbreak came to the fore when the son of a conservancy worker in Coimbatore tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. The Health Department officials suspect that the five-year-old boy contracted the disease through his mother, who was engaged in conservancy work in a quarantine facility near Madukkarai. At this facility, people who returned from Delhi after attending a religious conference were initially kept in isolation. Some of them later tested positive. The boy did not have direct exposure to anyone who tested positive for COVID-19 or visited any place affected by the SARS-COV-2 virus, said a health official. The swab samples of the boy’s father and mother, who did not have any symptom of the disease, have been collected now, he added. The boy’s case also highlights the need for scientific collection and disposal of household biomedical waste like masks and gloves used and discarded by people who are in home quarantine and in isolation facilities, other than hospitals. Biomedical waste generated from COVID-19 wards of hospitals are collected separately by the staff of common biomedical waste treatment facilities in triple layered bags and disposed of scientifically. However, the same system is not in place for the disposal of domestic biomedical waste generated from those in quarantine and other isolation facilities, sources here said. On Monday, A.V. Venkatachalam, chairman, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB), directed 11 common biomedical waste treatment facilities in the State to collect household biomedical waste such as masks and gloves, collected and stored by local bodies, as and when informed by them, and dispose the same immediately upon receipt at their facilities. The TNPCB has also informed all local bodies about the new arrangement.
15 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Registration date extended||The Institute of Company Secretaries of India, Coimbatore chapter, has said that the last date for registration for CS executive entrance test to be held in May was earlier announced as April 15. It has been extended to May 5. The exam is likely to be held on May 28.
15 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Relief kits to be distributed from today||Workers, who have registered with the construction and auto welfare boards, can collect the relief kits (rice, dal and oil) from the PDS outlets from Wednesday. According to an official press release, the workers should produce the welfare board registration card or Aadhaar card and the family card. Those who have not received Rs. 1,000 as relief amount can provide their bank account details at the outlets, the release said.
15 April 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Man dies after drinking methanol||One person died and four others were admitted to the Cuddalore Government Hospital in a critical condition after drinking methanol as a substitute for liquor in Alapakkam on Tuesday. According to police sources, Kumaresan, a contract labourer had procured methanol and handed it to one Chandrakasu, 55, of Alapakkam on Sunday. With liquor shops closed due to the lockdown, Chandrakasu and Kumaresan along with three others diluted the methyl alcohol with water and lime and consumed it, the police said. The five started vomiting and were rushed to the Cuddalore GH where Chandrakasu succumbed.
15 April 2020||DINDIGUL/THENI,TAMIL NADU||Review meeting held||Special Officer C. Munianathan and Additional Director General of Police Abay Kumar Singh on Monday appealed to the Dindigul district administration to be vigilant. With 56 patients testing positive, Dindigul stood fifth in the State with regard to the number of reported cases. Hence, they had to ensure that the hotspots were identified swiftly and the virus was contained. Towards this objective, officials must ensure that residents stayed indoors and essential commodities, including medicines and grocery, were delivered at their doorstep, they said at a review meeting. Collector M. Vijayalakshmi, South Zone IGP K. Shanmuga Rajeshwaran, DIG of Police (Dindigul Range) Nirmal Kumar Joshi, SP R Saktivel and other officials participated. At a similar meeting held in Theni district, Special Officer C. Kamaraj, Collector M. Pallavi Baldev, SP Sai Charan Tejaswi took part.
15 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Most bakeries remain closed in Erode||Despite the district administration allowing bakeries to function from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m., only a few bakeries were opened in the district on Tuesday. Since the announcement of lockdown, all the bakeries had been closed and only Aavin outlets were opened to sell milk and not tea or coffee to people. On Monday, the district administration allowed bakeries to function, but restricted them from selling tea, coffee or milk. They were asked to ensure personal distancing among customers. But, on Tuesday, only a few bakeries were opened and did brisk business in the city. Shortage of workers, non-availability of ingredients or high price and restriction in selling tea and coffee were some of the reasons cited by bakery owners for failing to resume business. A bakery owner at Solar Junction said that 50% of their sales volume was through tea and coffee and business could be unusual without that. “Workers cannot reach the production area by 4 a.m. to start the work and leave after 1 p.m. when vehicle movement is restricted,” said the owner. Many owners said that since their shops were closed for over 20 days, cakes, puffs, cookies and other snacks had to be disposed of first. “We will wait for one or two days, look at the situation and reopen the shop,” said a bakery owner at Kalaimadu Statue area. Meanwhile, the shops that were opened on Tuesday did good business as there was demand for bread, puffs, biscuits and snacks.
15 April 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Alcoholics turn to counsellors for psychological support||Alcohol addicts in the delta districts suffering from withdrawal symptoms, due to prolonged closure of the IMFL outlets during the lockdown period for containment of COVID 19 virus, are seemingly shedding inhibitions in calling up de-addiction centres for psychological support, according to counsellors. ‘In most cases, family members of the alcoholics call us up and seek guidance. At the outset, we tell them that there is no cause for panic and that the problem can be handled effectively,’ K. Maheshwari, Consellor, Gandhiji Integrated Rehabilitation Centre for Addicts, Karaikal, said. Though de-addiction is a long-term treatment, the telephonic conversation helps the addicts and their family members to take stock of the gravity of the problem and make plans for mitigation, she said. At no time in the past was liquor unavailable for such a lengthy stretch. Karaikal where there are a number of IMFL outlets is usually frequented by several hundreds of alcohol addicts from nearby districts on a daily basis. The de-addiction centres are bracing up for more calls seeking counselling as the lockdown period has been extended. At the de-addiction centres, alcoholism is considered an ailment and a full-fledged treatment starting from de-toxification is done for effective recovery, K. Akilandeshwari, another counsellor attached to the de-addiction centre, said. When the addicts start shivering and start showing withdrawal symptoms that also reflect in abnormal behaviour, the family members tend to get panicky. At times, the alcohol addicts themselves talk to counsellors complaining that they do not get proper sleep or do not feel hungry. "As counsellors, we advise the family members not to administer sleeping pills to alcohol addicts. It will turn counterproductive. The doctor's prescription is very important in dealing with this ailment," Ms. Maheshwari explained.
15 April 2020||KODAIKANAL,TAMIL NADU||Water scarcity hits upper Kodaikanal||For the last 10 days, hundreds of dwellings situated in Shenbaganoor, Koyyappaarai and surrounding areas have been experiencing scarcity of potable water in the upper hills of Kodaikanal. There are 24 wards in the Kodaikanal Municipality. While dwellings and premises situated within the town limits have been getting water through pipelines twice a week, those in the outer zones have not been getting a drop of water. Several appeals to the municipal authorities to take steps have not fetched any desired results so far. Antony, a resident of Irudayapuram said that the stock response from the authorities is that the lorry belonging to the municipality has gone to the workshop for repairs. “We have been getting this reply for the last 2 months...As a stop gap arrangement, we (the residents) hired a private tanker lorry to supply water, but the Municipal authorities were hesitating over this as well as they could not fill diesel for a private vehicle,” he claimed. Hence, to ensure that at least a few pots were available for each dwelling, private carts were engaged, but they too have stopped after the lockdown, another resident on Cement Road said and added that the municipal authorities should expedite repair works on the lorry and arrange for water distribution at the earliest. With a rise in temperature, people have started feeling the heat in the hill station and are looking for a permanent solution from the district administration. When contacted, Dindigul Collector M. Vijayalakshmi said that she would look into the issue and take steps after reviewing the situation with Municipal officials.
15 April 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||13 arrested for holding prayers in mosque||As many as 13 persons, including a man ordered to be in quarantine, were arrested for holding prayers in a mosque in Rajiv Nagar here on Tuesday. According to the police, on information that prayers were held in breach of lockdown, Krishnagiri tahsildar informed the Taluk police station. A team led by tahsildar Kumar went to the mosque and found 12 persons holding prayers. In the meantime, a man, who had returned from the single source event in Delhi and was ordered to be in quarantine, had arrived at the mosque to intercede on behalf of the others. All 13 persons were arrested.
15 April 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Whatsapp number for complaints||The district administration has set up a special control room and a whatsapp number to receive complaints from the public on the emergency service and relief measures in the district. The public may contact the whatsapp number 63697 00230 to register complaints. According to Collector S.Prabhakar, the complaints may contain authentic details to be addressed. The public may also contact 04343-234444. The district administration’s toll free number 1077 is also functional for public use.
15 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Three places earmarked for temporary flower markets||In a big relief to the flower growers across Madurai, the district administration has earmarked three locations in the city for setting up temporary markets to sell flowers. Collector T.G. Vinay said that flowers can be sold between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m. at three locations- Race Course stadium, Arapalayam Bus stand and E.V.R. Nagamayar Corporation Girls High School, South Veli Street. “Farmers can directly bring their produce to these markets and sell it to other commission agents. Farmer producer groups and farmer interest groups will aid the farmers to bring the flowers to the markets. Emergency passes will be issued to shopkeepers and the markets will function from Wednesday,” he said. A horticulture department official said that emergency passes will also be issued to traders who procure flowers from the markets to be sold in other districts. All shopkeepers and customers have been instructed to wear face masks. The shops will be set up far from each other and personal distancing between customers has to be strictly monitored, said the official. The Collector said that the farmers were becoming apprehensive as they could not sell their flowers due to the COVID-19 lockdown. “This might discourage farmers to continue growing flowers and they might shift towards growing vegetables,” he said. Currently, around 10 tonnes of jasmine is being transported to perfumeries in Nilakottai and Coimbatore every day. However, hectares of other flowers like tuberose, rose, marigold, arali and picchi has been wilting in many parts of the district as the farmers do not have any means to transport it to markets. If flowers are left unplucked, then it can damage the entire crop, said Ramachandran, President of Madurai Meenakshi Sundareswarar Malar Makkal Nala Sangam. “Though temples are closed and marriages are not held in a grand manner due to the lockdown, people still require flowers for their homes,” he said. Once the markets are functional, the demand for jasmines will increase and the perfumeries will have to procure jasmines at a higher rate from farmers. Thus, the farmers will be able to earn good profit, said Deputy Director (Horticulture) G.O. Poopathi.
15 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||It’s a virtual, low-key Tamil New Year celebration amidst COVID-19 lockdown||Maduraiites celebrated a virtual, low-key Tamil New Year on Tuesday amidst the COVID-19 lockdown. S. Vellaiappan and his wife V. Veni, residents of K. K. Nagar said that the festival was lonely this year as they ended up video-calling their sons who resided in other countries. “Usually, the family comes together in summer for holidays. This year, however, the restrictions are everywhere. We make do with basic provisions available at local shops for sweets and just having a low-key affair,” Mr. Vellaiappan said. K. Rashmi, who was shopping for vegetables in Anna Nagar, said that the festival gave her an opportunity to try out new traditional recipes at home with her family. She said that because of the lockdown, she would Skype who would guide her through the process of making an elaborate south Indian spread. “The joy comes from trying out new food items and it becomes interesting if I think of cooking as an experiment,” she said. K. Manickam, who runs a local grocery shop, said that several people purchased jaggery, milk and other condiments necessary for a traditional Tamil meal. The shops were busy as usual, he said. Unlike usual traditions, crowds did not line up at temples as the lockdown prevented gatherings.
15 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 crisis makes teachers embrace technology||With the need to remain indoors to stay safe in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, teachers have embraced technology to remain in touch with their students. Many schoolteachers in the city said that this was a new learning experience for them. They said that children too have shown their willingness to learn and stay engaged through popular videoconferencing applications. “We have started conducting physical education class for primary school children on alternate days via videoconferencing applications. For higher classes, we have begun preparation for the next academic year,” said Shanthi Mohan, Principal of Lakshmi School. For the benefit of those students who were not able to attend the sessions due to connectivity issues, the lessons are uploaded on YouTube. Ms. Mohan said that the school would soon introduce story-telling for primary classes, as the teachers and the students were able to use the applications with ease. Agreeing with her, R. Jhansi Rani, a teacher in TVS School, said, “This is a new learning experience for teachers. We are using technology to ensure that the students use their time productively and prepare them for the coming academic year.” A private tutor, R.S. Lakshmi, said that initially she was hesitant to embrace the technology, but was now comfortable. “I find students answering questions promptly. Even they have taken a liking to the new format,” she said. She, however, felt that there were drawbacks too. “While connectivity was one issue, regular classroom interaction is missing. It could lead to the case of students being physically present but mentally absent,” she said. Though the luxury of conducting classes through videoconferencing applications was limited to private institutions, government-aided and Corporation schools are staying connected with their students through WhatsApp application. “Not only are the teachers clearing doubts of the students through the school’s WhatsApp group, but also extending financial assistance and supplying essential commodities to the families of poor students,” said K.S. Narayanan, Headmaster of Sethupathi Higher Secondary School. R. Murugeswari, Headmistress of Kasturba Gandhi Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School, said the school planned to embrace technology from the coming academic year and held meetings with teachers in this regard.
15 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai’s positive count rises to 41||Two new patients tested positive for COVID-19, here on Tuesday. The count in Madurai now stands at 41, including 14 who tested positive on Monday. A majority of them tested positive for the disease after attending a religious conference in Delhi. One worker from the Government Rajaji Hospital who handled personal protection equipment also tested positive. Collector T.G. Vinay said that only two doctors and two nurses were in contact with the worker and had been tested today. His other contacts too had been traced, he added. According to sources in the GRH, four out of the 16 members tested positive after they came in contact with a positive patient. While the youngest patient to test positive on Monday was 18 years, the oldest was 62 years. The Collector said that three types of surveillance by health workers are currently taking place. In areas where COVID-19 positive cases are found, the district administration begins an active surveillance of contacts and enforces a complete lock. “Through contact screening, we have done a passive door-to-door surveillance for influenza cases. We have also done contact-based screening,” he said. On Monday, the Collector said that Usilampatti's Keelapallivasal area, Tirumangalam, Keelamathur, Crime Branch (Madurai city) and Anaiyur will be under complete lockdown and only delivery of essential goods would be allowed to ensure the containment of spreading.
15 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 160 stranded people back in the comforts of home||It sounds like a fairy tale amidst COVID-19 threat. Yes, some government agencies and a few voluntary organisations came together to uphold humanity in the most trying times. They not only provided shelter, food and medical care to over 400 roadside dwellers, migrant labourers and mentally retarded people, during the initially announced 21-day lockdown, but also ensured that many of them get reunited with their families. Over 66 migrant labourers from Madurai district and 100 from other districts who got stuck in the city were taken back home with the help of Red Cross volunteers. City Police rescued people left on the roadside ever since the lockdown began on March 24. “Initially, we took them to the marriage hall at Poonga Murugan Temple. But, as the numbers grew, we took the help of voluntary organisations,” Assistant Commissioner of Police (Anna Nagar) T.K. Lilly Grace said. In due course, the homeless got a good shelter, three meals a day, medical care and counselling through professionals. Madurai Corporation gave the volunteers five shelters at different places and ensured that the inmates get food. Some mentally ill patients who were on the roads were also picked up and put in a separate shelter. “Many of the destitutes and alcoholics were not aware of the danger of the pandemic,” said N. Sharmila, one of the social workers. People who got stranded here from various parts of the district and State were keen on going back home. “When we took up this issue with Collector T.G. Vinay, he gave the nod for them to be taken back to their homes. Red Cross came into the picture with this help,” Mr. Grace said. In the case of a HIV positive woman, who was chased away by her husband, Melur Police reached out to her husband explaining the plight of the woman, who wanted to be with her children. “He has accepted to take her in his home. We have told the woman that she can come back to the home if she faces any trouble with family members again,” the ACP said. None of the destitutes was forcibly taken back home, she clarified. Before they were taken home, a medical examination was done on them to ensure that they were free of any infection. “Some jobs would be found for those who are mentally and physically fit,” the ACP said. Besides the Collector, Commissioner of Police S. Davidson Devasirvatham and Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan, volunteers from Idhayam Trust, Boom Welfare Community, New Creations, Annai Teresa Trust, Bharathi Illam and Sri Jain Sangh, Netaji Ambulance Service and Velammal Hospitals made the humanitarian task look simple.
15 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Prohibitory order extended||In the wake of lockdown extended to tackle the spread of COVID-19, Madurai Collector T.G. Vinay on Tuesday extended the prohibitory order under Section 144 of the Cr.P.C. till April 30. “Any congregation of more than five persons in public places is prohibited across the district, other than for matter concerning essential services. People are requested to stay at home and come out only for accessing basic and essential services and strictly follow social distancing and maintain a distance of one metre or three feet norms”, the Collector said. He said except for essential and emergency services, no vehicles will ply.
15 April 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen of some hamlets do not venture into sea||Fishers in a handful of coastal hamlets in the district including Akkaraipettai, Nagore and Samanthanapettai have chosen not to venture into the sea from April 15, citing the precautions in place for containment of spread of COVID 19 virus. Representatives of fishers had told officials that they would prefer to wait until the situation turns conducive for them to resume fishing activities. There were instances of fishers of other hamlets expressing their desire to net fishes only for own consumption. Out of a total of 53 hamlets, fishers in the remaining villages were instructed by officials of Fisheries, Revenue and Police departments on Tuesday to abide by the conditions put forth by the State government. Collector Praveen P. Nair, who chaired a meeting of Crisis Management Committee on Monday instructed the officials of these departments to make sure that those venturing into the sea in country crafts and catamarans are provided with necessary guidance on safety protocol and the sales procedure. There was sufficient awareness among fishermen on safety measures. Many hamlets have erected barricades at entrances to restrict movement of outsiders. Fishers attended the meeting with officials wearing face masks, Joint Director of Fisheries Amal Raj Xavier said. Nagapattinam is among the few large fishing harbours where the government has permitted a maximum of 300 boats. There are a total of 5885 country crafts in the district. For the lockdown period since March 24, fishers in all the 53 hamlets resolved not to engage themselves in fishing activities and extend the fullest cooperation to the government. They did not venture into the sea forgoing the need for fish even for own consumption. The fishers are expected to follow a rotational system. Boats from a particular village can enter the sea only on alternate days. The fishers were told that crowding will not be permitted at the auction sites, and that catches must be sold to the highest bidder by the respective village committee before 10 a.m. Retail vending of fish will not be allowed. The entry of boats into sea and return to the shores must be in a staggered pattern. Boats powered by more than 10 hp motors will not be permitted entry into the sea. The officials have emphasised that there must be only two or three persons on each boat, preferably from the same family. The fishers are expected to follow personal distancing and wear masks and gloves.
15 April 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Four new positive cases reported in Rajapalayam||With detection of four new positive cases on Monday, all 42 wards in Rajapalayam municipality have been turned into containment area. Select wards in Aruppukottai town have also been sealed after two more positive cases were recorded on Saturday. Even within Rajapalayam town, police have formed a grid with barricades at 12 important junctions to restrict movement of residents. Movement of vehicles too has been strictly restricted. “People can come out of their houses only to buy essential goods, that too with masks,” Collector R. Kannan said on Tuesday. “The municipality has been given the task of ensuring sale of vegetables through mobile vendors,” zonal officer in-charge of Rajapalayam V. Selvakumar said. Besides, plans to make door delivery of grocery items are also afoot. “Shops are closed even in the morning and movement of people has come down drastically. Even the makeshift vegetable markets at four places are closed,” said T.S. Subramanian, a resident of ward 32. According to Mr. Selvakumar, disinfection activities in the town and adjoining rural areas have been stepped up. Meanwhile, door-to-door checks of residents for symptoms of infection are underway. “The containment is meant for a few days so that people do not move out till the survey is completed,” the Collector said.
15 April 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Countryboat fishermen resume fishing||Thanking the district administration and officials in the department of fisheries, country boat fishermen, who returned to the shore after fishing on Tuesday, said they would continue to maintain social distancing and cooperate with the government in fighting COVID-19. Following appeals from small and marginal fishermen that they be permitted to venture into the sea as they usually operated within two to four nautical miles, Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao said he would examine the modalities and get approval from the State government. The district has about 180 fishing hamlets and it was proposed to allow them on alternate days in a week. Thus, country craftsmen from 90 hamlets would set sail for fishing. The number of persons was also restricted to two, preferably from one family. They were instructed to confine themselves to fishing. The catch from each of the fisherman would be entrusted for marketing in a regulated manner. The first group of fishermen, who set sail for fishing returned on the same day and others were back on Tuesday. Department officials said that in consultation with the hamlets/fishermen, the date and name of the village was issued. Only they could venture into the sea. CITU district secretary Karunamoorthy appealed to the district authorities to provide cash relief for fishermen families as many of them were jobless since March. Meanwhile, the annual two-month ban for mechanised boat fishermen would start from April 15, said the officials. Plea for cash relief With about 1,600 mechanised boats in the district, fishermen associations submitted representations, seeking reduction in ban period as it would result in them staying off sea for nearly 90 days. They also urged the State government to sanction Rs. 10,000 as relief. Any delay or failure in rendering assistance would lead to borrowings from usurers, the fishermen said.
15 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Cash relief distributed to street vendors||The Salem Corporation has distributed cash relief of Rs. 1,000 to 1,812 street vendors registered with the civic body. According to a release from the Corporation, the civic body distributed cash relief to the tune of Rs. 18.12 lakh to street vendors, registered under National Urban Livelihood Mission and received identity cards from the civic body after they submitted required documents for the relief. Officials said that of the 2,883 street vendors registered with the Corporation, the relief was transferred to the bank accounts of 1,812 vendors. Steps had been taken to open bank accounts for the remaining 1,071 vendors and the cash would be transferred to them later.
15 April 2020||Salem/Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Cases registered||The Namakkal police on Monday registered 140 cases against 143 persons for violating prohibitory orders. The police also detained 89 vehicles. The Salem City police on Monday registered 90 cases for violating prohibitory orders and detained 58 vehicles.
15 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Total lockdown on Sundays||The district administration has announced that a total lockdown will be imposed in the district on Sundays during the extended lockdown period. All shops, excluding pharmacies and health-related services, would remain shut on all Sundays. It has been decided to issue colour cards to each household to regulate movement of people on roads during the extended lockdown period. The cards would be issued in three colours: green card-holders would be allowed to go out for purchase of essentials on Mondays and Thursdays from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m.; blue cardholders on Tuesdays and Fridays and rose cardholders on Wednesdays and Saturdays. On receiving the cards, smart card number of the family had to be written on the card along with name and Aadhaar card number of one of the family members. The person whose name had been written on the card alone would be allowed to move out and make purchases. He or she whose name had been mentioned in the card should have completed 16 years and should not be above 59 years of age. While moving out of the house, they should carry the cards and produce the same as and when demanded by the police or any government staff/ volunteer on COVID duty. Any violation would result in seizure of the card and the entire family has to remain in their respective homes till the end of the extended lockdown period. But any person in dire need of medical assistance would be allowed to approach clinics or hospitals on any day irrespective of the card issued to their family. Patients should be accompanied by a person whose name had been entered in the colour card and they should carry the cards with them. Elaborate arrangements have been made for issue of cards through local bodies prior to April 16 from which date the colour card rules would come into force. Meanwhile, identification cards, T-shirts, gloves and face masks were distributed to the pandemic prevention exercise volunteers in Peravurani block on Monday. A total of 260 volunteers, 10 each for 26 village panchayats coming under Peravurani Panchayat Union, have been selected to assist the government officials in the prevention exercise. While distribution of identification cards, T-shirts, gloves and face masks was launched by the Panchayat Union Commissioner (Block Development) Sadaiyappan and Panchayat Union Chairman Sasikala at Thuravikadu, presidents of other village panchayats distributed them to the volunteers in their respective domains.
15 April 2020||THANJAVUR/TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Six test positive in Thanjavur and Nagapattinam districts||Four persons, including an eight-month-old girl baby, were found infected with COVID-19 virus in Thanjavur district on Tuesday. Three persons of a family of Ammapettai, a 28 year-old male, a 21-year-old female and the 8-month-old baby, were among those who tested positive. One of the family members had attended the religious conference in New Delhi and is already undergoing treatment after testing positive for the virus. The other person was a 20-year-old male from Adhiramapattinam who did not have any travel history but is suspected to be a contact of some infected persons, official sources said. With this, the total number of positive cases in Thanjavur district has gone up to 16. Two persons in Nagapattinam district tested positive for COVID 19 virus on Tuesday. One was from Nagapattinam Municipal area and the other from Tirumarugal block, Health department sources said. With the two new cases, Nagapattinam district now accounts for 31 COVID 19 positive patients. No new positive case was reported in Tiruchi, Karur, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Tiruvarur or Pudukottai districts in the central region on Tuesday. Meanwhile, nine patients, who had tested positive for COVID 19 virus, were discharged from the Karur Government Medical College Hospital after treatment on Tuesday. With this the total number of patients discharged from hospital has gone up to 18. The first batch of 9 patients were discharged on Monday. The hospital has 137 more patients from Karur, Dindigul and Namakkal districts in isolation wards. Of them, 122 patients had tested positive. Remaining 15 patients have tested negative.
15 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Gas leak irks residents||Residents of Muthiahpuram on city outskirts are battling with a foul-smelling gas allegedly being released from a factory. They suspect that the gas, which has a rotten egg smell, is hydrogen sulphide. “Though the factory releases the gas late in the night, they have been discharging it in the evening since Monday. As the foul odour has become intense, even people inside their homes are unable to bear with the situation,” said a resident. When contacted, police sources said they had received information about the complaint. Hence, the factories in the area had been alerted to recheck their operations.
15 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Rescued||The Corporation has rescued 54 homeless people in an operation that began on Sunday. Although some of them received food from volunteers, the shuttered shops, tea stalls, roadside eateries and absence of vehicles appear to have left them disturbed as many stayed mute. On being brought to a Corporation-run marriage hall near Sivan Temple on Monday, they were screened by a team of health workers and doctors.
15 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Testing lab is ready’||Collector Sandeep Nanduri on Tuesday said there was no community transmission of the virus in the district. The assertion came despite the death of a 72-year-old old woman who contracted the infection while visiting a grocery shop near her home. During an informal chat with reporters after garlanding the statue of B.R. Ambedkar on his birth anniversary, Mr. Sandeep said the district had not reached the third stage of the viral infection — community transmission — as all possible efforts were being taken to enforce lockdown to ensure physical distancing and disinfection in areas where positive patients resided. Tracing of people who had close contacts with infected persons was being pursued actively and the samples collected from them had been sent for analysis. “We are sending 150 samples a day to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. Since work on establishing a testing lab in Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital has been completed, it will start functioning once the Indian Council Medical Research gives its nod,” Mr. Sandeep said.
15 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Officers to look into plight of migrant labourers||The police department has asked its field-level officers to ascertain if migrant labourers employed in various business units and service industry in Tiruchi range were provided with basic facilities, food and medicine. They have compiled a list of labourers working in Tiruchi, Perambalur, Pudukottai and Ariyalur districts in different category of business units. A nodal officer in the rank of Inspector of Police has been nominated for each district. Over 7,800 were working in these districts. Tiruchi district has 2,800 labourers followed by Pudukottai (2,200), Ariyalur (1,900) and Perambalur (800). Labourers from Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha had been employed in cement units, construction industry, ice factory, rice mills, marble and steel units, hotels and infrastructure industry such as laying of roads. The pandemic had brought industrial and infrastructure activities to a grinding halt leading to complete suspension of work. This led to a situation where migrant labourers could not carry out their daily work and confined to their respective places of stay in the four districts. With no work and suspension of vehicular movement, an attempt was made by some labourers in Ariyalur district to head back to their homes by engaging a lorry. However, this was prevented by the police in the wake of prohibitory order. Nodal officers had been nominated in these districts to ascertain that basic amenities and facilities were provided to the labourers and ensure that they were adequately taken care of by employers or contractors, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range V. Balakrishnan said. They have been visiting periodically to ascertain if labourers had any grievance to be settled and inquiring about their health condition. In Tiruchi district, labourers were residing in nearly 48 places including Kallakudi, Manikandam, Musiri and Manapparai, said a field-level police officer. The nodal officers coordinate with the revenue authorities to ensure that the grievances of labourers and those relating to amenities were addressed, another officer said. Many workers were accommodated in temporary places of stay or near unit premises where they had worked. The police in association with the district administration and labour department were keeping a tab on migrant labourers and ensure that they were provided with basic amenities and food. The labourers would get rice, dhal and edible oil soon. The officers convey to the labourers that they would not be able to go back to their States until the lockdown was lifted. The health condition of labourers was being looked into and steps were being initiated to extend medical services. The importance of personal distancing and the need to wear mask as a precautionary measure to check the spread of COVID-19 were also stressed during meetings.
15 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||It’s compulsory to wear masks||Wearing of face mask has been made mandatory for the people venturing out of their homes for buying essential commodities in the district. Collector S. Sivarasu, who visited various parts of the district to take stock of the situation on Tuesday, said a section of people continued to flout prohibitory orders and ventured out under the guise of buying essential commodities. This could not be accepted. Some of them did not bother to wear face masks. So, it had been made mandatory for them to wear face mask if they came out of their houses for buying vegetables, groceries, medicines, milk and others. Those who failed to wear masks would be booked and their vehicles confiscated. He said the policemen had been instructed to seize vehicles of those travelling without wearing face mask. Vigil would be stepped up on violators while visiting temporary markets, departmental stores and pharmacies. Special passes have been issued to milk suppliers, vegetable traders, grocery merchants, rice mill workers and others to ensure free availability of essentials. They were originally issued for the period up to April 14. Since the nationwide lockdown has been extended up to May 3, the validity of passes has been extended. There was no need for the card holders to visit government offices for extension. Residents living in containment areas should not come out of their houses except on emergencies. It would prevent the virus from spreading to neighbours and contacts. Round-the-clock vigil would be maintained on containment areas to check their unnecessary movement,, he added.
15 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Doctor and sanitary workers honoured||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s youth wing unit honoured sanitary workers, a doctor, a nurse, a LPG domestic cylinder supplier and a ration shop employee for their selfless service to the society during the current crisis situation. A function was organised in this connection at Bheema Nagar here led by the party’s urban district youth wing president Gautam Nagarajan. The doctor, nurse, a ration shop woman employee, an LPG cylinder supplier, couple of women sanitary workers and another worker involved in spraying disinfectants were made to sit in a row on a chair. With a priest rendering mantras, the BJP youth wing members performed ‘paadha poojai’ to each one of them by applying sandal and kumkum on their feet after washing it. The youth wing members garlanded all the seven persons and gave away dhothi and a towel to men and sari, turmeric, sacred thaali thread and kumkum to women workers.
15 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||36,000 cases booked in eight districts||Police personnel across the Central Zone comprising of eight districts have booked over 36,000 cases till date since March 25 against those found violating the prohibitory orders clamped in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. As many as 40,422 persons were arrested on the charge of violating the order and subsequently released on bail. The number of two-wheelers seized till date in the zone was over 31,000, while the number of four-wheelers confiscated was 714. Police statistics reveal that Tiruchi tops in respect of cases booked and with regard to seizure of two-wheelers. Cases booked by Tiruchi Rural Police alone exceeded 8,400 with the number of two-wheelers confiscated being 7,782. Tiruchi Rural was followed by Thanjavur district where the number of cases booked was over 8,300 and more than 4,800 two-wheelers seized. Cases booked in Tiruvarur district was over 6,000. The Tiruchi City Police have registered 1,167 cases on Wednesday
15 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Shaky start to online interface by CBSE schools||Schools following Central Board of Secondary Education pattern have started engaging students in online mode to make productive use of their indoor confinement due to the lockdown. An elaborate circular was sent to principals by CBSE Chairperson Anita Karwal earlier this month describing the way forward in embracing technology for online interface between teachers and students. However, school heads are, by and large, not certain about how things would work out in real time situation. The purpose is well understood. But we find ourselves in a blind alley. Implementation of suggestions do not seem practical, a senior principal said. Citing the loss of academic days, the circular stressed the role of principals in reinventing educational processes and devising creative methods. The mandate is to develop creative and innovative teaching and learning materials such as activity-based worksheets, projects that can be done at home; activities that can generate a flood of curiosity; art, sport and music integrated learning modules; and online classes to build capacities of teachers to open up their minds to creativity. The CBSE sought to remind the principals through the circular that this is the time to build a synergy between home environment and school environment, by working alongside parents to understand the unique attributes of each child: temperament, interests, habits, mindset and inclinations. The CBSE expects parents to guide students to do projects on human-human, human-nature and nature-nature interface by simple observations from daily lives. The circular advocates a role for children in the kitchen work as well. Alongside cooking, they can learn STEM (a curriculum based on the idea of educating students in four specific disciplines: science, technology, engineering and mathematics, in an interdisciplinary and applied approach) through classification, organisation, quantities, proportions, thermal conductivity, chemical reactions, audits, optimisation, hygiene, timing, nutrition, and many more. They will also learn about interdependence, collaboration and joy in community work, the circular states. ‘We are asked to coordinate the activities of teachers. But teachers cannot sync online classes with the routine timetable. We are advised to be mindful of physical and emotional needs of students while introducing online classes. But, it is simply impossible for teachers to adopt different approaches for every individual student,’ another principal said. Nevertheless, school heads are making use of Internet and social media platforms such as WhatsApp, Facebook groups, and emails for daily guidance and assignments. Schools have been encouraged to promote peer learning through formation of WhatsApp groups of similarly inclined students. ‘We are waiting for the alternative academic calendar being developed by National Council of Educational Research and Training,’ the school head said. The calendar promises to enable teachers to attain learning outcomes in a joyful manner and suggest ways and means to use technology to aid and facilitate the process of learning.
15 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||University to offer counselling||Bharathidasan University has initiated counselling service for monitoring the mental well-being of staff and students during and after the lockdown period as directed by the Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Human Resource Development. An exclusive web page created by the university has been linked with the website on COVID-19 developed by MHRD. Senior faculty members adept in psychological counselling, N.Manimekalai, Dean of Arts and Director, Women Studies, and E.Ram Ganesh, Director, Institute for Entrepreneurship and Career Development, have been appointed as COVID counsellors, G. Gopinath, Registrar, said in a press release. The COVID counsellors would interact with staff and students through phone calls, emails, video calls and other media platforms, and provide motivational support to resolve their personal and psychological problems. They will provide support on dealing with stress, loneliness, fear, habits, discrimination and other reactions and emotions during the crisis. In case anybody tests positive for the COVID 19, the counsellors would connect the person to health care officials and monitor their well-being constantly. By offering different strategies, the engagement of counsellors would focus on relaxation, meditation, diet, relationship with family and social members and awareness of the pandemic. The necessary action needed during the lockdown would be disseminated to the callers by providing more links and resources towards their physical and mental health. The initiative encompasses a research activity on wellness of students.
15 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Kanniyakumari-Rajasthan bike ride cut short, thanks to first responders’ prompt action||The extended lockdown has forced youth from Rajasthan living in Kanniyakumari district for over a decade to embark on a desperate two-wheeler journey with their families to their distant home State. The youth, who are in their late twenties, arrived here with their parents a decade ago and settled down near Kanniyakumari, an international tourist destination, Nagercoil, Marthandam and Kaliyakkavilai on Kerala border. Their ice candy and paani puri business became an instant hit among tourists and school children. To augment their income, they also sell toys, imported from China, Rajasthani handicrafts, blankets, floor mats and cotton candy when their regular business becomes dull during monsoon. However, the lockdown has severely dented their business, which peaks in summer with the arrival of tourists to Kanniyakumari and holidays for children. Although the State government has rolled out relief for the poor, the assistance is intended only for ration cardholders. Things have turned from bad to worse for the Rajasthani families due to non-availability of wheat flour, their staple food. With no income for more than three weeks and wheat flour running out of stock, a group of youth decided to leave for their home State with their wives and young children in two-wheelers braving the hot weather. On Monday night, they managed to cross Kayathar check-post on Tirunelveli-Thoothukudi border on Tirunelveli-Madurai National Highway, but five bikes were intercepted by a police team on Tuesday morning. After collecting details, the police personnel assured them that things would become more conducive in the near future. But the youth stuck to their plan and said they were keen to reach their native State after a journey that was expected to take six days. Although they could not convince the bikers to turn back, the police team provided them with breakfast and informed their Kanniyakumari counterparts, who rushed to the spot within the next two hours and held out assurances of food supply, especially wheat flour. The Rajasthani youth finally accepted the assurance and turned their two-wheelers towards Kanniyakumari once again, with the women and children riding in a police vehicle.
15 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Migrant worker from Odisha traced in Erode||Following the tweet from former MP Kalikesh Singh Deo about a migrant worker from Odisha, who walked from Palladam in Tiruppur district to Erode, the district administration and police traced his location on Monday. Mr. Deo claimed that the worker Nruparaj Barik was “beaten up by a few” in Tiruppur district and that he walked all the way to Erode. In response, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami directed District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan via Twitter to look into it. Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan tweeted that Barik was located in the limits of Erode South police station. “Our district administration team is now bringing him to Tiruppur,” the Collector said. Sources with the Tiruppur district police said that 28-year-old Barik, a native of Kalahandi, Odisha, joined a garment factory as a tailor at Ganapathipalayam in Palladam in March. On April 12, he allegedly left the hostel on the garment company premises without intimating the management in an attempt to return to his home town by foot. Although he was questioned by a few persons at Chinnakarai near Palladam, the worker was not physically assaulted, sources said. Having reached Erode after travelling around 70 km. by foot, Erode South police found him on the evening of April 13. No injuries or property loss was ascertained, following which Barik was re-accommodated on the garment factory hostel. No police complaint was lodged in connection with this incident, according to the sources.
15 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Meat stalls to function during weekdays in Ooty||The Nilgiris District Collector, J. Innocent Divya, said that meat shops will start functioning across the district during weekdays. However, the shops will be closed on Saturday and Sunday to prevent overcrowding, she said. The Collector made the announcement on Tuesday after meat stalls across Udhagamandalam town were ordered to be closed due to overcrowding since the weekend when hundreds of people queued up to purchase meat during the Easter weekend, leading the district administration to order the shops to close as a preventative measure against the spread of COVID-19. It has been announced that a mechanism is being worked out whereby people living in Udhagamandalam municipality limits can call suppliers, who will home deliver meat to local residents. Ms. Divya also appealed to residents to not crowd at shops and market areas to purchase supplies, adding that there were enough commodities, including medicines in the stores and that there was no need for panic.
15 April 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Delhi-based man who tested positive traced||A week after a Delhi-based COVID-19-positive man went missing after he was released from quarantine from the Villupuram Government Hospital due to a “clerical error”, a special police team from Villupuram traced him to Pattalam in Chengalpattu district on Tuesday. A team led by Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar found him at a lorry terminal situated between Maduranthakam and Pattalam. The man, hailing from Patel Nagar in New Delhi, had come to Puducherry to attend an interview last month. He was involved in a road accident, following which he was arrested and remanded in the Kalapet Central Prison in Puducherry. After coming out on bail, he reached Villupuram, and was staying in a facility operated by the local Red Cross when he developed fever and was admitted to the GH. After he was released from quarantine on April 7, the authorities realised that he was COVID-19-positive. But he was untraceable. Mr. Jayakumar said that immediately after the man was discharged from the Villupuram GH, he boarded a lorry. He had been staying with a few lorry drivers at the terminal in Pattalam due to the restrictions on movement of vehicles during the lockdown. The police had issued a nationwide alert and had constituted seven teams to trace him. Mr. Jayakumar said the police had put up posters in Tamil, Hindi and English with photographs of the man all along the highway from Ulundurpet to Chennai. “The posters also had the contact number of an Inspector and called upon the people to alert the team if they spotted him. A lorry driver from north India, who saw the poster in a lorry terminal, alerted another lorry driver from Tamil Nadu who, in turn, informed us,” he said. The man is being brought back to Villupuram, while four lorry drivers who had stayed with him have been handed over to a police team in Chengalpattu district, Mr. Jayakumar added.
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: Breathing hard||On one hand, COVID-19 infections are on the rise, and on the other, people with chronic lung diseases are worried. This is because the presentation of COVID-19 is with nasal symptoms, loss or decrease in smell, chest pain and breathlessness. This is always associated with fever, body pains and fatigue. Most of the bronchial asthma and COPD patients too are present with these symptoms, when they get an infective exacerbation. In bronchial asthma, the symptoms are sporadic and patients respond well to inhaled bronchodilators and if necessary, they respond to antibiotics rapidly unlike in serious COVID-19. The lungs get affected in serious COVID-19 when a cytokine storm occurs with stiff lungs, small clots in lung vessels and the oxygen carrying capacity of the blood becomes low. The combination of these factors pushes the person into full blown respiratory failure and recovery from this becomes difficult. This is quite in contrast to what happens in infective exacerbation of asthma. The response to treatment is quite dramatic and within 48 hours they start finding symptomatic relief. I advise most of my patients who call over the phone and it is only if they don’t respond, do I ask them to come in for a consultation. With this lockdown, the number of infective exacerbations have come down significantly and most of them do well with telephonic advice. I have not found any increase in admissions due to this problem. Cancer and COVID-19 This is in contrast to people who have suffered from lung cancer or had treatment for cancer with chemotherapy or are on treatment with biologicals, or those who have undergone surgery and/or are on chemotherapy now. Most of these individuals are around 60 years with their immunity compromised. The symptoms of cough and breathlessness cannot be brushed aside casually in them as COVID-19, if it occurs, can proceed at a galloping pace. This is because of co-morbidities that reduce the immunity along with the treatment that reduces the immunity. This somehow does not appear true of TB. I have not had any patient who had treatment for tuberculosis regularly call me and ask me whether he should undergo any tests for COVID. A lot of talk about the correlation between BCG immunisation and vulnerability to COVID-19 is going on. For example Italy, U.K., Spain, U.S., who do not administer BCG as a part of the mass immunisation programme, have more COVID-19 cases and mortality rates. On the other hand, in countries like India, Pakistan, Brazil, Japan, Portugal the effect is relatively less although not completely absent. Although there may be an argument that we are not doing enough tests to pick up more infections we have not seen any unusual increase in mortality during this season in hospitals both government and corporates put together. Mortality rates cannot be hidden though there may be some undetected asymptomatic infection in the country due to non-testing. Some are also making a case that malarial endemicity and consequently the persistent use of hydroxychloroquine might have offered India some protection. With these factors such as BCG pre-immunity, malarial endemicity, along with the lockdown, physical distancing and India’s capacity to withstand and triumph over many epidemics, we can be sure that we can get over this pandemic with relative ease.
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to test 40,000 samples by May 3||The updated app now has a map that shows an embedded view of the areas that have been identified as containment zones. The app, launched early this month, gives residents the options of reporting symptoms as well as crowded spots, based on which action can be taken. As part of its door-to-door survey, the Corporation has identified 3,886 persons with symptoms across the 15 zones in the city as on April 13. Among them, 3,274 persons were identified as having been cured, while the Corporation would follow up on 612 persons in the coming days. The Corporation had identified 12,047 containment blocks across 15 zones and, for verification, nearly 11,678 persons had been appointed. As part of the monitoring plan in place for containment zones in the city, the ciivic body had surveyed over 81 lakh houses, officials said.  As part of its door-to-door survey, the Corporation has identified 3,886 persons with symptoms across 15 zones in the city as on April 13
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu records 31 new cases; lowest count since start of April||Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said that of the 31 patients, 21 were connected to the "single source event", one had an inter-State travel history and nine were contacts of COVID-19 patients. Dindigul recorded the highest number of cases with nine. Six patients were sick but none required ventilator support. In the last 24 hours, 69 patients hospitalised for severe acute respiratory infection were screened for COVID-19, and none tested positive, Dr. Rajesh said. Among the COVID-19 patients, 33 were under the age of 10. Containment measures Dr. Rajesh clarified that persons were discharged only after completion of the 14-day quarantine period. She said that containment activities continued wherever persons tested positive for COVID-19. "Zonal teams have been formed. Twelve senior IPS and IAS officials have been posted for monitoring the implementation of containment measures, checking for proper lifting of samples, contact tracing and adherence to physical distancing," the Health Secretary said. With the State awaiting approval of the Indian Council of Medical Research for trial of convalescent plasma therapy, she said that T.N. was framing protocols for the trials. When asked about higher testing numbers in States such as Maharashtra and Kerala, Dr. Rajesh said that Tamil Nadu recorded its first COVID-19 case in early March and it was important to take into account when other States first reported cases and look at the testing numbers over a period of time. "We started by screening travellers from Wuhan. When COVID-19 spread to other parts of China, those coming from other provinces of China were screened as per the travel advisory. This is an imported disease. As far as Tamil Nadu is concerned, after we had cases from the single source cluster, we have traced their primary and secondary contacts. All international travellers and their contacts were also traced and tested. Now, whoever has influenza-like illness is also being tested," she said. On masks, Dr. Rajesh said that triple layer masks, N95 masks and personal protective equipment were for hospital staff. "Among the public, persons in the vulnerable group, such as those above 60, those with diabetes and hypertension, or undergoing cancer treatment, or persons who underwent organ transplant, should wear triple layer masks. Healthy individuals can wear reusable masks made at home." She said dialysis was required by nearly 15,000 patients across the State, and measures to ensure that they underwent dialysis thrice a week had been taken by involving the 108 ambulance service. As of date, a total of 38,139 persons were under home quarantine and 135 in government quarantine facilities. A total of 1,870 persons were admitted to isolation facilities.
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corona risk||
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four Home Guards men held for theft||In a shocking incident, the police came to know that four personnel in the Home Guards had indulged in theft of petrol and accessories from the seized motor-vehicles here on Tuesday. Following a complaint that some people were seen tampering with the seized motorbikes in Paramakudi Town, Superintendent of Police V. Varun Kumar directed the police to register a case. Observation of the CCTV footage indicated that four persons stole petrol from the two-wheelers and also removed accessories by damaging the vehicles. A discreet probe led to the arrest of the suspects. Based on the confession, the police realised that they were attached with the Home Guards here.
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||covid-19 update||As on April 14  Coimbatore  No. of persons in hospitals: 300 (Male -186, Male child – 6, Female – 94, Female child – 14) Govt. hospitals – 254 Private hospitals – 46 Positive cases – 126 (No new case on Tuesday)  Tiruppur  House quarantine cases: 847 Persons released after 28 days of house quarantine: 55 Samples lifted: 465 Results declared: 235 Positive for COVID-19: 79 (Old cases) Negative: 156 Discharged from ESI Hospital: 1 Results awaited: 230  Namakkal  Positive cases:45 Persons in government quarantine facilities: 14 Persons in home quarantine: 138
15 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||A humane gesture||Belagavi Police helped a woman and her daughter reach their village after cremating her son who died of a non-COVID disease in the district hospital on Tuesday. Sagar Singhe (32) of Kothali village near Chikkodi died following complications from a surgery. His mother and sister had brought him to hospital. However, they had no money to take the body back to their village. Some Kannada activists helped her conduct the cremation at the Sadashiv Nagar cremation yard in Belagavi. They contacted Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbargi who provided them with a vehicle to reach home. In another incident, Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli issued an inter-State pass to a migrant worker from Rajasthan to go back to his native place following his father’s death. Raja Kanjar, who was kept in a hostel in the city, received a call from his family members that his father died on Sunday. He approached the Deputy Commissioner’s office who confirmed the information with their counterparts in Rajasthan. A transit pass was issued to him which he used to reach his State by taxi. After reaching his village, he sent a message thanking the Deputy Commissioner and his office, staff members said.
15 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||One more positive case in Belagavi||Officials completely closed down the Karnataka- Goa highway after a person from Peeranwadi village tested positive for COVID 19 in Belagavi on Tuesday. This takes the district tally to 18 positive cases. Traffic Police and gram panchayat officers put up barricades on the Belagavi-Khanapur road effectively cutting off Peeranwadi village. The 33-year-old male has had a history of travel to Delhi, officers said. He is asymptomatic. The work of tracing his primary contacts has been completed. Secondary contacts are being traced. The patient has been shifted to the district designated COVID-19 hospital. All the 18 patients are stable, doctors said.
15 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Liquor taken away||Liquor was taken away from an outlet of Mysore Sales International Limited in Gokak on Monday night. A group of persons forced open the shutters of the outlet near the petrol pump in Ganeshpur village and took away 50 boxes of liqour. Ghataprabha Police inspected the spot with members of the district canine squad on Tuesday. Meanwhile, a similar attempt in the early hours of Tuesday turned out to be unsuccessful in Tilakwadi in Belagavi. Those involved removed the tiles on the roof of the shop, but they were unable to get inside, as it had another level of roofing made of steel sheets, the police said. Police have registered cases.
15 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bescom to bill domestic consumers an average of three months||With meter readers not being able to do their work due to the lockdown and some apartments not letting them in, the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) has decided to bill domestic consumers on an average of the previous three months’ consumption. The monthly electricity bills for April for HT consumers and LT-40 HP (and above) consumers will be as per the actual meter reading. For the remaining categories of consumers, including domestic consumers, the power utility is issuing average bills calculated based on the preceding three months - January, February and March. The bill copy will be sent to the registered email and mobile numbers. Consumers can also call the Bescom helpline (1912) or the sub-division office to obtain bills or download them from the website of the power utility (www.bescom.org). The average bill will be subject to revision in May, when two months’ consumption will be billed and proportionately apportioned for each month’s slab billing. The surplus or deficit amount will be adjusted in the subsequent bill based on actual reading of the meter, Bescom officials said. If consumers see that their average bill is more than the actual consumption, they can self-read the meter and furnish the details through SMS or WhatsApp to the local sub-division office or the helpline. Bescom officials said that there is no relaxation on the time frame given for bill payment. “Most apartments were not willing to let our meter readers in. So, we decided to calculate the actuals for industries and HT consumers and take the average reading of three months for domestic consumers,” said a senior official. With most industries being closed due to the lockdown, revenue generated from HT industries is expected to go down for Escoms. At the same time, domestic consumption has increased with people being asked to stay indoors and work from home, though the domestic tariffs - being lower than those of HT consumers - may not yield a profit for power utilities, officials added. Consumers have also been urged to utilise the many online payment options available.
15 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||State for stricter lockdown from today; relaxation of norms likely after April 20||As the nationwide lockdown stands extended till May 3, the Karnataka government is all set for stricter implementation of measures for containing COVID-19 and the situation will be reviewed only on April 20 for relaxation of containment norms. With this, the State government seems to be against relaxation of lockdown norms even in some select sectors of the economy right now, including public transport. The first phase of the lockdown ended on Tuesday. Reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said the government would monitor the situation in each district to see whether lockdown was being followed. Meanwhile, the Centre is expected to dispatch a set of guidelines to States on Wednesday to be followed during the extended period till May 3. Crucial week Based on the Centre’s guidelines, the Sate government would formulate a policy for relaxation of norms for the rural economy, industry and sectors that provide labour after April 20. “We will have to take stringent action for one more week,” Mr. Yediyurappa said. The Chief Minister has decided to call a meeting of senior officials to provide relaxations in regions that have contained the disease. An assessment is to be made in all districts and sector-wise. “Relaxations would be given based on the Centre’s guidelines,” he said. Sources said on April 20, a decision would be taken on opening liquor shops, plying of autorickshaws, operations of industries, IT-BT and garment units. However, at the press conference, the Chief Minister said: “The government will make all efforts to carry out agriculture activities without any hurdles.” Meanwhile, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said there would be strict checking and more barricades in place throughout Karnataka to restrict unnecessary movement of people during the lockdown. ADGP-rank officials He said in districts where more cases are being reported, the ADGP-rank police officials would be posted to monitor the situation. The Union government was also planning micromanagement of hotspots to contain the pandemic, he said. “Though there are strict guidelines at hotspots, some unnecessary movements continue, which will be stopped,” Mr. Bommai said and ruled out sealing down of districts. “In Bengaluru city and other hotspot districts, lockdown will be more stringent. On April 20, we will review the situation at taluk and district levels and take a call on easing restrictions,” he said. The Chief Minister said 57,633 vehicles have been seized in the State for violation of lockdown rules. About 4,169 people have been arrested, FIRs registered against 2,181 and Rs. 95 lakh fine has been collected for violating norms. Mr. Yediyurappa appealed to the people of Karnataka to voluntarily cooperate with the government for containing COVID-19. “As the Prime Minister rightly said, healthcare facilities and infrastructure have been improved considerably in past two months in the country and our State as well,” the Chief Minister said.  In Bengaluru city and other hotspot districts, lockdown will be more stringent. On April 20, we will review the situation at taluk and district levels and take a call on easing restrictions. Basavaraj Bommai Home Minister
15 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. told to direct DCs to allow food distribution by voluntary groups||Observing that prima facie , voluntary organisations cannot be prevented from distributing food to the weaker sections of society if they follow the norms of social distancing and take other precautions during the lockdown, the High Court of Karnataka has directed the government to issue a directive to Deputy Commissioners in this regard. The court passed the order after taking note of an application, filed by Know Your Rights Association, an NGO, pointing out that the DC of Kalaburagi had, on March 30, issued an order indicating that organisations distributing food to beggars and the homeless were directly violating the prohibitory orders. The DC had stated that food cannot be distributed without obtaining permission from the authorities. The association sought modifications of DC’s order to allow private individuals, voluntary organisations and NGOs to work on supplying food to the underprivileged. It was also pointed out that a similar order was issued by the DC of Dharwad. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna issued the order on Monday while hearing, through videoconferencing, PIL petitions related issues that have arisen because of the lockdown. The Bench reminded the government about its March 30 order, in which the court had advised it to set up a portal for NGOs to upload information on their geographical area of operation and the nature of reliefmeasures provided by them during the lockdown. The idea is to utilise and streamline the relief operations taken up by NGOs.“If the State government is unable to provide a portal where all the NGOs can upload their information, the State must consider convening meetings at the district level, municipal level etc. via videoconferencing for coordinating the activities of NGOs,”the Bench said.
15 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Public transport to stay suspended till May 3||All mass transit systems including Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) and Namma Metro will be grounded till May 3 in Bengaluru and the rest of Karnataka in light of the extension of the national lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday morning. Indian Railways has also announced all passenger train services to be cancelled till May 3. Though the PM said the complete lockdown will continue till April 20, when the situation will be reviewed and some relaxations made in areas that have performed well in checking the spread of COVID-19, the public transport corporations of the State have announced suspension till May 3, following in the footsteps of Indian Railways. “If there are some relaxations on April 20 in some areas, we will review the situation and take a call then,” said Shivayogi C. Kalasad, MD, KSRTC. “Given that the city has reported the maximum number of COVID-19 positive cases in the State, it is unlikely that public transport will be allowed to ply till May 3 at least,” sources said. Both KSRTC and BMTC are running pick-up and drop services for hospital staff and others in essential services, but this blanket suspension of all public transport has come under criticism. “There are many poor among them who do not have their own vehicles and depend on BMTC buses. The situation will be similar across the State. Essential public transport can be provided by ensuring proper physical distancing, usage of masks, hand sanitisers etc,” said Vinay Sreenivasa, of BMTC Bus Prayanikara Vedike. He argued that several European countries suffering a far severe outbreak of the pandemic had not suspended public transport completely, but had imposed certain restrictions on them. Clarity on whether airlines would resume operations in a limited way was awaited in the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) guidelines expected to be notified on Wednesday, sources in the industry said. However, some carriers like IndiGo are hoping to resume operations in a phased manner from May 4.  Police passes extended till April 20 All police passes issued for travel during the lockdown expired on Tuesday. However, they are deemed to be valid till April 20, Praveen Sood, DG&IGP, Karnataka State Police, ordered on Tuesday. The passes will be further reviewed based on any relaxations to certain areas, if any, given from the lockdown in the State later.
15 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||An app to track case history||Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMRCI) is using an app that collates details of the medical history of patients who test positive for COVID-19. The hope is that by using the app, fewer doctors will be exposed to the virus. The app can be accessed by doctors on duty as well as senior consultants at the warrior control room, said C.R. Jayanthi, Director and Dean of the institute. It will have details such as the vital parameters of the patient, the drugs administered to them, the samples drawn for lab testing. Dayanand S. Biligi, professor and head of the Department of Pathology and in-charge of Infosys Central Laboratory, said the app is designed particularly for COVID-19 patients. “This is to ensure that even doctors who are not in hospital can log into the app from the comfort of their homes and keep themselves abreast of the patient’s condition,” he said. Going paperless The app — called Doc Choice — is an attempt to also ensure that patient history becomes paperless. It has been designed to ensure that there is no delay in treatment of patients. “Our medical team and senior doctors who monitor the situation also ensure that the doctors on duty are given advice at regular intervals,” he said. At presrnt, there are as many as 34 patients in the Trauma and Emergency Care Centre of the institute. Nine have been discharged after availing treatment. The patients are admitted at the institute and managed as per the standard clinical protocols. Based on their symptoms and the severity of their condition, they are divided in three zones — green, orange, and red. The institute has 550 beds, include 50 Intensive Care Units with ventilators.
15 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress calls PM’s speech ‘hollow and disappointing’||The Karnataka Congress leaders slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation, calling it “hollow” and that he had “disappointed” the farming community and the industry by not announcing any economic package for their revival. “It’s is unfortunate and shocking to all of us. We expected an economic package to support the poor, farmers, unorganised sectors, and industry that required much needed support during the lockdown,” KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar said. Reacting to the lockdown extension till May 3 by the Prime Minister, Mr. Shivakumar said the party welcomed the decision but expressed his displeasure for not offering any relief measure to uplift the economy which has been facing severe slump. “The manufacturing, service, agriculture, and medical sectors were looking for some relief but that was not the talking point of the Prime Minister,” he told presspersons. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said in a series of tweets that he was “disappointed” that there was no measure announced to improve the economy, which is at the lowest ebb in the last three decades. ‘Economy has collapsed’ “The economy has collapsed. Never ever in 30 years it had witnessed such a downfall. Industries are closing down,” he said. However, he added that the nature of the disease was still unknown and it is better to take all precautions to save the lives. Noting that farmers’ issues were still unaddressed, Mr. Siddaramaiah tweeted: “They are throwing their produce as there is no adequate market. Inputs for next growing season are not adequate. Their problems are compounding due to govt.’s lack of interest. This safeguard is in the interest of the country too.” In another tweet, the Congress leader said many migrants are still stranded in different parts of the country and Mr Modi had failed to take inclusive measures. The KPCC also tweeted saying: “BJP govt. is unprepared for life after lockdown. Are there plans for getting workers back to factories, segregating working stations on shop floor, fumigating work places every few hours, securing workplace and force for business continuity plans and putting economy back on tract again”.
15 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Media told to be careful when reporting court proceedings on COVID-19||The High Court of Karnataka has asked the media, particularly electronic media, to be very careful while reporting the court’s orders and the stand taken by the State government before the court on various sensitive issues related to COVID-19. “The media must ensure that no part of the stand taken by the government or the order passed by this court is misinterpreted or misquoted. The electronic media must note that if there is no accurate reporting, it might create confusion among citizens and spread panic,” the court said. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna made these observations after the government and a litigant complained that a few TV channels had misinterpreted the government’s statement on its contingency plan to create health infrastructure to handle the situation if the number of COVID-19 positive cases touched 10,000 by April-end. Pointing out that the High Court’s April 9 order recorded the State’s preparedness in this regard, the government complained that some channels had reported that the government “expects 10,000 COVID-19 positive” cases by the end of April, with one even going to the extent of reporting that such a situation was “pucca”. False news and panic The government also produced a copy of the clarification, issued by the Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) to quell fear in members of the public, stating that “some television channels” had misinterpreted the government’s submission before the court. Additional Advocate General Dhyan Chinnappa pointed out that even reporting only a part of the proceedings might create confusion and panic in the public. “The cause of confusion and panic can be misrepresentation of the orders of this court by the media... We hope and trust that the media will avoid all this,” the Bench observed its order. It also sought to clarify that the government’s submission to the court did not mean it was positive that the number of cases would rise to 10,000 by the end of the month.
15 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Positive response to home delivery system||The essentials’ home delivery initiative launched in Jayanagar, Basavanagudi, Chikpete, and Padmanabhanagar Assembly constituencies has received good response from citizens, with hundreds of requests pouring in from other areas as well. The helpline received 1,493 calls on April 12 and 2,666 calls on April 13. “However, not all calls were from the service providing areas and hence, not all could be attended to,” said helpline personnel, adding that some callers wanted to know how the system worked. But, don’t expect instant delivery. V. Shankar, resident of Tata Silk Farm, Basavanagudi, said the groceries he had ordered was delivered in six hours. “I had also ordered medicines for an elderly couple staying in my building, which was delivered in four hours,” he said. However, a few people The Hindu spoke to were not aware of the initiative and many who were aware had not utilised it. Manjunath S. of Shankarapuram Residents’ Welfare Association said more publicity required with necessary precautionary measures. “The safety of essential delivery personnel should be taken care of along with that of shopkeepers,” he said. Ananda Theertha of Basavanagudi said that it since there was no delivery charge, incentives should be given to the delivery personnel either by the government, respective partner firms, or by the people. Rohini Katoch Sepat, DCP, South, said the back-end data collection including mapping and geotagging of outlets and kirana stores was crucial in successful implementation of the initiative. “Our beat constables, along with volunteers, have worked hard to map and geotag the outlets,” she said. Meanwhile, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and the Police Department have been directed by the government to map and geotag outlets in the rest of the zones to expand the project soon. The service’s WhatsApp number recorded requests from hundreds of people from other areas. On April 12, of the 768 requests received via WhatsApp, 226 were outside the service area, while on April 13, of the 1,223 requests, 402 were from outside the helpline’s limits.
15 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||FKCCI asks govt. to defer minimum wage introduction||The extension of lockdown until May 3 has come as an additional blow to lakhs of small traders and businessmen in the State, said C.R. Janardhana, president, Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industries. “All our member companies were hoping to resume a portion of operation with 5 or 10 people, so that they could at least rotate the business. Trader community in general is very upset with the PM’s decision to continue the lockdown,” he said. Mr. Janardhana said companies have paid full salary for March, though no work happened in the last week of the month due to the lockdown. “Now there won’t be any work happening the whole of April and how are are we to pay wages to our employees when there is no cash flow?” he asked. FKCCI has requested the State government to defer its recently introduced minimum wage for a year. The government had asked industries to increase minimum wage of all their employees, skilled and non-skilled, with effect from April 1. For companies, this would mean an additional outgo of 40%. KASSIA president R. Raju said while the trade body fully supported the decision of the government to extend the lockdown, the small and medium-sized enterprises were facing an existential crisis and they needed immediate support and relief from the State and Union governments. sKASSIA has also asked the government for various measures, including payroll subsidy of minimum 50% for six months, taking care of ESI/PF payments for six months through government funding, waiving of fixed charges on electricity bills, moratorium on all payments by SMEs for six months, among others.
15 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Uncertainty over SSLC examination continues||The uncertainty over the SSLC and PU examinations continues with the locknown now extended till May 3. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, in a statement issued on Tuesday, urged parents and students not to fall prey to rumours and said that once the lockdown is lifted, he would convene a meeting with officials and decide on a fresh timetable. The SSLC exam was scheduled to start on March 27. Over eight lakh students had registered for it. One of the II PU papers also was postponed after the lockdown was announced. Department officials said they have initiated several brainstorming sessions with experts. “The postponement of exams will have a cascadingeffect on the admissions to PU and degree colleges as well as to professional colleges. But we want to ensure that students are not put to any hardship,” an official said. There is still no clarity on the fresh dates for the Common Entrance Test as well. The Minister warned students and parents to be careful about rumours about online classes. “There were reports about online classes for SSLC students conducted by the department. But I would like to clarify that there is no such initiative from the department.”
15 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Sahaya Setuve’ Web app launched||The BBMP on Tuesday launched the ‘Sahaya Setuve’ Web application, a one-stop platform that will allow citizens to register as volunteers in the fight against COVID-19 and also connect with NGOs. It can be downloaded as an app on phones or accessed on desktops. NGOs can register through the web-based portal and add their respective inventory donation form including items, number of units, and area. Those organisations willing to donate goods to the BBMP will be given delivery route passes and the items can be deposited at a designated collection centre. The civic body also aims to use the platform to list its requirements. Volunteers also can register for various activities that will be employed by the BBMP based on demand and need. Even doctors can register for consultations. Their location and other basic information will be displayed on the app. A BBMP official said, “The platform also acts as an efficient inventory management solution to upload and update requirements, assign and track activities.” Speaking after the launch, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said that the initiative was timely and would help avoid duplication of work. “Though various NGOs and individuals are tirelessly working to feed and reach out to the needy, many times they end up reaching the same set of people. This can be avoided now,” he said. All the data will be fed into a portal which also provides a dashboard view to the War Room officials. The app can be accessed onhttps://play.google .com/store/apps/ details?id=in.bbmpgov. covid.erorhttp://bengaluru cares.bbmpgov.in
15 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Prohibitory orders till April 20 midnight||City Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao imposed prohibitory orders for six days from Tuesday midnight to April 20 midnight. He directed police personnel to intensify the enforcement and ensure that there was no unnecessary movement on the road. People violating the lockdown will be booked under the National Disaster Management Act and also under Section 188 (Disobedience of the law) of the IPC. He also instructed enforcement teams to ensure that people who are advised to remain under home quarantine follow the rules. Strict action will be taken against those found violating home quarantine, he said.
15 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Courts closed till April 30||The order of closure of all courts, including the High Court, in the State has been extended till April 30. The HC Benches in Bengaluru, Dharwad, and Kalaburagi will conduct hearings through video- conferencing only in cases of extreme urgency on April 16, 21, 24 and 28, on the acceptance of such cases for hearing by the Chief Justice, said a notification issued by the High Court on Monday. The submission of any petition till April 30 will be only through e-filing mode. All the trial courts t will take up matters of extreme urgency, also through videoconferencing.
15 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||On paralegal volunteers||A report submitted to the HighCourt by the member-secretary of the Bengaluru Urban District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) pointed out that the police authorities in Bengaluru city were showing ignorance about the existence of DSLAs, and some of its paralegal volunteers, playing a proactive role to help those in need during the lockdown, were being abused verbally. The Bench directed the State authorities to provide passes to all DLSAs for supply to paralegal volunteers. It also directed the State police chief to consider issuing guidelines for the police to allow paralegal volunteers to work on the production of passes.
15 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RPF personnel help homeless man, stray dogs||Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel, based on a Facebook post, located a homeless person with six dogs and provided him with food packets. They also provided food for the dogs. Wasim Ahmed, inspector, RPF, located the person near K.R. Market Circle, an hour after he saw the post. Taking a note of it, the Ministry of Railways’ Twitter handle posted a photo of the inspector giving food packets to the person. Across the city, the police, too, have been distributing food packets to the homeless and those who need help.
15 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Dharwad to get more labs||The Dharwad administration is working on setting up more number of COVID-19 laboratories in the district by pooling human resources, Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa has said. Chairing a meeting of officials and academics from Karnatak University here recently, Ms. Deepa said that the district administration sought to make use of medical devices and equipment available at the Karnatak University’s Microbiology Department, Bio-technology Department, Chemistry Department and Criminology and Forensic Science Laboratory. Assistance and co-operation have been sought from the DNA Centre at the university, she said.
15 April 2020||Firoz Rozindar,KARNATAKA||Grape farmers feel lucky with raisin option during lockdown||Sanganagouda Bidnur has cultivated grape on his four-acre plot. Under normal conditions, he would have sold at least 40% of the grape in the market for direct consumption, while using the remainder for conversion into raisin. But the ongoing lockdown has forced him to convert over 90% of the produce, as the sale of table grape has declined sharply. In a way, the grape farmers of the district are happy that they at least have the option of using the crop in an alternative way, saving them from heavy losses. “This is definitely nature’s gift to grape farmers. Other horticultural crops are perishing owing to lack of transportation and buyers,” said Abhaykumar Nandrekar, State president of Karnataka Grape Growers’ Association. He told The Hindu that after the lockdown, the grape farmers of Vijayapura — the largest raisin-cultivating district in the State — decided convesion was the best option left. “Usually, about 40% of the total produce goes into direct consumption. This time, more than 90% of the grape has been used to be converted into raisin,” he said. Mr. Nandrekar said that the since not all grape growers have racks in their farms for conversion into raisin, many have taken racks on rent and got the work done. Santosh Inamdar, Deputy Director of Horticulture, said this year over 80,000 tonnes of grape is expected, of which the majority will bes converted into raisin. He, however, admitted that the total cold storage capacity in the district was around 22,000 tonnes. “Since all the raisins cannot be stored in cold storage till the end of the lockdown, the government has given transport permission to raisin traders to sell their produce in parts of Maharashtra. Even during lockdown, the traders, after obtaining permission, can transport raisin to the other State,” he said.
15 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Allow workers to travel to estates: Federation||The Karnataka Growers’ Federation, an organisation of planters spread over three coffee-growing districts, has appealed to the State government to allow them to bring workers in vehicles for plantation work. Without them, the coffee growers would not be able to take up seasonal works in the estate and that would affect the production in the coming year. In a press release issued here on Tuesday, KGF president U.M. Thirthamallesh and general secretary Muralidhar S. Bakkaravalli said after the lockdown came into effect, the work in coffee estates had come to a standstill. Many workers had left the estates. “There are many works that need to be taken up during these months. There is a prediction that monsoon will set in by the end of May. Before that the planters have to prepare the ground and complete the pepper harvest,” the organisation said. Due to the lockdown, planters have been facing difficulty in bringing workers even from neighbouring villages. The district administration should allow vehicular movement to ferry the workers, they said.
15 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Ambulance driver booked||The Hassan police on Tuesday stopped an ambulance at Hirisave in Channarayapatna taluk and booked a case against the driver for carrying passengers violating the lockdown order. The driver had allegedly taken Rs. 7,000 from five people to carry them from Bengaluru to Belur. The police said the five people, who were working in a bakery in Kumaraswamy Layout in Bengaluru, hired the ambulance to reach their native during the lockdown. The police at the check-post stopped the vehicle and sensed foul play.
15 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Five patients return home in Uttara Kannada||Five patients of COVID-19 pandemic who were undergoing treatment at the naval hospital in Karwar were discharged on Tuesday. In an official communication, Deputy Commissioner of Uttara Kananda K. Harish Kumar said that these five patients have now been cured of the infection. All the five patients were from Bhatkal taluk and as per a health advisory, they will now undergo mandatory quarantine. Mr. Harish Kumar has said that the discharged patients would now be quarantined at the quarantine centre in Bhatkal. Uttara Kananda district has so far reported nine positive cases of SARS-CoV-2. While two patients were discharged from hospital a few days ago, five were discharged on Tuesday. That leaves only two active cases in the district now. While one patient is at the naval hospital, the other is undergoing treatment in Udupi. Mr. Harish Kumar said that both these patients were responding well to treatment and were likely to be discharged soon.  Fishing permitted Meanwhile, the Deputy Commissioner has permitted traditional fishing in all the five taluks of the district. As per the order, fishermen using traditional boats and boats with up to 10 hp engine capacity will now be able to take up fishing from Wednesday. Deputy Director of Fisheries Department P. Nagaraj has said that diesel would be provided to fishermen at the designated petrol bunks and the fishermen should produce valid documents to get it. Mr. Nagaraj also visited the Betur Fishing Jetty in Goa and interacted with the fishermen from Uttara Kannada to hear their grievances.  There are only two active cases in the district now, and they are responding well to treatment
15 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi registers three more positive cases||Three more people in Kalaburagi district tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 16, including three deaths and two discharged perons upon recovery. As per information provided by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, two cases — P254 and P256 — were the primary contacts of P177 (a 65-year-old fruit vendor who had died of the disease on April 8). The other case — P255 — was the primary contact of P205 (a 55-year-old man who had been isolated at ESIC Medical Complex since April 7 after he suffered from Severe Acute Respiratory Illness and died on April 13 after having tested positive for the disease). With new cases of COVID-19 continuing to be reported, the district administration has further heightened preventive measures. Deputy Commissioner and District Magistrate B. Sharat has extended prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code till April 30. As per a media bulletin released by the district administration on Tuesday evening, eight Containment Zones have created around the residences of those who have tested positive for COVID-19 for focused monitoring and preventive measures. As many as 22,549 houses have been covered in the house-to-house survey in the Containment Zones. As many as 271 primary contacts and 1,153 secondary contacts of those who tested positive for COVID-19 have been identified and isolated, including the 85 isolated in hospital. As many as 799 people have completed the 28-day home quarantine. A total of 413 samples were sent, of which 357 were negative and results for 38 samples are awaited. Two samples were not tested due to technical reasons.
15 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Spreading positive vibes through music in times of lockdown||Since the lockdown began, flautist Pandit Pravin Godkhindi has kept himself busy, giving concerts and taking music classes online. He has also been involved in the ‘Someyochane’ campaign initiated by music composer Pravin D. Rao. One such activity that has caught the attention of music lovers is his three-minute presentation the song ‘Hum honge kamiyab’ ,  featured in the ‘Positive Harmonies’ series of MyGov India social hub, an initiative of the Union government. As part of this initiative, artistes produce a three-minute video in which they present a traditional composition and also send out a message asking people to follow social distancing and proper hand washing techniques, and to have confidence that the country will overcome this hard time. “I am truly humbled in getting an opportunity to showcase my music and lift the spirits of my countrymen in the fight against the coronavirus,” he told The Hindu . Under MyGov’s ‘India Fights Corona’ initiative, such videos are posted on Twitter, Telegram, YouTube, and Instagram. The first among the series of presentations is from Pandit Vishwa Mohan Bhatt on Mohan Veena. The other artistes featured include violinist N. Rajam, sitar maestro Pandit Nayan Ghosh, Baul folk singer Parvathy Baul from West Bengal, the Tetseo Sisters from Nagaland, tabla maestros Pandit Bickram Ghosh and Ustad Taufiq Qureshi, flautist Pandit Ronu Majumdar, singer Kavita Krishnamurthy Subramaniam, violin maestro L. Subramaniam, santoor virtuoso Pt. Tarun Bhattacharya, and vocalists Purabayan Chatterjee and Mahalakshmi Krishnan. Among the interesting presentations are that of young tabla player Ishaan Ghosh, wherein the artiste presents an old tabla composition in which he links the “bol” of the composition with the need for social distancing and the right way to wash hands. Singer Ila Arun has presented the song ‘ Sun lo na...’ , while Ustad Qureshi has used the African instrument Djembe to present a traditional composition. Young singer Vedanth Bharadwaj has presented a fusion of two songs — ‘ Maithreem Bhajata ’ and ‘Imagine’ by John Lennon. Harmonium player Narendra Nayak said, “Like film stars, musicians too have big fan followings. These musicians will touch the hearts of their listeners and instil in them the discipline needed.” Tabla player Bharavi Deraje said the ‘Positive Harmonies’ feature has helped him listen to many old compositions. Pramod Gabbur, another tabla player, said these classical compositions can soothe the minds of listeners.
15 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Zero-Cov, a cost-effective disinfectant chamber||A team of researchers from National Institute of Technology-Karnataka at Surathkal near here has developed a cost-effective disinfectant chamber that could disinfect personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, surgical masks, vegetables, packed food and other day-to-day items without causing them damage. Named Zero-Cov, the chamber is made out of an old refrigerator and uses UV-C radiation with a wavelength of 254 nanometres that could destroy or inactivate all surface contamination — bacteria and viruses up to 99.9 %, including novel coronavirus, said Arun M. Islur, Professor and Head, Department of Chemistry, NITK, who built Zero-Cov along with research scholar Syed Ibrahim. Learning from reports from abroad that COVID-19 warriors were washing PPEs for reuse, the team looked for a simple solution that also could be used in every household as a preventive measure. It noted that items bought from markets, including books, ready-to-eat food, currency, etc., could not be washed at home. Prof. Islur said, “By placing items, including vegetables and currency, in the disinfection chamber for 15 minutes, one can ensure destruction or inactivation of bacteria and viruses up to 99.9 %. UV technology is well proven and accepted by the scientific community and World Health Organisation has recommended this technology for surface disinfection. This is commonly used as disinfection in hospitals, laboratories and at water treatment plants,” he said.
15 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Udupi administration seeks details of those dodging check-posts||Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Tuesday that though the administration had sealed the borders of the district on account of COVID-19 pandemic and set up check-posts, some persons were dodging these check-posts and entering the district. Mr. Jagadeesha said here that the administration had received reports that people from Mumbai, Bengaluru, Bhatkal, Hyderabad, Mysuru and other places had dodged these check-posts and entered the district. It was necessary to trace such persons and place them under quarantine. Hence, if the general public came across any such person who had dodged the check-posts and entered the district after April 1, they should contact the administration and give their details on Ph: 8277932501, 9449534792 or 9845432303, he said. Mr. Jagadeesha said that no person had tested positive for COVID-19 in the district for the last two weeks. The administration had taken steps to check the spread of the disease. But some people were found violating the lockdown conditions and unnecessarily travelling. Legal action had been taken against such persons and 413 vehicles have been seized, he said.
15 April 2020||UDUPI/MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Udupi’s second patient gets discharged||The second COVID-19 patient of Udupi district was discharged from the Dr. T.M.A. Pai Hospital, the designated hospital, on Tuesday. He has been advised strict home quarantine for 14 days. District Health and Family Welfare Officer (DHO) Sudhir Chandra Sooda said that the patient was discharged at around 5 p.m. This patient, a 35-year-old man, had come from Dubai to Udupi on March 17, 2020. He was admitted with symptoms of COVID-19 to the District Government Hospital on March 27. He tested positive for COVID-19 and was under treatment. After treatment, he tested negative for COVID-19 on April 13 and 14 and had hence been discharged. The staff of the Health Department would be visiting him regularly during his home quarantine, Mr. Sooda said. Meanwhile, of the three persons who had tested positive for COVID-19 in the district, two men have been discharged. The third patient, a 29-year-old man, is still under treatment at the Dr. T.M.A. Pai Hospital. The first COVID-19 patient of Udupi district, a 34-year-old man, was discharged from the designated hospital on April 11 and is under home quarantine.  Nine in Dakshina Kannada In Dakshina Kannada, another COVID-19 positive person, a 49-year-old resident of Puttur, was discharged from the Government Wenlock Hospital on Tuesday. With this, nine of the 12 COVID-19 positive persons have been discharged. The 49-year-old man reached Puttur on March 21 after taking a flight from Dubai to Bengaluru. He tested positive for COVID-19 on April 1 and was moved to hospital for treatment. His throat swabs tested negative on April 12 and 13, according to a health bulletin from Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh. The health officials on Tuesday sent for tests the 156 throat swabs collected from primary and secondary contacts of COVID-19 positive persons in the containment areas. The results of 168 persons were awaited. While 1,485 persons were under home quarantine, 4,588 persons have completed the home quarantine period. As many as 21 persons are under observation. For the 10th day in a row on Tuesday, the district has not reported any positive case.
15 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Five vegetable-fruit markets for retailers||Deputy Commissioner Y.S. Patil has said that a decision has been taken to set up five vegetable and fruit markets for retailers. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, he said that the new markets will come up near Shivagiri temple, Sindgi check-post; Horti-Solapur Highway near M.B. Patil Nagar; near Satellite Bus Stand on Athani Road; on Noubagh Road and in the open area near St. Joseph School. Mr. Patil said that they are contemplating launching more HOPCOMS mobile vegetable vehicles in the city. He said that a decision has been taken to provide relief to farmers who bring in farm produces to the city. Mr. Patil made it clear that only one area in the city has been sealed and not the entire city. “Therefore, there is no need for farmers to fear and they can bring in their commodities without any hesitation to sell in the city,” he added. He said that this message has been sent to rural areas through local officials. Earlier, he said that the district has a total of seven COVID-19 positive cases, of which one person has died. As many as 348 persons have been home quarantined. Swab samples of 282 persons have been collected. As many as 155 samples tested negative and reports of 120 are awaited. Superintendent of Police Anupam Agrawal said that the police are making every effort to trace all contacts of infected persons.
15 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Elderly woman’s grit surprises professionals||The grit of a 60-year-old COVID-19 positive woman who has multiple health complications has surprised health professionals who are attending to her. The woman has undergone heart surgery twice, has high blood pressure and is diabetic. However, her health condition has remained stable in the last three days she has been in the isolation ward. The hospital staff are closely monitoring her health condition. Deputy Commissioner Y.S. Patil expressed surprise over the woman’s grit and said that their primary aim was to ensure her speedy recovery.
15 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Special parcel trains||With an objective of helping people transport emergency material, perishable items and foodgrains during the lockdown period, the Indian Railways is operating special trains for the purpose. A release here said that the Hubballi division has extended this facility by running over 100 special parcel trains from Hubballi, Dharwad, Belagavi, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Hosapete, Ballari, Gadag and Vasco-da-Gama. Booking can be made on Ph: 9731668953, 9731668951 or 9731668950, the release added.
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Free rice for 1.88 lakh ration card applicants’||The State government will supply 10 kg rice per application per month free of cost for three months even to households related to the 1,88,152 applications, which are pending for grant of priority household ration cards, in view of the lockdown. Also, rice at subsidised rates would be provided to households related to 61,233 pending applicants, the government informed the High Court of Karnataka on Monday. As many as 4.28 crore persons (about 1.27 crore households) are entitled for free foodgrain in Karnataka, of which 4.01 crore persons (about 1.19 crore household) are covered under the Centre’s targeted public distribution system under the National Food Security Act, the government said. On providing ration to migrants from other States, the government said that they are entitled to foodgrain under the public distribution system in Karnataka under the National Food Security Act by availing inter-State portability facility. However, in response to the court’s earlier query on possibility to supply ration to migrants and others based on any identity card without insisting on ration cards only during the lockdown period as suggested by People’s Union for Civil Liberties, the government said that if the requirements of ration cards are done away with, the entire population is typically entitled to obtain ration without any limitation; and ration would go to the undeserving. There may be a minuscule population who do not have ration cards but there is no definite mechanism by which the economic level of those persons can be identified, particularly in this time of crisis, the government stated. Meanwhile, the government said that beggars, destitute, abandoned persons, etc., who do not have ration cards and who are unable to fend for themselves, can be taken care of by the State through the district administration only at the shelters opened at various locations. Following this, a special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna, which is monitoring measures introduced to protect the interests of migrants and needy during COVID-19 lockdown, has asked the government to place on record by April 16 a precise policy of providing food kits to migrants, homeless persons, sex workers, etc., who have shelter but are not entitled to the benefit of any of the public distribution schemes.
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Daily struggle||
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A silver lining...||
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 toll touches 10||“It is unfortunate that the patient had to be shifted from one hospital to another in a critical condition. This not only delayed treatment, but also increased the number of people who came in contact with him,” said Dr. Manjunath. Asked if doctors at Jayadeva would have been exposed to the patient, Dr. Manjunath said he was wheeled into the triage area in the hospital where doctors and nurses use PPE and N95 masks regularly and hence there could not be any exposure. “However, we have quarantined two doctors, five nurses, and three group ‘D’ staff for 14 days,” he said. Of the 13 cases reported on Tuesday, three each are from Kalaburagi, Bagalkot, and Bengaluru Urban, one each from Chickballapur, Belagavi, and Uttara Kannada. A person from Hindupur, who travelled to Bengaluru on April 7, has now tested positive.
15 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown pours water on pani puri vendors’ lives||Pani puri is no doubt the most popular snack and evening pastime in the country. With the 21-day lockdown, close to 50 families of pani puri vendors in Anantapur city are unable to make ends meet. Bhanwarlal from Rajasthan, who lives in Rahmath Nagar with his wife and two children, led a contented life till March 24 selling the snack outside Janmabhoomi Park here and making Rs. 1,800 to Rs. 2,000 a day. “I used to save at least Rs. 350 to Rs. 400 a day after all expenses, but after the lockdown am unable to find money even for regular groceries,” Mr. Bhanwarlal told The Hindu . A neighbour, who saw the pathetic condition of the family, spread the word in the neighbourhood, and within no time the BPL families collected some rice and other items from each house and forcibly kept them in their kitchen. Mr. Bhanwarlal and his wife felt it below their dignity to seek help from others and thought it right to remain without food for a day. Though the family has been living here for the past six years, their ration card and Aadhaar card have Rajasthan address, which has deprived them of many benefits, which they might not have anticipated when the business was running well. Meanwhile, when MEPMA Project Director P. Vijayalakshmi was informed about the incident, she immediately sent her staff to find out the requirement of more such people in the same business and residing in the town. The State government was providing groceries though someone does not have a ration card, she observed.
15 April 2020||ANANTAPUR/KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool and Anantapur districts see sudden spurt in cases||There has been a sudden spurt in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in Kurnool and Anantapur districts with Kurnool reporting one death and eight new positive cases, and Anantapur five on Tuesday. With this the total number of positive cases has gone up to 93 in Kurnool, with two deaths while one patient has been discharged, and to 21 in Anantapur with two deaths. A 35-year-old doctor in a microbiology laboratory in Anantapur tested positive taking the total number of positive cases in the district to five on Tuesday. Out of the total 21 cases, while two persons have died, remaining 19 are undergoing treatment. Hindupur, however, is turning into a hotspot of COVID19 cases. In addition to these, a 76-year-old man from Hindupur, a contact of a Mecca returnee, got himself admitted to Vikram Hospital in Bengaluru on April 12 and tested positive for COVID-19. He died on Tuesday and was the tenth patient to die in Karnataka. A 26-year-old youth also went to Bengaluru on a two-wheeler on April 7 and tested positive on Tuesday Possible local transmission Yet another error of judgment due to the deceptive nature of the disease led to a physician in Anantapur Government General Hospital turn COVID-19 positive. A Mandal Revenue Officer (Tahsildar) of Rolla, who was in the forefront of serving the people in the difficult times of the pandemic, too fell victim to the virus and tested positive. This is seen as local transmission from Hindupur. While the number of samples tested, and how many have been found negatives is not known in Anantapur as the administration did not release those figures, in Kurnool, out of 81 samples for which results came up to 11 a.m, 73 have tested negative and eight positive. With new positive cases emerging from new areas in both the districts, the number of Red Zones -where containment operations are on - has gone up, and police personnel have barricaded new areas in Anantapur city and Rolla mandal based on advance information. First patient discharged The first COVID-19 positive patient from Nossam in Kurnool district was discharged from the Government General Hospital here on Tuesday. Hailing from Rajasthan, he was working as a railway gangman in the district and Kadapa. With the lockdown getting extended till May 3, he was sent to the Home Isolation room at the Guntakal railway station.
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore doctor’s body cremated in Chennai amidst tight security||The body of the doctor who had tested positive for COVID-19, after he died on Monday, was cremated in the city during the early hours on Tuesday. A team of health and police officials moved the body from the hospital’s mortuary in Vanagaram to a crematorium in the city after getting the consent of the family and hospital authorities, police sources said. Afterlocal residents had protestedagainst cremating the body of the orthopaedic at the Chennai Corporation Crematorium in Ambattur on Monday fearing that the virus would spread, health workers had moved the body back to the hospital’s mortuary. The doctor, a native of Nellore in Andhra Pradesh, was brought to Chennai for treatment last week after he tested positive for COVID-19. He contracted the virus while treating some patients, the sources said. Senior police and health workers had a discussion on Monday evening and took a decision that the body be cremated before dawn on Tuesday. “Some people suspect that cremating a COVID-19 infected body will spread the virus in the locality. This is contrary to truth. We took all precautionary steps and followed the guidelines to cremate the body,” a senior police official said.
15 April 2020||Chennai/Bengaluru/Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 deaths go up in Telangana, Karnataka||Tamil Nadu reported 31 new cases of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) on Tuesday, the lowest number it has seen since the start of April. With this, the total number of patients in the State stands at 1,204. The number of patients discharged on Tuesday was 23 across the State, taking the total in the category to 81. So far, 12 patients have died due to COVID-19 in TN. The number of samples taken for testing rose by 6,509 from yesterday, the highest so far. Till date, 19,255 samples have been tested. For the first time, the department said the number of individuals tested for COVID-19 was 15,502. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said of the 31 new cases, 21 were connected to the single source event, one had inter-State travel and nine were contacts of COVID-19 patients. The day’s count included 16 women. Dindigul recorded the highest number of cases at nine. Chennai had five, while Thanjavur recorded four cases and Tenkasi three. There were two patients each in Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Nagapattinam, and one each in Cuddalore, Salem, Sivanganga and Kanyakumari. Dr. Rajesh said that persons were discharged from the hospitals only after completion of the 14-day quarantine period. With the State waiting for the approval of Indian Council of Medical Research for trial of convalescent plasma therapy, she said the State was framing protocols for the trials. When asked about higher testing numbers in States such as Maharashtra and Kerala, Dr. Rajesh said Tamil Nadu recorded its first COVID-19 positive case in early March and it was important to take into account when other States first reported cases and look at the testing numbers over a period of time. The Health Secretary said triple layer masks, N95 masks and personal protective equipment were to be used by hospital staff. “Persons in the vulnerable group such as those above 60 years, those with diabetes and hypertension, or undergoing cancer treatment, or persons who underwent organ transplant should wear triple layer masks.” In Telangana, the total number of cases stood at 644, of which 516 were active, 110 were discharged is and 18 died. 8 new cases in Kerala Thirteen people recovered from COVID-19 in Kerala on Tuesday, while eight more were detected with the virus, taking the total active cases to 173, State Health Minister K.K. Shailaja said. All eight cases were from north Kerala districts of Kannur (4), Kozhikode (3) and Kasaragod (1). Five of the positive cases were Gulf returnees while three were infected through contacts. So far 211 people had recovered from the virus. Also, 1,06,511 people were under observation, 564 in various hospitals. The samples of 16,235 people, who had symptoms, were sent for testing, of which results of 15,488 had shown negative results, an official statement said. Deaths in Karnataka Karnataka reported its second COVID-19 fatality on Tuesday, with the death of a 76-year-old man in the city, taking the State death toll to 10. The patient tested positive on April 12 and had Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI), officials said. Earlier in the day, a 69-year-old man died in Vijayapura, becoming the ninth COVID-19-related fatality.  (With PTI inputs)
15 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||100 rail coaches to be used as quarantine blocks||To face any kind of exigencies, the Chittoor district administration has readied about 100 railway coaches as quarantine and isolation facilities in Tirupati. The Carriage Repair Shop (CRS) and the South Central Railway(SCR) are working to equip the coaches with all facilities. The coaches, designed to accommodate nine patients each, would be on the move at various places under the zone. District Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta, who was at the Tirupati railway station to inspect the trial run of the railway coaches on Tuesday, said: “All the 23 cases reported in the district so far are primary and secondary contacts. Fortunately, everyone who had come in contact with Jamaat returnees had followed quarantine measures and did not move out of their houses. Results for 499 cases are awaited.” The official said that as many as 1,816 foreign returnees in the district had completed their 15-29 day quarantine period. Of the 1,138 suspect cases, 894 had tested negative for the virus. Mr. Narayana Bharat Gupta said that the COVID-19 task force was instructed to complete collection of samples from all the quarantined cases.
15 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure availability of essentials in markets: CM||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday said essential commodities should be made available daily in local markets to avoid unnecessary rush. Mr. Jagan, during a marathon video conference with district Collectors and Superintendents of Police, gave several key directions to the officials concerned and announced policy measures on several departments. “Ensure decentralisation of markets and make all essential commodities available to people during the lockdown relaxation period. In areas marked as hotspots, the local administration should ensure essential commodities and vegetables are delivered at the doorstep. Movement of people should be minimised at all costs,’’ the CM said. On the medical management of COVID-19, he said good facilities should be provided at quarantine centres housing primary and secondary contacts of those who have tested positive. Officials should ensure medical protocols are followed before the contacts are discharged and they are tested twice after the end of quarantine. Even after they are discharged, they should be given medical advice continuously and in cases, where they need economic support, the local administration should ensure they get nutritious food. Resident officer The district administration should appoint a resident officer for all quarantine centres who gives daily feedback on the facilities,’ the CM said. All households should be covered and random tests conducted to find out if people have any flue-like symptoms such as high fever and dry cough. It should be ascertained whether they have health issues such as diabetes and respiratory diseases. In areas where the corona positive persons live, there is a chance of infection spreading quickly if people have less immunity. “Ensure best possible treatment to all high-risk patients and move them quickly to COVID hospitals and also ensure that all hospitals have isolation facilities. Under no circumstances, patients should be turned back. Sufficient stocks of PPE sets, masks, and gloves should be kept at these facilities,”Mr. Jagan Mohan reddy said. Earlier, he paid rich tributes to B.R Ambedkar on the latter’s 139th birth anniversary on Tuesday.
15 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||21 new cases in Guntur as testing intensified||On the day the nation-wide lockdown was extended till May 3, the district recorded a spike in COVID-19 cases. With 21 positive results emerging on Tuesday, the total number of cases has gone up to 114. But this is also a result of the increased scale of testing, as more labs have been operationalised. A total of 2,148 samples have been tested so far. The day also saw some relief for people as the district administration has decided to relax restrictions from 6 am to 9 am daily. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said that the earlier decision to allow people out only on alternative days stands cancelled. The Collector also said that those who had completed 14 days of quarantine and tested negative for coronavirus could now opt for home quarantine under medical supervision. Meanwhile, the district administration focussed its energies on cluster containment of red zones. Now that Anandapet has emerged as a hotspot with many cases coming up, the administration has decided to scale up testing and move people out of their homes to quarantine centres. Quarantine centres The houses built by the APTIDCO (Andhra Pradesh Township And Infrastructure Development Corporation) have now been turned into quarantine centres. The housing colonies at Adavitakkellapadu and Chowdavaram have emerged as ideal quarantine centres as they have power and water facilities. The district administration has identified 28 shelters, where facilities for providing food and lodging would be scaled up. The Collector along with DIG Ramakrishna and other officers visited the red zones in Old Guntur and assured the people that things would be returning to normal soon and asked them to voluntarily come for testing.
15 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||More counters at FP shops to facilitate social distancing||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday announced that more counters would be set up at fair-price (FP) shops to prevent overcrowding. The next phase of distribution of essential commodities to the beneficiaries of Public Distribution System (PDS) is all set to begin from Thursday (April 16). Special token “Tokens will be issued to the beneficiaries. The timings and counter numbers will be mentioned. Several other steps will be taken to maintain social distancing at the shops,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said during a video conference with the officials of Civil Supplies Department and District Collectors. The lists of eligible card holders are available with the village/ward secretariats. People want to apply for the cards can do so by filling up the forms available at village/ward secretariats, he said. Subsistence allowance The Chief Minister asked the civil supplies officials to distribute the subsistence allowance of Rs. 1,000 to all white ration card holders. “The officials should not to go for verification of cards now. Ensure that no one goes hungry at this crucial juncture. Even as the beneficiaries have old ration cards and have availed of their rice quota, the subsistence allowance should be disbursed to them,’’ said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Civil Supplies Commissioner Kona Sasidhar was present in the video conference.
15 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||In a first, govt. to procure paddy at the doorstep of farmers||In a first, the Andhra Pradesh government has introduced ‘Farmgate system’ to procure paddy directly from the doorstep of farmers at the village level. Describing the new system as a “revolutionary reform”, Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday said that the State government had entrusted the responsibility of procuring paddy to agriculture assistants at the village secretariats. “It is the first time that paddy procurement is being done directly at the village level. Now, farmers need not to carry their produce to the procurement centres. The move will also end the role of middlemen,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Market intelligence The Chief Minister further said that the State government had stopped the procurement of rice from Telangana to ensure that the farmers in Andhra Pradesh would not be forced to sell their produce at a rate lower than the Minimum Support Price (MSP).  Saying that the government was according a top priority to ‘market intelligence’ at the village level, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the agricultural assistants had been instructed pass on the price details of farm produce to the respective District Collectors. “The Collectors will monitor the price fluctuations and take the necessary action after consulting the Marketing Department,” he said. Referring to exports of agricultural products, the Chief Minister said all exports had been stalled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. He asked the Marketing Department to focus on local markets. Citing an example, he said banana was being marketed through SHGs, rythu bazaars and etc. Janata Bazaars “Finally, the brain storming of ideas has led to the concept of Janata Bazaars to ensure that farmers do not incur losses. All farm activities will be carried out following the social distancing norms strictly during the lockdown period,’’ said Mr. Jagan. On the export of aquaculture products,he said that efforts should be made to ensure smooth functioning of all aqua processing units, facilitating exports. “The Collectors must see that aqua products are marketed as per the MPEDA regulations. They should take actions against those selling aqua feed at exorbitant prices,” he added.
15 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ministers, officials pay tributes to Ambedkar||Minister for Home and Disaster Management, Mekathoti Sucharita, paid glowing tributes to B.R. Ambedkar on the occasion of his 139th birth anniversary, at her camp office on Tuesday. Hailing Dr. Ambedkar as a messiah of the downtrodden, the Minister vowed to work for the welfare of Dalits and the backward classes in the State. Minister for Marketing, Fisheries and Animal Husbandary Mopidevi Venkata Ramana Rao paid floral tributes to the statue of Dr. Ambedkar at the Guntur District Collectorate. Collector I Samuel Ananda Kumar and Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar were also present. Superintendent of Police (Guntur Rural) Ch. Vijaya Rao paid floral tributes to the statue of Dr. Ambedkar at his office. Dalit activists organised celebrations in memory of Dr. Ambedkar at their office in adherence to the social distancing norms.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl raises Rs. 6.2 lakh for the needy||A 11-year-old girl from Hyderabad has collected Rs. 6.2 lakh to buy food for the less fortunate during the lockdown. Moved by a video of a hungry person breaking down on being given food, Ms. Ridhi dug into her savings and also put across a request to relatives and friends seeking donations. She drew up a plan to supply kits worth Rs. 650 containing six items — 5 kg rice, 1 kg salt, 1 litre cooking oil and two soap bars. “I requested my near and dear ones because I wanted them to know that many people are struggling for food,” said Ms. Ridhi, a grade 6 student of an international school here. The project was titled ‘Care-Ona’. With support of family and friends, she managed to collect Rs. 1.2 lakh to pack 200 kits. Her mother V. Shilpa Rao and father N. Ram Kumar donated the food kits in Serlingampally locality with the help of the Cyberabad police. “When we came back, she was curious to know how it went. When we said there were a lot of people who did not get the kits, she asked why can’t we raise more money,” said Ms. Rao. That’s when they learnt about crowdfunding website, Milaap, and floated an online appeal eight days ago to help daily wage workers who have lost their jobs during the lockdown and do not have money to buy essentials. Responding to her appeal, donations worth Rs. 6.2 lakh were raised. The money will be used to buy more food supplies for the less privileged. Volunteers from an NGO are helping pack the kits.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Patient’s attendant booked for ‘abusing’ doctor at OGH||A junior doctor at Osmania General Hospital (OGH) was allegedly verbally abused and pushed away by an attendant of a COVID-19 suspect on Tuesday morning. The suspect, whose results were received subsequently, tested positive for coronavirus. The suspect had been admitted to the isolation ward at the hospital on April 11. “The attendants insisted on taking home the patient. We counselled them that he cannot be discharged unless the test results are negative for the virus. They entered into an argument with the junior doctor and verbally abused him,” a junior doctor who witnessed the incident said on condition of anonymity. Junior doctors (PG students) from the hospital said that around four attendants entered the isolation ward, which was not safe for them too as they might get exposed to coronavirus. According to the Afzalgunj police, the son of the 55-year-old patient began to argue with the hospital staff after a COVID-19 positive patient was moved to the ward. A case was booked for allegedly misbehaving with the junior doctor. “They were in the hospital since April 11. The attendant raised objection and got into a heated argument with the staff and said that he wanted to take the suspect home. But the hospital staff did not allow that. A case under Sections 353 and 506 of the IPC was booked against the attendant,” said Afzalgunz sub-inspector of police J Saidulu. Osmania General Hospital superintendent B Nagender clarified that only suspects were admitted at the hospital and positive patients weare shifted to Gandhi Hospital. Police officials held a meeting with him about security arrangements and police would be posted at Isolation Ward and Acute Medical Care (AMC) unit. Officials of the Health department said that, when the argument was going on, the suspect ran away from the hospital. “Police were informed of it and he was traced in Madannapet,” the official said.
15 April 2020||JAGTIAL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Corporator serves food to hungry monkeys||The countrywide lockdown has resulted in pilgrims keeping away from the ancient Sri Anjaneya Swamy Devasthanam in Kondagattu of Jagtial district in Telangana. Because of this the monkeys living on the hillocks there are suffering from hunger and have turned violent. Moved by their plight, Karimnagar corporator Bonala Srikanth, an ardent devotee of Lord Hanuman, has taken up the task of serving food to the monkeys every day. He has taken permission from the Karimnagar police to travel to the temple in Jagtial district and is providing food to the monkeys for the last two weeks. Every day, he collects around 60 kg of tomatoes and other vegetables and 50 dozens of bananas from the vegetable market and also several hundreds of chapathis and serves them to the monkeys. The falling prices of vegetables has made his task easier. The monkeys have so got used to him that the moment they notice his vehicle coming, they arrive in hordes and patiently wait for the distribution of the food. Interestingly, they neither pounce on him to snatch the food from his hands nor crowd around him. The animals collect the food in a disciplined manner, he claimed. Helping families too Some 20-odd families living near the shrine, who have also been affected by the lockdown, sought help from Mr. Srikanth to provide them some vegetables. He promised to arrange vegetables twice a week for each family and started the distribution to the households from Monday. “I am really thankful to God for helping me serve food to the monkeys, which are worshipped in our country. I will continue serving food to the monkeys at the temple till the lockdown is lifted completely,” he said.
15 April 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Humanitarian gesture by Kadapa police||In a humanitarian gesture, the Kadapa police helped an epileptic patient reach the hospital in time by ferrying him in their own vehicle. Chennakesava (38), a resident of the Mrutyunjayakunta area, fell unconscious due to epilepsy. As the 108 ambulance service was unavailable in view of the lockdown, the call received by DSP U. Suryanarayana was forwarded to Chinna Chowk police station Sub-Inspector S. Roshan. The special branch head constable, P. Venkatasubbaiah, took the patient in the official Rakshak vehicle to Rajiv Institute of Medical Sciences hospital and got him admitted there. Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan rewarded the team for their spontaneous response.
15 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||East Godavari ryots, agents permitted to export flowers||The Department of Horticulture has begun granting permission for the export of flowers from the East Godavari district to various destinations across South India. Farmers and agents trade flowers at the Kadiyapulanka flower market, Rajamahendravaram, Alamuru and Mandapeta rythu bazaars, directly exporting them to Visakhapatnam, Guntur, Chennai, Vijayawada, Hyderabad and other destinations. However, the trade has been badly affected due to the lockdown. Horticulture Department assistant director S. Rammohana Rao said the district administration is ensuring safe export of flowers to various States during the lockdown period by granting transportation permission for farmers and traders.
15 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two COVID-19 patients discharged in East Godavari||Two COVID-19 patients — a 40-year-old man from Kakinada and another from Peddapuram in the East Godavari — were discharged from the hospital on Tuesday. Government General Hospital, Kakinada, Superintendent Raghavendra Rao said the two had tested negative for the virus twice and were discharged from the hospital. “The duo will be in the quarantine for the next 14 days under the watch of doctors”, said Dr. Rao.
15 April 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Domestic and wild animals in Kerala are free of COVID-19’||Domestic as well as wild animals of Kerala remain free of COVID-19 thus far, said wildlife officials. The State was put on high alert following reports of a tiger in a U.S. zoo developing the disease last week. The State had earlier stepped up vigil in its wildlife habitats and zoos, besides bringing thousands of domestic animals in various districts under observation. The State Wildlife Warden issued an advisory to all Field Directors, Circle Heads of Territorial and Wildlife Forest Divisions, Wildlife Wardens and Divisional Forest Officers to watch out for animals in distress. Tiger habitats and other forest areas are being regularly monitored using camera traps. So far, there have not been any reports of illness in the wild animal population in the State, said Surendrakumar, Chief Wildlife Warden, Kerala. Veterinarians alerted The State Institute of Animal Diseases, Thiruvananthapuram, had alerted its veterinarians and officials across the State to watch for any diseases and deaths in animals. No reports of any animal developing the disease have come in so far, said R. Jayachandran, Chief Disease Investigation Officer of the Institute. On media reports related to the isolation of coronavirus in bats caught from Kerala last year, Dr. Jayachandran said that there was no confirmation that the isolated pathogens were the ones that caused the COVID-19 outbreak. There are other pathogens in the coronavirus family that can cause disease in animals and humans, he said. Thousands of domestic animals, including cattle, cats and dogs, have been under observation in the district in their usual habitats. The owners of these animals have been asked to report on any drowsiness or illness in the animals, said O.P. Raj, Deputy Director, Department of Animal Husbandry, Pathanamthitta.
15 April 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers donate rice to one lakh villagers in Sarvepalli||Venkateswara Rao, a worker in Sarvepalli, was at his wits’ end on how to feed his family of six ever since he was left without a source of income in the wake of the nationwide lockdown. Now, he is all smiles as several farmers have come forward to ensure that not a single landless labourer in the village goes to bed hungry. The farmers said they took the step after realising that the Public Distribution System is struggling to provide food to all beneficiaries in the region for the entire month. The movement started in a remote village of Golagamudi, where a small group of farmers inspired by saint Venkaiah Swamy decided to pool together paddy and do their best to provide succour to daily wage earners who were rendered jobless in the wake of the Centre announcing a three-week lockdown. More than one lakh poor families in the Assembly constituency with or without ration are now getting to have three square meals a day, thanks to the farmers’ efforts. Responding to an appeal by YSR Congress Party MLA Kakani Govardhan Reddy, fellow farmers from Venkatachalam and other mandals in Sarvepalli Assembly constituency chipped in with their contributions. “Soon, we were able to pool together a whooping 1,100 tonnes of paddy worth Rs. 2.50 crore for distribution,” said a farmer Venkata Seshaiah who like fellow farmers had a bumper harvest this year thanks to good water storage in the Somasila reservoir. “Initially, we thought of giving each family 5 kg per family. But we are able to give 10 kg of rice to each family that has more than three members,” said the MLA after distributing rice to some families in Venkatreddipalem village. Donations pour in “I was initially expecting to mobilise 1,000 tonnes of paddy, but donations poured in. We will have no problem in extending the rice distribution scheme for a further period,” he said before leaving for Mallur village for rice distribution as the Centre extended the lockdown by three more weeks. Thanks to better water management, farmers even in the tail-end areas did not suffer due to lack of wetting for the paddy crop this year, said a farmer Subba Reddy, who donated two bags of rice for the cause. The MLA was able to convince the palm oil mill owners in the areas to provide each family with one litre of edible oil.
15 April 2020||Santosh Patnaik,ANDHRA PRADESH||Entrepreneurs seek sops from Centre||Entrepreneurs from various sectors in Visakhapatnam, the industrial hub of the State, have justified the decision by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend nationwide lockdown up to May 3 . At the same time, many sought some sort of intervention in the form of doling out of sops or giving a tax holiday and exempting from payment of provident fund and ESI for sometime. When The Hindu contacted, CII Vizag zone chairman J. Srinivasa Raju favoured graded relaxation while enforcing lockdown as everyone had to reorient priorities following COVID-19 crisis. Visakhapatnam Stevedores’ Association president K. Krishna Kumar said the port which handled 72.72 million tonne during 2019-20 occupying third position among major ports, had suffered a lot during the first phase of lockdown. National Association of Container Freight Station vice-president G. Sambasiva Rao sought support from the government in the form of absorbing PF and ESI contributions to be given by the employers at least for three months. IT Association of AP (ITAAP) president R.L. Narayana said the government should allow at least 3 to 5% of staff drafted for critical areas of operations in IT industry to go to their workstations.
15 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srikakulam MP calls for more random tests||Srikakulam MP Kinjarapu Rammohan Naidu on Tuesday urged the State Government to conduct random tests to identify any COVID-19 cases that might not have surfaced from Srikakulam district. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Rammohan Naidu said that this was the ideal way to know the exact situation in the district. “The State Government has failed to supply adequate masks, testing kits and personal protective equipment to doctors and medical staff. It is focused on local body elections, which is evident with the change of the State Election Commissioner. It indicates that the government is not serious about battling the COVID-19 outbreak in Andhra Pradesh,” Mr. Rammohan Naidu said. “The government should improve infrastructure in hospitals immediately and address grievances of doctors and medical staff instead of punishing them for raising their voice about their problems while handling COVID-19 cases,” he said.
15 April 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown will be implemented more vigorously, says Collector||The lockdown will continue during the extended period till May 3, as it has been observed till date. This was confirmed to The Hindu by District Collector V. Vinay Chand, here on Tuesday. There will be no change in the observation of the lockdown, but it is going to be a bit more vigorous, as we are entering a very critical stage, he said. According to him, the window period for citizens will continue from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m., as usual, and the extended rythu bazaars will continue to function. “We are in a crucial phase right now at least till April 20, when the Union government will review the situation. Based on the review considering various factors such as causative factors, speed of spread or descend, risky factors, community prevalence and high risk area behaviour, further decision on lockdown will be taken,” said Mr. Vinay Chand. In the meantime, efforts are being made for mass testing, not only in containments areas but in other areas also. The target is to test at least 450 persons on a daily basis. The virology lab in KGH is all ready, but all tests need not be sent to the lab, he said. Only select cases such as primary contacts with a positive case, 60 plus symptomatic cases, symptomatic with co-morbidity and those who have some issue in the primary screening will be sent to the virology lab. According to the District Collector, teams with Truenat TB test kits will be making rounds for the primary screening and anyone who is diagnosed with mild symptoms will be sent for further RT-PCR test at KGH. “We have about three Truenat centres one each at Narsipatnam, Anakapalle and Vizag with about 16 machines and the tests will be more vigorous from now,” he said. He has appealed that persons with mild symptoms such as fever, dry cough, breathlessness and running nose, should immediately approach KGH or GHCCD. Meanwhile, the police are all set to step up their vigil, especially in the containment zones. Speaking to The Hindu , SP Attada Babujee said that things are already in place and status quo will be maintained with additional focus on red zones.
15 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala to further tighten lockdown restrictions||Kerala will further tighten its COVID-19 lockdown restrictions at least till April 21. Officials said here on Tuesday that the police would impose stricter curbs on the active movement of people and insist that they wear face masks mandatorily when venturing out. The State government’s decision is in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call on Tuesday for extra watchfulness for the next seven days. After the Centre spells out its containment strategy, the State Cabinet on Wednesday will chart out its course of action. A senior official said it was a long shot to expect people to get back to work or business any time soon. The bar on inter-district and inter-State travel would continue. So would the embargo on commercial air, rail, road and sea travel. Only the movement of essential freight is exempted. Similarly, farmers, pharmaceutical companies and producers of medical equipment will continue to enjoy exemption. The State hopes to support door-to-door delivery of services, including legal liquor in limited quantity and on specific days. It wants to ensure that the lockdown did not spawn black markets and illicit supply chains, the official said. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on Monday flagged the possibility of bootleg capturing the market for legal liquor. He said the lockdown had not doused the demand alcohol. Distancing norms Health Minister K. K. Shylaja said experts and data suggested that the number of cases in Kerala had plummeted. However, the epidemic tended to resurge and Kerala had no choice but to be part of the national containment strategy. Social distancing norms should remain in place and be observed with more rigour. Ms. Shylaja said the situation in Kasaragod district, a “high risk” region, had improved by leaps and bounds. In Pothencode in Thiruvananthapuram, the transmission was not as widespread as feared initially. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said the country had to go in for widespread testing to gauge the spread of the epidemic accurately. Only then could State governments make an informed decision on when to lift the curbs on economic activity.
15 April 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala temple closed for darshan till May 3||The sacred hill temple of Lord Venkateswara will be kept out of bounds for pilgrims till May 3. No sooner did Prime Minister Narendra Modi announce the extension of lockdown till May 3, did the top echelons of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), after a preliminary discussion with the Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, took up the issue to the notice of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and resolved to extend the suspension of darshan at the hill shrine till the termination of lockdown period. However, the daily rituals being performed inside the hill temple will be observed normally without any deviation in the laid down traditions. On April 20, the TTD took a decision to suspend the darshan for devotees for about a week but later on, extended it till April 14 following the periodical health advisories issued by the State as well as Central governments amid the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of the COVID-19.  Longest-ever closure According to retired TTD officials, these 45 days between April 20 and May 3 will ever remain in the history of the hill temple as the longest known period wherein no devotee was permitted to worship the presiding deity.
15 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Modi took the right decision, says Naidu||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu has welcomed Prime minister Narendra Modi's decision to extend the lockdown till May 3. In a video statement on Tuesday, Mr. Naidu said Primer Minister took a bold decision to extend the lockdown. Mr. Naidu said that Mr. Modi called him back at 8.30 am in response reply to his call on Monday night and discussed the way forward in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. “I told the Prime Minister that under his efficient leadership, the right decision was made on lockdown-1. That helped India stand in the forefront of the battle against the virus. Many other countries are facing problems. You are building a national consensus in the right spirit. Now testing should be increased and people should be prepared for future struggle.” He, however, expressed concern over the looming economic crisis. COVID-19 had impacted all sections of people. It has led to a spectrum of socio-economic and psychological problems. It requires a lot of courage and discipline to successfully stand against the “unknown killer”, he said. ‘Wrong move by SEC’ Referring to reports of the State Election Commissioner (SEC) asking officials to gear up for the local body elections, Mr. Naidu said the decision was incorrect. Accusing the YSRCP government of resorting to a vindictive attitude, Mr. Naidu cautioned that it was not the time for petty politics.
15 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘SSC exams will have to wait’||The government is not in a position to conduct the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) Board exams due to the extension of the lockdown till May 3, as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday morning, said Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh. In a statement, Mr. Suresh said until the climate was conducive for conduct of the exams, the students should not waste their valuable time and instead utilise the classroom lessons being telecast by the Saptagiri channel of Doordarshan in two slots — 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. — every day. The Minister said to guide the students on how to prepare for the examinations, an exclusive programme “Vidyamrutham” was designed and teachers from the Departments of Education, Social Welfare, Tribal Welfare, BC and Minority Welfare schools were engaged to conduct these classes. A trial run had already been conducted, he added. ‘Suggestions welcome’ Mr. Suresh said nearly 5 lakh students were watching the programme. A steering committee represented by senior officials of the Education Department had been constituted to design the curriculum for online classes for students, he said. He asked the teachers who were interested in contributing to send their one-two minute videos on classroom lessons that could be telecast. Mr. Suresh said Vice-Chancellors of all universities had been told to conduct online classes for students in the higher education sector during the lockdown period.
15 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||India Post wins plaudits for ‘healthy’ service||“I am a kidney transplant patient from Hyderabad. I came to my hometown (W.G. Dist. A.P) last month and needed my medication urgently. I am thankful to the @IndiaPostOffice for their services during these crucial times of COVID-19,” tweeted Talasila Neelima on April 9. She is one among many people from Telugu States who feel that India Post has turned their life saver. India Post Andhra Pradesh Circle has booked as many as 414 medicines from April 3 onwards. Prior to that, there was no ‘specific classification’ of parcels booked as medicines. But, the officials, of late, began tracking the parcels/bookings to see that the emergency medicine reached the destination on time. India Post officials say that it was a message/ request written on a parcel booked from Bengaluru to a destination in Andhra Pradesh that virtually changed the parcel handling in the post offices. The customer wrote, ‘Contains emergency medicine…’ The staff on duty immediately separated the parcel and dispatched on priority basis bringing smiles on faces of customers. Special arrangements When contacted, Chief Post Master General (CPMG) Ram Bharosa says that special arrangements have been made by the Department of Posts for booking and delivery of important mails and bulk dispatch of medicines within the Andhra Pradesh State. The objective is to provide service to needy public and relief to the patients suffering from critical illness. In fact, the efforts of India Post won hearts of people, he says referring to the tweets on India Post. A tweet by another customer, Srinivas Vasuki stands testimony to it. “@cpmgandhra sir, speed post article EN4187564621N containing emergency medicines delivered on April 11th 2020. THANKS TO INDIA POST AND YARA SRINIVAS GARU ON BEHALF OF MY FAMILY.” Director (Postal Services, Head Quarters) Kakumanu Chandrasekhar says that a number of people and manufacturers have used the postal service since the beginning of lockdown. A manufacturer from Chennai enquired about the possibility of delivering medical equipment at Jangareddigudem. “He wanted us to deliver a consignment of ventilators. So far, India Post has delivered lots of PPE from Delhi to locations like Visakhapatnam,” he says. With the lockdown extended till May, the CPMG says that India Post will play a larger role in days ahead. The postal service has unhindered access in the country as India Post is one of the few sectors which fall under essential services and is allowed to operate normally.
15 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to release fee reimbursement dues||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday announced that fee reimbursement dues for the year 2018-19 worth Rs. 1,800 crore would be released. Besides, dues for the nine months in the academic year 2019-20 would also be released, he said. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said from the next academic year, the fee reimbursement amount would be directly deposited in the bank accounts of the students’ mothers. In the erstwhile TDP rule, the maximum limit of the fee reimbursement being Rs. 35,000, parents had to shell out the remaining amount from their own pockets. The government has asked the college managements to return that additional amount to the students. The CM said it was the duty of the respective District Collector to ensure that the amount was paid back to the students’ parents by the colleges. Warning against negligence, he said the government would blacklist the college that failed to comply with the orders.
15 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials to keep an eye on outlets for MRP violations||Officials of the Legal Metrology Department will conduct surprise checks on malls, rythu bazaars, milk parlours, shops and other establishments to prevent hoarding of essential goods and selling them at excess prices. With the Centre extending the lockdown till May 3, Inspector General of Police (IGP) and the Controller of Legal Metrology M. Kanta Rao held a meeting with the Deputy Controller, Assistant Controller and inspectors on Tuesday and directed the officers to conduct more raids to check malpractices. Holidays and leaves for all the staff in the department were cancelled, he said. “Special teams conducted more than 18,500 inspections on medical shops, petrol pumps, kirana shops and super bazars across the State and booked 900 cases for various violations,” said the IG. “We booked 368 cases for selling rice, pulses and other essential goods at excess rates in super bazars and kirana shops. More than 60 cases have been registered for similar offences in rythu bazaars, 118 cases on milk parlours and 21 cases on medical shops,” he told The Hindu . Caution to traders A vigil is being maintained to prevent black marketing and illegal storage of oil, pulses, rice, onions and other goods. The legal metrology officials were also conducting joint raids with Joint Collectors’ teams and Vigilance and Enforcement officials. “Traders are requested to display price lists in front of shops, sell goods as per MRP, and not resort to illegal storage. Public can complain by calling toll-free No. 1800-425-4202,” he said.
15 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||2,000 samples tested in a day||The State government has increased the sample testing capacity for COVID-19 at its seven Viral Research Diagnostics Laboratories (VRDL) in the State. A Health Department release said the State has for the first time tested 2,010 samples in one day, on Monday. Earlier, the laboratories together could test only up to a thousand samples a day. Each laboratory located in Vijayawada, Anantapur, Guntur, Visakhapatnam, Tirupati, Kakinada and Kadapa is now equipped to test 300 to 400 samples a day. The laboratories are now also using TruNat test kits meant for testing Tuberculosis following approval by the ICMR.
15 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR, APSRTC cancel services||The South Central Railway (SCR) has cancelled all passenger trains till May 3 in the wake of extension of the lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Officials of Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) also cancelled passenger services during the lockdown. All reservation counters and bus and railway stations will be closed up to May 3, and the amount would be refunded for reservation tickets cancelled due to the extension of the lockdown, officials said on Tuesday.
15 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijaya Sai lodges cybercrime complaint||Rajya Sabha member and senior YSRCP leader V. Vijaya Sai Reddy lodged a complaint with the cybercrime police against several social media users posting allegedly offensive messages against him and the party. In a complaint to the Vijayawada Cybercrime Police Station, Mr. Reddy alleged that several users were intentionally causing annoyance, inconvenience, danger, obstruction, insult/ defamation, injury, criminal intimidation, hatred, political riots, and public conflicts to harm the peace and tranquillity in society. “I request you to get the postings examined and investigated to take appropriate punishable action as the information posted is grossly offensive and menacing in character, damaging the self-respect and defaming my position as a Member of Parliament and national general secretary of the YSR Congress Party,” he said in the complaint. Copy sent to DGP Mr. Reddy also sent a copy of the complaint to the Chief Secretary and the Director-General of Police.
15 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Economic package sought for State||Welcoming the decision of Centre to extend the lockdown to May 3, former Rajya Sabha Member Y. Sivaji on Tuesday said that the NDA government now should provide adequate economic packages the States. “The State governments are not in a position to take any additional burden in this crucial juncture if the Centre passes the buck to them,” Mr. Sivaji said.
15 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||2nd phase of ration supply from April 16||Krishna district Collector A. Md. Imtiaz on Tuesday said in view of the lockdown, the second phase of free ration would be given from April 16 to April 27. Mr. Imtiaz said both ration card-holders and volunteers engaged in supply of essential commodities would be given coupons bearing the date and time of the supply of the commodities. The card-holders should collect the ration at the given time. In containment zones, volunteers would supply the ration at the doorstep of the card-holders.
15 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. extends e-pass validity till May 3||The validity of the e-Pass given to people who are part of the supply chain of essential services during the lockdown has been extended till May 3, State Coronavirus Control Centre Special Officer Himanshu Shukla said. Mr. Shukla said that the government had issued e-passes to around 13,000 people. The validity of these passes was till April 14. But in view of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to extend the lockdown till May 3, the validity of these passes had also been extended. Those seeking a new pass can visithttps://gramaward sachivalayam. ap.gov.in/CVPASSAPP/CV/ CVorganisation Registrationor apply throughwww.spandana.ap.gov.in.
15 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Startups fighting COVID-19 to get funding from Centre||The National Science and Technology Entrepreneurship Development Board has come forward with a scheme to encourage startups and innovators to find solutions to various challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Firms manufacturing healthcare equipment, and those involved in the fields of diagnostics, sanitisers and disinfectants, and informatics will be funded by the NSTEDB, which comes under the Department of Science and Technology of the Ministry of Science & Technology. The Centre has set up a Centre for Augmenting War with COVID-19 Health Crisis (CAWACH) by allotting Rs. 56 crore for the supporting the startups and innovators. The diagnostics will include areas like rapid diagnostic kits, antibody rapid kits and genomics-based mapping solutions, reagents, safe sample collections and patient monitoring. Under ventilators and PPE, CAWACH has sought out-of-the box ideas in the areas of portable ventilators, respirator, resuscitator, pulse oximeters, oxygen concentrators and other peripheral medical equipment such as contact-less thermometers, stethoscopes and accessories, it is learnt. Personal protective equipment, which is in tremendous shortage, includes masks, shields, suits, goggles, linen, disposable gowns, gloves, lab shoes and relevant medical accessories. Prof. G.D. Yadav, chairman of the National Advisory Committee on Innovation, Incubation and Technology Entrepreneurship told The Hindu that the scheme launched by the Centre would help find out high impact and scalable solutions to mitigate the coronavirus scourge. Prof. Yadav, former Vice-Chancellor of Institute of Chemical Technology, Mumbai, said startups that fit the definition of Startup India and are preferably registered on the Startup India portal with fewer than seven years of existence and a qualified team in place are eligible to apply. Sources said that though the last date for selection of the first batch for support on priority is April 20, more proposals will be accepted in the future.
15 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two more patients discharged||Two more COVID-19 patients, who were undergoing treatment at GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, have been discharged here on Monday night, after their test reports tested negative. With the discharge of the two women patients, the total number of COVID-19 patients recovered and discharged from Visakhapatnam district stand at six. This also takes the total number of discharged patients to 14 in Andhra Pradesh, as per health bulletin released by the State government on Tuesday morning. According to the officials, the women patients who belong to Padmanabham mandal are close contacts of the 25-year-old foreign returnee who tested COVID-19 positive last month. Three close contacts of the foreign returnee had tested COVID-19 positive later. While the youth and one of his close contacts were discharged from GIMSR on April 8, two other close contacts were discharged on Monday night. “With this, all four persons who reported COVID-19 positive from Padmanabham mandal have tested negative,” said a doctor at GIMSR. He also added that they have been advised to be under strict home quarantine and there will be constant follow up over their health. It has been nine days since the district has reported a positive case and the district administration is hopeful that the other patients would be recovered soon. As the lockdown extended till May 3, officials are gearing up to enforce lockdown more extensively, especially along the containment zones to contain spread of coronavirus. “There is regular monitoring over the health conditions of citizens living in the three km radius from the house of COVID-19 positive case,” said Paderu Sub-Collector S. Venkateswar, who is monitoring Cluster Containment Committee and Quarantines. Sanitation drives Meanwhile, the sanitation wing of Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation will be conducting regular drives by spraying sodium hypochlorite solution.
15 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Chandanotsavam’ to be performed on April 26||The annual ‘Chandanotsavam’ of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy atop Simhachalam here on April 26 will be performed by temple priests and will be out of bounds to devotees owing to the COVID-19 lockdown. On Vaisakha Suddha Tadiya, popularly known as ‘Akshaya Tritiya’, every year the layers of sandalwood paste covering the deity are ceremonially removed and a large number of devotees worship ‘Him’ in the ‘nijarupa’ on a single day. The annual ‘nijarupa darshan’ begins in the early hours and the next day in the small hours the deity is again covered with sandalwood paste. Lakhs from the State and the neighbouring Odisha throng the hilltop shrine for the annual ‘darshan’. The ‘Chandanotsavam’ is being performed for more than 11 centuries now according to the temple history, it was stated. There has been no knowledge of it being not performed since then or not allowing devotees. Live on YouTube This also will be the first time the trust board Chairman or trustees are not going to be part of the utsav, mainly to reduce the number of persons at the ritual, sources said. “Keeping in view the health hazards involved and the instructions of the Central and the State governments it has been decided not to allow devotees to the Chandanotsavam,” says Executive Officer M. Venkateswara Rao. The ‘pujas’ will be beamed live on YouTube. Following a suggestion by Simhachalam Devasthanam Trust Board Chairperson Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju, the festival and the associated rituals will be performed only by 15 priests and the required staff. In the ‘Sahasra Ghatabhishekam’ that precedes the covering of the idol with sandalwood paste again 400 Vaishnavite ritwiks from all over the State used to participate. Now it will be performed by only temple priests. The temple has not been allowing devotees since March 20 in view of the COVID-19 situation. The making of sandalwood paste by grinding the wood on slabs will begin on April 16.
15 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to Ambedkar||District Collector V. Vinay Chand garlanded the portrait of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar on his 129th birth anniversary at the Collector office and paid rich tributes. Joint Collectors L. Siva Sankar and Venugopal Reddy and Paderu Sub-Collector S. Venkateswar participated. Municipal Commissioner G. Srijana garlanded the statue at Daba Gardens. His political acumen and support as a pillar of strength for the weaker sections and the disadvantaged enabled them to stand on their own, she said. At Visakhapatnam Port Trust, at a programme organised by the SC, ST Officers' Welfare Association, VPT Chairman K. Ramamohana Rao recalled the services of Dr. Ambedkar in drafting the Constitution as the chairman of the committee. At the Naval Science & Technological Laboratory (NSTL), Outstanding Scientist and Director O.R. Nandagopan recalled the contribution of the visionary leader in building an independent India, on the principles of equality, democracy, liberty and fraternity. Officers and staff, members of the NSTL Civil Employees' Union, Works Committee and SC & ST Employees’ Welfare Union participated. At Andhra University, Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy garlanded Ambedkar’s statue and recalled his role in drafting the Constitution. He gave away masks to the medical personnel and security staff of the university. Representatives of Chaitanya Degree and PG College presented a cheque for Rs. 50,000 to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Registrar V. Krishnamohan, Rector Ch. Ratnam and other officials participated.
15 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||INS Dega of ENC ready for round-the-clock operations||With the nationwide lockdown to prevent spread of virus during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, INS Dega of Eastern Naval Command (ENC) ensured that the joint-user airfield at Visakhapatnam remains open round the clock. The manning of the airfield has been modified to ensure that all requisite safety services and airfield facilities continued to be available. This ensured that all special flights, as well as, the cargo flight of SpiceJet continued its operations unhindered. So far, 15 sorties of the cargo flight have operated since the lockdown has been enforced. Further, the Indian Navy continued to maintain its operational vigil carrying out regular maritime surveillance missions by day and night. The Dornier squadron of the ENC, INAS 311, operating from the air station, has been undertaking regular maritime surveillance missions. Additionally, all other air assets have been kept mission-ready and prepared for immediate deployment should the need arise.
15 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||An expedition to join their kin||No matter how difficult it is, they want to reach home in Tamil Nadu on foot from here notwithstanding the extension of lockdown. “We came here from Chennai to fix PVC windows on receiving an order from a laboratory located in the Siripuram area in the city. On completing the job, we had booked train tickets. However, we got stuck here due to lockdown imposed to control COVID-19 pandemic last month,” said Anand Babu. Mr. Babu, along with Baburaj of Coimbatore and Mohanraj of Erode, finally embarked on a walking expedition of a different kind on Tuesday. “We lost all our hopes of leaving for Chennai after completion of lockdown on April 14. The announcement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend it up to May 3 disappointed us a lot. We decided to walk down to join our families after a long gap,” Mr. Baburaj told The Hindu . The trio said they were worried about the safety and well-being of their family members. The Tamil Nadu residents, who were stranded in a room provided by the laboratory which hired their services, wondered whether there was the guarantee that the lockdown would be lifted on May 3. “If there is no improvement in COVID situation, people may face third phase of lockdown,” one of them remarked. The trio is in touch with their families on phones. They want to travel 800 km on foot, for which they want to buy fruits and biscuits during morning hours when the lockdown is relaxed to keep them going.
15 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Excise officials raid bar and restaurants, wine shops||Officials from the Excise and Prohibition Department conducted raids on bars and restaurants and government wine shops to verify if there are any irregularities during the lockdown period in the district on Tuesday. According to the officials, the raids were conducted following orders from higher-ups based on allegations that a few outlets were selling liquor at higher prices in black-market, taking advantage of closure of wine shops as part of the lockdown due to COVID-19. Teams of the Excise officials are verifying records and the stock in the liquor outlets, before the lockdown and as on date.
15 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Open additional counters at ration shops’||Joint Collector L. Shiva Shankar has directed the officials to open additional counters at ration depots, which have over 250 cardholders. He participated in a video-conference on Tuesday.
15 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID situation abroad turns worrisome for NRI parents here||Several families back here of NRIs settled in the US, Britain, France and other countries are worried about the safety of their dear ones following the rapid spread of coronavirus abroad. Nearly 6 lakh COVID-19 cases were reported so far in the US, 88,000 in Britain and 1.36 lakh in France and the death toll in the US and Europe has already crossed 50,000. The news of ever increasing cases has been quite unsettling for many families in the two districts. Srikakulam’s Santiniketan College chairman Surangi Mohana Rao has been in contact with his daughters Rajavani and Vani Indraja who reside in North Corolina and California respectively. “Fortunately, COVID-19 has little impact in those places. But I told them to be cautious till normalcy is restored,” said Mr. Mohana Rao. ‘No cases here’ Aurobindo Pharma Pydibhimavaram unit deputy general manager N. Venkata Rao’s three children stay in Texas, New Jersey and Indiana. “That Srikakulam does not have a single case is not comforting enough for us due to the deteriorating conditions in the US. I have told all of them to follow lockdown norms strictly,” he said. Long queues A newly married couple, Mahesh and Sindhuja of G. Sigadam mandal in Srikakulam district, have recently gone to Dallas and they are said to be safe.  Economic impact “My son-in-law Mahesh is a senior executive in JP Morgan. Now he is allowed to work from home. But getting essential commodities has become a Herculean task for him with long queues at stores, and we are worried as it is not safe,” said Sindhuja’s father Varada Satyanarayana of Batuva village. Vizianagaram Senior Citizens’ Association president K.P. Eswar and general secretary Giduturi Pyditalli have urged the Centre to consider bringing NRI families back to India once the COVID-19 situation subsides. “Many executives are likely to lose their jobs due to the economic fallout of COVID-19 and sustaining the high cost of living in the US and other countries may not be possible for them,” felt Mr. Pyditalli. ‘Students being guided’ Abroad Campus CEO K. Pardhasaradhi told The Hindu that his organisation was trying to minimise the troubles of the youngsters studying in various universities including Arizona University and New York University. “We advised all the students to stay in the accommodation provided by the respective universities rather than private hostels. So, a majority of them are now in a safe position. The institutions have their own hospitals which is a blessing in disguise. We have also urged the authorities of the universities to reduce the fees for the first semester in view of the pandemic situation,” he said.
15 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srikakulam officials expect restrictions to ease post April 20||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech on Tuesday has signalled that lockdown would be eased after April 20 in districts which have no positive cases. With this, officials in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts that come under ‘Green Zone’ with zero VCOVID-19 cases, are hopeful that the rural economy would be back on track soon. “It appears unlikely that the two districts will report any cases because the medical tests conducted for foreign returnees have come out to be negative. If permitted, movement of people and vehicles will be allowed,” said a senior official. “Closure of inter-district and inter-State borders and ban on public transport system may continue even if the restrictions are lifted. Mass gatherings at pubic places will, however, not be permitted till complete normalcy is restored,” he added. “The relaxation will be a breather for lakhs of people who depend on day-to-day economic activity,” said Praja Chaitanya Vedika founder K. Appala Naidu.
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Throwing caution to the wind||
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Road diaries||
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Relentless fight||
15 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Tipplers find ways to slake their thirst||So, how are the tipplers in former united Adilabad district coping with in these times of forced dry days and restricted physical movement? Many in urban areas and mandal headquarters are purchasing regular liquor at exorbitant rates while rural drunkards have fallen back to consume the illicitly distilled liquor (IDL) called gudumba and in some places in Tamsi mandal, the never-heard-before mix of water and chloroform. In the Agency areas, the tribals are trying their hand at brewing the traditional drink, the ippa sara, made of ippa or mahua or iruk in Gondi dialect (Madhuca indica) flowers. The delay in flowering season of ippa has coincided with the lockdown period helping the Adivasis to collect the flowers early in the morning. The tribals are permitted by given law to brew their own liquor and store up to five litres for self-consumption. Its comeback is being welcomed by elders in the Agency area as it is much less harmful to the health, according to a patel or village head man. “Many who had shunned iruk collection since a few years can be seen under the mahua trees early in the morning. The flowers need to be dried up and then soaked in water for a couple of days at least to extract a small quantity of heady brew from it,” the elder revealed. Smuggled liquor A surprise check of vehicles violating the lockdown, by none other than Adilabad Collector A. Sridevasena three days back yielded just eight nips of whisky being smuggled in car, surprisingly by a government functionary. Though the quantum of liquor was negligible, it gave way for the Prohibition and Excise department to open retail liquor shops to check stocks. “We found only negligible discrepancy in maintenance of stock register in some shops,” observed the Prohibition and Excise Officer for Nirmal and Adilabad districts, Ravinder Raju. It is apparent that some unscrupulous licence holders, especially in retail outlets located closer to inter-State borders and far flung areas had stocked up in the numerous belt shops from where the liquor is being sold at a premium. In rural areas, the gudumba is also being sold for as high a price as Rs. 150 for about 200 ml sachet. The bootleggers have not established regular ‘outlets’ for selling the hooch but being familiar with alcoholics in respective areas, the IDL is being delivered at the doorsteps of regulars.
15 April 2020||BHUPALPALLY DISTRICT,TELANGANA||Officials told to seal inter-State border||The tahsildhars of Kaleshwaram and Sironcha in Maharashtra were asked to strictly monitor the movement of labour on both sides and seal the border until further orders. District Collector Md. Abdul Azeem accompanied by senior officers visited the inter-State border at Kaleshwaram town and interacted with the police and revenue officials at the check post. He wanted them to implement the lockdown orders strictly and stop movement of people from either side. “More cases of coronapositive are being reported in Maharashatra and hence the border should remain closed as per the instruction of Telangana State government. The officers monitoring the check post should ensure that there is no movement of people between the States,” he said. Since it was chilli crop harvesting season, more labour from neighbouring Maharashtra villages come into Bhupalpally district for wages. There were already 2,850 migrant labour in the district who came from Maharashtra. They were all given groceries and Rs. 500 cash as directed by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. A total of three cases of coronavirus positive cases were reported in Bhupalpally district. The Collector urged people to maintain social distance and sport masks. They were asked to stay put at home to avoid spread of dreaded coronavirus. Mr. Azeem said they have deployed mobile medical teams — one for every 15 households and collecting samples from suspected people. “We can check the spread of coronavirus if we follow the lockdown norms strictly,” he said. Kaleswaram RDO Y. V. Ganesh, DSP B. Kishan, and others were present.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pregnant women’s access to medicare hits a bump||It is a challenging time for pregnant women with clinics and small hospitals shutting down elective services following announcement of the COVID-19 lockdown. Pregnant women need antenatal check-ups, scanning tests as well as administration of injections at regular intervals. Diagnostic tests such as Targeted Imaging for Fetal Anomalies (TIFFA) scan and 2D Echo are performed as part of the process. Sometimes, an emergency delivery may be required due to pregnancy-related complications. Currently, these services are offered at major corporate and medium scale hospitals. During the lockdown, some obstetricians and gynaecologists from small hospitals or clinics are visiting corporate hospitals to attend their patients and be a part of the delivery process. Consultations are also offered over phone. Besides, pregnancy-related emergencies are being attended at some government hospitals. “My sister, who is in her seventh month of pregnancy, used to go for consultations at a clinic in Khairtabad, which is now shut. She was supposed to taken an injection on April 3. Sensing that it would not open, we started to call other hospitals, but to our dismay, they said they are taking care of only existing patients and not attending new cases,” said Vanaja Kumari, a city resident. Her sister got access to medical service only after a senior journalist intervened.  Specialist doctors at corporate hospitals said the number of pregnancy cases they are attending has gone up. When someone walks in, their body temperature is first checked. Then they are asked about their travel history, whether they were in contact with a COVID-19 patient or a suspect, and if they have cold, cough or fever. Precautions in place “COVID-19 patients are directly taken to COVID ward or hospitals. Suspects are sent to another building where they are differentiated from general people. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) is provided to healthcare workers who attend the suspects,” said K. Shilpi Reddy, head of Obstetrics and Gynaecology department, KIMS Cuddles, Kondapur. A consultant gynaecologist at CARE Hospitals, Kavya Priya said that besides taking the screening measures, they are ensuring patients are checked and leave hospitals at the earliest to avoid any chances of transmission of infection. Vindhya Gemaraju, a gynaecologist at SO Poly Clinic at Shaikpet, said that after closing her clinic, she is attending her patients at a corporate hospital. She said patients from other districts have also been contacting her as services are not offered in their towns.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Guidelines for containment zones||Several thousands of city residents across various localities will have to live an isolated existence for an indefinite period inside the containment zones demarcated for localisation and subduing of the COVID-19 pandemic. As per the operational guidelines issued by the government, residents of the zones will have to confine themselves to their homes. Movement of persons within the zone too is not allowed. Perimeter of the zone will be cordoned off with eight-foot barricades and access to all roads and thoroughfares will be closed barring one common entry and exit point. Every entry and exit will be recorded and monitored. Size of each zone will depend on the incidence of the positive cases, with an approximate radius of 100 to 500 metres. For each positive case, 100 households will be counted in for containment, and as such, a single apartment or gated community too could be announced as containment zone. Three levels of nodal surveillance teams will monitor the zones, respectively at the site, at the circle and at zonal level of GHMC, with staff and officials from GHMC, Medical & Health, Police, HMWS&SB, TSSPDCL and others as members. Zonal commissioner himself or herself shall be in-charge of the containment zones where the incidence is above average or abnormally high. Otherwise, deputy commissioners are responsible for three or four containment zones each. Nodal officers must visit the zones twice a day for proper monitoring. Homeless and destitute persons should be identified within the zone, and shifted to shelter homes. Migrant labourers, if any, should be provided food supplies and other essentials. Vulnerable households with senior citizens should be supplied with food through Annapurna scheme. One dedicated vehicle will be allotted for each zone, for supply of provisions. Vegetable vendors, milk vendors, and four or five grocery shops will be tied up for delivery. Pamphlets will be distributed with phone numbers of nodal officers and the contact persons for supplies. Distribution of safety masks will be taken up with regular intervals. Public announcements will be made from an auto. Fever surveys will be conducted every day, and symptomatic persons will be shifted to designated hospitals. Daily sanitation will be done and garbage collected from the zones and identified hospitals will be sent directly for incineration. Disinfectant spraying will be done twice daily covering the entire area. The guidelines, besides spelling out responsibilities of each official, specified the standard operating procedure whenever a new positive is found. Each new positive case will be followed up by the protocol of tracing and quarantining family and primary contacts. Nizamia General Hospital, Charminar, Nature Cure Hospital, Begumpet, Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital, Mehdipatnam, Ayurveda Medical College, Ameerpet, and Government Homeopathy College, Ramanthapur, are the designated quarantine facilities. The King Koti Hospital has been earmarked for walk-in cases. In case of positives or suspects in Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) area, the CEO is to be apprised of the same and asked to follow similar protocol. In the event of failure on their part, GHMC should follow up the same.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bank details of registered construction workers sought||The Labour Department has initiated steps to identify the workers registered with the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board so that benefits can be reached out to them during the lockdown announced by the State and Central governments to contain coronavirus (COVID-19). The department, after recent exercise to identify the registered workers, has realized that more than 14.29 lakh workers are registered with the board till November-end last year. It was accordingly decided to collect the account numbers of all the registered workers to ensure that amounts could be credited to their respective accounts as and when the State government announces a relief package for them. The exercise follows an advisory issued by the Central government on March 24 which asked the governments of States and the Union Territories to transfer funds into the accounts of construction workers through direct benefit transfer mode from the cess collected by the labour welfare boards under the provisions of the Building and Other Construction Workers Cess Act. Funds available According to the provisional figures available, there was corpus of Rs. 52,000 crore available under the cess fund from the across the country of which Telangana’s share is about Rs. 1,210 crore till the end of financial year 2018-19. Senior officials said that the Board, formed part of the Schedule VII institutions of the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014 and the funds available would be much higher than those projected by the Centre. The two States have in principle agreed for bifurcation of assets pending in the PD accounts on population ratio 58:42 but there were deposits in other accounts which were yet to be transferred to Telangana. “An amount of around Rs. 600 crore is due to be credited to our account by the AP government,” a senior official told The Hindu . The department has in principle decided to credit some amount as relief to the registered workers who were finding it hard to get jobs during the lockdown period. The department had started collecting the account numbers of all the registered workers as the account numbers of only such workers who opted for online settlement of their claims since the formation of the State were available with the department. Accordingly, Aadhar numbers are verified to get the details of the accounts and simultaneously, requests had been sent to different departments to give the details of workers engaged with them. The official said it has been tentatively decided to credit Rs. 1,500 each into the accounts of registered workers. But a decision has not yet been taken on whether the amount should be credited into the individual accounts or whether a family should be taken into consideration. “There can be one registered worker in some families and more than one registered worker in some other families. We are yet to take a final decision,” the official told The Hindu adding the department was, however, prepared to distribute the benefits as and when the government announces a decision in this direction.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||During lockdown, houses razed in Moinabad||A dispute between the Tahsildar and SC beneficiaries of Tolukatta gram panchayat in Moinabad mandal over one acre of land on survey no 138 has led to demolition of basements of five dwellings and a house on Saturday. The beneficiaries and the ex-sarpanch of panchayat Boligidda Satyanarayana said that they were given house pattas for the land on survey numbers 138, 139, 140 and 141 between 1999 and 2001 and again in 2007 by the then TDP and Congress governments while the Moinabad Tahsildar dismissed the contention and said the land was never allotted to the beneficiaries. At least half a dozen SC beneficiaries who tried to stop the demolition were lathi-charged for violating the lockdown norms, said village former sarpanch Satyanarayana who distributed rations and cash given by some donors to those who sat in despair at their demolished units on Tuesday. Kathula Sattamma, Boda Suresh, Sannasi Ilaiah, Kummari Jangaiah and others were given pattas and plot numbers in 2007 during the tenure of Y.S.Rajasekhar Reddy. Before them, several poor of their village too were given house sites between 1999 and 2001 by the then Telugu Desam government. In all, 378 pattas in the layouts earmarked for poor on survey numbers 38, 139, 140 and 141 etc., were given, according to Satyanarayana. At a time when these poor families including a widow were facing hardships with no earnings, the demolition of their dwellings which they started with great difficulty was inhuman, said former Chevella MP and Congress leader Konda Vishweshwar Reddy who is familiar with the issue and intervened on behalf of poor when he was a TRS MP. The incident of demolitions came to light when he took to twitter and posted the video highlighting the plight of the poor. Apparently the dwellings were demolished because they were in violation of GO 111, he pointed out. He told The Hindu the MRO, who did not respond to his telephone calls when the poor highlighted their plight, clarified later on Tuesday that was not an issue related to GO 111 but action was taken because they were illegal encroachments. "The beneficiaries are in possession of the documents given by government for several years now. How can they be harassed when they are already reeling under hardship due to lockdown," Mr.Reddy said. Moinabad Tahsildar K Anitha told The Hindu that the house site pattas were not given for the land in survey No 138 and it was a clear case of encroachment.“ I told them many times not to start construction on the government land”. “When we have been busy with measures to check spread of COVID-19, some villagers started construction work and put stones to demarcate plots illegally. After informing the authorities, including District Collector, we removed the encroachments — foundation work of two houses and partly broke a wall of an illegally constructed house. No one is residing in the house, which was used to store construction materials”, she said. In the lockdown time, people should not come out. But these people not only encroached on government land but also started construction work, she alleged.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three more cases in Suryapet||Three new COVID-19-positive cases were reported from Suryapet on Tuesday, taking the tally to 23. The District Medical & Health Officer informed one person hails from Tirumalagiri and the other two were primary contacts of a provision store owner of Kothagudem bazaar in the town. Earlier on Monday, a resident of Nagarjuna Cements Limited colony in Mattapally mandal had tested positive. On Tuesday, the Suryapet district administration in addition to the Imampet quaratine facility opened another centre at Loyola Paramedical College on the Jangaon road. There are 193 COVID suspects in these centres. Meanwhile, around 220 outsourced nurses working at Gandhi Hospital threatened to boycott duties from Wednesday until they receive assurance that their jobs will be regularised. The nurses said that they have been working on outsourcing basis from 2007 and earn Rs. 17,500 per month. “We are keeping our life at risk by attending COVID-19 patients,” the nurses stated in a letter submitted to the hospital’s superintendent, and nursing superintendent
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||74 lakh white ration cardholders get Rs. 1,500 each||The Civil Supplies Department has initiated the process for crediting Rs. 1,500 each into the accounts of the 87.5 lakh white ration cardholders across the State on Tuesday. Civil Supplies Corporation chairman M. Srinivas Reddy has said the department could successfully deposit the assured amount into 74 lakh accounts of the beneficiaries involving Rs. 1,111 crore. Municipal Administration Minister K. T. Rama Rao signaled off the process on Monday when he tweeted in his official account saying “Around 74 lakh plus bank accounts in Telangana will be credited tomorrow with the Rs. 1,500 as promised by the Hon’ble CM KCR Garu to support during these testing times. Total of Rs. 1,112 crore has been transferred by the government to the banks.” Interestingly, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said last month that the government had resolved to spend Rs. 1,314 crore to provide Rs. 1,500 each to families of all the 87.5 lakh cardholders for purchase of groceries. The Corporation had completed transferring cash into 74 lakh accounts involving Rs. 1,111 crore so far. Officials said the amounts could not be credited into the accounts of the remaining families (numbering about 13 lakh) because of technical glitches and efforts were on to resolve them. The department had gathered the account details of the cardholders through their Aadhar number. Intense efforts had been made to secure the account details with the help of bankers before taking up the process for crediting the assured amount into the respective accounts. Once the data was obtained, the amount was credited through the National Payment Corporation of India uploading the data of the beneficiaries using the software of the Centre for Good Governance. Senior officials said the account details of a section of cardholders could not be uploaded as these cards were not used in the fair price shops for months together and hence, there were difficulties in tracking them. “There are several cardholders who did not avail the provisions through fair price shops for months together. Such accounts are probably set aside during the screening process that proceeded the crediting of the accounts,” an official said.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ministers resolve to help sweet lime farmers||In a bid to help the sweet lime and acid lime farmers facing marketing problems for their produce due to the COVID-19 lockdown, ministers S. Niranjan Reddy, G. Jagadish Reddy and P. Sabitha Indra Reddy have asked the farmers not to be hasty in harvesting the crop stating that the government would find ways to dispose the produce. In a review meeting held with the farmers of the two orchard crops, mainly grown in Nalgonda, Bhongir, Gadwal, Narayanpet, Mahabubnagar and Wanaparthy districts here on Tuesday, the ministers instructed Commissioner of Horticulture L. Venkatrami Reddy to speak to juice factories in Jalgoan and Nanded in Maharashtra to supply the fruits. They have also decided to approach Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao with a request to take the matter of supply of the fruits to the Army by talking to the Centre. They stated that they were exploring every possible option to help farmers, who were ready to reduce the price of the produce reasonably due to the lockdown conditions. According to officials, the sweet lime is grown in about 70,000 acres in Telangana with nearly 50,000 acres in Nalgonda district alone. Similarly, acid lime is grown in about 35,000 acres in the State with about 16,000 acres in Nalgonda and another 9,000 acres in Suryapet districts. Both the fruit crops give an average yield of about 8 tonnes per acre.  Local demand The ministers also discussed about the steps needed to take improve the consumption of the two fruits within the State by creating awareness among all sections. Instead of consuming the fruits stored in cold storages, consumption of fresh fruits was always healthy practice. It was also decided at the meeting to publicise in residential colonies, apartment complexes and gated communities about the uses of lime fruits consumption during the COVID conditions. They also told the officials to speak to the sweet lime traders at Sirivella in Kurnool district. On a request from the farmers that they would themselves contact traders at New Delhi provided accommodation in Telangana Bhavan, the ministers directed the officials concerned to arrange the accommodation immediately. Legislators K. Bhupal Reddy and Ch. Lingaiah, MP B. Lingaiah Yadav, Nalgonda District Collector Prashant J. Patil, Horticulture and Marketing Department officials attended the meeting.
15 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress objects to Harish Rao’s language against the party||Telangana Congress has strongly objected to the language used by Finance Minister T. Harish Rao that the party was in isolation and reminded him that the party was playing the role of a constructive Opposition by raising genuine questions in public interest. But the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) ministers and leaders have been targeting the Congress party to divert people’s attention from their failures, including acting on time and cutting the salaries of employees without even discussing with them, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy said in a statement here. Mr. Reddy charged Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao and all his ministers with failing to answer the questions raised by the people and shift the blame on the Congress party with weird reasons. He reminded that it was only after Congress party’s objection on salary cut for all employees, the TRS government modified the order and exempted staff of Health, Police, sanitation, gram panchayat and a few other departments. He claimed that Mr. Harish Rao himself admitted that 12 kg rice per person for white ration card holders has been distributed to only 87% of beneficiaries. Similarly, Rs. 1500 per family was transferred to the accounts only on April 14. “Will the Chief Minister or Mr. Harish Rao explain how nearly 87 lakh BPL families would have managed for the last 24 days without food, work or money?” he asked. He also disputed the Finance Minister’s claim that the State government was spending Rs. 3,147 crore to combat coronavirus and asked him to place the entire break-up of expenditure in public domain. “Expenditure on health was reduced every year since 2014 and only Rs. 6,187 crore (3.38%) was allocated in the budget of Rs. 1,82,914 crore for the year 2020-21”. Mr. Reddy pointed out that all hospitals wherein coronavirus patients are being treated now were established by the previous Congress regimes. “TRS government did not construct a single hospital in the last six years,” he said.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Coming 10 days crucial: Eatala||Minister for Health Eatala Rajender, during a joint review meeting with Minister for Municipal Administration K. T. Rama Rao, said the coming 10 days would be very crucial in arresting the spread of COVID-19 in the State, and appealed to citizens not to venture out of their homes. The Ministers asked the officials to act tough on those who bypassed the lockdown in containment zones. All arrangements were in place in the containment zones, and any new persons showing symptoms of coronavirus would be shifted to hospital, they said, and asked officials to increase availability of ambulances if needed. The high-level meeting, attended by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP Mahender Reddy, MA&UD Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar, Special Chief Secretary, Health, Shanti Kumari, and all heads of departments, discussed the action plan and precautionary measures to contain the spread of coronavirus in the city. Mr. Rama Rao instructed the officials to close all the entries to the containment zones and leave only one route open, under police surveillance. Essential goods were to be delivered to the citizens at the doorstep. Mr. Somesh Kumar stated that special teams consisting of police, medical and municipal officials were functioning round the clock in Greager Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits.
15 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Additional locks on liquor shops||Stepping up its efforts to control ‘illegal’ sale of liquor, the government has directed excise officials to seal all the liquor shops in the State till further orders and also put an additional lock from the department to discourage law-breakers. A senior official said the government had taken the reports of illegal liquor supply in the media seriously and warned that the Excise Superintendent concerned would be held responsible if the sale did not stop from the shops despite being locked. The Station House Officer concerned would be booked if the violations were noticed, the government warned, according to a senior official of the Excise department. After the officers brought to the notice of the government that liquor shop owners were opening the shops during night time and shifting the bottles to secure places, the government decided to seal the locks of the shops. “We will seal the locks and if there is any tampering their licence will also be cancelled,” an official explained. Moreover, the department would put its own lock and the key would be at the disposal of the area official. Pictures and videos of liquor sales during the lockdown period in the media and also on social media have angered the Chief Minister, K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who, during his recent press conferences, categorically stated that liquor sales would not be permitted despite the revenue loss. Apart from posing a health hazard, the illegal sale has hit the image of the police department already burdened with the Covid-19 lockdown work. An official, on condition of anonymity, said liquor stocks in most of the rural areas had drastically reduced but those in the city still had some stocks. “Rural shops were able to sell even during the lockdown period as there was not much monitoring unlike the city areas,” he explained. With the CM not accepting sale, excise officials would more alert now, he said. Meanwhile, hundreds of people addicted to liquor continue to throng the hospitals with withdrawal symptoms but the government doesn’t want to budge, saying containing corona is more important than any other issue now.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Chit fund operators, subscribers in a fix over collections, payments||A crucial question haunting most chit fund operators in the State is how to make payments of February month’s prize amounts to their subscribers. Since the lockdown was announced on March 22, activities in every sector, barring supply of essential services, were affected directly or indirectly. Operations of registered chit fund companies, which have close to Rs. 1,600 crore turnover every month on an average in the State are no exception. Chit fund companies conduct auction of chits on different dates from 22nd of a month and complete it by month-end. Rules mandate that a chit fund operator must pay the prize money to the subscriber within 45 days of auction. As lockdown in the State was announced on the night of March 22, which was observed as Janata Curfew following the Prime Minister’s call, most of the chit fund operators were in a state of confusion initially. Auction dates As the lockdown was initially till March 31, companies had to alter the dates of auctioning chits. Meanwhile, the government declared that chit fund operators can conduct auctions as per their convenience from March 22 till month-end and even till first week of April. The first hurdle was crossed by facilitating deferment of auctions. But the real difficulty lay in chit fund operators paying prize amounts to subscribers. If there are 25 members in a chit group, less than half of them pay the monthly instalment in first week of the month. “A majority of them pay the monthly instalment after third week to month end. With lockdown from March 22, we could not receive more than 50% of our monthly chit instalments from the subscribers,” a chit fund operator said. They were hoping to receive money in the first week if the lockdown was lifted. Their hopes were shattered as extension of lockdown till April-end was announced on Saturday. “Our boys cannot go out for collections. Even subscribers cannot come to our offices. There is just no flow of money,” says another chit fund company owner. Some salaried employees are transferring money online. “But those running eateries, selling goods, commission agents and technicians are saying they are helpless and are seeking deferment of monthly instalment payments,” the chit fund company owners say. More worried are the subscribers who were supposed to get the prize money in the auctions held in February. Though their prize amount had to be deposited by the chit fund companies by the end of first week in May, they are tense over whether they would get the prize money in this situation.  No flow to fund Chit fund companies registered in the State: 791 Branches: 1,542 Chit groups: 25,577 Monthly turnover: Rs. 1,566.98 cr.
15 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Free online assessment exams from April 20||The Department of Intermediate Education will conduct free online exams daily and over the weekend, apart from grand tests for those preparing for EAMCET, NEET, IIT-JEE in both English and Telugu. This will be open to students of government junior colleges and government welfare junior colleges from April 20. Analysis of above exams for each student will also be made to improve their performance with the help of CloudEdz Pvt. Ltd., which is also providing study material and video lessons through the website ‘www.tdisk.in’. In view of the lockdown, the department could not organise summer coaching either offline or online, but free access to video lessons on various platforms was provided to all district officers and principals of government junior colleges and lecturers concerned and subject experts to circulate to all the students, stated an official release.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Adhere to lockdown rules, Mithali appeals to citizens||Indian women’s cricket captain Mithali Raj appealed to citizens to strictly follow lockdown guidelines and help both the Centre and State government to fight COVID-19. Mithali, who attended the concluding programme of the distribution of groceries to needy technicians and cameramen of electronic media at the Lal Bahadur Stadium here on Tuesday, said it is the responsibility of every citizen to stay indoors and maintain social distancing during these testing times. “Everyone should remember that when we adhere to the guidelines, we are not only saving ourselves but also fellow citizens,” Mithali said after distributing groceries worth Rs. 1.5 lakh as part of the eight-day programme monitored by SATS chairman A. Venkateshwar Reddy with the help of an NGO. “We have to support and help these people for it is them who are keeping us informed about the latest happenings,” the star cricketer said. The programme featured leading woman athletes including world champion P.V. Sindhu, boxer Nikhat Zareen, shooter Esha Singh, and also Sania Mirza’s NGO. “We are glad that we could do some service to the media personnel who are badly in need of these groceries,” Mr Reddy said.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court takes up letter as PIL petition||A letter written by a lawyer about assaults on doctors attending to COVID-19 related duties was taken up as a PIL petition by Telangana High Court. It will be heard on Wednesday. The letter by advocate P.S.S. Kailash Nath to Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan sought a direction to Home Secretary and Director General of Police to deploy sufficient security personnel at all government and private hospitals. Citing an incident in Gandhi Hospital reported on April 1, the lawyer said a person assaulted a doctor after his sibling died of coronavirus. Though only one such attack was reported in the State, the Centre instructed all State governments to act tough in all such cases to ensure security of medical fraternity. But Telangana government had not passed any orders complying with the Centre’s direction, the lawyer said. Declared as a pandemic, COVID-19 is affecting every part of the globe. In this backdrop, security of doctors, nurses and health workers requires a holistic approach, the lawyer said. As these professionals are running the risk of contracting virus while discharging their duties, they cannot be further burdened with protecting themselves from attacks. Not just at hospitals, security coverage should also be extended to doctors and others while they go on door-to-door tests to identify primary and secondary contacts, the lawyer said. Personnel of either Central Reserve Police Force or its wing of Rapid Action Force or any other Central security agency should be deployed for doctors, he said.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||DRDO’s sample collection kiosk to combat spread||Defence Research & Development Laboratory (DRDL), Hyderabad, has added another product to the portfolio of DRDO products to combat COVID-19 by developing ‘COVSACK – COVid SAmple Collection Kiosk’ on Tuesday. The unit has been developed by DRDL, in consultation with the doctors of ESIC, Hyderabad. COVSACK is a kiosk for use by healthcare workers for taking COVID-19 samples from suspected patients. A patient under test walks into the kiosk and a nasal or oral swab is taken by healthcare professional from outside through the built-in gloves. The kiosk is automatically disinfected without the need for human involvement, making the process free of infection spread. The shielding screen of kiosk cabin protects the healthcare worker from the aerosols/droplet transmission while taking the sample. This reduces the requirements of PPE change by healthcare workers. After the patient leaves the kiosk, four nozzle sprayers mounted in the kiosk cabin disinfect the empty chamber by spraying disinfectant mist for a period of 70 seconds. It is further flushed with water and UV light disinfection. The system is ready for next use in less than two minutes. Voice command can be given through two-way communication system integrated with COVSACK. It is possible to configure the kiosk to be used either from inside or outside as required by the medical professionals. The COVSACK costs nearly Rs. 1 lakh and the identified industry based at Belgaum, Karnataka, can support 10 units a day. DRDO has designed and developed two units and handed them over to ESIC Hospital Hyderabad after successful testing, said a press release.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man involved in gambling raid dies||A 54-year-old man died at the Osmania General Hospital after being let off by the Shamirpet police. The victim was allegedly found gambling in a home along with five other persons which police had raided. The victim was identified as Subnavees Srinivasa, a resident of Aliabad in Shamirpet. According to police, on April 13, the victim and five others were found gambling in a house belonging to Subnavees Ashok. Acting on a tip-off, the police raided the house and took the victim and his associates to the police station and, in the presence of the village sarpanch Kumar, served notices on them. They were then let off. On his way back home, the victim allegedly suffered an epileptic attack and collapsed on the Karimnagar-Hyderabad road. Police said he had was upset that a case was registered against him. His associates rushed him to the Shamirpet police station and sought help. Police then took him to the Government Hospital, Shamirpet in their vehicle. From there, he was moved to the Osmania General Hospital where he died. Police said that his son Subnavees Ravi Teja (21), who was the complainant, told them that he had no suspicions in connection with his father’s death. A case under section 174 of the CrPC was booked, police said.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Blaming one community wrong’||A group of over 130 writers, intellectuals and human rights activists have in a joint statement condemned the vicious campaign by some elements that Tabligh Jamaat and the entire Muslim community was responsible for the spread of coronavirus in India. The propaganda was aimed at terrorising ordinary people into thinking that Muslims have resorted to a major subversion. The electronic and social media were forcefully orchestrating their agenda. By the campaign, some people were attempting to stoke communal hatred by misrepresenting Muslim community, the statement released by human rights activist S. Jeevan Kumar, poetess Vimala and writer Shader Moinuddin said. The group warned that social distancing that was followed to prevent coronavirus took the shape of social boycott against Muslims. The situation was a body blow to the spirit of nationwide solidarity against the virus. They demanded the Central and State governments to take severe action against persons responsible for it.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP bats for ‘ignored’ migrants||The sorry plight of scores of migrant workers from northern States of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha living in Medchal and Rangareddy districts was brought to the notice of Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy by TS BJP vice-president S. Malla Reddy on Tuesday. In a communication to the Union Minister, Mr. Reddy has charged that the these workers, staying in the areas of Gajularamam, Quthbullapur, NLC Colony, Doolapally, Kompally and so on, have been ignored by the State government in the sense that they have not received any dry rations or food from the local administration. The labour are usually involved in construction, industries, painting and carpentry, among other professions.
15 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Pay MNREGS wages in advance: HRF||The Human Rights Forum (HRF) urged the government of Telangana to ensure that villagers are paid in advance the MN Rural Employment Guarantee wages for rest of the lockdown period of three weeks and have them do the actual physical work after the coronavirus threat is no longer present. That way, livelihood security is ensured while the potentially disastrous spread of the virus is contained, said N Amar, State secretary and S Jeevan Kumar, TS&AP Coordination Committee member in a statement here. They said multiple districts in Telangana have started the MNREGS works and there is no practical way to ensure people travel to and from the village to the worksite and do digging or levelling or any other similar work without being next to each other and without handling the same tools and equipment. “There are about 70,000 people going for MNREGS works in Telangana and this number is bound to increase greatly over the next few days,” they said.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Classes on govt.-run TV channel||Telangana Social and Tribal Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Societies will organise online lessons for students of classes 6 to 10, from April 24 to May 30 through government-run ‘TSAT’ TV channel. Expert teachers will conduct online classes in different subjects including arts, music, health and sports every day. The students are advised to watch the ‘channel to prepare themselves for the next academic year. Secretary R.S. Praveen Kumar said it is a revolutionary initiative and will benefit lakhs of students even as he thanked IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao for entrusting the responsibility to him.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two cheated by fraudsters on pretext of KYC updation||The Hyderabad Cyber Crime Police launched an investigation into two KYC cheating cases. According to Cyber Crime ACP KVM Prasad, in the first instance, the accused called the victim and told him to download QuickSupport App. The app gives third parties remote access to a device. After this was done, the accused took control of the victim’s phone and the information on it and cheated him of Rs. 1.20 lakh. In another case, a victim received a call from the accused, seeking information to ‘update KYC’ details. The vitcim shared the UPI pin as well as password with them. The accused then cheated him of Rs. 1.90 lakh. Mr Prasad said the accused were operating from either Bengal or Jharkhand.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||for allegedly violating lockdown rules||Former parliamentarian and senior Congress leader V Hanumantha Rao on Tuesday was booked for allegedly defying lockdown rules and proceeding to garland a statue of principal architect of the Constitution B R Ambedkar. The incident took place in the morning near Tank Bund when Mr Rao reached the statue and paid his respects, said inspector Ch Saidi.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||For briefly||Tthe GHMC has extended the deadline for payment of Trade Licence fee to June 30, without additional penalty. The licence may be renewed without penalty for the year 2020-21 by paying fee online or at any of the GHMC’s citizen service centres or E-Seva centres, a press note said.
15 April 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Police bust booze party by mandal-level officials||Throwing social distancing norms to the wind, a group of mandal-level officials allegedly tried to celebrate a booze party defying COVID-19 lockdown norms in the Revenue Guest House in Madhira town late on Monday night but ended up being booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Acting on a tip off, the Madhira police raided the guest house late on Monday night and found Srinivas, a doctor of Maturipeta Primary Health Centre, reportedly hiding in a room inside the guest house, sources said. Three others who gathered at the guest house for the liquor party reportedly managed to flee minutes before the raid, sources added. The police seized a half-consumed liquor bottle and foodstuff from the guest house. Based on the preliminary inquiry, the Madhira police on Tuesday registered a case against Tahsildar Saidulu, Madhira sub-jailer Prabhakar Reddy and Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Extension Officer Raja Rao besides Dr. Srinivas. The four officials were booked under Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, and Section 188 (Disobedience to an order lawfully promulgated by a public servant and Section 269 (Negligently doing any act known to be likely to spread infection), police said. The local police launched a detailed investigation into the case to ascertain the involvement of others, if any, in the “liquor party.” The incident caused a stir in Madhira town amid the extended phase of coronavirus-induced lockdown.
15 April 2020||New Delhi,||CM welcomes extension, asks migrant workers to stay put||Welcoming Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to extend the nationwide lockdown till May 3, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to migrant workers on Tuesday to stay put and not believe rumours that Inter-State buses are available to ferry them beyond State borders. Addressing an online briefing, Mr. Kejriwal urged people to strictly follow all precautionary measures and guidelines. He also termed it a matter of concern that COVID-19 cases were increasing in the Capital and expressed disappointment over reports of certain elements trying to create a divide between different communities. He also said that he would visit some COVID-19 containment zones on Wednesday to take stock of the situation. “Today, the PM extended the lockdown till May 3, which I think was necessary. I believe that if we continue to strictly follow the rules for the remaining phase of the lockdown, we will be able to win our battle against COVID-19,” he said. Because Delhi is the Capital, it has been burdened with infections as many passengers from other nations landed in the city in the last two months. COVID-19 entered India because of this influx of people from those nations. An incident related to religious gathering also caused additional burden, said the Chief Minister. On April 9, the city saw 51 new cases, but on April 10, 183 new cases were reported, on April 11, 166 new cases were observed and on April 13, 356 new cases were reported. Operation SHIELD “We will overcome this. We have identified many containment zones in the last few days, which have been mapped by sealing areas that have three or more COVID-19 cases. Operation SHIELD has been implemented to contain the spread. We are using 60 high-tech sanitising machines. Around 14,000 personnel are working across Delhi to spread awareness about COVID-19,” he said. “I know that this lockdown is causing a lot of difficulties for the common man but we can only defeat COVID-19 by following the lockdown protocol systematically... We have started the process of providing Rs. 5,000 compensation to para-transit drivers. I have received some complaints regarding the non-functioning of the website, which is because the portal is overloaded as many people are registering on the portal at one go. I want to appeal to all the people registering on the portal to stay patient. Every one of you will be provided the compensation,” he said.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lockdown extension evokes mixed reactions from residents||With bated breath Delhiites tuned in on Tuesday morning to listen to what Prime Minister Narendra Modi was going to announce regarding the COVID-19 lockdown that would alter the way they lived their lives over the next few weeks. While some were disappointed that the PM did not announce even a partial withdrawal of the lockdown, others felt that the economic loss was a small price to pay when it comes to the overall heath and well-being of the country. ‘No time to prepare’ “We heard a few of the restrictions would be lifted and were hoping to open our shops from today but here the Prime Minister only reiterated that some restrictions would be lifted but no one knows what these are. Like last time, the government did not give us time to prepare for the second part of the lockdown,” complained Anand Kumar, a pan shop owner. Tanvir Aejaz, who teaches political science at Ramjas College, said that the lockdown had been depressing, with all sorts of plans having been put on hold. Mr. Aejaz was in the process of writing a chapter in a book to be published by Routledge he said, but without access to a library and to e-resources and journals, carrying out the work had become difficult. While the extension of the lockdown didn’t come as surprise to him, his daughter was of the belief that the Prime Minister would announce an end to it on Tuesday morning, he said. “She really wanted to return to school... but was disappointed,” he added. Sense of duty For Rajiv Jain, in South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), the work of engaging on the frontline as part of the sanitation department, carried with it a sense of duty. “We can’t be afraid,” he said. Though his family was perennially worried for his health and well being, Mr. Jain said that just as doctors, nurses and policemen, sanitation staff was on the frontline of this battle and had to do its job to help overcome the present crisis. The extension of the lockdown was inevitable, he said. For some, the impact that COVID-19 had on their life began even before the lockdown. Vinay Agarwal, an electronics trader at Nehru Place said that trade had been completely shut with his store employees having returned home. “Business was already down since when the virus hit China. Stocks were low and we weren’t sure how long we could manage,” he said. Now with the imposition and the extension of the lockdown, Mr. Agarwal said that the focus was on ensuring that there were enough resources to take care of his family, while extending whatever little help they could to the people that worked for them.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||83% drop in rape cases during lockdown||The Capital witnessed a sharp decline in heinous crime against women since the beginning of lockdown, the data shared by Delhi Police sources show. The data shared with The Hindu , recorded that from March 22 to April 12, the number of rape cases registered under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code stood at 23 as opposed to 139 in 2019, during the same time period leading to a decline of 83.4%. The data also stated that the number of cases registered on charges of assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty stood at 33 as compared to 233 in 2019 from March 22 to April 12 leading to a decline of 85.8%. Sudden provocation A senior police officer said that the reason of decline is that one of the major reasons of crime being committed is sudden provocation which is a rare possibility at this time. “There are no crowds, people don’t have the environment to get angry which means they can’t get provoked. There are no vehicles on the road which would lead to case of road rage or road accidents,” the officer said. Explaining the decreased rate of crime against women, the officer said that molestation has reduced because there is no visual contact. “No metro, no bus, no public transport for men to interact with women also plays a major role in reduction of crime. Another factor is people are not able to procure alcohol which is a trigger for many crimes,” he said adding that crime related to money and property have also reduced because everyone knows that any transaction will take place only after lockdown. Society and crime “If there is society, only then there is crime,” said another officer adding, “Social distancing has also kept crime at a distance”. Talking about rape and molestation cases which have been registered, the officer said that two reasons can be, “One, that these are old complaints which are turning into FIRs and two, some people are taking advantage of the situation knowing that going to report the case might be tough”. Last fortnight, March 15 to March 31, crime of all categories reduced substantially as compared to the same period in 2019. Molestation of women reduced from 144 to 72, robberies from 109 to 53, extortion cases from 13 to 3, theft from 1982 to 1243. According to the Delhi Commission for Women, cases of domestic violence have also not increased during the time when men and women are at home. “Upon analysis of the calls received by the Commission’s 181 Women Helpline, it has been observed that there has been no rising trend in domestic violence cases on the helpline. On the contrary, the number of cases reported to the commission have decreased,” they said in a statement.  There are no crowds, people don’t have the environment to get angry which means they can’t get provoked. There are no vehicles on the road which would lead to case of road rage or road accidents Senior police officer
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Released from jail early but still trapped in city due to lockdown||Vishal Sharma walked out of Tihar’s jail number 7 on April 4 — nearly eight months after he was lodged — into lockdown, with no means to return home. He has found refuge in a government school-cum-shelter home in Tihar Village near Subhash Nagar. When Sharma, a resident of Jalandhar, Punjab, called his parents to inform them about his release, they were both happy and sad. Premature release “They did not know I was going to be released early on April 4. When I called them in the evening after I was released, they were shocked. Their first reaction was to drive all the way and get me. For that, however, they would require a movement pass and I did not want my aged parents to go through the hassle,” he said. Sharma was supposed to be released in May but jail authorities decided to let him off early on account of good conduct, he said. Sharma, a software engineer, was in the U.S. when he was accused of quarrelling with a man online. “The man lodged a complaint in South Delhi’s Mehrauli police station in 2013 and then an FIR was registered under the IT Act. When I came to India in 2015, I gave my statement to the police and went back. I didn’t want the case to go to trial so I pleaded guilty in 2018 when I came here. I was sentenced to one-year imprisonment,” he said. But his parents bailed him out after three months and he went to Dubai for work. He finally surrendered again in August 2019 to complete the remaining period. Inside the jail, as everyone knew about the lockdown, Sharma said, “I never imagined I would say this, but I asked the jail authorities if I could stay in the prison till April 14 because I had no means to go home but they denied”. Shelter facility After stepping out, he asked one of the officials where could he possibly go and was informed of a shelter facility in SDMC Primary School in Tihar Village. He walked a few metres and then found an e-rickshaw which dropped him. With the stamp from Tihar jail still on his left arm, he walked into the school and has been staying and helping since then. At the government school, he has been tasked with maintaining a record of people who are taking food for the school authorities and to inform the District Magistrate office for further requirement. “It is probably because I am educated and most importantly, I am healthy,” he said. Talking about his time in the facility, he said that he spends all day surfing the Internet, watching videos and movies. A friend from Tilak Nagar met him on April 4 and handed him a mobile phone among other things. Jail hygiene As far as his time in prison is concerned, he said that officials seemed to be only concerned with their own hygiene and most prisoners are living like they used to. “If one person contracts the virus, they won’t be able to control the spread, such is the condition,” he said. Standing next to him was the school’s security guard Jasveer Singh Meharolia who has been managing the food and shelter along with school principal Anita Rani. A retired Indo-Tibetan Border Police Havaldar Dharamvir (59), hailing from Haryana’s Jhajjar, who is also stuck here praised the duo for maintaining hygiene at the school. He too shared his story of reaching the school. Before the lockdown, he had gone to Kanpur to collect rent for his property and got stuck. On April 6, he reached Delhi in a fruit vendor’s truck till Azadpur Mandi where he managed to get a newspaper. “I read about this school turning into a shelter for people. I took two lifts and then walked about 5 km to reach here,” said Mr. Dharamvir. Sharma listened to him intently. “I just can’t wait to go home,” he sighed.  I never imagined I would say this, but I asked the jail authorities if I could stay in the prison till April 14 because I had no means to go home but they denied Vishal Sharma
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNU to explore option of online examination||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Tuesday said that it was in the process of finalising the process of conducting examinations either through digital platforms or other means in view of the nationwide lockdown. The university said that it has been trying to devise feasible methods to continue academic activities but it was difficult to have a one-size-fits-all mechanism. “Given that JNU students come from different parts of India and there exists a complex set of problems, including Internet connectivity issues in rural areas, a flexible yet efficient mechanism will be devised by the Deans of Schools and Chairpersons of Special Centres to help students in completing their academic requirements,” Registrar Pramod Kumar said. Wider consultation will be held on April 16 and a final decision will be reported to the Academic Council. Reacting to the administration’s proposal, the JNU Teachers’ Association suggested that the period from mid-or end-May till mid- or end-July, including what would usually be summer vacation period, could be used to complete teaching and sessional work in regular mode.
15 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Bhandaras not an option as it is crowded’||At home with his wife and three children in Kotla Mubarakpur, Bashir Ahmed, a tailor from Jharkhand, reached out for help with rations on Tuesday. While he took loans from friends and managed to get some rice for a few days, Bashir said that they were likely to run out of food in the next couple of days. Going to the sites set up for free food was not an option either as they were often very crowded. “What if we contract the disease?” said Bashir, adding, “It would be better to die of starvation”. Going to such bhandaras meant waiting in line for several hours, with very low chances of actually getting any food, he said. He also said that he did not know any of the helpline numbers provided by authorities. While a local leader had got in touch to promise to make a ration card for him, Bashir said that no progress had been made on that end either.
15 April 2020||New Delhi,||Traders welcome lockdown extension||The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Tuesday welcomed the Centre’s decision to extend the lockdown to curb the spread of COVID-19. Though retail trade has suffered a loss of nearly Rs. 3.15 lakh crore as a consequence of the lockdown, the traders’ body termed the extension important to combat the pandemic.
15 April 2020||New Delhi,||DUTA opposes online exams||Strongly rejecting any proposal to conduct university examinations online, the Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) in a letter to the University Grants Commission on Tuesday sent a six-point list of suggestions on how to face the pandemic.
15 April 2020||New Delhi,||Air quality to dip in coming days||Air quality in Delhi is likely to deteriorate to ‘poor’ by Thursday, according to a forecast by the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research. The lockdown due to COVID-19, as independent and government agencies have pointed out, has pushed pollution levels in the city to a five-year low on account of reduced traffic, construction, road dust and industrial activity. On Tuesday, Delhi’s overall Air Quality Index was in the ‘moderate’ category. However, strong gusty winds are expected to lift local dust and push air quality towards the higher end of moderate to poor category by April 15.
15 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Identify quarantine facility sites’||The government has partnered with Google to display the locations of 1,047 food and night shelters on Google Maps, with more being added every day. The government has also directed District Magistrates to identify venues where paid quarantine facilities can be created. The nearest Delhi government food centre can be accessed by tapping ‘Food Shelter’ on the Google Maps app.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Movement passes to be valid till May 3: police chief||Validity of movement passes issued by the police for hassle-free movement during lockdown has been extended till May 3, said Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava on Tuesday. Those who are in possession of the passes will not have to apply for fresh ones, he said, adding that e-passes issued by the Delhi government will also be honoured.
15 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Youth clubs identifying poor in Odisha||Several poor families living in slums in Odisha’s Berhampur and adjoining areas, who are yet to be included in any scheme for government benefits, are being identified by volunteers. Youth clubs in 32 slums in Berhampur, united by the Youth for Social Development, have been able to identify 550 extremely poor families. Their plight due to loss of earning during the lockdown led to their identification. According to YSD director Bibhu Prasad Sahu, they plan to identify around 3,000 similarly left-out poor families in three revenue blocks of Ganjam district to provide them with basic requirements during lockdown. YSD, with the support of OXFAM-India, has started distributing food baskets containing 25 kg rice, 3 kg pulses, 1 litre edible oil, 2 kg soyabean and 1 kg salt to each of these 550 families of Berhampur. YSD volunteers identified the poor families in their locality that have not been included in any beneficial schemes of the government. This list was prepared in coordination with the Berhampur Municipal Corporation and the Ganjam district administration. These families were identified without any major physical movement by the members of the youth clubs. The process was coordinated through phone calls and whatsapp and a thorough scrutiny was done. The families in this list are mostly daily wage earning labourers, domestic workers, rickshaw pullers, roadside vendors and destitutes. Some leprosy patients not getting government benefits are also included. Members of the youth clubs are also keeping a track on the health condition of these families. These families are also being made aware of the sanitary measures to remain safe during the COVID-19 threat. Over 50-year-old K. Indira of Anadrigram slum of ward number 1 of the BeMC and her husband were in tears when they received the food basket. She has no NFSC or BPL card.
15 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM urges PM to review directive to industry on salary||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has urged the Centre to reconsider its directive asking industry, commercial establishments and shops to continue paying full wages to their workers during the lockdown period as it may push them to bankruptcy. He has asked the Centre to look for innovative solutions to protect the interests of workers without causing irreparable damage to industry and commercial establishments. The Chief Minister has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking reconsideration of the order of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The relevant part of the order reads: “... that all the employers, be it in the industry or in the shops and commercial establishments, shall make payment of wages to their workers, at their work place, on the due date, without any deduction, for the period their establishments are under closure during the lockdown.” Financial implications This part of the order, said the Chief Minister, needs reconsideration “as this will have huge financial implications for industry as well as shops and commercial establishments in the State and may push them into bankruptcy as the income of most of these units has completely stopped due to the lockdown.” On the other hand, Captain Amarinder said the workers, especially the low-paid ones, could be deprived of their income for no fault of theirs. The Chief Minister termed it imperative that the Centre should re-examine the matter and explore some innovative solutions “whereby the interests of the workers can be protected without impairing the financial health of commercial and industrial units beyond repair”. Pointing out that the State government had written separately to the Union Labour Ministry on the issue, Captain Amarinder urged the Prime Minister to advise them to take early action in this regard.
15 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Rapid testing in 2 Punjab districts||The Punjab government on Tuesday launched rapid testing facility from two districts of the State in a bid to eventually cover all the 17 hotspots of COVID-19 in a phased manner, even as one more death was reported. The government also announced that the State would follow complete curfew-lockdown till May 3, in line with the extension in the national lockdown. The death tally of COVID-19 patients touched 13 in Punjab on Tuesday. The State health department said the patient who died today was from Jalandhar. Eight new cases The State also reported eight new cases, taking the total number of positive cases to 184 in the State. Twenty-seven patients have so far recovered in the State, it added. Additional Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said the State government had received 1,000 rapid testing kits from the ICMR. “The two districts — S.A.S. Nagar (Mohali) and Jalandhar — have been given 500 kits each to start the testing process,” she said.  A simple test Ms. Mahajan added that the facility is likely to be extended to other districts depending upon the situation of suspected cases and availability of rapid testing kits. The testing would initially be done for all the patients attending flu corners of the government health facilities, who have symptoms for more than seven days. The test is done with a single prick to take a blood sample and the result is available in 15 minutes. Ms. Mahajan said instructions have been given to the districts to submit daily reports of the tests conducted along with the results. A portal has been created by the Department of Health — www.covid-19punjab.in — for gathering real-time information on testing and recording the patient’s profile,” she added. The State government has ordered 10 lakh rapid testing kits from the ICMR, with enquiries raised for another 10,000 in the open market. “With testing the key to controlling the spread of the pandemic, the government is planning to continuously expand its testing facilities, including that of rapid testing, over the next few day,” she said.
15 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab all set for wheat procurement||The Punjab government on Tuesday said all arrangements have been made for wheat procurement, which would commence on April 15. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce financial incentive for the farmers for bringing in their produce to ‘mandis’ after April 30 to check overcrowding. Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said around 135 lakh tonnes of wheat is expected to arrive during the ongoing season. Capt. Amarinder wrote to the Prime Minter and demanded that the Centre announce a bonus of Rs. 100 per quintal above the MSP to farmers for bringing wheat after May 1 and Rs. 200 per quintal after May 31.
15 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Policemen apologise to doctor||Three members of the Nagaland police’s Special Task Force (STF) on Monday apologised to a doctor for assaulting him during the lockdown in Kohima on April 3. They also tendered a public apology besides saying sorry to the members of senior medical officer Nosezol Sezo Rote’s family for their “unwarranted, indisciplined act” and “lack of respect” for a doctor on duty. “We will not repeat such an action in future and would sincerely serve the public for their safety and security,” the three personnel said in their apology. Dr. Sezo said that he forgave the STF personnel in “true Christian spirit”.  Fair price shops’ plea The All Nagaland Fair Price Shops’ Association has appealed to the State government to provide safety kits and personal protective equipment to fair price shop dealers in view of COVID-19- positive case in Dimapur. The association said their members needed protective gear as they come in contact with people. It also pointed out that State hospitals were underprepared in tackling the pandemic. The 33-year-old trader from Dimapur had on Sunday tested COVID-19 positive after he was shifted from a local hospital to the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital in Assam. The State government has come in for sharp criticism for claiming that the State was “fully geared up to handle the eventuality of a COVID-19 outbreak”. The critics included the extremist National Socialist Council of Nagalim.
15 April 2020||Jaipur,||Massive efforts to supply food to destitute persons||The Congress government in Rajasthan has launched massive efforts for supplying cooked food and dry rations to the poor and destitute, besides ensuring food security for migrant labourers stranded in several towns after being deprived of their livelihood during the lockdown, which has been extended till May 3. The allocations were made from a package announced at the start of lockdown. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s assurance that “no one will go to bed hungry” has prompted the administration in several districts to devise their own strategies for extending relief to poor and marginalised people. From ‘Jan Sambal kits’ in Udaipur and ‘Janata Rasoi Kendra’ in Bikaner to the ‘wheat bank’ in Kota, the efforts have brought two square meals a day to hungry persons. Mr. Gehlot, who had announced a Rs. 2,000 crore package for supporting disadvantaged people on March 23, said over a video conference with journalists here that 1 lakh food packets were being distributed everyday in Jaipur alone. The package is expected to benefit 1.41 crore families in the State. Residents of slum colonies in Jaipur’s Jhalana institutional area as well as labourers from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal in the Sitapura and Ramchandrapura industrial areas are among the beneficiaries. After a survey by the Labour Department found 10,000 industrial labourers in the city, the administration started supplying 5,000 kits of dry rations to them. Auto rickshaw driver Dhanraj Mali, 48, told The Hindu that the food assistance received from the government was the only source of sustenance for his family of six. Labourer Afroz Alam, 35, from Bihar’s Kaimur district, said he could not leave the city when the lockdown was enforced, and that he was getting food from Women & Child Department’s van twice a day. Government officials taking the trucks to different localities in Jaipur said the food packets were arranged mostly with the help of donors and institutions. “We try to find the people not covered in the social security schemes and give them food. This is not just a government action... We as individuals are also involved,” an official said. In Udaipur district, the task of providing food to everyone is performed by preparing long lists and matching them with distress calls received at the helpline. District Supply Officer Jyoti Kakwani said the free kits being supplied to needy families at their doorstep comprised 10 kg of wheat flour, 3 kg of pulses, 200 ml oil and 1 kg of salt, which was sufficient for a fortnight.  The “wheat bank” established in Kota district’s Kanwas block is supported by the farmers harvesting their rabi crops, who have contributed a portion of their produce. Sub-Divisional Officer Rajesh Daga said 114 quintals of wheat was so far stored for five villages and the committees headed by Sarpanches had been authorised to identify the beneficiaries. While the P.B.M. Government Hospital’s Help Committee in Bikaner is assisting the district administration in the preparation of nutritious food at a community kitchen, Congress leaders Subhash Maharia in Sikar and Maqbool Mandelia in Churu have mobilised resources in their constituencies to supplement the government’s relief efforts. No photography In a significant order, the State government has banned photography during the distribution of food packets and ration among the needy. “The food supply should be treated as a service and should not be made a medium of publicity and competition,” the order stated.
15 April 2020||Srinagar,||Kashmir starts barricading red zones amid criticism||The Srinagar administration on Tuesday set up concrete barricades around the red zones to isolate the population with presence of COVID-19 positive cases, evoking sharp response from locals and experts. Iron bars were erected on the main supply roads of Srinagar’s Natipora area, where two positive cases have been reported till date, by the Srinagar Disaster Management Authority. “The barricading is part of the new containment plan to restrain movement of locals in the designated red zones,” a senior official of the Deputy Commissioner’s office told The Hindu . A Srinagar administration spokesman clarified that two to three entry and exit points were kept open in all the Red Zones for essential services. “Several instances of damage and removal of barricades during nights necessitated locking a few locations,” he said. Kulgam District Magistrate Showkat Aijaz Bhat also ordered barricading of Reshipora and Naikpora areas. “It has become imperative to take stringent precautionary measures to break the chain of the infection.” The measures have evoked sharp reactions from locals and experts. “The barricades leave no scope for fire or health emergency to be addressed. There are wires already on roads and one fails to understand why they are not being used,” said Humayun Qaisar, former director of the All India Radio, Srinagar. “This will only impede your way to reach hospitals in an emergency. Maintaining social distance and staying at home are the only remedies,” Arshad Hussian, the Valley’s leading psychiatrist, said.
15 April 2020||New York,||Trump is not a king, says Cuomo||New York Governor Andrew Cuomo took to morning TV shows on Tuesday to push back against President Donald Trump’s claim of “total” authority to reopen the nation’s virus-stalled economy, noting that a President is not an absolute monarch. “We don’t have a king,” Mr. Cuomo told NBC. “We have a President. That was a big decision. We ran away from having a king, and George Washington was President, not King Washington. So the President doesn’t have total authority.” The Democratic Governor, whose State has become the epicentre of the COVID-19 pandemic in the U.S., was reacting to Mr. Trump’s assertion on Monday that “when somebody is President of the United States, the authority is total.” “Nope,” Mr. Cuomo said. ‘I wouldn’t do it’ When asked on CNN’s “New Day” what he would do if the Republican President ordered him to reopen New York’s economy, Mr. Cuomo said “If he ordered me to reopen in a way that would endanger the public health of the people of my State, I wouldn’t do it. And we would have a constitutional challenge between the state and the federal government and that would go into the courts and that would be the worst possible thing he could do at this moment.” Mr. Trump made his comments in reaction to moves by governors on both coasts Monday to form multi-State compacts to coordinate reopening society amid the global pandemic. More than 10,000 people in New York State have died from the coronavirus, Cuomo reported Monday. New York City’s once-overwhelmed 911 system is now seeing a more normal volume of medical calls, a sign the crisis could be ebbing and people are heeding messages to call only in a life-threatening emergency. The fire department, which runs the city’s EMS system, said it received 3,932 calls requesting ambulances on Sunday, down from a record high of 6,527 on March 30. The average volume last March and April was just over 4,000 calls. Sunday was the sixth straight day that the city’s medical call volume was lower than the previous day. Numbers for Monday will be released later Tuesday. The fire department said it’s too early to know exactly why volume has dropped.
15 April 2020||WASHINGTON,||Sanders backs Biden in fight against Trump||Bernie Sanders has endorsed Joe Biden’s presidential campaign, encouraging his progressive supporters to rally behind the presumptive Democratic nominee in an urgent bid to defeat President Donald Trump. “I am asking all Americans, I’m asking every Democrat, I’m asking every independent, I’m asking a lot of Republicans, to come together in this campaign to support your candidacy, which I endorse,” the Vermont Senator said on Monday in a virtual event with Mr. Biden. The backing came less than a week after Mr. Sanders ended his presidential campaign, which was centred around progressive policies such as universal health care. There were early signs that some leading progressives weren’t ready to fully follow Mr. Sanders’ lead. And Mr. Trump’s campaign was eager to use the endorsement to tie Mr. Biden more closely to Mr. Sanders, whose identity as a democratic socialist is objectionable to Republicans and some Democrats. Still, Mr. Sanders’ embrace of Biden was crucial for someone who is tasked with bridging the Democratic Party’s entrenched ideological divides. Democratic disunity helped contribute to Hillary Clinton’s loss to Mr. Trump in 2016. Early endorsement Perhaps eager to avoid a repeat of that bruising election year, Mr. Sanders offered his endorsement much earlier in the 2020 campaign. Mr. Sanders backed Ms. Clinton four years ago, but only after the end of a drawn-out nomination fight and a bitter dispute over the Democratic platform that extended to the summer convention. Mr. Biden and Mr. Sanders differed throughout the primary, particularly over whether a government-run system should replace private health insurance. Mr. Biden has resisted Mr. Sanders’ ‘Medicare for All’ plan and has pushed instead a public option that would operate alongside private coverage. Mr. Sanders said there’s “no great secret out there that you and I have our differences”. But Mr. Sanders said the greater priority for Democrats of all political persuasions should be defeating Mr. Trump. “We’ve got to make Trump a one-term President,” he said. “I will do all that I can to make that happen.” The coronavirus prevented Mr. Biden and Mr. Sanders from appearing together in person. But they made clear they would continue working together. Mr. Biden, 77, has already made some overtures to progressives by embracing aspects of Mr. Sanders’ and Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren’s policies. The day after Mr. Sanders exited the race, Mr. Biden came out in support of lowering the Medicare eligibility age from 65 to 60 while pledging to cancel student debt for many low- and middle-income borrowers. Mr. Trump’s campaign, meanwhile, seized on Mr. Sanders’ endorsement to underscore Mr. Biden’s embrace of some of his plans. In a statement, Trump campaign manager Brad Parscale said that “though Bernie Sanders won’t be on the ballot in November, his issues will be.” “Biden had to adopt most of Bernie’s agenda to be successful in the Democrat primaries,” Mr. Parscale said.
15 April 2020||COLOMBO,||Testing time as Sri Lanka fights virus||On Sri Lanka’s Health Promotion Bureau portal, the total number of COVID-19 positive cases, updated in real time, was 219 on Tuesday evening. Of those, 151 are active. Seven patients who contracted the virus have died, while 61 have recovered, according to the official bulletin. Compared to most other countries in the neighbourhood, the cases in Sri Lanka appear to be relatively under control, even as some within the medical community here call for more testing. Sri Lanka reported the first case of coronavirus late January, when a visiting Chinese tourist tested positive. Weeks after the patient recovered and left the country, authorities reported the first confirmed case of a Sri Lankan national, a tour guide. He tested positive on March 10, after he came in contact with a group of Italian tourists. Since then, Sri Lanka is focused on detecting infections, referring identified patients for treatment to dedicated COVID-19 centres, senior officials from the Health Ministry said. According to Dr. Deepa Gamage, consultant epidemiologist, Epidemiology Unit, Ministry of Health, the country’s main strategy includes contact-tracing, quarantining exposed persons, an active case search among close contacts through testing at the appropriate time after exposure, follow-ups and breaking links from the index cases. The current nationwide curfew, which came into effect on March 20, has proved crucial, in her view. “It helped the Health Ministry in controlling the community transmission and active case search as population movements are restricted. It also helped the surveillance system and the public health staff to identify close contacts early and track them down for testing at the right time,” Dr. Gamage told The Hindu . Curfew vs lockdown Despite its said effectiveness, however, the curfew has raised concern. Lawyers have repeatedly questioned the legal basis for the curfew even as police continue arresting “violators” on a daily basis. The State-run Sunday Observer newspaper on Tuesday reported that as many as 26,600 persons have been arrested for allegedly violating curfew regulations since March 20, when President Gotabaya Rajapaksa announced the nationwide curfew. Further, the strict curfew has meant that daily wage-earners, much like in India, have had little or no income for over three weeks.    Ceylon Today , an English daily, reported that on April 6, Jaffna police arrested 37 persons for entering town amid a curfew, claiming they didn’t have food. This, while Sri Lanka’s tea and garment exports and remittances from domestic workers abroad —all key foreign exchange earners — have been hit very badly. It is the apparent economic costs of the curfew, especially for Sri Lanka’s poor, that worry social health experts such as Dr. Prasanna Cooray. “We saw how, when the curfew was lifted even briefly, people panicked and rushed to the shops, greatly increasing the risk of transmission. A lockdown, on the other hand, is a widely accepted time-tested public health approach to controlling a pandemic. It gives us time to build public awareness and confidence, and is more sustainable,” he told The Hindu , adding that providing support and a steady supply of essentials would help the poor cope with the situation.  Time to test more? While arresting spread of the pandemic is one aspect, going forward, Sri Lanka would need to test a lot more than it is currently doing, argue public health experts and doctors, including the influential Government Medical Officer’s Association (GMOA). There is no official figure for the number of tests conducted so far, but Dr. Gamage at the Epidemiology Unit said the plan was to raise testing to about 1,500 a day in the coming weeks. Last week, Sri Lanka received a donation of 20,000 testing kits from the China-based Alibaba Group’s founder Jack Ma. “We have been very carefully implementing the strategy best suited for our country and our context, with existing limited resources,” she said, adding that in the past week all symptomatic cases tested were negative. Dr. Manuj C. Weerasinghe, head of Department of Community Medicine, University of Colombo, concurred: “People are misunderstanding the WHO’s recommendation of test, test and test. It really depends on the context, and our resources. We cannot waste testing kits by testing more people arbitrarily. We have to reserve the tests for those linked to the clusters currently identified. So far Sri Lanka has effectively prevented leakage into community.” Poll prospects? Meanwhile, Health Minister Pavithra Wanniarachchi has said that if Sri Lanka’s curfew is in place until April 19, the country could get “rid of COVID-19”, the Sunday Observer reported. Government critics read the comment as a precursor to the general elections that President Rajapaksa earlier said would be held as per schedule, but was later postponed due to the pandemic. “It is absurd to even think of elections now. How can we even predict when the infections will stop spreading?” asked Dr. Cooray, a former manager for South Asia, for the Global AIDS programme. “The election fever seems to have preceded the government’s COVID response, as poll nominations went on from March 12-19, even as our first few cases were being reported.”
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,||U.S. approves 2 missile deals with India||The U.S. State Department has approved two potential missile deals with India, for an estimated $92 million and $63 million. The first deal, for which Boeing is the contractor, is for 10 AGM-84L Harpoon Block II air-launched missiles and related equipment. These missiles can be fitted onto Boeing’s P-8I (Poseidon-Eight India) maritime patrol aircraft, and are intended to enhance India’s capability in anti-surface warfare while defending its sea lanes. The second deal, for $63 million and principally contracted with Raytheon Integrated Defense System, is for 16 MK 54 All Up Round Lightweight Torpedoes (LWT); three MK 54 Exercise Torpedoes (MK 54 LWT Kit procurement required); and related equipment. Also included are MK 54 spare parts, torpedo containers, two Recoverable Exercise Torpedoes (REXTORP) with containers and related equipment and support from the U.S. government and contractors. The torpedoes are expected to enhance India’s anti-submarine warfare capability and can be used with the P-8I. There are no known offset agreements for both deals, the State Department said, and any offset agreement will be defined in negotiations between India and the contractors. The Defense Security Cooperation Agency delivered the required certification to the U.S. Congress, notifying it of the possible sale. Under the U.S.’ Arms Export Control Act, Congress has 30 days to raise objections to the sale in the case of India. Delay in delivery The Indian Navy operates eight P-8I long-range maritime patrol aircraft procured under a $2.2 billion deal in 2009. In 2016, the Navy exercised an optional clause for four more aircraft in a deal worth over $1 billion. The first of the four aircraft was to be delivered in May and the deal completed by January 2022. However, the initial delivery is expected to be delayed by a couple of months due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “Boeing was to deliver the first aircraft slightly early in May, but due to the current situation it is expected to be delivered as per the original schedule in July,” a source told The Hindu on Tuesday. ( With inputs from   Dinakar Peri )
15 April 2020||Beijing,||McDonald’s says sorry for ‘racist’ ban by China store||U.S. chain McDonald’s has apologised after a sign telling black people they were banned from entering a branch in southern China prompted outrage online, following reports of discriminatory treatment towards Africans in the city. Tensions have flared between police and Africans in the southern metropolis of Guangzhou after local officials announced a cluster of COVID-19 cases in a neighbourhood with a large migrant population. As the row escalated, posts widely shared online showed a sign at fast food chain McDonald’s saying black people were not allowed to enter the restaurant. The chain apologised and a spokesman said the notice was “not representative of our inclusive values”. In an emailed statement, Mcdonald’s said it removed the sign and temporarily closed the Guangzhou restaurant “upon learning of an unauthorised communication to our guests”. Several Africans said they had been forcibly evicted by the police from their accommodation, were refused service at shops and restaurants, and were subject to mass testing and arbitrary quarantines.
15 April 2020||Beijing,||China approves trials for two more vaccines||China has approved clinical trials for two more experimental vaccines to combat the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), officials said Tuesday, as the world’s scientists race to beat the pandemic. China’s state food and drug administration on Monday approved one vaccine developed by a Beijing-based unit of Nasdaq-listed Sinovac Biotech, said Wu Yuanbin, an official from China’s Ministry of Science and Technology. Another vaccine, being developed by the Wuhan Institute of Biological Products and the Wuhan Institute of Virology, was approved, he added.
15 April 2020||Paris,||‘117 mn children face measles risk’||Around 117 million children worldwide risk contracting measles because dozens of countries are curtailing their vaccination programmes as they battle COVID-19, the United Nations warned on Tuesday. Currently 24 countries, including several already dealing with large measles outbreaks, have suspended widespread vaccinations, the World Health Organization and the UN’s children’s fund UNICEF said.
15 April 2020||New York,||‘Govt. support must for media’||The UNESCO has said news media should be recognised and supported by all governments as an “essential service” to stop the COVID-19 the spread of disinformation . It has urged governments “not to impose restrictions on freedom of expression that can harm the essential role of an independent press, but to recognise journalism as a power against disinformation...” said Guy Berger, Director for Freedom of Expression and Media Development, UNESCO.
15 April 2020||Hanoi,||Hanoi, April 14, 2020 (AFP) -||In an Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) summit held online on Tuesday, leaders of the virus-hit region warned of the crippling economic cost of COVID-19, calling for trade routes to reopen to protect jobs and food supplies, as well as the stockpiling of medical equipment.AFP
15 April 2020||WASHINGTON,||AP Source||Former President Barack Obama plans to endorse Joe Biden in a video on Tuesday, giving the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee a boost from the party’s biggest fundraiser and one of its most popular figures. The move was confirmed by a person familiar with the situation, who requested anonymity.AP
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Halting the march of rumours||In 1984, just as Delhi was engulfed by a pogrom against the Sikhs, the city was rife with the rumour that they had poisoned the entire water supply. Such rumours are not new. For centuries, European Jews were falsely accused of poisoning wells during wars, epidemics or civic unrest. Late 18th century Paris, witness to deep polarisation along class lines, was replete with the rumour that the rich had distributed lethal, contaminated flour to the poor. It is no surprise then that during the current COVID-19 pandemic, the rumour mill has Muslims deliberately throwing infected Rs. 2,000 notes on the road or Muslim street vendors spitting on vegetables and fruits. Periods of social stress or natural disasters are fertile ground for rumours, which not only spread like wild fire but have grave consequences — scapegoating, social boycott, violence and arson, even lynching and murder. The anatomy of rumours Where do rumours spring from and why and how do they spread so fast? Why do they thrive in a crisis? Not all rumours are pernicious. Some are potentially harmful, but like meteors in the sky, they disappear without much impact. But the ones that concern us here are toxic, occur with cataclysmic events and have devastating results. How must such rumours be checked? For a start, a rumour is an untested piece of information, opinion, report or story. Therefore, its veracity is doubtful. This unverified, ambiguous status is at the heart of a rumour, making it largely what it is. The moment an account is publicly demonstrated and accepted to be true or false, it ceases to be a rumour. In a sense then, a rumour’s truth or falsity is irrelevant to its efficacy or impact. Yet, every unconfirmed account is not a rumour. To become one, it must have other features. First, it must have a ring of truth. Something in it must make it contextually plausible for the listener or the reader. If an account is obviously bizarre — the sun will freeze overnight — or instantly falsifiable — Sachin scored a thousand runs in an ODI — it cannot become a rumour. Second, it short-circuits reason. Laced with passion, it works by seizing the collective psyche of victims. Suddenly, many start to believe it. This also lends it a third important feature — it circulates rapidly. Fourth, it manifests itself through an event. It is a passing gust, sometimes a tornado that leaves devastation in its wake but is ephemeral. Fifth, even when deliberately planted by only a few, it derives authority largely from the mob. Indeed, expert-authority is helpless against its seductive power. So, a rumour is a useful half-truth with strong emotional overtones that spreads fast, gripping individual minds to create a common consciousness and agency, often with grave social consequences. Rumours are efficacious in societies already prepared to receive them. What then are the conditions that beget them? First, a context where there is either an information void or an information overload. Unable to satisfactorily make sense of their world in these uncertain contexts, humans become cognitively unstable and anxious. To meet their cognitive needs, they are forced to rely on bits and pieces of available knowledge, on a patchwork of half-truths, a rag bag of allusions that together provide a fragile, uncorroborated framework for interpreting events. Rumours feed on this mythic framework. Add emotional anxiety to this cognitive framework, and one has a ready-made arena for rumours to flourish. An overheated mind burns all evidence that comes its way and surrenders to rumours, often in the service of emotional needs. Recall how, during demonetisation, amidst despair and anxiety at losing their own money, the poor still found emotional satisfaction in the rumour that crores of rupees secretly stored in cash by the rich were rendered worthless. Why they circulate Jamuna Prasad, a psychologist at Ranchi and Patna Universities, was among the first to establish a link between high levels of anxiety and the easy spread of rumours. Typically unrecognised when alive but posthumously celebrated as a pioneer in the social psychology of rumours, he did so by studying the social impact of the deadly Bihar-Nepal earthquake of 1934. Others have shown that, in times of acute crisis, people lean on knee jerk speculation and prejudice. A group consisting of ‘outsiders’, already distrusted and disliked, becomes an easy target, ready to be blamed for the current mess. Rumours succeed in societies ridden with an us-them syndrome, already polarised. Indeed, by binding people, creating temporary solidarities against a perceived enemy, they only deepen polarisation. No wonder they come in handy to those who benefit from such divisions. With uncertainty, fear, and the radical other already firmly in place, the last piece in the jigsaw puzzle is provided by a vivid story of grave wrongdoing by an ‘enemy’ who has allegedly unleashed the calamity. A rumour is that story. And the more horrifying, outrageous and disgusting the story, the greater its emotional resonance and quicker its spread. But as mentioned, to get kickstarted, it must already be believable. Some factual detail needs to be added to the fiction to give it plausibility that it otherwise lacks. It is a fact that the 1984 carnage compelled Sikhs to go to gurudwaras in large numbers. But then a baseless rumour surfaced that they were stockpiling arms, planning to attack and plunder posh colonies. The truth, altogether different, is that they went there seeking refuge. So, in the entire narrative, one detail was factually correct — and this little truth alone made a giant lie plausible. Likewise, it is a fact that many Muslims have experienced arbitrary violence, stigma and ostracisation in contemporary India. Given this threat, panic-stricken Muslims in Indore unjustifiably beat up a team of doctors who had come to test them for COVID-19. They easily succumbed to the rumour that it was not medical quarantine but needless, malicious separation from their families that motivated the visit. In polarised societies, fear and vulnerability make rumour-mongering easy. But there are other reasons for why they get widely entrenched. Three of them stand out. First, the desire to conform gets the better of a questioning mind. Rather than face sanction and ostracisation for sticking out, people find it safer to emulate members of their group. Second, ironically, a belief gets entrenched after like-minded people discuss it among themselves. Discussion has a cascading effect; the more one talks about it, the more the biased rumour grows. Third, a denial by a mistrusted outsider, no matter how great her expertise, only ends up solidifying rumours. Group dynamics in polarised societies works with a logic all of its own; every person is necessarily partisan. A neutral ground for impartial voices is simply unimaginable. Unwarranted fatalism So here in brief is the conundrum: Since societies can never be fully informed or secure, rumours are inevitable and in times of acute crisis, they are a menace. Yet, providing rational rebuttal or furnishing relevant information is unable to stem the tide. Must rumours then be viewed like a tsunami before which we are helpless? This fatalism is unwarranted. Transforming conditions conducive to rumours can reduce their efficacy. Depolarising society, loosening the grip of prejudice and calmly addressing the collective anxieties and obsessions of a group are deterrents, but, alas, only in the long run. In the short run, regulatory laws to check rumours are imperative. As also, the need to have critical insiders, those with authority within a community, deny injurious rumours, not least on the ground that eventually they harm even those who propagate, spread and exploit them. Community leaders and democratically elected office holders must play a crucial role in halting the march of dangerous rumours. Rajeev Bhargava is Professor, Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, Delhi
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Economic liberalisation and its faults||Dr. Manmohan Singh’s 1991-92 Budget speech marked the beginning of the end of the ‘Licence Raj’ in India. The Budget also announced the reduction of import duties and paved the way for foreign-manufactured goods to flow into India. Following this, most of the manufacturing sector was opened up to foreign direct investment. India’s industrial policy was virtually junked, and policymakers and the political leadership became contemptuous of the idea of self-reliance. A disastrous model In the late 1980s, transnational corporations started shifting the production base to smaller companies in developing countries, especially Asia, in search of cheap labour and raw materials. Developed countries supported the move because shifting the polluting and labour-intensive industries suited them as long as ownership remained with their companies. Thus, the world witnessed the development of global supply chains in many products starting with garments, wherein huge companies with massive market power dictated the terms to smaller manufacturers down the value chain to produce cheaply. Though many developing countries participated in the global production/value/supply chains, the substantial value addition in developing countries happened in a few production hubs, of which China emerged to be a major one. Manufacturing shifted from a decentralised production system spread across different counties to just a few locations. However, countries like China defied the logic of supply/value chains ensuring substantial value addition for themselves. They even carried out backward integration and thus emerged as global manufacturing hubs for certain products. In the case of health products, China became the global supplier of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API), personal protective equipment (PPE), and medical devices diagnostics. This has major implications for the COVID-19 outbreak. The resultant loss of manufacturing base has affected the ability of many governments, including of developed countries, to put up an effective response to the crisis. The U.K. Prime Minister asked the country’s manufacturers to produce ventilators in order to provide care for critical COVID-19 patients. Similarly, the U.S. President invoked the Defense Production Act of 1950 to ramp up N95 mask production. Under this legislation, the U.S. President can direct U.S. manufacturers to shift from their normal manufacturing activities to produce goods according to the directions of the government. Similarly, the French Health Minister stated that the country may nationalise vaccine companies if necessary. Spain nationalised all its private hospitals. Israel and Chile issued compulsory licences to ensure that medicines are affordable. In an indirect show of power, Chinese billionaire Jack Ma sent a flight containing 5.4 million face masks, kits for 1.08 million detection tests, 40,000 sets of protective clothing and 60,000 protective face shields to the U.S. This exposes the poor state of preparedness and dependence on imports for essential goods required to meet the challenge of any major disease outbreak. This shows that what is good for the company may not be good the country in all circumstances. So, the overwhelming objective of private sector-led economic growth has proved to be disastrous. In India, economic liberalisation has damaged the government’s capacity in two ways. First, it incapacitated the government to respond to emergencies based on credible information. The dismantling of the ‘Licence Raj’ resulted in the elimination of channels of information for the government, which is crucial to make informed policy choices. For instance, as part of the removal of ‘Licence Raj’, the government stopped asking for information from the manufacturer to file the quantity of production of various medicines. As a result, it has taken weeks now and a series of meetings for the government to gather information about stocks and the production capacity of pharmaceutical companies. Similarly, there were difficulties in finding out India’s production capacity of PPE, medical devices and diagnostics. The only government data available in the public domain is with regard to the production of vaccines. Second, the logic and policies of economic liberalisation seriously undermined the manufacturing capabilities of health products in India. The short-sighted policy measures, with the objective of enhancing profitability of the private sector, allowed the import of raw materials from the cheapest sources and resulted in the debasing of the API industry, especially in essential medicine. According to a report of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), nearly 70% of India’s API import is from China. The CII report lists nearly 58 API where the dependence is 90% to 100%. The disruption in the supply of API due to the COVID-19 outbreak has impacted the production of not only medicines required for COVID-19 patients, but also of other essential medicines in India. As a cost-effective producer of medicines, the world is looking to India for supply, but it cannot deliver due to its dependence on China, which has also forced India to impose export restrictions on select medicines. The dangers of dependency Similar dependence exists with regard to PPE, medical devices and diagnostic kits. The 100% dependence on Reagents, an important chemical component for testing, is limiting the capacity of the government from expanding testing because the cost of each test is Rs. 4,500. A population of 1.33 billion requires a large number of tests. Dependence on imports affects the ability of Indian diagnostic companies to provide an affordable test for all those who want to test for COVID-19. There are only a few domestic manufacturers who can produce PPE and medical devices like ventilators. Now the country is not able to get required quantities of test kits, PPE and parts of ventilators through importation. In the name of economic efficiency, India allowed unconditional imports of these products and never took note of the dangers of dependency. Global supply/production chains not only destroyed the manufacturing base in developed and developing countries; they also resulted in loss of jobs and poor working conditions in these sectors. Developing countries were asked to ease their labour protection laws to facilitate global production and supply chains popularly known as global value chains. As a result, people were forced to work in precarious working conditions without any social security net. This created an unorganised army of labourers and is preventing many developing country governments from effectively offering relief. A virus has made us rethink our obsession with the economic efficiency theory. It implores us to put in place an industrial policy to maintain core capacity in health products so that we can face the next crisis more decisively. K.M. Gopakumar and Ranja Sengupta work with the Third World Network
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||The pandemic and the contours of a health response||India is facing the worst public health crisis in its independent history which pales the earlier ones such as AIDS, SARS and H1N1 into insignificance. The speed at which the virus entered the country and the multiple challenges it has posed before the people and the government are unprecedented. While the initial response of the government was quick in restricting the entry and the quarantine of travellers from China and other South East Asian countries, the subsequent wave of international travellers has completely caught everyone off guard. Time to strategise The 21-day national clampdown following the janata curfew —and now extended — was and will be a timely step to stem the tide of rising infection levels. While this has confined the pool of infected persons to their homes, the aftermath of the lockdown when they will start moving out will pose enormous challenges. Central and State Governments should plan to adopt a public health approach to address the situation and use days ahead to ready with the strategy and tools for rolling it out. We should realise that despite the best response, the epidemic will not be going away for all time to come. It is a novel virus and people have no immunity to protect themselves. Prevention, care and support are the only strategies that will succeed in mitigating the crisis. This will need a carefully planned public health approach which identifies the risks based on evidence and pro-actively intervenes to mitigate them. The foremost task is to identify people and the households of those who returned from abroad in the last two months and who have turned symptomatic. They need to be immediately quarantined either in their homes or in community care centres identified by the State and district authorities. Civil society should be invited to be partners in organising the care centres and managing them. Only the serious cases among them should be referred to hospitals for treatment. The intermediate step of quarantine will check a huge rush of patients even with minor symptoms to hospitals, choking health-care facilities and depriving the more serious and needy cases of emergency medical care. To supplement this effort, large-scale supply of personal protective equipment (PPE) including gloves and face masks would become necessary. Community organisations can be mobilised to procure and supply such equipment to complement government efforts. Ventilator demand will also go up very soon and advance planning for emergency procurement would be necessary. Focus on counselling As the flood of patients starts increasing in hospitals, counselling services for patients and members of their families would be of utmost necessity. Large number of counsellors can be mobilised at short notice from existing national programmes and communities which have the necessary experience in counselling. Trained counsellors in care centres and hospitals can relieve the huge pressure on doctors and nursing staff and will make a huge difference to the quality of care to infected persons. Families of infected persons face a challenging task. Until they show symptoms of COVID-19, they need to remain in isolation and at the same time look after their wards who are admitted in care centres and hospitals. Local communities are best suited to provide support to the families of infected persons and ensure that they are not stigmatised in the locality or neighbourhood. In metropolitan cities, resident welfare associations and mohalla committees can play a very proactive role in addressing this need. In the smaller towns and villages, the district administration can mobilise local communities to provide supporting services. On testing A critical gap in the level of response is the limited testing facilities available for people to know their COVID-19 status. Current testing procedures which depend on viral tests are expensive and time consuming. It is high time that rapid testing is introduced on a large scale in the country using the window of opportunity the lock down provides. Rapid test kits should be made available in care centres and people who test negative should be asked to remain in isolation at home. As these test kits become available in large quantities at a lower cost, community-level testing can be introduced to enable people to check their COVID-19 status if they get accidentally exposed to the risk of infection. This measure will also help in normalising the disease in the community and lift the stigma and fear surrounding it to a great extent. Large-scale migration of daily wage earners and construction workers from metropolitan cities, in the aftermath of the lockdown, has resulted in enormous challenges for the administration. Providing shelters and protecting them from loss of employment is a socioeconomic problem, where community involvement can ensure that the benefits governments are announcing actually reach the needy and those who deserve them. Community-based organisations should also help in mobilising Corporate Social Responsibility, or CSR, funds for mitigating the misery migrant families now face and for no fault of theirs. The fight against COVID-19 can only be won when we get a preventive vaccine or a therapeutic drug on hand. Until then, the threat of the virus returning when conditions are conducive to its spread cannot be ruled out. Only a measured public health approach with community participation will help the government in ensuring a sustained response to stem its tide. J.V.R. Prasada Rao is a former Health Secretary, Government of India. The views expressed are personal
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Invasive, alien, most fearsome||Given the little knowledge we have about its origin, and given its rapid spread and massive impact on our lives, novel coronavirus is the most fearsome invasive alien species mankind has ever had to confront. Invasive alien species are species of plants, animals and microbes which move out of their native location into alien locations and cause economic, ecological and health damage. Features of an alien invasive species All invasive alien species remain unproblematic in their land of origin where natural enemies limit their population increase. But when a species arrives at a new location, it escapes from the control of its natural enemies and its population explodes. In the case of SARS-CoV-2, the individual body of each and every host is a landscape in itself. Unlike in the case of SARS, where the virus jumped from bats to civet cats to humans, the intermediate host for SARS-CoV-2 remains unknown. The host is devoid of immunity against the pathogen. With no prior exposure to it and no antibodies, the body initiates a violent response against the new intruder, which could prove fatal. In its new location, the invasive species can grow and reach the reproductive stage. One way of controlling biological invasion is to slow the spread. The idea of imposing lockdowns originated from this logic of slowing the spread. Unlike plants and animals which can be visually encountered, we need to contact-trace and test people to find out the extent of spread of this pathogen. A salient feature in the pattern of the spread of invasive alien species is the formation of satellite populations. SARS-CoV-2 has established the largest number of satellite populations in the shortest period of time. Every satellite population has the potential to spread the virus on its own. This spread is a function of the reproductive rate of the virus (R0), which is defined as the number of cases, on average, an infected person will cause during the infectious period. For SARS-CoV-2, the pathogen emission rate from an infected person is yet to be computed. The dispersal ability is closely linked to social contact, which is influenced by the level of urbanisation. The susceptibility of new landscapes (new human bodies) is a function of health, which again is a function of age, disease history, and how much the respiratory system has been challenged by ways of air pollution, respiratory diseases or smoking. R0 is a critical value in the case of all invasive alien species. If it is less than 1, the disease will vanish without causing an epidemic. As it goes above 1, the probability of an epidemic increases. In the absence of precise data for computing the R0 of SARS-CoV-2, the estimated value is somewhere between 1.5 and 3.5 and is zeroing in on 2.2. There are mainly four reasons for not arriving at a precise value. First, the basic properties of this viral pathogen, such as the infection period, are unknown. Second, we don’t know how many mild cases of infections that do not result in symptoms have been missed but are spreading the disease. Third, we don’t know about the precise susceptibility of a wide range of communities with different social structures. Fourth, no one knows the future impact of measures such as travel restrictions, social distancing and self-quarantine and how they influence the virus’s continued spread. This means that our understanding of SARS-CoV-2 transmission is data-deficient. The SARS-CoV-2 outbreak has brought the global economy to its knees. The virus has infected 1.9 million, killed more than a lakh and put a huge strain on health systems. But its impact on the ecology is positive. Carbon emissions have decreased, and nitrogen dioxide emissions in northern Italy, Spain and the U.K. have faded. The sustainability of improved air quality will be seen soon. The question of herd immunity The critical question is how long the pandemic will last. It will probably continue until the pathogen reaches the point of naturalisation, i.e., when it stops being invasive. This means that the quicker the ‘herd immunity’, the faster the pandemic will end. Since we don’t have a vaccine yet, the only other way to build immunity is to do so naturally, which is happening in the recovered cases. Herd immunity has to rise to a level at which disease transmission will reduce considerably or become impossible. Until then, the lockdown will ensure that the R0 value is maintained as low as possible. We will know only when the lockdown is lifted whether keeping the R0 value well below 1 for a reasonable period of time will really help us. The length of the period during which infected ones, with and without symptoms (we don’t know the length of this period yet), spread the disease will decide how best we move out of the pandemic and how much time nature will get to repair itself. T.V. Sajeev is former coordinator, Asia-Pacific Forest Invasive Species Network, and Senior Principal Scientist, Kerala Forest Research Institute
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Polls during a pandemic||Even as elected leaders in some countries are using the COVID-19 pandemic as a pretext to clamp down on citizens’ basic freedoms, South Korea is shining a bright light on Asia and beyond by holding its parliamentary polls on April 15. The National Election Commission is replicating the government’s successful disease-control measures in the quadrennial elections for the 300-member unicameral National Assembly. Voters are required to wear face masks and gloves, maintain social distancing, and pass a temperature check before casting their ballot. Those who fail the screening will vote in adjacent booths. Provisions have been made for those under quarantine to exercise their franchise by post. A quarter of eligible voters are said to have cast their ballot over the weekend. In a sign of a return to normalcy, the proportion willing to vote this time is higher than it was in the run-up to the 2016 election. While many expatriates are unable to vote due to the restrictions around the world, some are reportedly even planning to mount a legal challenge against this deprivation. A different approach South Korea’s approach marks a stark contrast to the stance of other governments in Southeast Asia. Last week, Cambodian lawmakers approved legislation authorising a state of emergency to contain the spread of the virus despite widespread concerns that this would give unchecked power to Prime Minister Hun Sen. In March, Thailand Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha restricted reportage on the epidemic, ostensibly to prevent the spread of public fear. The President of the Philippines, Rodrigo Duterte, warned violators of the lockdown that they would be shot by the police. He has also seized control of the country’s hospitals, transport and the media. South Korea’s impressive record in tackling the COVID-19 outbreak also holds important lessons for the free world. In the U.S., many states have deferred their presidential primaries ahead of the November U.S. elections. In a narrow majority decision, the U.S. Supreme Court overruled a lower court ruling that extended the deadline in Wisconsin for voters to submit absentee ballots. “Extending the date by which ballots may be cast by voters — not just received by the municipal clerks but cast by voters — for an additional six days after the scheduled election day fundamentally alters the nature of the election,” said the court. Wisconsin had sought a deferment of the date to submit postal ballots due to a surge in applications for this alternative means of voting, as well as severe staff shortages and insufficient personal protection equipment. As citizens weigh the potential implications for personal health from gathering at the polling station and exercising their constitutional right to free suffrage, there is a growing danger of disenfranchisement of millions of U.S. voters. An unpredictable election It is possible to view Seoul’s general election either as a referendum on the government’s handling of the public health emergency or as a non-issue given that the country has fast returned to normalcy. Either way, President Moon Jae-in’s poll ratings, as also of his Democratic Party, have surged in recent weeks. The main opposition party, the conservative United Future Party, is reeling from the effects of the 2017 impeachment of former President Park Geun-hye. The government’s handling of trade tensions with Japan following the raging controversy last year over Seoul’s demand for additional reparation for Japan’s Second World War atrocities have receded to the background. Yet, the ruling party cannot necessarily count on a comfortable majority, as surveys point to strong political partisanship among voters, as also large numbers of undecided voters. The strength of the mandate will crucially determine Mr. Moon’s ability to realise his aim of rapprochement with North Korea and to implement his unfinished social welfare agenda at the end of his single-term tenure in 2022. garimella.subramaniam@thehindu.co.in
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||A narrowing window||It appeared inevitable, and the Centre has accepted the view of several States to extend the national lockdown for the novel coronavirus until May 3. The decision provides comfort and continuity to those in charge of containing the pandemic, but it is a small window within which an orderly exit must be planned. While announcing the extension, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke of incentivising areas that avert a spike in cases — over 10,000 nationally — through rigorous enforcement of the restrictions. These areas are to be allowed limited exemptions in activity after April 20, once they pass the ‘litmus test’ and are not at risk of becoming hotspots. Such a scheme naturally presumes that everyone can get a free or highly affordable confirmatory test for viral infection or recovery, which could place them in a green territory. Again, this has to be aligned with well-recognised protocols on healthy behaviour to stop new infections. The Centre’s lockdown is the most rigorous globally, but it has witnessed severe gaps in implementation. Although the Home Ministry’s original 21-day order and subsequent enabling amendments on farming had clear clauses, many States did not abide by them. So much so, the Union Home Secretary has had to restate the order’s provisions allowing inter- and intra-State movement of goods vehicles. Active follow-up with State governments and clear instructions to enforcement agencies are necessary to help the public adhere to a curfew. The Prime Minister, who has affirmed the need to make full use of the rabi harvest, must ensure that intentions translate into results, and produce reaches the market. Failed communication — States are partly responsible — has resulted in distressing instances of arbitrary and often violent policing. Further extensions of a lockdown appear less and less feasible, as pressure builds up in an economy rendered moribund by the coronavirus. Millions of workers are already dependent on meagre income substitution measures and food donations, and many face escalating private debt. The Finance Ministry’s welfare schemes need to be reviewed, and enhanced relief provided to all workers rendered unemployed through funds infusion and provision of food for at least six months. Those who have lost jobs, and senior citizens, should be able to enrol in the PDS online immediately. A gradual reopening of activity after May 3, going beyond essential services will require classification of infection risk for various groups, such as school and college students, teachers, and workers. The reality of COVID-19 is that there cannot be a return to normal overnight, and governments must plan for a sequential restoration of activity. The effort should be to enable the workforce, ensuring its health and safety.
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Corona bond||Deliberations on the €540-billion emergency rescue package that Eurozone Finance Ministers agreed on Thursday underscore the difficult road ahead to chart the economic recovery from the coronavirus crisis. They also decided to open an emergency credit line in a fortnight, raise the lending capacity of the European Investment Bank and back the European Commission’s €100- billion unemployment insurance scheme. Separately, the European Central Bank in March decided to expand its asset purchase programme by €750-billion over the next nine months, even as its President, Christine Lagarde, pledged to do whatever it took to save the single currency. Thursday’s steps have been hailed as swift and substantial. But the current formula has stoked controversy, like during the economic meltdown, over burden-sharing between the richer members in the north and the poorer states in the south. The Netherlands initially opposed demands from Italy, the country worst affected by the virus outbreak, that the pandemic credit to be issued by the European Stability Mechanism be stripped of any conditionalities. Rome’s reasoning that the public health emergency was universal and symmetrical may have influenced the final deal, which allows governments borrowing from the bailout fund to spend up to 2% of GDP on direct and indirect costs of the pandemic without strings attached. All the same, the emergency package has drawn furious opposition from the populist Five Star Movement in Italy’s ruling coalition as also the far-right and Eurosceptic Northern League, linked to apprehensions about intrusive EU inspections. But a key concern is the frustration among Rome’s pro-European elites with what they regard as reluctance by Brussels to extend meaningful support. France, Italy and Spain, the bloc’s three largest economies, with six other members in the euro area wrote in late March to the European Council President, renewing calls for joint issuance of Eurobonds, now dubbed corona bonds. Ms. Lagarde has backed such a move. The idea of mutual issuance of debt has drawn only a lukewarm response from Berlin, Amsterdam and the bloc’s other members. Significantly, cracks have appeared in the Netherlands’ ruling coalition over the government’s orthodox fiscal stance, where the opposition Labour and Green parties already advocate Eurobonds. With the Eurozone’s three largest economies after Germany throwing their weight behind the new financial instrument, it may not be long before the bloc’s fiscal hawks rethink their stance. The economic and political consequences of failure on this count would hamper the post-pandemic recovery, and could affect European solidarity. European leaders would do well to address this fact when they formulate an economic recovery after the crisis.
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||King Mahendra heads Nepal Ministry||Kathmandu: King Mahendra of Nepal to-day (April 13) accepted the resignation of the Prime Minister, Mr. Kirti Nidhi Bista, and formed a new ministry under his own chairmanship. This is the first time that the King has formed a ministry under his own chairmanship since the Panchayat system was introduced in the Kingdom in earlier sixties. Within hours of the announcement of the new 13-man Council of Ministers, King Mahendra administered the oath of office to the incumbents at a special ceremony at the palace. The new ministry does not include Mr. Kirti Nidhi Bista and the Home Minister Mr. Kharta Bahadur Singh who have submitted their resignations and are now seeking re-election to the Rashtriya Panchayat having finished their previous term of five years.
15 April 2020||Chennai,||World economy to contract by 3%: IMF||The COVID-19 pandemic is having a ‘severe’ effect on the world economy which is expected to contract by 3% in 2020, “much worse” than the 2008-09 financial crises, as per the International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) World Economic Outlook (WEO). India’s growth is expected to dip to 1.9% in 2020 and rebound to 7.4% in 2021, as per the WEO released by the IMF on Tuesday. India’s growth projection for 2020 is 3.9% less than what was projected in the January update to the WEO while its rebound in 2021 is 0.9 % higher than the January projection (for India, forecasts are on a fiscal year basis). World growth rates have been revised downwards by more than six percentage points since the January WEO update. “As countries implement necessary quarantines and social-distancing practices to contain the pandemic, the world has been put in a great lockdown,” the IMF’s chief economist, Gita Gopinath, said in a statement. “The magnitude and speed of collapse in activity that has followed is unlike anything experienced in our lifetimes,” she said. Assuming the pandemic fades in the second half of this year, with containment efforts gradually easing up, the world economy is projected to grow at 5.8% in 2021 as economic activity normalises, aided by policy, the IMF said. The recovery in 2021 is partial, Ms. Gopinath said, and below the pre-virus estimates for 2021. “The cumulative loss to global GDP over 2020 and 2021 from the pandemic crisis could be around $9 trillion, greater than the economies of Japan and Germany, combined,” she said. The global forecast is characterised by ‘extreme uncertainty,’ the IMF warned. The economic impact of the disease depends on a number of factors and their unpredictable interaction, including the pandemic’s pathway, the intensity and effectiveness of containment efforts, significant tightening of global financial market conditions and so forth. “Necessary measures to reduce contagion and protect lives will take a short-term toll on economic activity but should also be seen as an important investment in long-term human and economic health,” the IMF said, calling on policymakers to make targeted fiscal, monetary and financial sector interventions to support impacted households and businesses. Fiscal measures should be two-fold, cushioning the impact on the most-exposed households and businesses and reducing firm closures, i.e., preserving economic relationships. Emerging Asia is projected to be the only region that grows in 2020, at a rate of 1% — still more than 5 percentage points below the previous decade’s average. In China, where the coronavirus’s impacts were first recorded this year, the first quarter economic activity could have contracted by 8% year-on-year. China is projected to grow at 1.2% in 2020 and 9.2% in 2021.
15 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Parekh for easing 90-day NPA deadline norm||HDFC Ltd. chairman Deepak Parekh has suggested a relaxation in non-performing assets (NPA) classification to a period of six months. Instead of 90 days, a loan should be classified as NPA if repayment is due for 180 days, he said, speaking at a knowledge series webinar organised jointly by real estate industry bodies NAREDCO and CREDAI. He also suggested that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) approve one-time restructuring of loans. “It is a better solution to renegotiate payment timelines rather than getting into a legal tangle of force majeure. Unwinding from this legal mess will be very painful,” he said. Mr. Parekh also said despite the rate cut by RBI, bond yields had not fallen as the markets expected that the government would soon intervene for funding. He also said since banks were averse to risks, recommendations had been made to the RBI to directly purchase corporate bonds/commercial papers, as primary markets had died down. “All this, is for a short period of time. RBI needs to act quickly,” he said. “We don’t need to be gloomy. Firstly, we have enough foreign reserves. India is one of the top countries receiving foreign funds from NRIs. This helps to balance our currency,” he said. Mr. Parekh advised real estate developers to liquidate unsold inventory to generate funds rather than going for costly borrowings to deal with the COVID-19 crises. As per a recent report by JLL, developers are sitting on unsold inventory worth Rs. 3,70,000 crore. “A bit of compromise in the prices by developers will revive the real estate sector on demand stimulus in the next six months. Buyers who are in liquidity should buy properties now and the inventories will be available on good price,” Mr. Parekh was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the developers’ bodies. “Post the lockdown scenario, it won’t be a situation where the entire work force would want to work from home. People would still need to meet others; so in the long run, the demand for commercial real estate will not evaporate,” he said. Mr. Parekh has asked State governments to waive stamp duty for a limited time period to help revive demand.
15 April 2020||MUMBAI,||India Inc. welcomes decision on lockdown extension||Chiefs of India Inc. on Tuesday welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to extend the lockdown in the country till May 3, 2020. Anil Agarwal, chairman, Vedanta Resources, in a tweet said, “As per our PM’s address, if we all keep patience and follow the rules, we can defeat a pandemic like Corona. The country will stand together by 7 commitments sought by our Prime Minister.” Naveen Jindal, chairman of Jindal Steel and Power Limited (JSPL) said, “Lockdown till 3rd May is a well-thought out and much-needed plan in the wake of the threats posed by #COVID19. The PM’s decision to monitor the effectiveness of implementation and then gradually offer relaxations post April 20 must be welcomed.” Pawan Munjal, chairman, Hero MotoCorp, said, “The decision to allow graded relaxation and partial opening of certain areas from April 21 that show improvement is also welcome. While continuing to play its role in supporting the government through various means and measures, Corporate India looks forward to a suitable stimulus package from the government that will give a boost to our economy. “At Hero MotoCorp, we remain committed to extending our resources to support the government and also safeguarding everyone in our larger ecosystem, including our employees and their families.” Chandrajit Banerjee, Director General, CII, said, “The COVID-19 curve trajectory as of now required a fitting containment response and Prime Minister’s decision for continuation of the lockdown is necessary to avert a larger humanitarian crisis. His attention to ensuring that harvesting of the rabi crop continues and to taking care of distressed persons is very appropriate.” CII had submitted its recommendations targeted at providing relief specifically to MSMEs, to the government, and hopes that support measures would be announced for the industry to tide over the crisis.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Welspun’s Gujarat unit resumes operations||Welspun Corp Ltd. on Tuesday said it has partially resumed operations at its plant in Anjar, Gujarat. The company said it has resumed manufacturing of LSAW pipes at the facility. These pipes are used in the petroleum and natural gas industries. “With the requisite permission granted by district administration at Anjar, we have partially resumed our operations at our plant at Anjar, with full compliance with the conditions of operation as stipulated in the permission to avoid any infection due to COVID-19,” it said. This is a partial re-start, and operations will be scaled up gradually, the company said. Welspun Corp Ltd. (WCL) is one of the world’s leading welded line pipe manufacturers and the flagship company of the Welspun Group.
15 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Criminals use COVID-19 for phishing, says KPMG||COVID-19 pandemic has people worried, and with that concern comes an urgent need to keep data safe and secured. Organised crime gangs are exploiting this fear, uncertainty and doubts to target individuals and businesses in myriads of ways. Many existing organised crime groups have changed their tactics to use COVID-19 related materials on health updates, fake cures, fiscal packages, emergency benefits and supply shortages. Since mid-February, global professional network KPMG said in a paper, member-firms have seen the rapid build-out of infrastructure by cybercriminals to launch COVID-19-themed spear-phishing attacks. These are aimed at luring the targets to fake websites seeking to collect Office 365 credentials. KPMG cited the examples of campaigns, including COVID-19-themed phishing e-mails, attaching malicious Microsoft documents which exploit a known Microsoft vulnerability to run malicious code. On safeguards, Akhilesh Tuteja, global cybersecurity practice co-leader and partner at KPMG India, said, “A firm must provide remote workers with clear guidance on how to use remote working solutions, including how to make sure they remain secure and tips on identification of phishing while calling to ensure that all provided laptops have up-to-date anti-virus and firewall software.”
15 April 2020||New Delhi,||Clear MSME dues, Gadkari tells India Inc.||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday asked India Inc. to clear huge outstanding payments to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) at the earliest in order to ease the distress in the sector and inject liquidity into the market. In a discussion with senior industry members of FICCI via video conferencing, Mr. Gadkari also assured them of full cooperation from the government in restarting their enterprises after the lockdown is lifted. “We were earlier considering framing a law entailing stringent rules regarding such payments. However, now is not the right time for this. We do not wish to go down that road,” the Minister said.
15 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Hindalco seals $2.8 billion Aleris deal||Hindalco Industries Ltd. has completed the acquisition of Aleris Corporation by its wholly owned subsidiary Novelis Inc. for an enterprise value of $2.8 billion. The acquisition of the U.S.-based rolled products company, Aleris Corporation, positions Hindalco Industries as one of the world’s largest aluminium companies, with a global footprint spanning 49 manufacturing facilities in North America, Europe and Asia. “The closure of this deal amidst challenging market conditions, reflects our conviction in the Aleris business and its value to our metals portfolio,” said Kumar Mangalam Birla, chairman, Aditya Birla Group.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||NFL ensuring unhindered supply of urea||The Centre on Tuesday said state-owned National Fertilizers Ltd. (NFL) is working at over 100% capacity and ensuring unhindered supply of urea to farmers during the lockdown, now extended till May 3, to prevent the spread of COVID-19. NFL CMD Manoj Mishra said production at its five units is “going on in full swing,” making more than 11,000 tonnes daily and dispatching them regularly to the market.  The nodal fertilizer ministry said NFL maintaining optimum operations of the plants in difficult times is a big success story, especially towards fulfilling the government’s commitment to the farming community.
15 April 2020||Mumbai,||RIL’s Rs. 9,000-cr. NCD issue on April 16||To cash in on cheap funds flooding the debt market via targeted long-term repo operations (TLTRO) route, Reliance Industries (RIL) will raise Rs. 9,000 crore through an NCD sale to refinance the existing high-cost rupee debt. RIL is sitting on a debt pile of over Rs. 1.54 lakh crore as of March 2020. According to a filing, RIL is launching a Rs. 9,000-crore NCD issue on April 16 and the proceeds will be used to repay existing rupee debt. If it raises the targeted Rs. 9,000 crore, it will be almost a tenth of the Rs. 1-lakh-crore liquidity the RBI promised to pump into the debt market via TLTRO.
15 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Sanofi, GSK partner for COVID-19 shot||Sanofi and GSK have signed a letter of intent to develop an adjuvanted vaccine for COVID-19. Sanofi will contribute its S-protein COVID-19 antigen, which is based on recombinant DNA technology. This technology has produced an exact genetic match to proteins found on the surface of the virus, and the DNA sequence encoding this antigen has been combined into the DNA of the baculovirus expression platform, the basis of Sanofi’s licensed recombinant influenza product in the U.S. GSK will contribute its proven pandemic adjuvant technology which can reduce the amount of vaccine protein required per dose.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘For now, it looks like I’m stuck here’||Presently stuck in Bad Soden, a small German town, Viswanathan Anand chose to gainfully use the lockdown situation prevailing in most countries. On Anand’s initiative, P. Harikrishna, Vidit Gujrathi, B. Adhiban, K. Humpy and D. Harika joined him to play simultaneous chess online, with over 100 players across the globe for more than five hours, on Saturday. The event raised more than $6000 for the PM-CARES Fund. Anand played 21 eligible players (having FIDE or chess.com Blitz rating of 2000 or lower). These players donated $125 each to play Anand, who won 18 and drew three. A ‘satisfied’ Anand reflected on what led to the event and life in Bad Soden. What made you come up with this fund-raising initiative? Well, these days, people are going to spend a lot of time online. And chess is going to be one of their favourite activities. So I thought if we get a chance for them (chess lovers) to engage with Grandmasters, it’ll be fun, a little bit special and raise some funds, as well. How did you get started? Basically, I reached out to our team from Batumi (2018 Olympiad). For Humpy and Harika, I did not speak to them personally, I’m glad they came on board. On your experience of playing online simultaneously with 21 players... It was a bit disorienting at the beginning. I was trying to make moves, but it would always open the next board. I’m sure if I do it now, I’ll be okay, But that was a bit confusing. It was good fun and I thought the participants displayed a very good level. And generally, I was satisfied with my play, but in every game, there were some moments of very strange lapses of concentration. But I also got lucky in a couple of games, I must admit. How do you look at the coming days? Yes. I’m very much here. It doesn’t look like that the lockdown is going to be lifted anytime soon. I’m going to be in Germany till flights resume, flights that get me all the way home because I don’t want to be stranded somewhere else, even if it’s closer geographically. So the whole thing will have to open up. There were some possibilities, getting quite close, but because I wasn’t able to get to Chennai, I couldn’t take those things. The other thing would depend on the quarantine situation, all that as well. So, for the foreseeable future, it looks like I’m stuck here.
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Music from the string quartet that raised the level of Indian cricket||India have had more successful spinners since the last of the spin quartet played his final Test in the 1980s; two of them, Anil Kumble and Harbhajan Singh have claimed more wickets than the four of them put together in nearly the same number of Tests combined. Yet, the quartet had a romance and a vulnerability that has ensured their charm has wafted over generations. Three of the four celebrate significant milestones over the next few weeks. The oldest (and possibly craftiest), Erapalli Prasanna turns 80 next month, five days after his Karnataka teammate Bhagwat Chandrasekhar turns 75. Srinivas Venkatraghavan turns 75 too — next week, in fact. The baby of the lot, Bishan Bedi celebrates his 74th birthday in September. Winning combination From January 1962, when Prasanna made his debut, till September 1983 when Venkatraghavan played his final Test, one or more of the quartet played in 98 matches. India won 23 of them. Which was huge for a team which had won only seven of their preceding 76 Tests. Till they came along, India had not won a Test abroad. Encouraged by skipper Tiger Pataudi, who believed that the best bowlers should play rather than a combination of great spin and mediocre pace, the foursome stamped their mark on the game. Prasanna’s six for 94 led to India’s first win abroad, in Dunedin, 1968. Three years later, Venkatraghavan’s five for 95 was India’s best in Port-of-Spain as they beat the West Indies for the first time. Chandrasekhar’s six for 38 wrapped up the Oval Test and the series in England. When India beat Australia for the first time, Chandrasekhar had figures of six for 52 and six for 52 in Melbourne in 1977-78. The only player to be a part of all these teams was Bedi who claimed 16 wickets in those victory Tests. Poetry in motion To speak of the finest only in terms of numbers does them a disservice; it somehow diminishes the sport too. Those who never saw Bedi bowl missed one of the great sights of the game. It wasn’t just poetry in motion, it was a specific kind of poetry — a love sonnet perhaps, where you had to display the beauty, splendour, longing, and sheer allure of the form within a specific number of lines. Discipline is an unacknowledged companion of artistry; here art cannot lose sight of its objective: to take wickets. Shorter than the others, Prasanna flighted the ball more and made it do things in the air that seemed to indicate he had it on a string and could make it dance. It is said of the best batsmen that they own the 22 yards they play on. Prasanna owned the air above the 22 yards, inviting batsmen to step out only to realise the ball hasn’t reached, or to play back to an innocuous-looking delivery only to have it crash through. Unpredictable Chandrasekhar was a law unto himself, although that sounds far too aggressive for this most gentle of men (“I see god in Chandra,” Bedi once said). When he was on song (literally, as he loved to hum his friend the playback singer Mukesh’s best), he was well nigh unplayable. Viv Richards has said that the only bowler who gave him nightmares was Chandra. One of the great cricketing occasions of the time was Chandra bowling to a full house at the Eden Gardens and the crowd going ‘bowled’ in step with his run-up. He claimed 35 wickets against England in 72-73, which remains an Indian record for the most wickets in a series. Chandrasekhar often said he just needed a slip and short legs — the others could field wherever they wanted. “When I am bowling well, the catches go there; if I am bowling badly, 22 fielders wouldn’t be enough.” Self-deprecatory humour was a speciality; yet that said something about the man. He was self-contained to a degree unusual in international sportsmen, seldom needing others for his own validation. Astute and versatile Had Venkatraghavan, tall and spare, been born a generation earlier or later, he might have been a long-term captain of India, and one of the best. He is a student of the game, something he emphasised when he returned as an umpire for 73 Tests after bowling off spin in 57. His reserve was mistaken for aloofness. But in a closed group he was unguarded, funny and had sharp views on most things. He was in the classical mould and bowled a mean leg-cutter. For such a passionate cricket man, Venkatraghavan had time for other interests too. Classical music, history — he was the one player to visit Mohenjo-daro on India’s tour of Pakistan — and in the early days, movies. He was too the fittest of the four, a brilliant catcher at gully, and had a first class century to his name. Four men, so different, yet so similar; technically sound, and blessed with imagination. Generous too. Coming together at roughly the same time to lift Indian cricket to a level we now take for granted.
15 April 2020||CHENNAI,||One good IPL can change a player’s career: Vijay Shankar||With the IPL ‘postponed indefinitely’, it is a huge blow for cricketers hoping to make it to their National teams for the ICC World T20 scheduled to be held in Australia later this year. India all-rounder Vijay Shankar feels that the IPL can make or break a career. Speaking to The Hindu on Tuesday, Vijay said, “It is an important tournament because it is the time you only play T20 for close to two months. One good IPL can change a player’s career, and it is a bit frustrating [to miss out on it]. More than the selection, as players we just want to play cricket.” The 29-year-old had done well in white-ball cricket for Tamil Nadu last year. Though he came up with some good efforts during India-A’s tour of New Zealand, he feels he could have done better. “I played well but I wish I could have finished a few more games in New Zealand. On a similar tour before the 2019 World Cup, I did do that — that’s how I got into the National team.” Even though he has the facility to train at home, Vijay has been handicapped by the fact that he has to fix certain things to get started. Instead, he is focusing on maintaining his fitness. “I do a one-hour session in the morning and evening with a few friends on video call, so we motivate each other.”
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hockey India postpones Nationals indefinitely||Following the extension of lockdown due to COVID-19 and the uncertainty around resumption of sporting events across the world, Hockey India has decided to indefinitely postpone its remaining National championships for the year scheduled to begin on April 29. “Hockey India has taken a decision to postpone the remaining 2020 National championships, keeping in mind the well-being of players, coaches, organisers, fans and officials. “We will announce new dates after evaluating the situation,” Hockey India president Mohd Mushtaque Ahmad said. Among the tournaments postponed were the junior and sub-junior men’s and women’s National championships in May and June, and the B division men’s National championships in July.
15 April 2020||Coimbatore,||Testing times for TVS Racing riders||Team TVS Racing is accustomed to a busy calendar, with various national and international assignments through the year. But the lockdown has thrown a spanner in the works, upsetting their preparations. “These are trying times, and staying indoors for a long period can be tough. However, our racing calendars have been rescheduled and I am hoping we are out of this pandemic soon, so that I can return to action,” said Dakar Rally specialist K.P. Aravind. Team’s support The team, he said, has been very supportive. “I am undergoing extensive cognitive and physical training at home. I even took part in TVS Racing Masterclass online sessions on TVS Apache’s Instagram handle.” An indoor routine is not new to him. “When I was recovering [from injuries], the doctor had advised indoor fitness routines, which are now helping me stay fit,” he said. Critical period Harith Noah, the newest addition to the list of Dakar riders from India, said this is an extremely critical period for the country. The Kerala youngster had planned to train in India in the first half of the year and then in France with his teammates. “It has been postponed, for now. And, of course, all the races which I was to take part in have also been pushed,” he said. Aishwarya Pissay, who won the FIM World Cup in the women’s category last year, agreed that these are tough times for everyone. “However, the only solace is I get to spend more time with my family. The key, professionally, is to stay productive.” Jagan Kumar, an eight-time Indian National Motorcycle Racing Championship (INMRC) winner, said he has been studying his previous races and watching MotoGP and Asian GP videos. The Chennai rider said he was missing his motorcycle. First thing to do “Once this lockdown is over, the first thing we will do is practise either on the tarmac or dirt track training. I really want to get on the motorcycle quickly.” B. Selvaraj, the TVS Racing’s Team Manager, has advised the riders to follow the strategies and also to make the most of their time with loved ones. Riders have also been supporting their local communities by donating food to the needy and taking care of pets in the nearby areas. They are also educating people on the pandemic and how one can stay safe and hygienic at all times.
15 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||A blessing in disguise for shooter Esha?||For someone who failed to qualify for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics by a whisker at the trials held in New Delhi last month, the postponement of the Games has come as a blessing in disguise. The 15-year-old Esha Singh, who beat both Manu Baker and Yashaswini Singh Deswal in the trials before narrowly missing out on the chance to make the cut by finishing third in the 10m air pistol category, believes she can be get back into the reckoning if there is a rethink on the trials by the National federation. “Of course, there is a lot of hope and that’s why I have been training really hard,” said the 10th standard student, who has the privilege of continuing her daily routine at home, thanks to the shooting range and gym set up by father-cum-coach Sachin Singh. “I do believe that I have a chance to realise my dream of making it to the Olympics if the trials are held again,” said the junior World Cup silver medallist. How different is it to train at home when you know there are no events scheduled in the near future? “Honestly, it was like going back to the days when I had no fear of competitions. It is fun shooting now with no pressure,” said Esha, the 2019 Asian shooting champion in 10m air pistol (juniors). Fully loaded What about ammunition? “We normally buy ammunition for the whole year. When the stock got over this February, my father purchased the next year’s quota and hence there are no issues on this front,” she said. “Frankly, this lockdown has had no bearing on my training and the only thing I miss is going to school and meeting friends. “Like everyone else, I have to stay positive and optimistic. We can help others by staying indoors to curb this virus,” said Esha.
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Going the extra mile||In what are difficult times, Vijay Shankar has been doing his bit, helping a group of physically challenged cricketers. The all-rounder, who has been providing jerseys and cricketing gear for the Tamil Nadu team over the last two years, is going the extra mile now. The recent lockdown has been hard on these cricketers, who don’t have fixed employment. Sachin Siva, captain of the team who has also played for one of the India sides, said, “Recently, Vijay anna gave Rs. 30,000 to our team. He also paid for the medical expenses of our manager who fell sick recently. “He has been helping us a lot over the last few years and it means a lot to us.”
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mukund and Suresh cook recipe for success||Sasikumar Mukund enjoys trying his hand at cooking. The 23-year-old Mukund, the fourth best-ranked Indian tennis player at the moment, is also keeping himself occupied during the lockdown, offering sound advice to young players and their parents. In a lively chat with coach Sureshkumar Sonachalam, Mukund touched upon a variety of topics on social media. Group coaching Mukund was categorical in said that young players were better off with group coaching, as it offered variety, rather than waste money on “one-on-one sessions” with coaches. He said out that some parents believed that spending more money and having “direct coach attention” would automatically translate into better tennis for their wards. He added that in trying to get quick results, players and parents were losing focus on development. Physical foundation Sureshkumar said that focus had to be on physical foundation till the age of 10 and tennis should start thereafter. “If the window for development is not utilised at the right age, you may not be able to catch up later, no matter how much you work,” he cautioned. He said that the focus could be on fitness, core stability, endurance apart from meditation and visualisation during the lockdown. “When you are playing, you have to be in the moment, every moment, even as the focus keeps shifting. The top players don’t judge their shots as good or bad, they just focus on getting the job done. Meditation is our strength and practising for six months to a year will show the results,” added Sureshkumar.
15 April 2020||Sydney,||‘Keen to see how Kohli adapts to empty stadiums’||Cricket in front of empty stands came up for discussion between Australian off-spinner Nathan Lyon and pacer Mitchell Starc, with both wondering how India captain Virat Kohli would adapt to such an atmosphere if their Test series this year is held without fans. India is set to play a four-match Test series in Australia later this year. But with the COVID-19 pandemic wreaking havoc, speculation is rife that the games could be held behind closed doors. This led Lyon and Starc to discuss how Kohli’s on-field demeanour would change without the backing and noise of the crowd, something the Indian captain thrives on. “He’s probably good enough to adapt to any scenario. But I was talking to Mitch the other day and we actually said that if we are playing with no crowd, it’ll be quite amazing to see Virat trying to rev up the (empty) seats,” Lyon was quoted as saying by cricket.com.au . “It’s going to be a little bit different, but Virat is a superstar. He’ll be able to adapt to any climate that we’re able to play in,” Lyon added.
15 April 2020||KOLKATA,||I-League: final decision on Thursday||The remaining 28 matches of the suspended I-League are set to be cancelled in the wake of the extension of the lockdown till May 3. Mohun Bagan will be officially crowned the champion. A formal decision is expected to be taken on Thursday.
15 April 2020||Paris,||Tour de France called off||The Tour de France cycling race was finally added to the list of sporting events called off. The three-week race won’t be starting on June 27 in Nice as scheduled. French President Emmanuel Macron announced that all public events with large crowds have been cancelled until at least mid-July.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||SAI’s online sessions for women athletes held||The Sports Authority of India (SAI) has been working on optimising the lockdown period with regular online sessions and interactions of various aspects of training and fitness for Indian sportspersons. It has organised a special two-day online session to help women athletes optimise training and also take care of their bodies. The first session on Tuesday was held with the women’s hockey team in Bengaluru while the second, with the athletes in Patiala, will be on Wednesday. The sessions, titled ‘Encouraging and supporting Female Athletes’, is being conducted by Dr. Poornima Raman Ngomdir, sports physio and head of sports sciences with Olympic Gold Quest. Meanwhile, backed by SAI, the Swimming Federation of India (SFI) has decided to start an online programme for coaches across the country. The ‘Swim Coaches Knowledge Series 1’ will start on Thursday.
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Making life meaningful||When the life of an ordinary individual is spent in fulfilling desires, there is no chance for one to search for questions such as the cause of one’s existence, the identity of oneself, etc. The wait to satisfy the desires that queue up endlessly adds to the stress and strain in one’s lifetime. When the aim shifts to the search for the meaning of life, one enters the spiritual stage of seeking Adyatma knowledge, the real jnana that can liberate one from the bond of samsara, pointed out Swami Sashishikananda in a discourse. In other words, seeking God leads to realisation. When one analyses the case of Dhruva, it is clear that the boy seeks God to get his wish, to sit on the lap of his father, fulfilled. But once he has the vision of God, Dhruva is no longer enamoured of his original wish though God grants it. He has experienced the bliss of God’s presence, a rare achievement for a small boy, one that even sages steeped in meditation find hard to achieve. Dhruva regrets that instead of seeking Moksha or liberation from the Supreme Lord who alone can grant it, he had frittered his effort on trivialities. Each one traverses through stages of realisation, from an extrovert mindset where the external world takes full control of our mind and entire being, towards an inner experience of the self within. Many of our aims centre on earning wealth, possessions, fame, scholarship, etc. One has to transcend these and aim for the highest pursuit, salvation. The two levels of consciousness, the lower and the higher, are governed by ignorance, Avidya, and knowledge, vidya, respectively. God’s intervention is necessary for the soul to pierce the ignorance and get into the presence of the Supreme Self. Remaining in ignorance ties one to the cycle of birth; and knowledge leads one to freedom from this cycle.
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 07:17 IST,||Sudoku - April 15, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
15 April 2020||New Delhi,||Two more deaths, 51 new cases||Two more deaths and 51 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Tuesday, taking the toll to 30 and total number of cases to 1,561. A total of 16,282 samples have been tested for the virus so far, 2,455 people are in quarantine facilities and 11,984 people are under home quarantine. The Delhi government on Tuesday also increased the total number of containment zones in the city to 55. Meanwhile, LNJP Hospital confirmed that the husband and son of an Assistant Nursing Superintendent (ANS) working at hospital have tested positive for COVID-19 Two nurses of the hospital have tested positive for the virus, so far. “The husband is 50 years old and the son is 21. They were admitted to the hospital on April 10 and tested positive in the last two days,” an official told The Hindu . The ANS had tested positive on Saturday. “The two nurses are senior staff who handle administration and do not deal with patients. We are still looking into how they contracted the virus. We have quarantined 26 employees,” J.C. Passey, medical director of LNJP Hospital told The Hindu . “A 26-year-old doctor working at Kalawati Saran Children’s Hospital in the city who was admitted at LNJP Hospital has also tested positive,” the official said. His mother, a doctor at LNJP Hospital, has also been tested and the results are awaited. Two female doctors working at RML Hospital have tested positive for COVID-19, the hospital spokesperson said. These are the first cases of staff being tested positive for the virus at the hospital, according to officials. The spokesperson said that they are yet to ascertain how the doctors contracted the virus. Meanwhile, the two-year-old son of a nurse at the Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI) who had tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday is asymptomatic and stable, hospital officials said on Tuesday. The nurse, who is pregnant, was earlier tested positive. A total of 30 people, including staff, patients, and the child, have tested positive in the hospital so far. Mass testing Max Healthcare has said it will test its entire workforce of 18,000 employees for COVID-19. Three employees of Max Hospital, East Block in Saket had tested positive earlier this week.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Officers posted at Delhi PHQ asked not to cross State borders||After five policemen tested positive for COVID-19, the police on Tuesday instructed staff posted at Delhi Police Headquarters (PHQ) not to cross Delhi borders. More than 200 policemen here, including a Deputy Commissioner of Police-rank officer, were sent to home quarantine on Monday. A senior officer said the order was issued to keep the PHQ safe from COVID-19. “We have instructed the staff posted at the PHQ to not cross Delhi borders till next orders. The personnel found violating the orders will face strict action. A number of staffers live in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and travel daily,” said the officer. The staff deployed at hospitals, quarantine centres and at containment zones are not allowed to go to their homes and have been asked to take rest at the barracks after duty. The officer added that they have also instructed the staff deployed in PHQ security to not allow any person inside the building if he or she is not wearing a face mask and ensure all visitors pass through thermal screening. After an ASI tested positive for COVID-19, a police colony in Kalkaji was sealed and his family and neighbours were quarantined. The officer said food and other essential goods are being supplied to the colony through government-designated vendors. The police personnel, who live in the colony, have been asked not to go home and spend the nights in barracks at police stations after duty until the sealing ends. Another officer said efforts are being taken to keep the ground staff motivated. Ground staff at higher risk “We have installed disinfectant sprays at the police stations and on every alternate day, the entire premises get sanitised. We are taking all precautionary measures to keep the staff safe from any infection. Ground staff are at a higher risk of getting infected as they frequently interact with people,” he said.
15 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Yamuna cleaner due to lockdown’||The quality of water in the Delhi stretch of the Yamuna has increased due to “complete reduction in industrial pollutants” in the river during the COVID-19 lockdown, according to an analysis report of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB). Increased discharge An increased discharge of water from Haryana to Delhi has also aided the process, said DJB officials. The report accessed by The Hindu shows that the Dissolved Oxygen (DO) levels at two points along the river is above 5 mg/L, which is the recommended level of DO for bathing in a river. “Due to complete reduction of industrial pollutants in river; the self purification capacity of the river has improved considerably,” the DJB report said. According to the report, the DO levels of the river is nil in Majnu Ka Tilla, but it is 5.6 mg/L near Geeta Colony Bridge, 3.2 mg/L near Nizamuddin Bridge, and 5.2 mg/L near Okhla Barrage in Kalindi Kunj. The quality of water increases with the increase in the DO levels. Yamuna enters Delhi in Palla and then travels downstream through Wazirabad and Majnu Ka Tilla to Okhla. “During April, May, June (summer) the DO levels are usually nil in Yamuna in all these areas,” a DJB official said. Also, the Biochemical Oxygen Demand, another parameter which is used to measure the quality of the water, is better at multiple points, according to the report.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two arrested for insulting woman and her daughter||The Delhi Police on Tuesday registered an FIR in connection with an incident in south Delhi’s Hauz Khas where a woman and her daughter were allegedly insulted over their religion, said officials. Two persons have been arrested in connection with the case. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said a case under Sections 341 (Punishment for wrongful restraint) and 298 (Uttering, words, etc., with deliberate intent to wound the religious feelings of any person) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered and two store owners, who are brothers. Discriminatory words An officer said the complainant, a 50-year-old woman, alleged that on April 11, she and her daughter had gone to a store in Gautam Nagar to buy groceries when she was stopped by the shopkeeper who used discriminatory words against her.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGO apprises Kejriwal of ‘dire circumstances’ at Yamuna Pusta||In a letter to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday, the Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan (DRRAA) mentioned the “dire circumstances” at Yamuna Pushta, where the supply of cooked food has reportedly been disrupted for the last two days. ‘ Fire incident’ The food rights group, in its letter, has demanded the Delhi government to immediately accommodate all those who were displaced following the “fire incident” on April 11 by making arrangements in nearby shelters as well as ensure adequate food supply, including cooked meals and dry rations, in the area. “Migrant workers and homeless persons, estimated to be around 6,000, have been finding it extremely difficult to survive. They have been pushed towards the riverbank, where they are spending the nights,” the DRRAA said. It added that even when public-spirited people try to organise food, they are reportedly not allowed to reach the needy.
15 April 2020||April 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Will pay sacked staff, hospital assures court||The St. Stephens Hospital management has agreed in the Delhi High Court to pay the employees, who were sacked from its Gurugram facility after the COVID-19outbreak, an amount equal to their salary for March and April. The court on Monday held that the hospital would be bound by its statement to pay these amounts to its sacked employees for March and April and listed the matter for further hearing on May 4. The ex-employees had moved a plea challenging their termination by the hospital on March 30after it shut down its Gurugram facility. The Ministries of Labour and Home Affairs supported the petitioners and said their services should not have been terminated at this stage.
15 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Doctor killed in accident||In a suspected case of hit-and-run, a doctor was killed after a car allegedly hit his bicycle in Saket here, the police said on Tuesday. Dr. J.P. Yadav, posted at a civic body dispensary in Mehrauli was returning from work at that time on Monday, they said. The victim’s car had developed a snag and he was unable to get it repaired due to the ongoing lockdown and hence decided to go to work on a bicycle. “The accused driver managed to flee the spot,” an officer said. The doctor died during treatment. A case has been registered and probe is under way.
