15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC finds Bhushan guilty of contempt for tweets||The Supreme Court on Friday found civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt by “scandalising the court”. A three-judge Bench said his tweet on a photograph of Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde astride a bike and another on the court’s role in the past six years scandalised the Supreme Court as an institution. The tweets had the effect of attempting to destabilise Indian democracy. Such malice should be dealt with an iron hand in the larger public interest. The magnanimity of courts should not extend to weakness, the top court said in its 108-page judgment. The Bench, headed by Justice Arun Mishra, said when a “scheme” was on to damage public confidence in the judiciary, those interested in fearless justice should stand firmly. The court could not ignore the disrespect and disaffection created by the “scurrilous” tweets. The Bench fixed the sentence hearing on August 20. The Contempt of Court Act of 1971 punishes with imprisonment that may extend to six months or fine of Rs. 2,000 or both. The judgment said punishing a lawyer was an extreme measure but nevertheless necessary to keep the “streams of justice pure, serve and undefiled”. Judiciary was the central pillar of Indian democracy. It was the duty of the court to punish to preserve its dignity, the judgment emphasised. “If such an attack is not dealt with requisite degree of firmness, it may affect the national honour and prestige in the comity of nations,” the judgment, written by Justice B.R. Gavai, pointed out. The Bench, also comprising Justice Krishna Murari, dismissed Mr. Bhushan’s defence that criticism was not contempt. Mr. Bhushan termed the tweets expressions of his anguish that “everything is not hunky-dory”. Justice Gavai differed with the lawyer, saying, “Critics are instruments of reform, but not those actuated by malice but those who are inspired by public weal... Hostile criticism of judges as judges or judiciary would amount to scandalising the court.” The court said Mr. Bhushan’s tweet gave an impression that “the CJI is enjoying his ride on a motorbike worth Rs. 50 lakh belonging to a BJP leader, at a time when he has kept the Supreme Court in lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice”. The court said the tweet was a “wild allegation” based on “distorted facts”. It was scandalous.
15 August 2020||JAIPUR,||Gehlot govt. wins Rajasthan trust vote||The Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government on Friday won a confidence vote on the floor of the Rajasthan Assembly, bringing down the curtains on the month-long uncertainty created by the rebellion of former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot and 18 MLAs supporting him. The motion of confidence was passed by voice vote after a three-hour debate in the House. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal moved the motion, saying that though the Congress had numerical strength in the Assembly, the BJP tried to topple the government after using money and power in States such as Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Goa and Karnataka. Speaker C.P. Joshi accepted the motion and allotted a three-hour slot for the debate on the opening day of the special session. The session was convened after repeated requests to Governor Kalraj Mishra, who thrice returned the State government’s proposal for an Assembly sitting. The MLAs supporting Mr. Gehlot and Mr. Pilot put up a united front during the debate. The House, which also condoled the deaths of political leaders in the intervening period since the previous session, was adjourned till August 21 after the confidence motion was passed.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||India believes in peace, says President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday said while India believes in peace, it is also capable of giving a befitting response to any attempt of aggression as was displayed by its soldiers during the Galwan Valley clashes when “some in our neighbourhood tried to carry out the misadventure of expansion”. In his address to the nation on the eve of the 74th Independence Day, Mr. Kovind did not name China but hailed Indian soldiers who sacrificed their lives fighting Chinese troops on the Ladakh border for “national pride”. He said the COVID-19 pandemic had demolished the illusion that humans are the masters of nature.
15 August 2020||SRINAGAR,||Two policemen killed in militant attack in Srinagar||Two policemen were killed and another was injured in a militant attack on a checkpoint in Srinagar on Friday, as security was tightened across the Valley ahead of Independence Day. “The police were busy with the extended deployment in Srinagar and on the city outskirts. The militants found a chance to attack a joint party of the SSB and the police at Nowgam. The attackers are being identified,” said Director General of Police Dilbagh Singh. According to the police, the militants appeared from a by-lane and fired indiscriminately on the personnel manning the Srinagar-Baramulla Highway at Nowgam. A little-known militant outfit, the People’s Anti-Fascist Front (PAFF), said it had carried out the attack. “PAFF is an offshoot of the Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM),” Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said.
15 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Another new high in daily caseload||The State’s COVID-19 case graph continued its exponential rise on Friday with the reporting of 1,569 fresh cases, marking another new high in the daily case register. The State recorded 1,304 recoveries. The cumulative case burden now stands at 41,277. However, the number of patients currently undergoing treatment in various hospitals is 14,094. The number of recoveries has been 26,992. Of the new cases, 1,381 cases (over 88%) are locally acquired infections, indicating the spread of the virus in the community. Of these, 27 are infections reported in health-care workers. In 86 of the new cases, authorities were not able to link these to any known source of infection. The Health Department has confirmed 10 deaths that occurred earlier in the week to be COVID-19 deaths. These include six in Thiruvananthapuram, two in Ernakulam and one each in Malappuram and Thrissur. The death toll has reached 139. Thiruvananthapuram continues to report the highest number of cases, with 310 cases, of which 305 are locally acquired infections. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours is 31,738. The number of hotspots now is 555.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 tally crosses 1.5 lakh mark in Delhi||The COVID-19 tally in Delhi crossed the 1.5 lakh mark on Friday with 1,192 fresh cases recorded in the last 24 hours, while 11 new fatalities during the same period pushed the death toll to 4,178. The total number of cases is now 1,50,652. There are also 11,366 active cases in the city. For the third day in a row it has shown an upward trend. The number of people in home isolation has also increased.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||Now, NIA summons two DU teachers||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) summoned two Delhi University teachers regarding the investigation into the 2018 Bhima-Koregaon case. Prem Kumar Vijayan, who teaches English at Hindu College in Delhi, and Rakesh Ranjan, another teacher, were asked by the NIA to appear before it on Friday. Earlier, the NIA had arrested Hany Babu M.T, associate professor of Delhi University, for allegedly promoting “Naxal activities and Maoist ideology”. The Pune police filed a chargesheet and a supplementary chargesheet in this case on November 15, 2018, and February 21, 2019, respectively. The case was transferred from the Pune police to the NIA in January 2020. In April, the investigating agency arrested civil rights campaigner Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde, an engineer and IIM graduate who taught at IIT-Kharagpur.
15 August 2020||Pune,||With 12,608 cases State tally crosses 5.7 lakh||For the fourth time in a week, Maharashtra reported a single-day jump of over 12,000 COVID-19 cases, with 12,608 new cases on Friday taking the total case tally to 5,72,734. A high number of 364 deaths pushed the toll to 19,427. With 10,484 patients being discharged on Friday, the number of recoveries stands at 4,01,442, taking the State’s recovery rate to over 70% for the first time, according to Health Department officials. With this surge (the third-highest single-day spike), the number of active cases, which were under the 1.5 lakh mark until a week ago, has now risen to 1,51,555. “Till date, of the 30,45,085 laboratory samples, 5,72,734 (18.8%) have tested positive with nearly 79,000 samples tested across the State in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate stands at 70.09%,” said the State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the case fatality rate had marginally come down to 3.39%. With just 979 new cases, Mumbai’s total case tally reached has 1,28,535, of which only 19,337 are active. With 47 deaths, Mumbai’s total death toll has risen to 7,038. Pune district reported another surge of over 2,500 new cases and a record-high spike of 100 fatalities as its total case tally reached 1,24,641, while its death toll shot to 3,057. The Pune district administration, however, said the number of active cases was less than 27,000 with the recovery rate at 75%. Kolhapur and Sangli in western Maharashtra reported 14 and 19 deaths respectively. Kolhapur’s total death toll now stands at 326 while that of Sangli stands at 188.
15 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Status quo on Capital Acts extended till August 27||A full Bench of the High Court, headed by Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and comprising Justices A.V. Sesha Sai and M. Satyanarayana Murthy, on Friday extended the status quo on implementation of Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Acts till August 27. During the hearing through a video-conference on a batch of writ petitions filed by Rajadhani Rythu Parirakshana Samiti and a host of others against the impugned legislations, which had repeated interruptions due to a technical glitch, the court turned down the government’s plea to lift status quo while directing the parties to produce all important documents next time and adjourned the hearing. The court was looking into the petitions filed by farmers against the proposed shifting of the Raj Bhavan, CMO, Secretariat and offices of various Heads of Departments to Visakhapatnam in the name of “Executive capital” and the High Court to the “Judicial capital” in Kurnool from Amaravati. It may be recalled that the court granted status quo for 10 days on the two Acts during the hearing on August 4 and both the Central and State governments filed their counter-affidavits during the period making their position clear.
15 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||EAMCET to be held from Sept. 17 to 25||The AP State Council of Higher Education on Friday released the revised schedule for the conduct of the Common Entrance Tests (CETs)-2020. The APICET, which was earlier scheduled for July 25, will now be conducted on September 10 and 11. The APECET, earlier scheduled for July 24, will now be conducted on September 14; the EAMCET, earlier scheduled from July 27 to 31, will now be held from September 17 to 25. The APPGECET, earlier scheduled from August 2 to 4, will now be held from September 28 to 30; APEdCET scheduled for August 5 earlier will now be conducted on October 1 (Forenoon), APLAWCET, which was scheduled for August 6, will now take place on October 1 (afternoon) and the APPECET, earlier scheduled from August 7 to 9, will now be conducted from October 2 to 5.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,||From August 17, get instant e-pass with Aadhaar number in Tamil Nadu||From August 17, people who apply for an e-pass by providing their Aadhaar or ration card details will get the permit “at once”, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Friday. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami appealed to the public to apply for an e-pass “only for unavoidable reasons” as the decision to simplify the system had been taken for the welfare of the people. “I request the public to strictly follow the Standard Operating Procedure framed by the State government to contain the spread of COVID-19, and to extend their cooperation towards the steps being taken by the State government,” the Chief Minister said. He said the lockdown restrictions had been eased for the benefit of the public, and e-passes were being granted for inter-district movement. Steps were being taken to monitor those moving between districts, and their contacts were being traced in case they contract the infection, he added. An official release clarified that the “present e-pass system would continue to be in place for international and inter-State movement”. A Government Order issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam said the decision to ease the e-pass system was taken to enable the movement of people within the State for “important work”. E-pass applications would be approved “immediately without any delay” for all applicants who provide their Aadhaar or ration card details along with their telephone or mobile numbers, it added. DMK president M.K. Stalin said, “I reiterate my demand that the e-pass system must be abolished. However, the people should also use the [revised] e-pass system announced today [Friday] responsibly, and only for extremely important purposes.”
15 August 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 cases in West Bengal cross 1.1 lakh||West Bengal on Friday recorded its highest single-day spike of 3,035 new COVID-19 cases, taking the State’s tally to 1,10,358. The number of active cases in the State is 26,850 and the recovery rate stands at 73.57%. There were reports of 60 deaths on Friday — including 24 from Kolkata and 16 from North Parganas — taking the fatalities to 2,319. In the past 24 hours 31,317 samples were tested. Meanwhile, a prominent doctors association in the State has written to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to set up a separate facility for healthcare workers. The Association For Health Service Doctors also asked Ms. Banerjee to release Rs. 1 lakh to front line staff working in government and private institutions under an insurance scheme.
15 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||Hapur child rape accused arrested||The Uttar Pradesh police on Friday arrested Dalpat Singh, who allegedly raped a six-year-old in the Garh area of Hapur on August 6. He had tried to mislead the police by leaving his clothes and a note on the banks of the Ganga, said Sarvesh Mishra, Additional Superintendent of Police, Hapur.
15 August 2020||HUBBALLI,||351 new cases in Davangere||Davangere recorded its highest single-day spike of 351 cases on Friday taking the total number of COVID-19 positive cases to 4,756. As many as 3,153 persons have been discharged so far, including the 282 discharged on Friday. The district also recorded seven deaths. Meanwhile, Belagavi recorded 334 cases and five deaths, while Dharwad recorded 219 cases and eight deaths. Gadag recorded 190 cases and one death, Bagalkot 171 cases, Vijayapura 144 cases and two deaths, Haveri 138 cases and two deaths, Uttara Kannada 87 cases and one death and Chitradurga 77 cases. Yadgir registered 116 new cases and Raichur 220 cases and two deaths.
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Social distancing norms in place for I-Day||Multilayered security arrange-ments and a mandatory adherence to social distancing norms are in place for the 74th Independence Day celebrations at Red Fort on Saturday, a police officer said.
15 August 2020||GUWAHATI/IMPHAL,||Congress seeks another trust vote in Manipur||The Opposition Congress in Manipur has demanded a fresh trust vote in the State Assembly, rejecting the “inconclusive and procedurally illegal” vote of confidence on August 10.
15 August 2020||Bengaluru,||50% of beds reserved for patients are vacant||Although the number of COVID-19 positive cases is high, the city has adequate number of hospital beds. As of Thursday evening, around 50% of the total 5,802 beds i were vacant.
15 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Virus: Bengaluru biggest contributor to tally||As Karnataka crossed the 2.11 lakh mark in COVID-19 cases on Friday, Bengaluru continued to be a significant contributor with over 84,000. While Bengaluru Urban has 84,185 cases, Bengaluru Rural has 3,264.
15 August 2020||Hassan/Bengaluru,||‘Flag’ furore: 28-year-old man held in Sringeri||The Sringeri police have arrested 28-year-old Milind in connection with the case over the placing of a cloth resembling the Social Democratic Party of India flag on the canopy of the Shankaracharya statue.
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fadnavis gets a role in Bihar poll campaign||Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has set off a flurry of speculation over a special role in the BJP’s Bihar campaign after he participated in a State committee meeting via video link from Mumbai.
15 August 2020||Mumbai,||MUHS final year exams to begin on Monday||The Bombay High Court on Friday refused to stay the final year exams of the Bachelor of Dental Surgery and Master of Dental Sciences courses scheduled to be conducted by the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS).
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,||All banks, offices can function with 50% staff||All bank branches and offices in the State can function with 50% staff, on rotation basis, as per new guidelines issued by the State Level Bankers’ Committee-Tamil Nadu on Friday.
15 August 2020||Chennai,||T.N. reports 117 deaths, 5,890 fresh infections||Tamil Nadu on Friday reported 5,890 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the count to 3,26,245, while 117 fatalities pushed the death toll to 5,514. As of now, 53,716 persons are under treatment. With 437 fresh cases, Chengalpattu crossed the 20,000-mark.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,||SPB, under treatment for COVID-19, ‘critical’||Singer S.P. Balasubrah- manyam, who was admitted to a private hospital after testing positive for COVID-19 last week, is on life support. MGM Healthcare, in a health bulletin, said there had been a major setback to his condition.
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Three Army personnel to get Shaurya Chakra||Three Army personnel and an Indian Air Force officer were among the nine names announced for Shaurya Chakra on Friday, the eve of Independence Day. “President Ram Nath Kovind, who is also the Supreme Commander of the armed forces, has approved 84 awards and decorations to the armed forces personnel and members of the paramilitary forces,” the Defence Ministry said in a statement. The awards comprise one Kirti Chakra, nine Shaurya Chakras and 65 Sena, four Nao Sena and five Vayu Sena medals (gallantry). The President approved 19 mention-in-despatches to Army personnel, eight of them posthumous for Operation Meghdoot and Operation Rakshak. The Shaurya Chakra winners are Lt.Col. K.S. Rawat from the Para Special Forces, Major Anil Urs from the Maratha Light Infantry and havildar Alok Kumar Dubey from the Rajput Regiment and with 44 Rashtriya Rifles and Wing Commander Vishak Nair. Lt.Col. Rawat and Major Urs were awarded for their actions in foiling infiltration on the Line of Control. Havildar Dubey was awarded for his actions during counter-insurgency operations in the Kashmir Valley on June 22, 2019. A cordon-and-search operation was launched in an orchard near a village when with tactical proficiency, he assisted the Company Commander, the Army said. “His courageous action prevented the escape of the terrorists and eventual elimination of all the four terrorists,” the Army added. Captain Mrigank Sheokand, a MiG-29K pilot, was awarded the Nao Sena Medal (gallantry) for saving numerous civilian lives on the ground by steering his aircraft that suffered a bird hit to a barren land before ejecting with the trainee pilot.
15 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Four States add 15,000-plus cases in a day||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph continued to rise, with 1,569 fresh cases, marking another new high. Andhra Pradesh reported 97 deaths, while 8,743 people tested positive. Telangana saw as many as 1,921 cases on Thursday. Cumulative cases in Kerala stood at 41,277 and patients currently under treatment in hospitals at 14,094. There were 26,996 recoveries in all. In other highlights in Kerala, of Friday’s new cases, 1,381 were locally acquired infections within the community. Of these, 27 were health care workers. In 86 new cases no known source of infection could be found. Health Department confirmed 10 deaths in the State earlier in the week to be COVID-19 deaths: six were in Thiruvananthapuram, two in Ernakulam and one each in Malappuram and Thrissur. The State’s COVID-19 toll touched 139 on Friday. Thiruvananthapuram was still reporting the highest number of cases with 310 cases. The number of samples tested in 24 hours stood at 31,738. Telangana’s fresh cases on Thursday raised its tally to 88,396. There were nine fatalities, taking the toll to 674. The Directorate of Public Health and Family Welfare said on Friday that the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation continued to record the highest number of cases – a spike of 58 cases over the previous day – at 356 on Thursday. Cases in Medchal-Malkajgiri stood at 168, Rangareddy 134, Sangareddy 90, Warangal Urban 74, Warangal Rural 54, Karimnagar 73, Khammam 71, and Nizamabad 63. The number of recoveries on Thursday stood at 1,210. The number of active cases was 23,438 and 16,439 were in isolation. The State tested 22,046 samples, achieving per million population tests of 19,156. Gender-wise, COVID-19 cases were split into 65.10% male and 34.90% female. Andhra Pradesh reported total deaths of 2,475 and tally of 2,73,085. The State said 9,779 patients tested negative after treatment. Total recoveries stood at 1,80,703. There were 89,907 active patients. The positivity rate also rose to 9.90% for 27,58,485 tests conducted till date. Of these, 53,026 samples were tested in 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was not less than 15% in the past two weeks as more people were tested daily. The State’s tests per million at 51,657 was the highest among States, it was claimed. Kurnool reported 12 new deaths while Chitoor, East Godavari, Guntur, Nellore and West Godavari districts had 10 deaths each in the last 24 hours. Anantapur, Kadapa, Prakasam, Srikakulam and Visakhpatnam districts reported six deaths each. Vizianagaram reported three deaths and Krishna reported two deaths. East Godavari had a spike of 1,146 cases andChittoor (987). Another 5,890 persons tested positive for COVID-19 and 117 succumbed to the infection in Tamil Nadu on Friday. Of the fresh cases, Chennai reported 1,187 cases after its daily count stayed a little below the 1,000-mark for a week. The new cases took the State’s overall tally to 3,26,245. With the discharge of 5,556 more persons, a total of 2,67,015 persons were discharged till now in the State. As of now, 53,716 persons are under treatment. A total of 5,514 persons have succumbed to the infection. (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, and Chennai bureaus)
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Everything came apart in a nano second: flight attendant||“When I close my eyes, I am reminded of a mother-son duo seated before me, wailing, crying for help until their breathing became shallow, slow and a silence fell over them.” Akshay Pal Singh, 25, a cabin crew member on board Air India Express flight IX 1344 which crashed at the Calicut International airport in Karipur on August 7, is unable to come to terms with the tragedy. “Nearly everyone in the first four rows in front of me died on the spot,” he said. Mr. Pal was the “R1” cabin crew and was assigned to the right side of the front section of the aircraft. This part of the plane, including the nose, cockpit and the first three rows of passenger seats bore the brunt of the crash as it broke away from the rest of the plane following the accident. The crash resulted in the death of 19 persons, including the two pilots. “We had no inkling of anything untoward during landing. Before the aircraft started its descent, the First Officer mentioned to me that it was raining heavily in Calicut. Then the plane made an attempt to land, but there was a missed approach. They did a go-around, and we felt the plane landed normally. We were waiting for the braking effect, but the plane didn’t decelerate. When the plane did slow down, we realised later that it had crossed the runway and was on soil. Immediately, within a nano second, everything came apart. The overhead bins were knocked down, seats came apart, our galley was blocked from the aisle and my colleague and I were trapped from all directions,” Mr. Pal recalled. Mr. Pal, from Punjab’s Phagwara, sustained a fracture in his left leg and is recovering after surgery at Kozhikode’s Baby Memorial Hospital. Three other crew members — Shilpa Katare, Lalit Kumar, Abhik Biswas — were discharged with minor injuries. “After the crash, I stood up to help passengers and fell. That’s when I realised I had a fracture. I limped to the right door to open it, but it was jammed. My colleague tried the same with the left door, but was unable to move it. The cockpit door was slightly ajar, but it would not open either. We could neither move, nor rescue the passengers. So my colleague and I gave oral instructions to a passenger to find an escape. While we were unable to see anything because of the debris, we knew that the fuselage (aircraft belly) had broken and there was a way out,” recalls Mr. Pal. Mr. Pal said the efforts of the first responders and local residents who came to their rescue were “praiseworthy”. “We were still gathering our senses when help arrived. It was raining heavily, yet they didn't think of themselves. It was difficult to make their way into the aircraft — there were bags lying everywhere, seats were smashed against each other. But nothing stopped them,” he said.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,||LAC disengagement calls for reciprocal actions, says MEA||India’s Ambassador to China Vikram Misri held talks with China’s top military body, the Central Military Commission (CMC), in Beijing on Friday, amid an acknowledgement from Delhi that completing the stalled disengagement process along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) would require “reciprocal actions” from both sides. While it is unclear what “actions” the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has demanded from India, the Chinese side has so far rebuffed India’s demand for a return to the status quo ante prior to this summer’s tensions that saw multiple transgressions and the Chinese military establishing positions on India’s side of the LAC. The PLA remains present on India’s side of the LAC on the north bank of Pangong Lake, has continued to obstruct India’s patrols in the Depsang plains, and has not diluted its build-up in several other areas, according to officials. Five rounds of Corps Commander-level talks have been held so far, while the situation in Depsang was discussed at Major General-level talks on August 8. On Friday, Mr. Misri met with PLA Major General Ci Guowei, who is Director of the Central Military Commission’s (CMC) Office of International Military Cooperation, and “briefed him on India’s stance vis-à-vis the situation on the borders in eastern Ladakh”, according to the Indian Embassy in Beijing. The CMC is responsible for the overall administration of the armed forces, and the Office of International Military Cooperation, one of 15 departments, is responsible for external engagement. The CMC is headed by President Xi Jinping. This followed Mr. Misri’s meeting on Wednesday with a Communist Party official, Liu Jianchao, who is Deputy Director of the Party’s Central Foreign Affairs Commission. The Embassy similarly said the Ambassador had “briefed him on India’s stance vis-à-vis the situation on the borders in eastern Ladakh”. The outreach to the CMC and the Party’s foreign affairs commission — the Foreign Ministry in Beijing is the usual interlocutor for foreign diplomats — came against the backdrop of the five rounds of Corps Commander-level talks failing to break the stalemate, with the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) saying on Friday further meetings were likely in the near future to take forward a “complex” process. MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said both sides “have agreement on broad principles of disengagement and based on it, some progress had been earlier made”. “I must add that translating these principles on ground is a complex process that requires re-deployment of troops by each side towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC,” he said.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||81 gallantry awards for J&K police||A total of 215 policemen and paramilitary personnel have been named for police medals for gallantry announced on the eve of Independence Day. At 81, Jammu and Kashmir will get the highest number of medals, followed by 23 for the Uttar Pradesh police and 16 for the Delhi police. 55 medals for CRPF Among the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) or paramilitary forces, 55 such medals have gone to the CRPF and one to the BSF. A total of 926 police personnel have also been recognised for their services with 80 personnel awarded the President’s Police Medals for Distinguished Service. The Police Medal for Meritorious Service has been awarded to 631 personnel. No one has been given the President's Police Medal for Gallantry (PPMG) this time. Deputy Inspector-General, South Kashmir, Atul Kumar Goel and Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Sandeep posted at Anantnag received the PMGs. Seven policemen from Uttar Pradesh including Inspector General Asim Arun received the PMG for the 2017 operation at Lucknow when an Islamic State terrorist Saifullah was killed. Delhi Police Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma, killed during the 2008 Batla House encounter, has been awarded a gallantry medal posthumously for the seventh time. CRPF Assistant Commandant Naresh Kumar also won the bravery medal for the seventh time for undertaking counter-terrorist operations in the Kashmir valley. BSF Assistant Commandant Vinay Prasad has been awarded a bravery medal posthumously. Vinay Prasad was killed in unprovoked firing by Pakistan when he was out on an operational task with his patrol team in Samba sector of Jammu and Kashmir in January last year.
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||What was the hurry, asks Justice Lodha||Former Chief Justice of India (CJI) R.M. Lodha wondered why the Supreme Court moved quickly to hear the suo motu criminal contempt case against noted civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan via a virtual court hearing amid a pandemic. “Heavens were not falling,” Justice Lodha said in a telephonic interview with The Hindu on Friday. The virtual court system initiated to urgently hear and protect personal liberty, was “actually impairing somebody’s liberty,” he said. “It is really surprising that a matter like this has been taken up during a pandemic and when the court is not having physical hearings. This case could have been taken up as soon as the court resumed physical hearings. This is a little disturbing for me,” the former top judge said. Mr. Bhushan was convicted of contempt on Friday for two of his tweets in June. ‘Disheartening act’ Senior advocate Raju Ramachandran said the court ought to have leaned on the side of freedom of speech. “Considering the contribution which Mr. Bhushan has made in public interest litigation, it is disheartening that the court acted on two tweets which in the very nature of the medium is not capable of nuance,” he said. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde noted that the court should also ensure its authority was not further undermined while exercising the power of contempt. “The judgment does not provide a cogent narrative as to how the authority of the court was undermined by just two tweets. Public trust and authority of the court rests on firmer foundation than that.” The court has scheduled his sentence hearing on August 20. Justice Lodha also said, “A criminal contempt matter is between the court and the contemnor. No third party is involved. So, the contemnor should be fully assured that he is being provided procedural fairness and a full hearing. A virtual court does not meet these parameters.” On “scandalising of court” as a ground for contempt, he noted that this law, as long as it remained in the country, should not be applied in a routine manner. “Scandalising the court or lowering the dignity of the court are not stereotype phrases. They are impregnated with a lot of meaning and substance that requires deeper reflection,” Justice Lodha said.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||Opposition questions Bhushan’s conviction||Opposition parties questioned the alacrity with which the Supreme Court (SC) convicted senior lawyer Prashant Bhushan for contempt of court, while cases against the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution and habeas corpus petitions filed for political leaders in Kashmir have been pending for more than a year. Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) general secretary, Sitaram Yechury, in a series of tweets said that whether one agrees with the precise formulation of Mr. Bhushan’s tweets or not — he was convicted for his tweets — the Supreme Court judgment convicting him of contempt is “alarming”. “It brings into the ambit of Contempt, bona-fide criticism of the role played by the Supreme Court as a Constitutional authority. It also brings within its scope, genuine criticism of its present day functioning and approach. Hitherto, such statements were protected speech under Article 19 (1)(a) under the Constitution and were not considered contemptuous,” he said, adding that the judgment would prevent open and free discussion on the role of the Supreme Court in India’s democracy. This, he said, weakens India’s Constitutional democracy. ‘Revisit contempt laws’ Dissent and having a difference of opinion is part of a democracy, CPI general secretary D. Raja said, calling for revisiting the contempt laws. “When four Supreme Court judges held a press conference questioning the working of the apex court, was that also contempt? When there were large-scale protests after a Supreme Court judgment diluting the reservation laws, was that contempt?” Mr. Raja questioned. Nationalist Congress Party leader and a senior lawyer Majeed Memon tweeted: “Contempt of Courts Act 1971 is in place to prevent the courts and judges from being scandalised. Supreme Court is supreme because it is the highest and final court, not because it is infallible or does not err.” Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra through a series of tweets directed towards the ‘First Court of our land’ said, “If you have the law and truth behind you why is your skin so thin?” The MP from Krishnanagar constituency in West Bengal added: “How are perceived affronts to your power & pelf worthy of such speedy disposal when issues like CAA, 370 & Habeas Corpus petitions perish for months?” Ms. Moitra also said, “Remember you are the standard for millions of poor who even today say ‘I will go to Court’ - brute display of power does not become you. It shames us all.”
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||India exported 23 lakh PPEs in July: Centre||India has secured a place in the global export market of medical equipment, the Health Ministry said on Friday. “In view of the strengthened domestic production capacity and having met the domestic requirements for personal protective equipment (PPEs), the revised notification of the Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) in July 2020 permitted export of PPEs. As a result of this relaxation, in the month of July itself, India exported 23 lakh PPEs to five countries. These include the U.S., the U.K., the UAE, Senegal and Slovenia. This has substantially aided India to position itself in the global export market of PPEs,” noted a release issued by the Ministry. It added that the “Make in India’ spirit embedded in the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan has resulted in providing resilience and self-sufficiency to the country for various medical equipment, including PPEs. “While the Union Government is supplying PPEs, N95 masks, ventilators etc., to the State/UT Governments, States are also procuring these items directly. Between March to August 2020, they have procured 1.40 crore indigenous PPEs from their own budgetary resources. During the same period, the Centre has distributed 1.28 crore PPEs to States / UTs / Central Institutions, free of cost,” said the Ministry. Blood donation declines At the inauguration of a voluntary blood donation campaign at All India Institute of Medical Sciences on Friday, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said, “In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, restrictions due to lockdown and apprehension about hospital environments, the number of voluntary donations and blood donation camps saw a significant decline.” Dr. Vardhan noted that India is registering a continuous rise in the recovery rate from COVID-19 and progressive fall in case fatality rate. “We have ramped up our testing capacity which has crossed more than 8.4 lakh tests on Friday, with more than 1,450 testing labs spread across the country,” he said.
15 August 2020||MYSURU,||Puja resumes at Talacauvery temple||Puja and other rituals at Talacauvery temple resumed on Friday after a gap of over a week when the area was hit by a landslip. Heavy rains in the area led to a landslip in Brahamagiri Hill, flattening the dwelling of the temple head priest, Narayanachar, who went missing along with four others. Subsequently, bodies of two persons, including that of Narayanachar, were recovered. Consequent to the flooding and landslip, besides the absence of the priest, all pujas had come to a halt. It was resumed on Friday with priests performing a series of rituals, including ‘Ganahoma’ and ‘Rudrabhisheka’. Earlier, the temple precincts and the road leading to Talacauvery were cleared of debris that had accumulated after the floods. Meanwhile, the search for the other missing persons continued amidst intermittent showers. Rains in the district have by and large receded. Kodagu received 5.81 mm of rainfall for the 24-hour period ending 8.30 a.m. on Friday. Bhagamandala, which recorded rains in excess of 400 mm for two consecutive days last week, received 9.20 mm of rains in the last 24 hours.
15 August 2020||Chennai,||S.P. Balasubrahmanyam critical, under observation||Singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, who had been admitted to a hospital after testing positive for COVID-19 last week, is on life support. His condition is said to be critical. MGM Healthcare, where the singer had been admitted, said in a health bulletin that there had been a major setback to his condition. “In a late-night development on August 13, his condition had deteriorated, and based on the advice of the expert medical team attending to him, he has been moved to the ICU. He is on life support, and his condition remains critical,” the bulletin said. The hospital said he was under observation by a team of experts, and his haemodynamic and clinical parameters were being closely monitored. After he was admitted to the hospital, the veteran singer had put out a video message, saying he had chest congestion for a few days, along with cold and fever, which prompted him to get himself tested for the infection. He had tested positive for a ‘mild’ case of COVID-19. The hospital had said back then that he had mild symptoms. In the video, Mr. Balasubrahmanyam assured his friends and fans that he was doing well, and that nobody needed to worry about him. At the time, he had said that he was expecting to get discharged in a few days, since his symptoms were mild. He is stable, says son As rumours about the singer’s health circulated on social media, his son, S.P. Charan, and his long-time associate, music composer Illaiyaraaja, sent out messages to the public. “He is in the ICU and his condition is stable. We will keep you updated,” said Mr. Charan, urging people not to believe rumours. ”Please get up and come soon. I'm waiting for you,” Mr. Ilaiyaraaja said, addressing Mr. Balasubrahmanyam in a video message. He spoke about their friendship and how it started much before their association in cinema. “Music can’t part ways with swarams, and our friendship is like that — we can never be apart,” he said.
15 August 2020||T. Appala NaiduCORINGa,||Fishing cat collaring project to begin in A.P.’s Coringa||Experts from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII-Dehradun) and the Andhra Pradesh Forest Department are all set to begin the country’s maiden exercise of collaring 10 fishing cats ( Prionailurus viverrinus ) in the Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary in the Godavari estuary to study the species’ ecology, home range, behaviour in different seasons, feeding habits, threats, movements and use of space. By 2018, the population of the fishing cat in the sanctuary was 115. The three-year project is expected to be grounded in a few weeks in the sanctuary’s 235.7-sq. km mangrove ecosystem, capturing the fishing cats and collaring them with light weight equipment containing the Geographical Information System. C. Selvam, DFO, Rajamahendravaram, Wildlife Management Division, told The Hindu that the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had permitted the capture and collaring of the fishing cats. WII experts would collar the fishing cats before letting the animals into their natural habitat. Yanam-based Vedanta Limited (Cairn Oil and Gas Division) has come forward to provide Rs. 74 lakh for the project and Rs. 45 lakh had been released.
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘PM has put in place an alternative idea of India’||On Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi became the longest serving non-Congress Prime Minister (PM), surpassing the record of the late Atal Bihari Vajpayee and becoming the fourth longest-serving Indian Prime Minister of all time. Into the second year of his second tenure, he is poised to take over Dr. Manmohan Singh’s record too, of serving two full terms in a row and a decade at the helm. ‘Child of destiny’ Ashwani Kumar, political scientist at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, terms Prime Minister Modi a “child of destiny” and a product of the nearly 100 years of the RSS’s existence. “As such, his tenure has not just surpassed former Prime Minister Vajpayee’s but also marks a departure from what the former achieved. Prime Minister Modi is the most presidential of Prime Ministers India has ever had in his combination of legislative and executive power and his leadership of the party,” Professor Kumar said. “But the most significant thing he has done, on the basis of the two big parliamentary majorities that he won, is to flesh out an alternative idea of India, one with its moorings in Hindutva. He has pushed the ideological agenda of the Sangh Parivar far more than his predecessor, who was encumbered by coalition compulsions and his own Nehruvian ways of doing things. Prime Minister Modi has clarified a vision of a Hindu civilisational state,” he said. “Another remarkable thing about this is that he has not made any fundamental changes to the Constitution of India in realising this. The biggest example is the quota for Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) for government jobs. By tinkering with quotas without any reworking of the central premise of reservations for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and the Other Backward Classes, he has completely changed the nature of the reservation debate in India,” Professor Kumar added. Rahul Verma of the Centre for Policy Research (CPR) adds that the continued electoral dominance of Mr. Modi and the unprecedented expansion of the party, BJP, under his stewardship is also a departure from Mr. Vajpayee’s tenure. “Mr. Modi’s tenure is not just about any non-Congress leader etc.; it is about the expansion of the BJP as well in areas where they were never present and among communities where they were not a political option,” he said. He added that Mr. Modi’s unabashed advocacy of ideological imperatives of Hindutva has percolated to new economic institutions and socio-cultural institutions as well. ‘Second Republic’ “The increase in the BJP’s dominance is different from the last thirty years of coalition politics because it has also decimated the opposition, whereas earlier we were in a competitive political system. It has led to the inauguration of what many political scientists are now saying is the Second Republic in India, with new rules of engagement and a new democratic project based on ideological polarisation,” Mr. Verma added. Mr. Modi has been heading one government or the other (State and Centre) uninterruptedly for the past 18 years.
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Patriotism a key virtue for all citizens, says Hamid Ansari||Former Vice-President (V-P) Hamid Ansari said on Friday that in a democratic polity, governed by the Constitution and the principle of rule of law, the supremacy of the legally constituted civilian authority had to prevail. “This basic principle remains the bedrock of civil-military relations,” he stated. Mr. Ansari was addressing a webinar organised by Unacademy, an education technology platform, in association with The Hindu . “Patriotism and love for the motherland is an essential virtue for all citizens. Strident nationalism on the other hand should be eschewed since it tends towards jingoism. An instance of it was cited last week by an eminent scientist who cautioned against what she called ‘vaccine nationalism’,” Mr. Ansari told the online audience interested in appearing for the defence services examinations. A career in the armedforces had a charm of its own, said Lieutenant General Asit Mistry, Commandant of the National Defence Academy (NDA). Some of the factors that drew people to the armed forces, apart from the obvious challenges, were the personal satisfaction it affords, the quality of life, the medical facilities, adventure and job security it lends, he said. “A career in the Armed Forces is not just a job; it is a way of life,” Lt. Gen. Mistry added. General V.P. Malik, Army chief during the Kargil war, said losing the war had not been an option. “Every time I met the troops, I told them that while Pakistan might have fired the first shot, the last one would be shot by us. The war would end, but only on our terms,” he said.
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||India hails UAE-Israel pact, reiterates Palestine cause||India on Friday welcomed the normalisation of ties between Israel and the United Arab Emirates (UAE), calling them both “key strategic partners”. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar received a call from UAE Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan to explain the decision to establish full ties with Israel, becoming the first Gulf country, and the third Arab country, after Egypt and Jordan, to do so. The trilateral agreement called the “Abraham Accords”, signed along with the U.S. on Thursday, also commits Israel to suspend its plans for annexation of Palestine majority areas. “India has consistently supported peace, stability and development in West Asia, which is its extended neighbourhood. In that context, we welcome the full normalisation of ties between UAE and Israel,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, briefing journalists on Friday. Mr. Jaishankar tweeted that he “deeply appreciated” the call from the UAE Minister, and said they “discussed the full normalisation of relations between UAE and Israel.” While the announcement of the agreement has been welcomed by India, it will also mean continuing to walk a balance on West Asian politics. According to experts, the normalisation of ties between Israel and the UAE could be followed by similar actions by other Gulf countries, including the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and strong reactions from other countries in a region India has deep stakes in terms of energy supplies and expatriate populations. New Delhi will also need to watch ties with Iran, which has slammed the agreement and will see Arab-Israeli tie-ups as a direct threat to its security. Call for talks Officials said New Delhi would also continue to push for a two-state solution as part of a negotiated settlement between Israel and Palestine. Reaffirming its “traditional support” for the Palestinian cause, the MEA on Friday called for the early resumption of talks for a “two state” solution. Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas has rejected the agreement, calling it “betrayal”. Former Ambassador to Israel and the U.S., Navtej Sarna, said the agreement was a “good development” for India, given its strong ties with both countries.
15 August 2020||MYSURU,||Karnataka govt. announces support price for cocoon||The State government has announced a support price for cocoon to help sericulture farmers reeling under the impact of a crash in prices because of COVID-19 in the past few months. A Government Order dated August 13 announced a support price of Rs. 30 for every kilogram of crossbreed cocoon and Rs. 50 for every kg of superior bivoltine cocoon variety. The support price will be given to sericulture farmers over and above the market price commanded, said Munshi Basaiah, Deputy Director of Sericulture, Ramanagaram. The support price is expected to cushion the accumulated losses suffered by sericulture farmers because of the downward spiral of cocoon prices since March-April this year. The support price intervention comes after sericulture farmers opposed the protection price announced by the government last month. Under the protection price policy, the government had formulated guidelines based on the Basavaraj Committee report to grade cocoon on the basis of their quality and fixed a particular price for each grade variety-wise. If the market price fell below the price fixed by the government, a protection price up to a maximum of Rs. 50 per kg was to be given to the farmer. But the farmers were opposed to the protection price policy, contending that it was unfair to them, and resisted its implementation. They demanded the support price model, which has now been accepted by the government, according to N.Y. Chigari, CEO of Koppa Sericulture Farmers’ Producer Company Ltd., Maddur. The government intervention is expected to come with retrospective effect from April 2020. The government has estimated an expenditure of Rs. 45 crore towards support price for the period between April and September 2020 and has released Rs. 10 crore for it. Though the announcement of support price has been accepted by the farmers, the president of Ramanagaram Sericulture Farmers’ Welfare Association, Gautham Gowda, said they had sought Rs. 150 for every kg of crossbreed and Rs. 200 for every kg of bivoltine. Cocoon prices went on a downward spiral from March-April this year. The average price, which was between Rs.450 and Rs. 480 for every kg of crossbreed cocoon and between Rs. 550 and Rs. 600 for every kg of bivoltine during January and February, plummeted to less than Rs. 200 from March-April. However, Sericulture Department officials said the support price announcement has come at a time when cocoon prices have witnessed a steady increase because of a rise in demand for raw silk.
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||India believes in winning hearts, not land: Rajnath||India has never attacked anywhere to capture the land of others and India believes in winning hearts, not land, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Friday. “Whatever we do in national security, we always do it for self defence, not for attacking others. If an enemy country ever attacked us, like every time, we will give a befitting reply,” Mr. Singh said in the customary address to the armed forces ahead of Independence Day. The Minister’s comments come amid the ongoing standoff with China along the border in Eastern Ladakh, which has now gone on for over 100 days. Chinese troops continue to remain in Indian-held territory in several places despite several rounds of military and diplomatic talks aimed at disengagement and de-escalation. Mr. Singh stressed that the government is doing everything necessary to keep the morale of the Armed Forces high and to fulfil all their operational requirements. Amid the ongoing standoff, the Defence Ministry has given the Armed Forces emergency financial powers to procure weapons systems upto Rs. 300 crore on an urgent basis without any further clearances to cut short the procurement cycle, the Defence Ministry said. The Services have embarked on major procurements of ammunition, anti-tank missiles, man portable air defences, unmanned aerial vehicles among others. Last week, the Defence Ministry took down a document uploaded on its website that admitted Chinese transgressions into Indian territory in Eastern Ladakh beginning early May and also said the present standoff “is likely to be prolonged.”
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Air India decides to sack 48 pilots||Air India has sent termination letters to 48 pilots, weeks after the airline asserted on social media that no employees would be laid off. It is reliably learnt that Air India tendered termination letters to several pilots on Thursday evening. The termination comes into immediate effect and “you will stand released from the services of the company w.e.f close of office of August 13,” the carrier has said. A copy of one such letter was reviewed by The Hindu . Pilots have been given an equivalent of one month’s salary, according to sources. ‘Financial strain’ “You would appreciate that the company is already severely strained financially. Further, the global pandemic COVID-19 has resulted in extraordinary and exceptional circumstances by gravely reducing the commercial functioning of the company, leading to redundancies. The company is incurring huge net losses and doesn’t have the financial ability to pay,” the letter informed the pilots. In some cases, these letters informed employees that an earlier resignation offered by them in 2019 but later withdrawn was being accepted by the company even though the revocation of the resignation letter was okayed by the airline. In other cases, the pilots had submitted their resignation letters six months back, but their resignations had not been accepted by the Chairman and Managing Director.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||Nagas’ sovereignty recognised in 2015 pact, says Muivah||National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isak-Muivah) (NSCN-IM) leader Thuingaleng Muivah on Friday said the Government of India recognised the Nagas’ sovereignty when it signed the 2015 framework agreement and that the Nagas would coexist but not merge with India. The 86-year-old leader said they were not asking the government for a Naga flag and a separate constitution, as “recognise them or not, we have our own flag and constitution.” Mr. Muivah said in a speech: “the Nagas will coexist with India, sharing sovereign powers as agreed in the framework agreement... But they will not merge with India.” The speech comes at a time when the talks have hit rough weather, with the Naga group seeking the removal of interlocutor and Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi. Earlier this week, the NSCN-IM, for the first time, released the details of the 2015 framework agreement, which stated that the Centre had agreed on “sharing the sovereign power” and provide for an “enduring inclusive new relationship of peaceful co-existence of the two entities”. The Intelligence Bureau has been holding discussions with Mr. Muivah, who has been camping in New Delhi for more than a fortnight. Mr. Ravi did not turn up for a scheduled meeting with the NSCN leadership on Thursday.
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI bags 32 service medals||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has bagged 32 President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service and Police Medal for Meritorious Service on Independence Day this year. Among the awardees for the President’s Police Medals for Distinguished Service are Additional Superintendent of Police Prasenjit Roy, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Surinder Singh Bhullar, and head constables Vijay Goswami, Vazir Singh, S. Ravi and Shyambir Singh. The medal for meritorious service has been conferred on DSPs Diwas Kumar and K. Lokho Moses; Inspectors Ashok Kumar Jha, Manoj Kumar and Rajesh Bhonsle; Assistant Sub-Inspector Mahesh Vasant Patil; and head constables Brijesh Kumar Tripathi, Chandra Shekhar Pandey, Kanwal Krishan Pandith, Pradeep Kumar Dash, Ram Ratan Gurjar, Sanjit Kumar Roy, Santosh Pralhad Mahajan, Shyam Chandra, Supriya Kumar Dutta, T. Thirusarvanan, Uttamrao Nagorao Aagle and Budhdeo Oraon. Constables Ajeet Kumar Singh, Bhaiya Ranjan Kumar Singh, Dalbir Singh, Hem Chander Tiwari, Joginder Singh, Rayapa Raju Mantena, Pop Singh, and Personal Secretary Vasantha Rangachari have also been awarded the medal for meritorious service.
15 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala CM goes into self-quarantine||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and several key members of his Cabinet went into self-quarantine on Friday after several senior officers, including the Malappuram District Collector and District Police Chief, who led the rescue operations at the site of an air crash at the Karipur airport in Kozhikode tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Mr. Vijayan will work from his official residence now. Mr. Vijayan and Health Minister K.K. Shylaja have since submitted themselves to antigen tests and have been declared COVID-19 negative. Other members of the Cabinet in self-quarantine have also subjected themselves to the medical tests. However, the results are not yet out. Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar, Ports Minister Kadannappally Ramachandran, Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran, Local Self-Government Minister A.C. Moideen, Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel, Excise Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan, Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta, and State Police Chief Loknath Behera had accompanied Mr. Vijayan to the crash site and interacted with local people and rescue workers. Mr. Vijayan had visited the disaster site in the company of Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan, Ms. Shylaja, and Mr. Moideen. Tourism Minister The Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said Mr. Vijayan would skip the Independence Day parade here on Saturday. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran would hoist the national flag and deliver the Independence Day address in his stead. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan had headed the delegation. Raj Bhavan said Mr. Khan had limited public interaction and was confined to his residence mostly. A government official said the Ministers were expected to go into self-isolation and work from home. Mr. Behera and Mr. Mehta were likely to go into self-quarantine and work from home. The CMO indicated that it would soon announce arrangements for the Independence Day parade in other districts in the absence of several Ministers. Union Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri and Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan were among those who interacted with the top district officials.
15 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Cabinet meet may seek ban on SDPI||Claiming involvement of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) in the rioting in Bengaluru on Tuesday night, the State government has renewed its proposal to ban the SDPI and it will recommend the same to the Union government. A Cabinet meeting, called on August 20, is likely to take a decision on making the recommendation. Speaking to presspersons here on Friday, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said that the State government is also collecting information about the involvement of the SDPI and the Popular Front of India (PFI) in various incidents in different parts of Karnataka. Since 2008, members of both organisations have been involved in the killing of activists of the BJP and its affiliate organisations in 17 different incidents, in places such as Mangaluru, Bantwal, Moodbidri, Hunsur and Bengaluru, he alleged. Legal recourse Meanwhile, the SDPI has said that it will take legal recourse if the government goes ahead with the proposal. SDPI State president Ilyas Mohammed Tumbe sought to know by what logic the ban on the SDPI was being contemplated, while there was no such move against the Sangh Parivar organisations and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. “The same rule must apply to both the Sangh Parivar and other organisations,” he said. Earlier in this January, the State unit of the BJP demanded a ban on the two organisations after accusing them of being offshoots of the banned Students Islamic Movement of India. On Thursday, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said initial police investigation into the violence has revealed the involvement of the SDPI. The Revenue Minister said that for the BJP government, “unlike the Congress government”, the law of the country was important. Noting that the violence in two police station limits (K.G. Halli and D.J. Halli) was not communal, the Minister said, “This hasty act is not against any religion. This is a pre-planned act”.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||ITBP men tipped for medals for LAC action||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) has recommended gallantry medals for 21 personnel who faced Chinese troops in multiple skirmishes that occurred in eastern Ladakh in May and June. It said that due to the force’s “befitting response”, many “hypersensitive” locations were safeguarded from Chinese troops. This is the first time the ITBP, deployed with the Army along the undefined Line of Actual Control (LAC), has confirmed the violent face-offs with Chinese troops in sectors other than the Galwan Valley, where 20 Army personnel were killed on June 15. The recommendations for medals are not for the Galwan incident, where the ITBP trekked a long distance to retrieve the bodies of the jawans who had fallen into the Galwan river following the clash. “The ITBP troops not only effectively used shield to protect themselves but also responded fiercely to PLA [People’s Liberation Army] advancing troops and brought the situation under control. With highest order of professional skills, ITBP troops fought shoulder to shoulder and also brought the injured Indian Army troops to the rear,” an ITBP statement issued by the ITBP on Friday said. A senior government official said that before the Galwan clash, there was a massive build-up by Chinese troops along the LAC beginning April last week. The ITBP statement said that “even when the ITBP troops fought whole night, they received minimum casualties by giving befitting reply to the stone pelters of the PLA. At places, they gave determined stand-off about 17 to 20 hours throughout the intervening nights.” Other than the 21 recommendations, 294 other ITBP personnel received the Director General Gallantry Commendations “for displaying raw courage and bravery during face-offs and skirmishes in Eastern Ladakh in May-June 2020.” The recommendations for gallantry medals, announced twice on the occasions of Republic Day and Independence Day each year, are scrutinised and cleared by the Home Ministry. None of the 21 recommendations received a medal on the eve of Independence Day this year. The ITBP also recommended the names of 318 personnel and 40 other Central armed Police Force personnel for award of Union Home Minister Special Operation Medals for their dedicated services in fight against the COVID-19.
15 August 2020||Kozhikode,||Notary made accused in Koodathayi case||The Kozhikode Principal Sessions Court on Friday approved the submission made by the prosecution to arraign a notary public, C. Vijayakumar, as an accused in the case of the Koodathayi serial killings. Special prosecutor N.K. Unnikrishnan argued that the notary public should be made an accused based on the police investigation report submitted before the court. Subsequently, Principal District Judge P. Ragini approved the submission and issued summons to Vijayakumar to appear before the court on August 24. Previously, Mr. Unnikrishnan said the notary public had given a statement under Section 154 (information in cognizable offence) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. But later he made a volte-face on his own statement. Now he has been charged under 120 (B) (punishment of criminal conspiracy), 463 (forgery) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC. Thus Vijayakumar, who allegedly stamped and approved a fake document, will become the fifth accused in the killings. The case related to prime accused Jolly allegedly finishing off two branches of the Ponnamattom ancestral family after giving them poison or cyanide-laced food over a period of 14 years.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||Jamia first in Central University scores||Jamia Millia University scored a total of 90% in a self-assessment exercise, based on annual targets set by each university under performance parameters determined by the Centre. The assessment should be linked to financial incentives to make it more effective, Jamia’s Vice-Chancellor Najma Akhtar told The Hindu on Friday. Jamia, which has been in the spotlight for police violence and riots on campus last December, achieved the highest score for 2019-20, followed by Rajiv Gandhi University in Arunachal Pradesh, and Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi. However, the Education Ministry (formerly the Ministry of Human Resource Development or MHRD) notes that this is an internal assessment, not a ranking, as the targets are self-determined and not comparable across universities. “MHRD does the internal assessment of Central Universities regularly based on yearly MoU signed with MHRD, UGC [University Grants Commission] and universities. Jamia University is on the top in the internal assessment,” said a Ministry spokesperson. “The word rankings should be avoided.” At the beginning of each year, universities set their targets on various parameters, including student intake and diversity, faculty strength, research, patents and financial management.
15 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||NIA arrests 4 more in Kerala gold smuggling case||The probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into the smuggling of gold through air cargo consignments addressed to the UAE consulate here appeared to gather more pace on Friday with four more arrests and raids in six locations in Kozhikode and Malappuram. The agency arrested Mohamed Anwar T.M., Hamzath Abdu Salam, and Hamjad Ali, all from Malappuram district, and Samju T.M. from Kozhikode district. The NIA said interrogation of the suspects had revealed that they had raised funds for the gold smuggling operation. The agency said it seized digital devices and incriminating documents in the raid. Meanwhile, the Enforcement Directorate sought extension of the custody of Swapna Suresh, one of the key accused in the case. It said Swapna held discussions with Sivasankar, former secretary to the Kerala Chief Minister, at the UAE when the State machinery was there seeking assistance for flood relief operations. The ED submitted that Mr. Sivasankar needed to be interrogated further.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Coronil: Patanjali gets respite for two weeks||A Division Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday suspended for two weeks the operation of an order passed by a single judge on August 6 restraining Patanjali Ayurved Limited and Divya Yog Mandir Trust from using the term ‘Coronil’ for their tablets and imposing a cost of Rs. 10 lakh on them for commercial exploitation of the fear around COVID-19. Justices R. Subbiah and C. Saravanan suspended the single judge order following a joint appeal preferred by the trust which manufactures the tablets and gets them marketed through Patanjali. The decision was taken after hearing senior counsel C. Aryama Sundaram and Satish Parasaran who insisted on an interim stay until their appeals were heard finally. The single judge had granted the injunction on a trademark infringement suit filed by Chennai-based Arudra Engineers Limited, which had been reportedly using registered trademarks ‘Coronil-92B’ and ‘Coronil-213SLP’ for more than 20 years for marketing its chemical agents used to clean heavy industrial machinery and keeping them free from corrosion. Referring to absence of any connection between the plaintiff’s products and the ayurvedic tablets marketed by Patanjali, Mr. Sundaram said: “The learned single judge’s order needs a strong second look. Otherwise tomorrow, LG Asafoetida powder company can file a case against LG Electronics.”
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||SC finds Bhushan guilty of contempt for tweets||The court said Mr. Bhushan’s tweet gave an impression that “the CJI is enjoying his ride on a motorbike worth Rs. 50 lakh belonging to a BJP leader, at a time when he has kept the Supreme Court in lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice”. The court said the tweet was a “wild allegation” based on “distorted facts”. It was scandalous. The court acknowledged that its contempt powers could be used only to uphold the majesty of law and not to vindicate an individual judge. However, it reasoned that “any caricature of a judge calculated to lower the dignity of the court would destroy, undermine or tend to undermine public confidence in the administration of justice”. A defamatory publication concerning “the judge is a serious impediment to justice”, the court added. The second tweet gave the impression that the court and the four Chief Justices in the past six years played a vital role in what Mr. Bhushan termed the “destruction of democracy”, it said. “The Supreme Court is the epitome of the Indian judiciary. An attack on the Supreme Court does not only have the effect of tending an ordinary litigant of losing the confidence in the Supreme Court but also may tend to lose the confidence in the mind of other judges in the country in its highest court,” Justice Gavai observed. The judgment said contempt, if not criminal contempt, was attracted if free speech was used to scandalise judges and the institution of administration of justice or undermine the authority or dignity of the Supreme Court or to shake public confidence in the judiciary.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||India believes in peace, says President Kovind||He noted that Independence Day celebrations would be restrained this year but complimented the Narendra Modi government in “anticipating the tremendous challenge, responding effectively and well in time”. Commenting on the construction of the temple at Shri Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya, he said it was “a moment of pride for all” and complimented citizens for their “patience, restraint and the unflinching trust in the judiciary”. On self-reliance Speaking about the self-reliance or ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ initiative, Mr. Kovind said India’s self-reliance means being self-sufficient without alienating or creating distance from the world. “The world now realises what our sages had said long ago: the global community is but one family: Vasudev kutumbakam . However, even while the world community needs to fight together against the greatest challenge before humanity [COVID-19], some in our neighbourhood tried to carry out their misadventure of expansion,” he said, without naming China. “Our brave soldiers laid down their lives defending our borders. Those worthy sons of Bharat Mata lived and died for national pride. The entire nation salutes the martyrs of Galwan Valley,” he said.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Gehlot government wins Rajasthan trust vote||The 19 dissident MLAs led by Mr. Pilot had returned to the party fold earlier this week. Following the expected win, Mr. Gehlot said the Congress’ victory was a message to the forces which were trying to destabilise elected governments. “Their every tactic failed in Rajasthan. It is the people’s unwavering trust in us and unity of our Congress MLAs that has brought this victory,” he said. Mr. Gehlot told reporters that the BJP’s “conspiracy” had failed and the Opposition leaders had been exposed during the debate in the Assembly. Replying to the debate, Mr. Gehlot said in the House that the BJP’s role was dubious during the political crisis and alleged that Home Minister Amit Shah had gone all out to topple his government. “As the conspiracy failed and all the Congress members came together, the BJP is startled,” Mr. Gehlot said, insisting that he would not let the government be toppled at any cost even if the BJP made all attempts. He also questioned the role of central investigating agencies, stating that they were being misused. Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria accused the Congress of blaming the BJP for the infighting within the party. Deputy Leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore said the State government had misused Special Operations Group and Anti-Corruption Bureau and illegally tapped telephones.  Verdict next week Meanwhile, the hearing in theRajasthan High Court on the petitions of the Bahujan Samaj Party and BJP MLA Madan Dilawar challenging the merger of six BSP MLAs in Congress was completed on Friday. The Single Judge Bench of Justice Mahendra Goyal will deliver the verdicton Monday.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Centre is like a deer caught in the headlights’||Former Union Ministers P. Chidamabaram and Anand Sharma on Friday took a dig at the Union government over ‘contradictory’ growth projections by experts who are a part of the Prime Minister's Economic Advisory Council (PMEAC), and asked who is in charge of India's economy. While Mr. Sharma said the country needed “economic and not headline management”, Mr. Chidamabaram said the government was “paralysed and unable to move in any direction”. ‘In interviews to the same media outlet (The Wire) two economists of the PM’s Economic Advisory Council reached diametrically opposite conclusions on growth in 2020-21. One said that the economy will contract between 5 and 7 per cent. The other said the economy could grow up to 1 per cent ! No wonder, the government is like a deer caught between the headlights - paralysed and unable to move in either direction”, Mr. Chidamabaram said in a tweet. “The government has decided to “do nothing”. Whether it be the economy or the pandemic, the government has left the fate of 138 crore people to the gods!” added the former Finance Minister. Mr. Sharma said India's economy was sharply declining before the pandemic and the lockdown due to erratic decisions, flawed policies and monumental mismanagement. “Now [the economy] staring at a prolonged recession and massive youth unemployment. Who is in charge- Prime Minister or Finance Minister? Govt is clueless on economic revival. Confusion prevails in the PM's Economic Advisory Council itself with Sajjid Chinoy warning of 5-7% GDP contraction and Ashima Goyal forecasting 1% growth”, he asked in a tweet. Chinoy’s comment On Thursday, in an interview to a news portal, JPMorgan’s Chief India Economist, Sajjid Chinoy, who is also a member of the PMEAC, said various estimates indicated the Indian economy contracting between 5% and 7%. He, however, said the views were his own and not that of the Council. But his position was very different from another member of the PMEAC, Professor Ashima Goyal of the Mumbai-based Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research. He had predicted a growth of 1%. Speaking to The Hindu separately, Mr. Sharma talked of a specific road map for economic recovery and cautioned the government against dipping into the reserves of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to meet the shortfall in revenue collections.
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Probe team downloads black box data||A week after the Air India Express flight IX 1344 crashed at the Calicut International Airport, the investigation team has downloaded data from the two “black boxes”, according to the Director General of Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), Group Captain Aurobindo Handa. “Raw data from the flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder has been downloaded and is being processed. If any requirement is felt at any stage of investigation, necessary assistance from specialised agencies in India or abroad would be sought,” the DG wrote in an e-mail in response to a specific question on whether the data recorders were intact necessitating help from aircraft manufacturer, Boeing. The aircraft involved in last week’s crash was a Boeing 737-800 Next Generation (NG) The AAIB has constituted a five member team to investigate the accident within five months. The team will “investigate, determine the probable cause (s), contributory factor(s) leading to the Accident and make recommendation(s) to avoid recurrence of such incident in future,” the DG explained. The team comprises officials from safety regulatory body DGCA, AAIB as well as the Indian Air Force.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||Rahul seeks inclusive vaccine access policy||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday said the Union government must formulate a clearly-defined policy to ensure equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines. Mr. Gandhi’s tweet comes amid news reports that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will discuss the progress of vaccine research with principal investigators. “India will be one of the COVID-19 vaccine-producing nations. It needs a clearly-defined, inclusive & equitable vaccine access strategy ensuring availability, affordability & fair distribution. GOI must do it now,” he tweeted. 3 vaccines under trial Presently, three vaccines are under trial and studies are being conducted about their safety on humans. However, there are concerns over access to such vaccines once they are mass produced as most nations are competing with each other to vaccinate their citizens. On Wednesday, National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19, under the chairmanship of V. K. Paul of Niti Ayog, met for the first time to discuss about creating an infrastructure as well as guiding principles for prioritisation of population groups for vaccination.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Two policemen killed in militant attack in Srinagar||He said security forces immediately cordoned off the area to nab the attackers. The deceased policemen were identified as Fayaz Ahmed and Ishfaq Ayoub of the Indian Reserve Police (IRP). Speaking at a wreath laying ceremony for the deceased policemen, DGP Singh said such attacks were usually carried when the situation in Kashmir showed improvement. “Our neighbour can’t tolerate peace prevailing in the Valley.” He said anti-militancy operations would be further intensified in the days ahead. “Militants will not be allowed to sabotage the peaceful atmosphere,” DGP Singh said.  Meanwhile, security was tightened across the Valley ahead of Independence Day. Dozens of checkpoints have been set up and many stretches closed for traffic in capital Srinagar, where the main I-Day function will take place. Mobile bunkers have been deployed to patrol the streets of the capital. There was thin traffic on the roads due to the security arrangements. Attack condemned Regional parties, including J&K Apni Party (J&KAP), Congress and the National Conference have condemned the attack on the policemen in Srinagar. “Police must track down the militants and punish them. This attack is an act of frustration,” said BJP spokesman Altaf Thakur.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Acts of charity||Giving to others — daana — is a means to get rid of our sins. When a person awakes in the morning, he should spend time contemplating what acts of charity he should perform that day. We usually draw up a schedule for the day’s activities, but we hardly fit in daana in this schedule. But this is the first thing we should be thinking of. We should think of what we gave the previous day and what we are going to give today. Why is daana important? Do you draw in breath and not release it at all? In the same way, is it right to earn money, but not give it away? Accumulating wealth, without giving to others, is akin to drawing in your breath and not breathing out, said Velukkudi Krishnan, in a discourse. Plants take in carbon dioxide and give out oxygen, which sustains life. So even plants do not take selfishly, but do something for others. Should not human beings give to fellow human beings? Lord Krishna tells Yudhishthira that when a person gives daana, his ancestors in pitru loka are delighted. One can give according to one’s capacity. A person can give gold (hiranya daana); one can give cows (go daana) or land (prithvi daana). We give gifts to rich men with a lot of fanfare, because this brings us attention. But the aim of daana is not attention seeking. It is wrong to give to a rich man. The receiver must be one who needs it. The recipient must also be a good person. One should give only for noble purposes. One can contribute towards the education of others, one can provide food to the hungry; one can donate towards the wedding expenses of a poor girl. We accumulate many sins unknowingly. As we keep giving to worthy people, our sins gradually disappear, without our knowing it. Just as they came to us silently, they leave just as silently.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||NIA summons 2 Delhi varsity teachers||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) summoned two Delhi University teachers regarding the investigation into the 2018 Bhima-Koregaon case. Prem Kumar Vijayan, who teaches English at the Hindu College in Delhi, and Rakesh Ranjan, another teacher, were asked by the NIA to appear before the agency on Friday. Earlier, the NIA had arrested Hany Babu M.T, associate professor of Delhi University. The case was transferred from the Pune police to the NIA in January. The Pune police filed a chargesheet and a supplementary chargesheet in this case on November 15, 2018 and February 21, 2019 respectively.
15 August 2020||Hyderabad,||Limited US visa services to resume on August 17||With student visas as a high priority, the US Consulates in India, including Hyderabad, will begin visa processing on August 17. The Consulate in Hyderabad was closed on March 16 after the government announced lockdown amidst fear of rising corona cases, and all the scheduled appointments were postponed. A statement posted on the US Embassy website said that the US Embassy in New Delhi and the Consulates in Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad, and Kolkata will begin processing of student and academic exchange visitor visa applications on a limited basis on August 17. The Consulates will first process emergency student and exchange visitor appointment requests received prior to August 12 and then offer public appointments. The post further said that “student visas are a high priority, and we will make every effort to assist student visa applicants in a timely fashion, while keeping our customers and staff safe. However, due to our very limited appointment availability, we will not be able to accommodate all requests in time for the start of the fall semester. We will try to handle requests based on when we receive them and when classes will start. We ask for your patience during this time.” The Consulates will refresh appointments as per availability, generally two weeks in advance. Prospective students and exchange visitors can schedule an appointment no more than three weeks prior to their class start date. However, the Consulates will not process routine immigrant and non-immigrant visa services. However, those who have urgent need to travel can follow the guidance provided at http://cdn.ustraveldocs.com/in/in-niv-expeditedappointment.asp to request an emergency appointment.
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘India won’t comment on U.S. election’||India will not comment on the U.S.’s Presidential elections, said the government, days after Kamala Harris was nominated to be Democratic Party front-runner Joseph Biden’s Vice-Presidential running-mate. Ms. Harris is the first person of Indian extraction, born to a Jamaican-born father and Indian mother, to be on a U.S. Presidential ticket. Jamaican Foreign Minister Kamina Smith had wished Ms. Harris on her “historic selection” in a tweet. Tamil Nadu Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam had also tweeted on the announcement, calling it a “moment of pride for Indians, especially for the people of Tamil Nadu”, as Ms. Harris’s mother belonged to Chennai. However, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the government would not make any statement on the development, as it could be seen as an interference in the U.S.’s internal politics. In September last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi ran into a controversy over comments at the joint rally in Houston. When PM Modi in his speech quoted U.S. President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign slogan — “ Abki baar Trump sarkar ” — aimed at the Indian-American population, it was reported in U.S. newspapers as an endorsement for Mr. Trump. However, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar later clarified that Mr. Modi had only referenced the previous election, not the upcoming one.
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pranab’s condition unchanged||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s health condition remains unchanged and his vital parameters are presently stable, the Army’s Research and Referral (R&R) Hospital said on Friday morning. On Monday, Mr. Mukherjee underwent a life-saving emergency surgery for a brain clot and had been on ventilator support. He has also tested positive for COVID-19.
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fadnavis gets a role in Bihar campaign||Former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis has set off a flurry of speculation over a special role in the BJP’s Bihar campaign after he participated in a State committee meeting via video link from Mumbai. Sources say Bihar BJP leaders have been instructed to keep Mr. Fadnavis in the loop with regard to any political developments in the State, a clear signal that he is likely to be appointed to a ‘co-prabhari’ (in charge) position. “We have also been instructed to ask him to attend every important meeting with regard to the preparations for Bihar polls,” said a source.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Correction||In the report “NSEL scam: CBI seeks Finance Ministry view” published on Friday in some editions, the strapline was incorrect as P. Chidambaram does not face any charges in the scam.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||Scholarships in Mushirul Hasan’s name||Jamia Millia Islamia on Friday announced the establishment of the “Mushirul Hasan Endowment”, through which annual post-doctoral fellowship and two post-graduate merit-cum-means scholarships would be given. An annual seminar on contemporary history, society and politics in India would also be organised. “As a mark of respect for Professor Mushirul Hasan’s commitment to Jamia Millia Islamia and to the pursuit of academic excellence, Prof. Zoya Hasan — wife of late Prof. Mushirul Hasan, former Vice-Chancellor, wishes to establish a Mushirul Hasan Endowment, for which she proposes to donate Rs. 1.5 crore,” the university said.
15 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||Meerut bounty announcer arrested||A Meerut man was arrested on Friday evening for allegedly disturbing communal harmony after a video went viral where he purportedly announces a bounty of Rs. 51 lakh on the head of the nephew of Karnataka MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy for a post on social media that allegedly hurt Muslims’ religious sentiments. Avinash Pandey, Superintendent of Police (Rural), Meerut, said Shahazeb Rizvi, of Rasoolpur village of Meerut, has been booked under Sections 153A (promoting enmity between religious groups) and 505(2) (intent to incite one community against the other) of the IPC. “We had taken note of the video. He has been charged with disturbing communal harmony.”
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. govt. forms panel to study draft EIA||The State government on Friday constituted a 12-member State-level committee to look into all aspects of the draft Environment Impact Assessment Notification 2020 issued by the Centre. A copy of the Government Order issued in this connection late on Friday, and sourced by The Hindu , said the Committee — to be headed by the Additional Chief Secretary of the Environment and Forests Department as the chairperson — would “analyse its merits and demerits on the provisions proposed in the draft EIA notification and give its recommendation to the State government.” The Member-Secretary of the State Level Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) would be the Member-Secretary of the 12-member panel. The Chairman of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, the Member Secretary of the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority, the Commissioner of Municipal Administration, the Chief Engineer of the Public Works Department, and the Director of Geology and Mining are ex-officio members of the panel. Chairman of CII-Tamil Nadu S. Chandramohan, Jayashree Vencatesan of Care Earth Trust, Dr. Ramesh of the National Centre of Sustainable Coastal Management, retired IFS officer T. Sekar, and former SEIAA Chairman Thangavelu are the other members in the panel.
15 August 2020||NALGONDA,||e-office launched in Nalgonda||District Collector Prashant J Patil on Friday launched e-office, an office automation system for the various departments at the integrated Collectorate complex. An initiative towards digital governance, under Digital Telangana, e-office enables offices to conduct their business without printing paper. The ‘paperless office’ system can handle routing inward correspondences, noting and move office files digitally.
15 August 2020||Lucknow,||U.P. MLA Vijay Mishra detained in M.P.||MLA Vijay Mishra of Bhadohi in Uttar Pradesh was on Friday detained by the Madhya Pradesh police in connection with an FIR lodged against him in his home State for allegedly taking his relative’s house and extorting money from him. Mr. Mishra was detained from Agar Malwa a day after he released a video on social media expressing the fear that he “could be murdered” or arrested by the U.P. police.
15 August 2020||Bhopal,||MLAs can head cooperative societies in M.P.||Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra said on Friday that the Cabinet had decided to allow legislators to now be part of cooperative societies. This is seen as a move to accommodate rebels from the Congress. In March, 22 Congress MLAs resigned and joined the BJP. While 14 of them have been appointed Ministers, one was accorded a Cabinet rank as chairman of the M.P. State Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||We can’t go on a roving inquiry on handling of COVID by govt.: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday indicated that it cannot embark on a “roving inquiry” into the “gross mismanage-ment” of the COVID-19 pandemic by the government. The petition was filed by six former bureaucrats saying that mismanagement occurred at multiple levels, from not stocking enough medical equipment to lack of early screening of international passengers to the handling the exodus of migrant workers during the lockdown.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||Amit Shah tests negative for COVID-19||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Friday that he had tested negative for COVID-19. Mr. Shah, who tested positive on August 2, was admitted in Medanta Hospital, Gurugram. “I thank God and extend my gratitude to all those who wished me well and lent strength to me and my family in these tough times. On the advice of doctors I will stay in home isolation for a few days,” he tweeted. He also thanked the doctors and paramedics.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||Health Ministry official tests positive||Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary of the Union Health Ministry, on Friday tested positive for COVID-19. The officer has been part of the Ministry’s press briefing team. “Just to inform that I have tested positive for Covid 19 and initiating home isolation as per guidelines. Requesting all my friends, colleagues for self monitoring. Contact tracing will be done by Health Team. Hoping to see everyone soon,” Mr. Aggarwal tweeted.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||Flights are available, SC tells NEET candidates abroad||The Supreme Court on Friday told NEET candidates abroad that Vande Bharat flights are available during the COVID-19 pandemic. Parents of children abroad have approached the court to either open exam centres abroad or cancel the exam amid the health crisis. The National Testing Agency, which conducts the exam, informed the court that NEET has to be held in India “in a single shift at the same time”. The court listed the case for hearing on Friday next.
15 August 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Jharkhand unveils new logo||The Hemant Soren government in Jharkhand on Friday unveiled the new State logo at Ranchi on the eve of Independence Day. The circular logo has the national emblem at the centre. The emblem is enclosed in concentric circles depicting Jharkhand’s culture and its abundant natural resources. The logo was launched in the presence of Jharkhand Governor Draupadi Murmu and Chief Minister Mr. Soren.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||Anti-drugs campaign launch today in 272 vulnerable districts||A seven-month-long anti-drug campaign in 272 districts identified as “vulnerable” by the Union Ministry of Social Justice would be launched on Saturday, Union Minister Thawarchand Gehlot said on Friday. The Minister addressed District Collectors and officials of the State governments as well as doctors, NGOs and Narcotics Control Bureau officers through videoconferencing. The campaign will include awareness generation, focus on schools and colleges, community outreach and capacity-building for service providers.
15 August 2020||Bureau,TAMIL NADU||17 COVID-19 deaths in Western region||As many as 17 COVID-19 deaths were reported in five districts of Western region on Friday. Coimbatore and Erode district also registered a spike in the number of positive cases. Coimbatore district reported eight deaths and 385 new cases, taking the district’s overall tally of positive cases to 8,274. According to the media bulletin, five patients aged 74, 60, 62, 85 and 56 died at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, two patients aged 52 and 55 died at Government Medical College and ESI Hospital and one patient aged 76 died at a private hospital. The new cases were reported from Selvapuram, Vilankurichi, Ganapathy, Sowripalayam, Peelamedu, Ramanathapuram, Ukkadam and Race Course in Corporation limits and Karamadai, Thudiyalur, Vellakinar and Mettupalayam in the district. On Friday, 243 patients were discharged from various hospitals. Jewellery showroom closed The showroom of a popular jewellery chain on 100 Feet Road was closed on Friday after an employee tested positive for the disease. According to sources, Coimbatore Corporation officials closed down the showroom and lifted samples from 76 of the 80 employees working there and carried out disinfection measures. The remaining four employees would be tested on Saturday, sources said. Baby discharged A two-month-old male baby from Tiruppur district was discharged from the ESI Hospital on Friday after a procedure in the lung. Dean A. Nirmala said in a release that the baby was diagnosed with 20% pneumonia due to COVID-19 and pneumothorax (leakage of air from lungs). On August 7, doctors drained the leaked air and the baby was discharged on Friday after it was found stable. Three deaths in Tiruppur Tiruppur district reported three deaths and 53 cases, taking the district’s overall tally to 1,431 cases. Three men aged 67, 61 and 58 died at the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore, the bulletin said. The new cases were reported from Tiruppur, Kundadam, Palladam and Dharapuram Blocks on Friday. A total of 36 patients from the district were discharged on Friday. Four deaths in Salem Salem district reported four COVID-19 deaths and 191 new cases. The deceased include a 69-year-old man from Attur, a 70-year-old woman from Sooramangalam, 63-year-old man from Attur and a 45-year-old man from Ponnamapet. Of the new cases, 185 cases were indigenous. Four patients had travelled to Chennai, Namakkal, Perambalur and Dharmapuri.  Two patients had returned from Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. Namakkal recorded 30 indigenous cases on Friday. 128 in Erode Erode district witnessed a single-day spike of 128 new cases on Friday. The districts’ tally now stands at to 1,334. A total of 58 persons were discharged on Friday. A 63-year-old man died of the disease on August 12. 18 in the Nilgiris Eighteen persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris.   The number of confirmed cases in the district now stands at 1,010. 13 in Krishnagiri Krishnagiri recorded 13 new cases and one COVID-19 death. Thirty-six persons tested positive in Dharmapuri.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||20% city residents quarantined||Around 20% city residents have been quarantined by the Greater Chennai Corporation since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the number of persons brought under quarantine in the city crossed the 17 lakh-mark on Friday. “This is an outcome of teamwork and the massive field operations undertaken by our focus volunteers,” said Mr. Prakash. More than 3,300 focus volunteers have been helping those under quarantine. The Corporation has quarantined 17.3 lakh residents, monitoring them using HQIMS (Home Quarantine and Isolation Monitoring System) during the pandemic. The city has 87 lakh residents in its 15 zones, covering 426 sq km. Civic officials in various zones of the city said the HQIMS app played a key role in reducing the number of COVID-19 cases in many of its 200 wards, primarily because of the humanitarian services rendered by focus volunteers. The volunteers were monitored from the Ripon Buildings by senior officials, and they registered 99% attendance during the pandemic. Greater Chennai Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance) Meghanatha Reddy said the HQIMS app and the focus volunteers reduced the incentive of quarantined persons to step out of their homes. “The volunteers deliver everything to the people in quarantine. We also monitor the volunteers from the Ripon Buildings using the real-time data-driven app. This effectively curtailed the spread of COVID-19 in several areas. The volunteers have also become a part of the extended family of the residents who received assistance during their quarantine,” said Mr. Reddy. The Corporation identified 3.9 lakh quarantined residents, following reports of cases in their households. Over 2 lakh residents who reached the city from other districts, States and countries were also brought under quarantine. As many as 13.6 lakh residents have been released from quarantine. Currently, the city has been registering a decline in cases in many wards in north Chennai. But zones such as Ambattur, Anna Nagar, Kodambakkam, Valasaravakkam and Adyar have reported a rise in cases in some of their wards. The Corporation brought down the number of containment zones to 13 on Friday.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC reserves verdict on writ filed by DMK MLAs||The Madras High Court on Friday reserved its judgment on writ petitions filed by DMK president M.K. Stalin and 17 of his party MLAs challenging the breach of privilege proceedings initiated against them for displaying gutkha sachets in the Assembly on July 19, 2017, to substantiate their claim of the banned substance being available freely in petty shops. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy deferred their verdict after hearing senior counsel R. Shunmugasundaram, N.R. Elango and Amit Anand Tewari for the petitioners as well as Advocate General Vijay Narayan and senior counsel A.L. Somayaji for the Assembly Secretary and Privileges Committee respectively. Though the proceedings were initiated against 21 DMK MLAs and all of them had approached the High Court, two (K.P.P. Samy and J. Anbazhagan) died and one more (Ku.Ka. Selvam) was dismissed from the party and hence not represented by any counsel before the High Court. Mr. Shunmugasundaram said he had no instructions to appear for Mr. Selvam. ‘Decorum is must’ In his submissions, Mr. Somayaji said the Speaker had every right to insist upon the members to maintain decorum and decency by desisting from bringing inside the House a substance that had been banned in the entire State. It was sufficient for the members to highlight the issue of alleged sale of banned substance. They need not display them in the House, he said. Right decision by Speaker “Suppose if the members want to oppose increase in excise duty on chappals and shoes, can they carry the chappals and shoes in their hands and display them in the House? Such acts amount to breach of privilege. Therefore, the Speaker rightly referred the issue to the Committee after expressing his prima facie opinion,” senior counsel said. On his part, the A-G said though the privileges of the House had not been codified, they must be understood in terms of the customs and practices followed for long. “I have been given the privilege to argue before your Lordships, but if I smoke a cigarette while arguing the case, then it amounts to breach of the privilege granted to me as a lawyer,” he told the Bench.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai count exceeds 1,000 after a week||Another 5,890 persons tested positive for COVID-19 and 117 succumbed to the infection in Tamil Nadu on Friday. Of the fresh cases, Chennai reported 1,187 infections, after its daily count stayed a little below the 1,000-mark for a week. The new cases took the State’s tally to 3,26,245. With the discharge of 5,556 more persons, a total of 2,67,015 persons have been discharged till now in the State. As of now, 53,716 persons are under treatment. A total of 5,514 persons have succumbed to the infection so far. While the city’s tally climbed to 1,14,260, of which 11,209 are active cases, Chengalpattu, with 437 fresh cases, crossed the 20,000-mark. Tiruvallur, which reported 495 new cases, now accounts for a total of 18,958 cases. The surge in cases continued in Coimbatore and Theni. A total of 385 persons tested positive in Coimbatore, while 365 persons tested positive in Theni. Kancheepuram had 315 cases, while Cuddalore had 219. Ten districts had 100-plus cases. This included Salem 189, Ranipet 178, Vellore 177 and Pudukottai 155. The number of cases dropped to 46 and 90 in Madurai and Virudhunagar respectively. Thoothukudi recorded 60 cases. Of the 117 deaths (83 in government hospitals and 34 in private ones), Chennai accounted for 25, while Coimbatore, Theni, Tiruvallur and Tiruvannamalai had eight deaths each. This included a 29-year-old man from Tiruvallur who had no co-morbidities and was admitted to a private hospital on August 9 with complaints of headache, throat pain for five days and left upper limb and lower limb weakness and slurring of speech. He died on August 13 due to cardio respiratory arrest, acute coronary syndrome, septic shock and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 33-year-old man from Tirupattur died in a private medical college hospital in Vellore on August 12 due to COVID-19. He was admitted with complaints of bleeding manifestations for 20 days. In the last 24 hours, a total of 70,153 samples were tested in the State.  4 deaths in Puducherry Four more COVID-19 deaths saw the toll in the Union Territory rise to 106, while 328 new cases were reported on Friday. The overall COVID tally is closing in on the 7,000 mark and aggregated 6,995 cases. All the deaths were in Puducherry — two in Jipmer and two in IGMCRI. The patients, in the 52-70 age group including one woman, had diabetes/hypertension. With this, the deaths in Puducherry alone stood at 90. Of the new admissions, 310 were in Puducherry, followed by Karaikal (17) and Yanam (one). They were identified after the examination of 1,102 samples. The positivity rate was 29.76%, the fatality rate 1.52% and the recovery rate 57.31%, S. Mohan Kumar, Health Director, said. There are 2,880 active cases, including 1,048 in home isolation, in the Union Territory. As many as 181 patients were discharged during the last 24 hours. So far, 4,009 patients have been treated and discharged so far. Till now, 52,022 samples have been tested, of which 44,028 samples came back negative and the test results of 438 are awaited.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Temporary wholesale flower market set up||A section of the wholesale flower merchants from Koyambedu is all set to move to a dedicated space at Vanagaram on Monday. The Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority has identified a five-acre site belonging to the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department at Vanagaram. Wholesale and retail traders are being provided application forms by the Koyambedu Market Management Committee (MMC) for allotment of space at temporary markets to be set up at different places in the city. For more than three months now, flower traders have been operating from 24 places, including Maduravoyal, Madhavaram and Vadapalani, as there was no dedicated space for them. The Chennai Koyambedu Flowers Wholesale Merchants Association recently distributed notices to members stating that flower loads from other places would be delivered at the Vanagaram temporary market from Sunday night and asked them to begin sale from Monday morning. A monthly rent of Rs. 7.5 lakh has been fixed for the space. ‘Space insufficient’ However, a section of wholesale flower traders said there were about 750 members in the association and not all may get space. A. Manoharan, a wholesale flower merchant, said: “We’ll take a decision about shifting to the new space on Monday if all members are allotted space. About 400 traders have formed groups and are functioning from various areas in the city.” Meanwhile, efforts were on to identify a spot for the retailers too. D. Rajasekaran, president of the Federation of All Traders Associations of the Koyambedu Market Complex, said as there were plans to allot space in batches of 250-300 shops, retailers had been asked to apply for the same.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Banks will function with 50% staff||All bank branches and offices in Tamil Nadu will function with 50% staff, on a rotational basis, as per new guidelines issued by the State Level Bankers’ Committee-Tamil Nadu on Friday. The Committee has amended its previous guidelines, issued on July 31, which said all bank branches/offices in the State shall function with 100% staff, under normal working hours, rendering usual services. The amendment comes after unions objected to the Committee’s earlier decision to operate with 100% staff and threatened to go on strike. “Since the instruction issued on July 31 was not in conformity with the standard operating procedure/government guidelines and since public transport facility still remains withdrawn and the number of bank employees getting affected has been increasing, the Tamil Nadu Bank Employees’ Federation (TNBEF), affiliated to the All India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA), served a notice for a State-wide strike on August 20, demanding revised guidelines,” according to a statement by the union. On August 11, V. Muthu Manickam, Deputy Chief Labour Lommissioner of the Ministry of Labour, Government of India intervened, and held a conciliation meeting. After listening to the submission made by TNBEF/AIBEA, Mr. Manickam categorically clarified that all banks were bound by the guidelines issued the government, and hence, managements were advised to revise the guidelines, the statement read. To a complaint that even pregnant employees were not being exempted from attending office, managements clarified that such employees were being exempted.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Take proactive steps to revive finances’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday claimed that the AIADMK government has pushed the State’s finances to the brink and the Chief Minister must immediately review the budget for the year and take proactive steps to revive it. “Once the COVID-19 pandemic is over, the State’s financial position will be pushed into the ICU. The government has taken huge loans and is working to push the State finances to rock bottom.” “People will not forget that the ‘accidental CM’ went ahead with unnecessary tenders for large commissions to implement low-quality works,” Mr. Stalin charged. In a statement, Mr. Stalin said the State’s loans, revenue and fiscal deficit had become a permanent fixture of the AIADMK government. He said the government had created a risk for Tamil Nadu’s growth by hampering industrial growth and not creating new jobs, and alleged that the Chief Minister had run the State’s economy to the ground. “Hence, as a last opportunity, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami must keep in mind the people’s suffering due to COVID-19 and the economic distress, review the State Budget for the year and use the remaining six months for taking concrete steps to do something useful,” Mr. Stalin said. The DMK chief also asked the Chief Minister to provide financial relief of at least Rs. 5,000 per ration card to help people get through the pandemic period.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Guidelines issued for school admissions||The admission process in schools, which will begin from August 17, should be carried out in accordance with physical distancing norms and a host of other precautions. The School Education Department had announced, earlier this week, that admissions for Classes 1,6 and 9 would begin in all schools, including government and aided institutions, from August 17. For Plus One, schools have been asked to begin admissions from August 24. In a set of Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) released, the government had directed schools to fix pre-assigned time slots to prevent crowding of students and parents on the campus and had asked everyone to wear face masks. Schools have been directed to thoroughly clean and sanitize campuses and make arrangements for handwash facilities and sanitizers before commencing the process. Heads of schools have been asked to ensure adherence to the guidelines.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Experts dispel myths and fears about NEP||The National Education Policy 2020 intends to transform education into a multidisciplinary, flexible and a continuous learning experience say experts. In a webinar organised on Friday, Ramchandar Krishnamurthy, associate professor at Azim Premji University, said the policy was framed to prepare students for a big transformation. Since education was on the concurrent list, the States had the right to implement it the way they want, he said. The scope of assessment went far beyond examination. The assessment at grades 3, 5 and 8 were not public exams. A crucial aspect of this policy was how it would change the various boards of education, Mr. Ramachandar said. There was anxiety that English dominated regional languages. Giving children an opportunity to learn different languages would enhance their ability to think.  Earlier, S. Thamarai Selvi, associate professor in the Department of Business Administration, Cauvery College for Women, Tiruchi, explained the salient points of the NEP.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC poser to govt. on slaughter houses||The Madras High Court on Friday wanted to know whether the State government would be willing to order closure of slaughter houses and meat shops across the State on the day of Vinayaka Chaturthi and also during the entire period of the Paryushan Parva festival celebrated by Jains between August 15 and 24. Justices Vineet Kothari and Krishnan Ramasamy asked the Advocate General to obtain instructions in that regard from the State government by Tuesday. The direction was issued following a public interest litigation petition filed by the Madurai North Indian Welfare Association, represented by its president J. Hulcamoingh. Advocate K.R. Laxman, representing the petitioner, said the State government orders closure of slaughter houses and meat shops on Gandhi Jayanti, Mahaveer Jayanti and Vallalar Ramalinga Adigalar Jayanti. Similarly, it orders closure of liquor shops on Tiruvalluvar day, Milad-un-Nabi, Republic Day, Independence Day and so on. Hence, he insisted that the meat shops as well as liquor shops should be closed during Vinayaka Chathurthi celebrations as well as the entire period of the Paryushan Parva festival celebrated by the Jain community in order to ensure “environmental protection, peace, harmony, sustaining the heritage value and respecting the sentiments prevailing in society.” However, the Advocate General wondered how stopping the slaughter of animals or sale of liquor would help in protecting the environment. He said the case had absolutely nothing to do with environment.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amid pandemic, health insurers urged to launch standardised products||Subhash C. Khuntia, chairman, Insurance Regulatory Development Authority of India (IRDAI), urged health insurers to come out with standardised products for COVID-19 that would create trust in the minds of policyholders and reduce disputes related to claim settlements. Speaking at the Confederation of Indian Industry Southern Region Health Insurance Virtual Conclave on Friday, he said IRDAI had, last month, mandated insurers to launch a standard product called Corona Kavach Policy, and so far, over 4.5 lakh people had been covered since July 10-31. Mr. Khuntia said the availability of multiple health insurance products confused people. During a pandemic, a standardised product would be useful and would create trust in the minds of policyholders and result in fewer disputes during claim settlements, he said. ‘Like a fixed deposit’ “A standardised product is like a fixed deposit offered by banks that everyone is aware of, when compared to a specialised saving product. The standardised product will not affect the revenue of insurers, but will enhance it,” Mr. Khuntia said. Mr. Khuntia said that so far, 70,000 COVID-19-related health insurance claims had been settled for about Rs. 700 crore, and many more were coming in. He also urged health insurance companies and healthcare providers to help out policyholders. Mr. Khuntia said the response to the IRDAI directive to get healthcare providers to register with the Registry of Hospitals in Network of Insurers portal had been slow and a one-year extension in deadline had been granted. Mr. Khuntia also called for the launch of disease-specific policies. Delivering his keynote address, Prathap C. Reddy, chairman, Apollo Hospitals Group, said an effective vaccine was needed to control the spread of COVID-19. He also warned that one of the biggest challenges India would face would be the handling of non-communicable diseases.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC declares as illegal charges levied by Tangedco on high tension consumers||The Madras High Court on Friday declared as illegal the maximum-demand charges and the compensation charges for low power factor levied by the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) on high tension consumers when the commercial establishments were shut due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh held that it was unfair to demand such charges from HT consumers. “On one hand, the government has asked them to shut their establishments, and on the other, Tangedco is levying maximum-demand charges from them,” he said. “If this is allowed to be continued, it will lead to the permanent shutting down of the industries. The financial crunch being faced by the industries due to the lockdown and the huge challenge they are going to face after the pandemic is now made worse by Tangedco,” the judge observed, while disposing of a huge batch of writ petitions filed by several high tension consumers. “It is illogical that Tangedco mechanically levied compensation for low power factor, even without understanding that the establishments were completely shut and that there was no way they could utilise the optimum PF,” Justice Venkatesh added.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM launches distribution of kits for COVID19 Homecare scheme||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday launched the distribution of medical kits worth Rs. 2,500 each under the Amma COVID-19 Homecare scheme for the benefit of those who have COVID-19 symptoms and have been advised home quarantine. People could get the kit from the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital, Chennai. It contains a pulse oximeter, a digital thermometer, a range of Indian medicine tablets and vitamin tablets, among others. Those under home quarantine were being continuously monitored by the authorities, an official release stated. Mr. Palaniswami also unveiled the foundation stone for various infrastructure projects, worth Rs. 80 crore, at the Coimbatore Government Medical College. He also inaugurated infrastructure projects worth Rs. 24 crore at the Pudukottai Government Medical College. Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and senior officials were present during the event.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Senior railway official booked on graft charges||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against a senior railway official and a contractor on charges of creating false records to claim bills for work not done and also to suppress losses suffered by the Railways. Acting on source information and Railway Audit report, the CBI’s Anti Corruption Branch registered a case against Samson Vijay Kumar, Deputy Chief Engineer (Construction), Southern Railway, Tiruchi, and Premkumar Jayaraman, Railway Contractor, Namakkal, on charges of criminal conspiracy and cheating. The agency also invoked provisions under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The allegation is that Mr. Kumar was supervising a work taken up by the contractor at Adiramapatnam station last year. The agency charged that when Mr. Jayaraman submitted the final bill, the official asked him to add one more work worth Rs. 2 lakh. Knowing well that the newly added work was not carried out, Mr. Kumar demanded Rs. 1.5 lakh as bribe. The contractor made a part payment of Rs. 50,000 as bribe through bank transfer to the account of one M.G. Gireesh in Chennai. The CBI also included another irregularity pointed by the Railway Audit report that the official and the contractor indulged in falsification of records relating to a railway project to cover up losses to the tune of Rs. 1.70 crore. The documents were forged to show profit of Rs. 4.30 crore.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fish kill at Ennore creek worries fishermen||As hundreds of fish were found dead in Ennore Creek, a thick stench hung in the air near Nettukuppam in north Chennai on Friday. Fishermen said it was due to hot water discharge from a neighbouring thermal power station. A. Mathi, president of the Nettukuppam Fishermen Cooperative Society, said that at least one tonne of fish died overnight. “There is no other immediate reason for the deaths. The water is really hot. It has chemicals,” he alleged. The Fisheries department has collected samples for testing, said an official. Advocate T.K. Ramkumar, who deals with environmental matters, said it was not a one-off occurrence. “Several years ago we had been to the spot to check the water and it was hot enough to have a bath. The death of the fish only meant that the water’s temperature is not within the permissible limits as otherwise fish wouldn’t die in large numbers. The thermal station should either cool the water before letting it into the creek or let it deep into the sea. But that is not happening. The creek’s natural ecosystem has been damaged over the years, with the discharge of fly ash and hot water,” he said. Charge denied Asked about the charges, a senior official of Tangedco denied that the deaths were due to release of hot water from the thermal plant. Based on a complaint, the officials checked water temperature, which was found to be well within the 45 degree Celsius limit fixed by the TNPCB.  (With inputs from   R. Srikanth)
15 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||CM’s Police Medal for excellence for 15 officers||The State government on Friday announced the Chief Minister’s Police Medal to 15 officers on the occasion of Independence Day 2020. An official release said the following police officers have been awarded the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Police Medal for Excellence in Public Service: S. Davidson Devasirvatham, Additional Director-General of Police, Technical Services, Chennai; K. Shankar, IGP, Crime Branch CID, Chennai; S. Saravanan, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli City; S. Deepa Ganiger, Superintendent of Police, Salem District; P. Jagannath, Head Constable, Job Racket Team, Central Crime Branch, Greater Chennai Police. Similarly, the following police officers have been awarded the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Police Medal for excellence in investigation: G. Nagajothi, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Central Crime Branch, Greater Chennai Police; R. Kumaresan, Dy. SP, ‘Q’ Branch CID, Chennai; T. Saravanan, Assistant Commissioner of Police, North Range (Crime), Salem City; S.K. Durai Pandian, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Katpadi Sub-Division, Vellore District; E. Elangovan Jennings, Inspector of Police, Organised Crime Unit, Crime Branch CID, Tiruchi City; P.S. Chitra, Women Inspector of Police, City Crime Record Bureau, Tiruchi City; K. Neeladevi, Women Inspector of Police, District Crime Record Bureau, Sivaganga District; S. Patchaiammal, Women Inspector of Police, Arakkonam Railway Police Station, Chennai Railway Police; P. Ulaga Rani, Women Inspector of Police, Crime Branch CID, Tirunelveli; and P. Vijayalakshmi, Women Inspector of Police, Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Cell, Tirunelveli. The winners will receive a gold medal weighing eight grams and a grant of Rs. 25,000 each. The medals will be presented by the Chief Minister at a function to be held in due course, the release added.
15 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Give official status to all regional languages: PMK||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Friday reiterated the party’s demand that all 22 languages, including Tamil, be announced as official languages. In a statement, he welcomed the Supreme Court‘s suggestion to the Centre to consider an amendment to the Official Languages Rules, which says that official publication should only be in English and Hindi, and allow for publication in regional languages. The apex court’s suggestion came in a case relating to publishing Environment Impact Assessment draft notification in all the 22 languages in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution. Dr. Ramadoss pointed out that one reason why the regional languages had not been declared as official was that those in power at the Centre thought that if it was done, then opportunities for imposing Hindi would become limited.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||29 arrested for gambling||Twenty nine persons have been arrested for gambling at a service apartment in R.A. Puram. The police have been conducting raids on places used for illegal gambling and arresting those who indulged in the illegal acts by placing bets and money. Following information, a special team of police personnel, under Deputy Commissioner of Police, Mylapore, G. Shashank Sai, mounted surveillance. When the special team entered the apartment, more than 20 persons were playing cards by placing bets.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SBI donates ventilators||The State Bank of India, Chennai Circle, donated four ventilators to the Government Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital for COVID 19 treatment. A press release said this was made possible with the contributions from SBI Foundation and STREEDHAN (Ladies of SBI Family). The ventilators were handed over by Shirley Thomas, General Manager, NW-1, to Dr. Balaraman, Medical Superintendent of KMC, in the presence of A.G.K. Sathya Prakash, Deputy General Manager, A.O. Chennai North.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘COVID-19 pandemic widened inequalities’||The COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated the pre-existing educational inequalities in the country, which in turn reflected the grim socio-economic realities, said N. Ram, director of The Hindu Group Publishing Pvt. Ltd. Mr. Ram was speaking at Edusights 2020 international colloquium, organised by the Sacred Heart Institute of Management Studies in Tirupattur recently. Tamil Nadu Teachers Education University Vice-Chancellor N. Pachanatham said students need skill-based education to prepare them for “the real world of planning, managing, delegating, and being proactive to solve problems.” Clara D’Silva, president and founder, Korcomptenz Inc., said by adopting technology, a new world of opportunities had been created. John Alexander SDB said the power of human resilience during adversity and the ability to bounce back from the worst tragedy should be taken advantage of.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mentally ill woman sexually assaulted||The All Women Police, Kilpauk, has launched a manhunt to nab a 31-year-old man and his two associates who sexually assaulted a 22-year-old mentally ill woman. On Thursday night, the victim was sleeping with her mother in their house in Kilpauk. The suspect, Lingan, 31, whose name figured in the history sheet of the T.P. Chatram police, accompanied his two associates, broke the door of the house and sexually assaulted the victim. Her mother raised an alarm and neighbours rushed to their rescue. The victim was sent for medical examination to a government hospital. Based on a complaint given by the victim’s mother, the police took up investigation. A special team has been constituted to nab the suspects, said the police.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Allow Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations: BJP||State BJP president L. Murugan on Friday requested the Tamil Nadu government to allow Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations in public. “Hindus first pray to Vinayaka to remove obstacles in their lives and businesses. That is why whenever any work is started, people pray to Vinayaka as per tradition. It is very sad that the government is placing obstacles to the remover of obstacles,” Mr. Murugan said in a statement. He said the government should withdraw its announcement thatpermission would not be granted to install idolsin public places for Vinayaka Chathurthi on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. “Already, relaxations have been given from the COVID-19 lockdown and people are leaving their homes for various works. Even small temples have been allowed to open. In such a situation, the government should allow the installation of Vinayaka idols,” he said.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Act against overcharging pvt. hospitals’||TNCC president K.S. Alagiri on Friday urged the Tamil Nadu government to take strict action against private hospitals overcharging patients for COVID-19 treatment. “Despite the Chief Minister making it clear that hospitals cannot charge more than the rates fixed by the government, private hospitals continue to fleece patients. Everyday, we hear of cases where patients have had to pay around Rs. 6 lakh for COVID-19 treatment. This is daylight robbery,” he said. Mr. Alagiri said that many private hospitals were also billing patients for establishment charges, since these hospitals were run by large corporates. He said the ruling dispensation was unable to take any action against such hospitals.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||President’s medal for 23 police officers||On the occasion of Independence Day, a total of 23 officers from Tamil Nadu police, including R. Thirunavukkarasu, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Intelligence Section-I, Greater Chennai Police, have been selected for the President’s medal. The officers are selected at all India-level for their distinguished work and are awarded twice a year (Republic Day and Independence Day). These medals are given taking into account the overall performance, achievement and reputation. Two officers — R. Antony Johnson Jeyapaul,Commandant, Tamil Nadu Special Police II Battalion, Avadi and P.Ravichandran, Commandant, Tamil Nadu Special Police VII Battalion, Pochampalli — have been awarded the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service. Meanwhile, 21 officers have been awarded the Police Medal for Meritorious Service including Mr. Thirunavukarasu, M. Sathiya Priya, Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Training, Chennai and E.S. Uma, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime, Coimbatore City. The others include V. Visweswarayya, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Neelankarai; K. Yuvaraj, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Social Justice and Human Rights, Chennai and other officers in the ranks of DSPs, inspectors and special sub-inspectors. Two personnel from CBI, Chennai, have also been selected for the President’s Medal.
15 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Oppn. parties creating confusion in AIADMK’||While the AIADMK is united, Opposition parties are attempting to create confusion in the ruling party, Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar said on Friday. Talking to reporters here, he said Opposition parties were deliberately attempting to create confusion within the AIADMK. While such attempts were not part of the political culture in the past, the Opposition parties now were working to weaken the ruling party so that they could come to power, the Minister said.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anbumani slams announcement on expressway completion||PMK youthwing leader and Rajya Sabha MP Anbumani Ramadoss on Friday slammed the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for mentioning that the Chennai-Salem expressway will be completed by March 2025, in their status report. In a statement, he said that when a case is pending in the Supreme Court, such an announcement was condemnable. He also alleged that it is contempt of court, at a time when the Madras High Court has stayed the project and one is not sure about the outcome in the Supreme Court. He also urged the Centre to drop the Chennai-Salem expressway project in order to safeguard environment, and said the NHAI should not focus on implementing it.  When a case is pending in the Supreme Court, such an announcement is condemnable
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Swiggy executives go on strike||Thousands of Swiggy delivery executives struck work on Thursday night in Chennai demanding reinstatement of their old pay system. Customers in the city could not place orders on the app as the delivery executives refused to take orders from restaurants and shops. Delivery executives said the pay cut came into effect from Thursday morning, which forced them to strike work. “For an order within a kilometre, we are now paid Rs. 15. It used to be Rs. 45 and was brought down to Rs. 35. We do understand that the number of orders has come down. But the reduction is so drastic that it does not even cover petrol costs,” said an executive who did not want to be named. Another executive said they were unable to reach out to Swiggy and that they were hired at a hub on payment of Rs. 600. “Even though during the lockdown our payments came down, we could manage. They have also cut Rs. 1 per minute for waiting time and first and last mile pays of Rs. 5 each when we ride extra distances to pick up stuff.” Unhappy “The company deposited some money on Friday evening in our accounts, but the boys are unhappy and refuse to report for work,” said another delivery person. Swiggy said its delivery partner fleet had been crucial in it being an essential service and bringing food, grocery and other items to the doorsteps of citizens in this time of need. “It has always been our constant endeavour to acknowledge their efforts and provide them with the best-in-the-industry fixed pay-out and incentives. Delivery partners also received 100% of all tips from customers.” “At Swiggy, we have always adopted reasonable methods to determine and constantly re-evaluate our payout and incentive structure to ensure that our valued delivery partners make adequate earnings.” “With the food and essentials delivery segment continuing to register an upward trend and as the festive season approaches, we are working towards addressing the matter at the earliest,” the response added.
15 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs seek separate e-pass for industries||The State government should issue separate, one-time e-pass to industries, according to the Joint Council of Associations of Coimbatore. R. Ramamurthy, president of the Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, which is part of the council, told presspersons here on Friday that industries were unable to bring workers from other States or districts. A few industries have arranged vehicles for the workers to return. Workers who come from nearby districts to MSMEs in Coimbatore were finding it difficult to return home. “Industries face 40 % to 50 % worker shortage. There is an increasing demand for two-wheelers and industries supplying to the automobile sector have orders. We can increase the output only when we get people and money,” said J. Ganesh Kumar, chairman of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Coimbatore Zone. The Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) in Coimbatore district demand a system where the units get a one-time e-pass, which they can use for workers and maintenance employees. The industries can track where the workers and employees travel with it, the heads of the industrial associations that are part of the council said here on Friday. “We guarantee that the e-passes will not be misused,” Mr. Ramamurthy said. Special trains They added that the Central and State governments should operate special trains for migrant workers to return to their workplaces. The workers are ready to come back. The district administration should provide separate facilities where these workers can be quarantined when they return. In foundries, migrant workers constitute 80 % of the workforce. “There are export orders. If we do not supply those orders, we will lose to countries such as China and Brazil,” said Balraj, chairman of the Institute of Indian Foundrymen, Coimbatore. The industry associations also sought extension of moratorium to repay loans. The government should extend the time given to repay loans till the end of this financial year. The accrued interest for this period should be converted into term loan and the industries should get two-year time to repay that loan, they said. “It was found in a survey that 70 % MSMEs need working capital support. The industries want to operate. So, they should get additional funds. If the moratorium is not extended, the crisis the MSMEs faced will worsen,” said Mr. Ramamurthy.
15 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Small temples reopen after nearly five months||A few small temples in Coimbatore Corporation limits reopened on Friday, after nearly five months of COVID-19 lockdown. The District Administration provided clearance for 306 small temples, with annual income below Rs. 10,000, in Corporation limits on Thursday. However, temples in containment zones will remain closed to devotees, Collector K. Rajamani said. Officials from the Revenue Department and Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) departments will monitor the temples for adherence to standard operating procedures issued by the State government for COVID-19 prevention, he said. Sources in the HR&CE Department said on Friday that a clear direction to reopen all temples could be expected only after Vinayaka Chathurthi on August 22. Many small temples are hesitant to reopen, as they tend to draw large crowds, sources said. The State government permitted the reopening of small temples whose annual revenue falls below Rs. 10,000 from August 10. The government directed that temples in Municipal Corporations except Chennai Corporation must get the respective District Collectors’ permission to reopen.
15 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation defaults on payment to water supply maintenance contractor||The financial stress that the Coimbatore Corporation seems to be undergoing, it appears, continues as it has defaulted on payment to Suez India Pvt. Ltd., the company engaged in maintaining water supply in the old city areas. Sources said the Corporation had paid only Rs. 1 crore to the company since it started looking after the maintenance of water supply in the old city areas - 60 of 100 wards – in February 2019. The Corporation, as per the agreement signed with the company, ought to have paid at least Rs. 4 crore a month. The pending payment was only for the maintenance of water supply in the old city areas. The money the Corporation had to pay to the company for the execution of the 24x7 drinking water project – replacement of old water supply lines with new ones and installation of smart meters – was different from this. And, for the works the company had executed this far, the Corporation had paid only a meagre amount and owed at least two instalments.  The impact of the Corporation defaulting on payments of over Rs. 20 crore was the company found it difficult to pay its engineers, turncocks, workers and contractors it had deployed for water supply maintenance, the sources said and added that there were at least 300 persons engaged in the maintenance work. The company had taken over the maintenance of water supply in January 2019, thereby allowing the Corporation to redeploy its turncocks to added areas for looking after water distribution in those 40 wards. Asked about the pending payment, a senior Corporation officer said on condition of anonymity that he would have to look into the files to know the reason for the delay. The Corporation had signed the 24x7 water supply agreement with Suez India Pvt. Ltd. for Rs. 2,972.16 crore to revamp water distribution in the old city areas. It had mandated the company to complete the revamping work in five years and look after maintenance for 20-plus years.
15 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||IGBC, Codissia to increase green building footprint in Coimbatore||The Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) and Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (Codissia) will join hands to promote construction of green buildings in the industrial sector here. Rajesh B. Lund, chair of IGBC - Coimbatore, said the two organisations would sign a Memorandum of Understanding next week in this regard. Codissia was promoting two industrial parks here on nearly 250 acre. These would have 300 to 400 industries. Even if 50 % of the industries went green, it would have huge environment impact. The industries would only have to focus on a few parameters to make the buildings green, he said. Tamil Nadu had 346 million sq.ft of green footprint. It was one of the fastest growing States in green building projects. The office building of SIERRA ODC in Coimbatore was the world’s sendo highest Platinum rated building, he pointed out. In an effort to promote construction of green buildings, Mr. Lund urged the State government to consider additional incentives such as reduction in development charges and rebate in property tax to projects that got IGBC rating.
15 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 will last for two years, says IMA State Secretary||The COVID-19 pandemic will persist at least for the next two years. Therefore, the public must take adequate precautions, State secretary of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) – Tamil Nadu State Branch A.K. Ravikumar said here on Friday. ‘Follow norms’ As the virus has spread to rural areas, people must follow norms such as physical distancing, wearing of masks, hand sanitisation and coughing etiquettes. “Self-discipline will be the only vaccine for now,” Dr. Ravikumar told presspersons. Once the vaccine was developed, the process of administering it to the public could take “roughly six to nine months,” he said. Instead of confirming COVID-19 deaths only through reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing method, the State government must announce COVID-19 deaths that were confirmed through computed tomography (CT) scans and other biochemical tests, he said. According to the data available with the IMA’s State branch, 32 doctors who tested positive through RT-PCR method had died in the State as on Thursday. However, 15 other symptomatic doctors who died had tested negative in RT-PCR tests, but tested positive through other methods such as CT scans, he claimed. Increase testing centres The State government must increase the number of private COVID-19 testing centres in semi-urban and rural areas to ensure that government testing laboratories were not overburdened. As nearly 85% of the COVID-19 positive patients were asymptomatic, testing all the patients who visited hospitals had become necessary. Dr. Ravikumar requested the State government to release official condolence messages for the doctors who died of COVID-19 and provide ex-gratia for their family members, irrespective of whether they worked in government or private hospitals. The State government must also reconsider the rates mandated for private hospitals due to the high cost of COVID-19 treatment, he said.
15 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation to revise containment strategy||Following an increase in COVID-19 positive cases in the city in the recent past, the Coimbatore Corporation has revised its containment strategy by going in for aggressive lifting of swab samples. Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath told The Hindu the Corporation alone would lift around 3,000 samples a day. “Thus far, the total samples lifted in the city was 3,000 a day. This included people voluntarily giving samples and private hospitals collecting samples. In this the Corporation share was around 1,000 samples a day. Now, the Corporation alone will collect 3,000 samples a day.” Mr. Jatavath said the Corporation felt the need to go in for aggressive testing because it wanted to contain the spread of the fever. While continuing with nearly 100 fever clinics a day, the Corporation would lift samples outside the clinics as well by collecting those from persons with whom the positive persons would have come in contact in the week prior to they testing positive. “The Corporation is looking at collecting samples from grocery store owners, fair price shop employees, hair dressers, eateries, milk vendors, newspaper vendors, neighbourhood bank branch and all categories of people whom the positive person could have come in contact.” The Corporation had 30,000 kits to lift samples and would continue to get more in the coming days to meet its new aggressive testing strategy. Until now the Corporation lifted samples from the family members of positive persons, their colleagues and neighbours. Now it wanted to widen the net, he added. The Corporation was also looking for more doctors, nurses and paramedical persons and has sought the help of volunteers.
15 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘COVID-19 to stay for at least two years’||COVID-19 will persist at least for the next two years, and the public must take adequate precautions henceforth, secretary of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) – Tamil Nadu State Branch A.K. Ravikumar said in Coimbatore on Friday. As the virus has spread to rural areas now, the public must follow norms such as personal distancing, wearing masks, hand sanitisation and coughing etiquette. “Self-discipline will be the only vaccine for now,” Dr. Ravikumar said at a press meet. Once developed, the process of administering the COVID-19 vaccine to the public could take “roughly six to nine months,” he said.
15 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||In view of the proposed maintenance works to be carried out at the Othakkalmandapam sub-station on August 17 , there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the following areas: part of Malumichampatti and Arisipalayam, Elur pirivu, Othakkalmandapam, Okkilipalayam, Premier Nagar, Myleripalayam, Mampally, Periyakuili, Orattukuppai, Thegani and Chettipalayam.
15 August 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore reports 3 deaths||Cuddalore district on Friday reported three COVID-19 deaths and 222 new cases as the overall tally crossed 6,000 and stood at 6,166 cases. According to a release from the Health department, fresh cases were reported from Kurunjipadi, Panruti, Kammapuram, Bhuvanagiri, Chidambaram, Cuddalore, Kattumannarkovil, Keerapalayam and Neyveli.  Villupuram district also crossed the 5,000 mark with 127 persons testing positive. Kallakurichi district reported 30 cases.
15 August 2020||Cuddalore,TAMIL NADU||Banned gutkha products seized from illegal godown in Cuddalore||In a major haul, the Cuddalore police seized banned gutkha products valued at several crores from an illegally-operated godown in a house in K.N. Pettai on Friday. Acting on a tip-off, a team led by Cuddalore Deputy Superintendent of Police K. Shanthi raided the house and found a large quantity of gutkha stocks there. The contraband was seized. Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav visited the house and inspected the seized stocks. Speaking to The Hindu , he said that the house had a to-let board hanging outside and was illegally functioning as a godown. The ground floor of the house was stocked with banned gutkha products, including khaini and other chewable forms of tobacco products. A search has been launched to nab the house owner, he said, adding that a special team had been constituted to investigate where the tobacco products were sourced from, and trace the supply chain. The exact value of the seized products would be known only after an inspection by the Food Safety Department officials, he said. A case has been registered, and investigations are on.
15 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Water released into LBP canal||Water was released from Bhavani Sagar Dam into Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal on Friday to benefit 1,03,500 acre in Erode, Tiruppur and Karur districts. School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan, and Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan raised the shutters to release the water, in the presence of Collector C. Kathiravan and MLAs. Water will be released for 120 days in the LBP main canal with ‘odd number’ sluice gates, and ‘even number’ sluice gates in the Chennasamudram canal ayacut areas. This will benefit land in Sathyamangalam, Gobichettipalayam, Bhavani, Perundurai, Erode, Modakurichi and Kodumudi in Erode district and Kangayam block in Tiruppur district and Aravakurichi block in Karur district. Mr. Sengottaiyan told media persons that overflowing water bodies in the State had brought cheers to the farming community and release of water at the right time from dams in districts helped farmers commence farming activity. The Minister said 20,200 tonne fertilizer was available for the farmers and asked them to utilise the water judiciously. MLAs K.V. Ramalingam (Erode West), K.S. Thennarasu (Erode East), V.P. Sivasubramani (Modakurichi), E.M.R. Raja alias K.R. Rajakrishnan (Anthiyur), S. Eswaran (Bhavani Sagar), U. Thaniyarasu (Kangeyam), and Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai were present. At 8 a.m. on Friday, the water level in the dam stood at 101.94 feet against the full reservoir level of 105 feet. The inflow was 5,052 cusecs while the discharge was 1,900 cusecs. The storage was 30.268 tmc against the capacity of 32.800 tmc.
15 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Signature campaign launched to demand cash assistance to affected families||A nation-wide signature campaign demanding monthly direct cash assistance of Rs. 6,000 families affected by COVID-19 lockdown was launched here on Friday. Organised by various civil society organisations, the campaign aims to obtain three lakh signatures and urge the Central and State governments to release funds directly to the affected families during the lockdown. Addressing media persons, R. Karuppasamy, Convener of Campaign Against Child Labour, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, said the lockdown led to emergence of an unprecedented economic scenario affecting crores of migrant workers, unorganised sector workers, street vendors and small business communities across the country. “A survey in April revealed that 12.2 crore workers lost their jobs during the lockdown and they were unable to meet their family needs”, he said. Jobless people were forced to borrow money from usurers at exorbitant interest rates, pushing the families further into poverty. “The current situation will lead to human trafficking, bonded labour, child marriage and increase in child labour”, he said. Members of the NGOs, Centre for Action and Rural Education (CARE), Rights Education and Development Centre (READ) and Vizhuthugal, participated in the campaign.
15 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Patients from nearby districts prefer GRH||Around 30% of all cases who receive treatment at the COVID-19 wing of Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai hail from neighbouring districts. Dean J. Sangumani says presently there are 490 COVID-19 positive patients getting treatment at the hospital. Around 300 more patients with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) symptoms are also being monitored at the hospital. Treatment Coordinator of COVID-19 wing K. Senthil, says a majority of the cases are from Virudhunagar district, followed by Dindigul, Theni and Ramanathapuram. Dr. Sangumani says even before the pandemic, GRH used to be the referral centre for south Tamil Nadu. Major emergencies and elective surgeries are referred to this hospital. After the surge in coronavirus cases, the hospital has been provided additional manpower from the State government. The COVID-19 wing has 400 beds with oxygen lines, adequate stock of medicines. If needed, more patients can be accommodated. The hospital will get an oxygen liquifier tank by the end of the week to ensure there is no shortage. Dr. Senthil said most of the patients who are under treatment have hypoxia, a condition in which not enough oxygen makes it to the cells and tissues in the body. “As long as patients are transported with adequate precautions between the districts, we have no problem in treating the referrals. But many patients from these districts themselves choose to get admitted to the GRH with a trust that they get the best care here,” he says.  Most of the patients have hypoxia, a condition in which not enough oxygen makes it to the cells and tissues of the body  K. Senthil Treatment Coordinator COVID-19 wing
15 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Now, a plunge in COVID-19 cases||The COVID-19 positive cases in Madurai district saw a plunge as 46 people tested positive on Friday taking the tally of cases to 12,561. According to the State Health Bulletin, all the cases were indigenous. The number of discharges from various COVID-19 treatment facilities on Friday was 44 with which the total number of discharges rose to 11,195. The total number of active cases as on date was 1,057. One patient succumbed to the disease on Friday. The death toll stands at 309. Virudhunagar recorded two more COVID-19 deaths taking the death toll to 146. However, after a gap of nine days, fresh positive cases have declined to two-digit to stand at 90. On August 5, it had recorded 67 positive cases. With this the total number of positive cases has increased to 10,938. As 212 patients got discharged on Friday (9,492 discharged till date), the number of active patients stands at 1,300 In Theni, 367 patients were tested on a single day with which the tally has risen to 9,489. There were 175 discharges. The number of people who died so far stands at 112. Dindigul district had 138 positive cases. The total number stands at 4,524. The hospitals had discharged 42 people. There were 87 deaths so far. Ramanathapuram district had 58 fresh cases and the total number of positive cases stands at 3,898. The number of people discharged from hospitals was 49. The number of people who had succumbed to the virus was 48 till date. In Sivaganga, there were 68 new cases with which the tally has risen to 3,271. As many as 68 patients were discharged from hospitals on a single day. So far 75 people had died in the district. Southern districts While 862 patients were discharged from hospitals in southern districts on Friday, this region lost 14 more patients to the viral infection to take the total fatality to 366. Kanniyakumari that added 128 more new patients on Friday saw the death of five positive patients undergoing treatment in various hospitals. While the number of active cases in the district stands at 1,495, it has recorded 7,178 cases so far. On getting cured from the infection, 5,575 patients have been discharged. Tirunelveli, housing 1,444 active cases as on Friday, added 117 fresh cases to take its tally to 7,229. The number of cases recovered rose to 5,675 as 210 cases were discharged on Friday. After four more patients succumbed on Friday, the district’s fatality stands at 110. Thoothukudi recorded a significant drop as it received only 60 patients on Friday, the lowest among the southern districts, taking the tally to 9,790 and the number of active cases to 1,335 after 222 patients were discharged from various hospitals. As the district lost a patient to the viral infection, the total number of fatality rose to 83. Tenkasi that lost four patients on Friday added 93 new cases to take the tally to 3,725 and the number of active cases to 1,347 after 161 persons were discharged.
15 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 60-lakh seed processing unit coming up at Chellampatti||The Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business Department has completed around 90% of the work in setting up a seed processing unit at Chellampatti block for the use of a Farmer Producer Organisation. Deputy Director C. Vijayalakshmi said the unit, with a capacity to process 500 tonnes of seeds, was being constructed at a cost of Rs. 60 lakh. While the construction of the seed processing unit had been almost completed, work was under way at the adjacent godown. This unit would be run by members of Farmer Producer Organisation in Chellampatti with 1,000 farmers as members. Ms. Vijayalakshmi said seed farms would be set up in Chellampatti and Usilampatti blocks. “Mainly paddy and pulse seeds will be raised at the farms and processed at the unit,” she added. The seeds from the farms would be tested and certified by an official of the Seed Certification Department. Certified seeds fetched many benefits to the farmers, said N. Muthu Kumara Sivasankaran, Chief Executive Officer of the FPO. “First, the farmers will be able to procure quality seeds at a comparatively lower cost from other members of the FPO. The excess seeds can be sold in the market for a good profit,” he added. Mr. Sivasankaran said the FPO planned to process seeds from private companies by charging them a fee.
15 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A low-key I-Day fete today||The Independence Day celebration at Armed Reserve Police Ground here on Saturday will be a low-key affair owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. An official from the district administration said less than 200 people would participate in the celebration. The Collector will hoist the flag and a parade will be held. Meritorious government employees and frontline workers in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic would be honoured on the occasion. “This year the freedom fighters will not be honoured. It has been instructed that the Tahsildars will honour them at their houses,” he said. The elderly and children, who are vulnerable to contract COVID-19 infection, will not be allowed. A Corporation official said the celebration will be held on the Corporation premises with only around 40 participants. The Corporation Commissioner will distribute certificates to recognise the efforts of COVID-19 warriors, non-governmental organisations and corporation staff. “The usual set of events like cultural performance by Corporation school children will not be held this year,” he added.
15 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||MKU submits report on answer sheet scandal||Madurai Kamaraj University has submitted a status report on the recent answer sheet scandal to the office of Governor and Chancellor Banwarilal Purohit. On August 8, Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan said there were irregularities in the conduct of semester examinations by the Directorate of Distance Education (DDE). He said there were malpractices at some distance learning centres in Kerala. Answer scripts written at home were allowed to be inserted into answer sheet bundles during the semester exams and there were discrepancies in 29 answer scripts, he said. Speaking to The Hindu on Friday, the VC said the status report had details on investigations undertaken by the university till date. "We will comb through close to one lakh answer scripts to check for discrepancies. If the number is high, we will approach the police,” he said. The Exam and Disciplinary Committee, a high-level panel of syndicate members, would meet on August 21 to discuss the progress of investigation. “Action has not been taken against any employee yet. We will discuss this aspect also,” he said.
15 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Extend deadline for filing online applications: SFI||Members of Students Federation of India staged a demonstration here on Friday demanding the extension deadline for filing online applications for government arts and science colleges. Its district (urban) secretary S. Veldeva said many students from rural areas, who had passed Class 12 examinations, were unable to file online applications in time. So, the date to file online applications should be extended. Many rural students were unable to attend online classes conducted by government colleges. “Due to cash crunch caused by teh COVID-19 pandemic, many students had to take up part-time jobs to make both ends meet at home. They were even unable to afford recharging data packs for their phones to attend online classes,” he said. Poor network connection compounded the woes of students. The government must start televised classes for all college students. They could resume online classes once they provide necessary infrastructure to ensure that all students were able to attend them, he added.
15 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Film producer tests positive; High Court dispenses with appearance before police||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday dispensed with the appearance of film producer K.E. Gnanavel Raja before the Ramanathapuram police for inquiry in connection with a chit fund scam, after the court was informed that he had tested positive for COVID-19. Justice V. Bharathidasan took cognisance of the fact that the film producer had appeared before the police on August 7 and 8 for inquiry. However, he could not appear before the police after that as he had tested positive for COVID-19. The court adjourned the hearing in the case to August 27. The petitioner, Gnanavel Raja said that he had nothing to do with the chit fund scam or the people involved in the scam. He was not aware of the fact that the people who had acquired the theatrical rights of a film produced by him were involved in the scam, he said. He said that Neethimani who had acquired the theatrical rights of the film, his wife Menaka and one, Anand were named accused in the scam based on a complaint lodged by Thulasimanigandan. Thulasimanigandan and 58 others had invested Rs. 3 crore in the chit fund and the amount was not repaid. Meanwhile, a reporter with a Television Channel, apprehending arrest by the police in connection with the case sought anticipatory bail. The reporter denied the allegation that he had received money in the issue. The case was adjourned for further hearing.
15 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||TASMAC employees attacked, robbed||Two TASMAC salesmen were attacked with beer bottles and robbed of Rs. 3.34 lakh in suburban Silaiman in Madurai on Thursday night. The police said the salesman of Silaiman TASMAC shop S. Rajendran, 45, was riding a motorbike carrying the money in a bag. His colleague Murugesan was following him on another bike, while a helper, Tirupathi, was proceeding in front on a bike. When Rajendran came to the Madurai-Ramanathapuram highway near Keeladi, three persons, riding a motorbike, intercepted him around 10 p.m. While one of them brandished a knife, another person hit Rajendran’s head with a beer bottle. Simultaneously, the other person inflicted cut injuries on his hand. Even as the scuffle was going on, Murugesan reached the spot. When he tried to help his colleague, the robbers allegedly attacked him also with the beer bottle. The robbers managed to snatch the bag containing Rs. 3.34 lakh and fled the scene. Though the TASMAC employees raised an alarm and tried to get help from vehicles passing by, no one came forward to their rescue, the police said. Rajendran has been admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital. Silaiman police are investigating. Meanwhile, in another incident reported in Madurai city, a retired railway employee, Selvam, 62, of Periyar Nagar was attacked by two unidentified persons on Friday morning before robbing his mobile phone at Madakulam. The police said they attacked him on Madakulam Main Road when he was on his regular morning walk around 5.45 a.m. S.S. Colony police are investigating.
15 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||SSI dies of COVID-19||N. Uma Shankar, 48, Special Sub-Inspector of Police, died due to COVID-19 here on Friday. He was attached to the High Court Police Station. “He was admitted to a private hospital for treatment on the night of August 11 after he developed respiratory problem,” Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha said. A CT scan was taken and it showed that 35% of his lung was infected, a clinical symptom of COVID-19. As his oxygen level declined drastically and he required ventilator support, he was rushed to Government Rajaji hospital on Thursday. However, he succumbed without responding to the treatment the same night. His body was cremated at Thathaneri cremation yard with full State honours on Friday. Uma Shankar is survived by his wife Maheswari and two children. Mr. Sinha paid floral tributes to the portrait of the deceased at the High Court police station. Several senior officials, including Deputy Commissioners of Police, paid homage.
15 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two spotted deer killed in road accident||Two spotted deer - a male and a female - were killed when they were hit by an unidentified vehicle near Sivarakottai along the four-lane Virudhunagar highway in the early hours of Friday. An official from the Forest Department said local residents had informed the department and they visited the spot at around 6.30 a.m. “A veterinary doctor conducted post-mortem and the carcasses were buried,” he said. While the male deer was around three years old, the female deer was two years old. M. Ramalingam, a farmer from Sivarakottai, said that spotted deer were often killed near the highway. “Every year at least 25 spotted deer have been hit by vehicles as they try to cross the road. It is disheartening to see spotted deer being killed even during the pandemic,” he said. Though the Forest Department had erected five boards along the highway warning speeding vehicles to ride cautiously, there have been so many violations by vehicle users, he added. The official said that spotted deer, wild boar, rabbit and mongoose were found in Sivarakottai area as numerous water tanks were in the region. Mr. Ramalingam said that farmers had petitioned the district administration several times demanding a wildlife sanctuary in the area. “It will also help address the issue of illegal poaching,” he said. Acknowledging the frequent roadkills witnessed in the area, District Forest Officer S. Anand said that a separate team has been formed to study the population of animals in that area. “Based on it, we will formulate a strategy to address the issue,” he added.
15 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Give COVID-19 assistance to washermen: PIL||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday ordered notice to the State government in a public interest litigation petition that sought COVID-19 financial assistance to washermen/ washerwomen and laundry men/ laundry women. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam ordered notice to the State government in a PIL petition filed by K. Pandi from Madurai, secretary, Jaihindpuram Washerman Welfare Society. In his petition, Mr. Pandi said members of the association were without work and income in view of the lockdown. He said many find it difficult to make ends meet. Taking note of the plight of various unorganised sector workers, the government had granted assistance to workers through the respective welfare boards. A request for the same was sought by the association, he said A representation was sent seeking assistance till October but there has been no response so far. More than 3,000 families in Madurai depend on income from washing and laundry work. The interest of the workers must be addressed, he said.
15 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bail granted||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday granted bail to Desan Jino, an associate of Kasi, after it was submitted that he was in jail for more than 90 days and the CB-CID had not filed a final report yet. Both Kasi and Jino have been accused of sexually harassing several women and extorting money from them. Justice V. Bharathidasan directed Desan Jino to execute a bond for Rs. 25,000 to the satisfaction of the Nagercoil Judicial Magistrate who may obtain a copy of the Aadhaar card or bank passbook to ascertain the identity. The court directed him to appear before the CB-CID every Monday till further orders. The State argued that the accused had exploited over 80 women and the videos were uploaded on the internet. The CB-CID had completed the investigation in the case and were yet to submit the final report. Two cases of similar nature are pending against Desan Jino, the court was informed.
15 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||25 frontline workers honoured||Twenty five frontline workers - police personnel, doctors and conservancy workers - were honoured for their services during the COVID-19 pandemic at a function held at Thirumalai Nayak Mahal here on Thursday. An orchestra played at the function which was organised by the district administration based on a directive of the Ministry of Defence and the Information and Broadcasting Ministry. Collector T.G. Vinay, Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan and officials from police and health departments were present. T.K. Lilly Grace, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Anna Nagar; Kottaisamy, Inspector, Sellur and head constables Ayyappan and Maheshwaran were honoured.
15 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Friday stood at 136.75 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 1,356 cusecs and a discharge of 2,160 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 45.96 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,836 cusecs and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,338 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Friday was (in mm): Kallandhiri 7.2, Melur 3.2 and Pulipatti 1.2. The water level in Papanasam dam stood at 107.30 feet (143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 1,298.50 cusecs and 804.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 73.85 feet (118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 182 cusecs and no water was discharged.
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Medical seats: SC to hear T.N. plea||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to examine an appeal filed by the Tamil Nadu government against a Madras High Court decision to set up a committee to “finalise” OBC reservation in State-surrendered seats for the All India Quota in non-central medical colleges. A three-judge Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao issued notice to the respondents, including the Centre and the Medical Council of India (MCI). They have been asked to respond in two weeks. Tamil Nadu government, represented by State Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan, said the High Court declined to straightaway order the Centre and MCI to implement 50% reservation for Backward Classes, Most Backward Classes and Denotified Community in these seats in undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma medical and dental courses in compliance with reservation rules followed in the State for the academic year 2020-21. The High Court, in its decision on July 27, declined the mandamus “despite finding there is a clear substantive law providing for State-specific reservation formulated by the MCI”. Instead, the court set up a committee, when such a committee was unnecessary, consisting of the Directorate General of Health Services, the MCI and the Tamil Nadu government department concerned to “finalise the manner in which the facilities of OBC reservation are to be provided,” the special leave petition said.
15 August 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||New buildings for Govt. ITI opened||Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami declared open, through video conference from Chennai, new buildings for the Government Industrial Training Institute at Alathur in the district on Friday. The new buildings included a hostel for the trainees were built at a total cost of Rs. 4.53 crore. The new ITI building houses six workshops, class and officerooms, computer laboratory, library, rooms for principal and instructors besides rest rooms. The hostel will have 60 rooms with necessary amenities. The ITI as started in 2014 and currently has a strength of 220 students and offers courses in Electrician, Fitter, Welder, Mechanic and other trades. Collector V. Santha and MLA R.Tamilselvan were present on the ITI campus during the inauguration.
15 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. govt. fixes rate for treatment at private medical colleges||As part of the government’s plan to bring in private medical colleges for COVID-19 management in the Union Territory, the Health Department has fixed the cost of treatment and testing in facilities outside the public health sector. The department has fixed the fee for non-critical care COVID-19 treatment at Rs. 3,250 a day. And for patients needing critical care, private medical colleges can charge Rs. 5,480 a day for ICU without ventilator or NIV, Rs. 5,980 a day for ICU with NIV, Rs. 9,580 a day for ICU with ventilator, Rs. 6,280 a day for sepsis without ventilator, Rs. 10,380 for sepsis with ventilator and septic shock/MODS with ventilator a day. These charges are inclusive of isolation ward, administrative charges, consultation, drugs and investigation, nutritious diet and disinfection cost per person The department has fixed Rs. 2,400 for a test in private institutions. District Collector and Secretary Health T. Arun told The Hindu that the rates were not applicable to patients referred by the government and they would be given free treatment. The department will be getting 30,000 rapid test kits by next week.
15 August 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre for mentally ill persons set up||The district administration has come to the aid of the wandering mentally ill persons in the district by creating an Emergency Care and Recovery Centre (ECRC) with the twin objectives of providing them medical care and psychosocial support post rescue and necessary steps to reunite them with their family. Fully funded by the State Health Department, the ECRC has been created inside the Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy Memorial Government Hospital premises here with a team of social workers and nurses attached to it to take care of the rescued wandering mentally ill persons. The centre created during the lockdown period is equipped with 50 beds with a couple of psychiatrists deployed to work in shifts to provide necessary treatment and psycho-social therapy to the rescued mentally ill. General public could either alert the local police or the ECRC if they happened to notice a wandering mentally ill person in their locality. Upon receipt of information, a team from the ECRC would immediately be sent by ‘102’ government vehicle to the field to rescue the wandering mentally ill, the District Mental Health Programme Officer R. Karthik Deivanayagam told The Hindu on Thursday. While carrying out the rescue mission, the team would take necessary safety precautions such as wearing a mask and gloves during the current COVID-19 pandemic. “Basic screening of the rescued person would be done to ascertain if they had any external injury or sickness and taken to the nearest government hospital for medical examination. Thereafter, they would be referred to the ECRC to provide them care and psycho-social support at the centre,” Dr.Deivanayagam said. If they were sick, they would be sent to the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital for treatment. The ECRC has a team of five male and female social workers, 10 staff nurses and a couple of psychiatrists. The rescued person would at first be given a bath, a hair cut if required, food and clothes to attend to their basic needs. Thereafter, detailed clinical screening and psychiatrist assessment would be done for providing treatment, Dr. Deivanayagam said adding that they would also be subjected to COVID-19 test simultaneously. They would be provided with psycho-social therapy and arrangements would be made to get them a disability certificate to avail benefits provided by the State government. The social workers would interact with the rescued person and ascertain information about their family members in an effort to reunite them. The mentally ill persons would be accommodated at the ECRC until they were reunited with their family, Dr. Deivanayagam said. Arrangements would also be made to impart them training in some vocational trades for their long-term rehabilitation, he further said. The rescue operation and reunion would be carried out in coordination with the police and revenue officials and the Department of Differently Abled Persons. The ECRC has been taking care of five rescued wandering mentally ill persons till now. One rescued person has been reunited with the family, he said.
15 August 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||New block to accommodate COVID-19 patients in GH||A new 350-bedded block, declared open by Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami through video conference from Chennai on Friday, would function as an exclusive COVID-19 treatment centre at the Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital. The new building, meant to be the nephrology block, would now serve to treat COVID 19 patients. It has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 24.40 crore. Of the 350 beds in the block, 35 will be for intensive care. As many as 165 beds in the block have been provided oxygen supply. Latest medical equipment, including invasive ventilators and defibrillators, are available. A fever outpatient clinic, examination room, a yoga hall and X-ray unit form part of the block. With the opening of the block, the Government Ranees Hospital would function as a screening centre and COVID Care Centre. Those found to have symptoms of COVID 19 and patients with co-morbidities would be referred to the COVID treatment block at the medical college hospital, a release said.
15 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Gutkha seized||The police on Friday seized over 40 sacks of gutkha found abandoned under Butterfly bridge here. On information, the Anadhanapatti police seized them. S. Senthil, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic), said the seized goods worth about Rs. 15 lakh should have come from Bengaluru.
15 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Water to be released from Mettur dam on Monday||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has ordered the release of water from Mettur dam through the East-West Canal from Monday. In a release, Mr. Palaniswami said water would be released from August 17 to December 31 for 137 days to irrigate 45,000 acre. As many as 16,443 acre in Salem, 17,230 acre in Erode and 11,327 acre in Namakkal would benefit from this. The discharge from Mettur dam was increased to 13,500 cusecs from Friday morning. Public Works Department officials said the water level at the dam was 98.59 ft against the full reservoir level of 120ft and the storage was 63,029 tmc. The inflow increased to 25,000 cusecs from 20,000 cusecs on Thursday night. The inflow at Biligundalu on Friday morning was 25,000 cusecs, the officials said.
15 August 2020||Staff ReporterCHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SRM signs pact for retinopathy screening||SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre (SRM MCHRC) and Aravind Eye Hospital (AEH) have signed a memorandum of understanding that will enable the former to regularly screen high-risk babies for retinopathy of prematurity on its premises in Kattankulathur. A statement by the SRM MCHRC said this was done in accordance with the National Programme for Control of Blindness and Visual Impairment to prevent blindness due to ROP.
15 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Allow functioning of AC lodges, hotels: Chamber||The Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Thanjavur, has called upon the State government to consider allowing air-conditioned lodging houses and hotels to resume business. In a memorandum to Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palanisami, the Chamber pleaded that AC hotels, lodging houses, marriage and meeting halls be allowed to function with prescribed ventilation, minimum occupancy and other standard operating procedure stipulated by the government. It sought scrapping of the e-pass system between districts since it had crippled business. Making a call for revival of public transport facility, the Chamber justified its plea by pointing out that majority of workers engaged in business houses and other establishments in tier II and III cities reside in rural areas around these cities. Only around 20% among them have their own transport facility while others depend on the public transport, the Chamber added.
15 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Boy rescued from bonded labour||The district Childline authorities have rescued a 10-year-old boy engaged as a shepherd at Rajagiri near Papanasam and took him into their custody. The Childline had received a tip-off recently that a 10-year-old boy was engaged as a bonded labourer in rearing of goats at Rajagiri. Subsequently, Revenue and Childline officials visited the village and took him into their custody two days ago. The boy was lodged in a hostel run by the Child Welfare Committee at Thanjavur after the Revenue officials issued a relief certificate. Preliminary inquiries with the boy revealed that he was a native of Pudukottai and was handed over to a Ramanathapuram-based cattle rearing contractor by his father. The Papanasam police have registered a case under the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act and the Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act based on a complaint lodged by the Revenue and Childline authorities and are on the lookout for the person who had engaged the boy for goat rearing.
15 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Residents stage road roko||People residing near the moat in North Rampart area staged a road roko at the `kodimarathu moolai’ in Thanjavur town on Friday objecting the marking of houses for demolition for implementing the Smart City Project. Thanjavur Corporation officials have resumed the Smart City Project works recently and as part of the project to revive the moat around the old town area they have started making markings on the houses that were to be demolished to pave for the revival of the moat. Already the houses that existed very close or abutting the moat were razed down last year and the work was withheld due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
15 August 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Highest and the lowest||Theni district has the highest number of 3,188 active cases of COVID-19 and Sivaganga had 421 cases, the least, among the southern districts on Friday. There were 3,188 active cases in hospitals and Covid care centres in Theni and as on date, and 112 people had died. Out of the 10 districts in southern district, only Theni had a high number of active cases, while seven districts had anywhere between 1,050 and 1,495 active cases and two districts had less than 1,000, as per the State Health Bulletin.
15 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||546 new COVID-19 cases, six deaths in central region||The central region on Friday recorded a dip in COVID 19, with the districts here accounting for 546 new cases. There was a drop in deaths due to the viral infection too – two each in Thanjavur and Karur and one each in Ariyalur and Pudukottai districts. Men from Thanjavur aged 63 and 67 and a 55-year-old man from Ariyalur died at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital of COVID pneumonia and respiratory failure while a 63-year-old woman and a 56-year-old man with co-morbid conditions, including diabetes, died in Karur. The men had also suffered from bronchial asthma. Meanwhile, Pudukottai district recorded the maximum number of fresh positive cases among the central districts with 155 new patients. A large number of the patients were immediate contacts and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses (SARI), official sources here said. Among the 106 persons who test positive in Tiruchi were several individuals from already existing containment areas. A grocery store in West Boulevard Road was closed and sealed after three among its 17 employees tested positive for the viral infection. Forty-five more samples from individuals from adjacent shops and others were taken on Friday. “The shop owners themselves came forward to shut shop,” said a senior official at the Tiruchi City Corporation. The Tiruchi East Tahsildar office was also sealed after a few employees, including the Tahsildar, tested positive for the viral infection. “We closed the office on Friday, after disinfection and sanitisation, it will be opened on Monday onwards,” a Revenue official said. Thanjavur recorded 88 cases, a decline in comparison to the last few days. Among the new cases were a Thanjavur Medical College Hospital nursing superintendent, a sub-inspector, three employees of a private bank in Vadavoor, and a staff nurse at the Government Raja Mirasudar Hospital. Housewives, students were also among the positive patients, as they were immediate contacts of patients who had tested positive earlier. Tiruvarur recorded 56 new COVID cases, while Ariyalur recorded 69. In Ariyalur, 20 of the 59 hailed from Thirumanur, while 13 belonged to Ariyalur town. Meanwhile, 378 throat swab samples have been lifted. Of the 34 patients to test positive in Nagapattinam, two were frontline workers, three inter- district travelers and 16 primary contacts. In Karur, a policeman was among those who tested positive. Individuals from Thogamalai, Kulithalai were also among the positive patients. Perambalur recorded 24 new cases, including five inter-district travellers, 11 patients with ILI, two antenatal mothers and other local cases. While most patients were admitted to Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital, five were admitted to various hospitals in Tiruchi.
15 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||No private lab for COVID-19 testing in Tiruchi||Tiruchi now has no private laboratory testing for COVID-19 after a private facility in Thennur stopped testing for the viral disease, citing shortage of staff. Three private hospitals where tests continue to be taken say they are lifted only for patients who are admitted as inpatients to the hospitals. Tiruchi district initially had six testing centres — Magnum Imaging and Diagnostics, Neuberg Ehrlich Laboratory, Doctors’ Diagnostics Centre, Apollo Hospitals, GVN Hospitals and SRM Medical College Hospital. While Doctors’ Diagnostics Centre was sealed by authorities a fortnight ago, Magnum Imaging closed their collection centre on the grounds that they were facing a shortage of staff. “Our staff were afraid of contracting the infection and we could not force them to stay. After some deliberation, we have decided to stop testing,” said R. Bavaharan, Director of Magnum Imaging and Diagnostics. Representatives of Neuberg Ehrlich Laboratory, the only other standalone laboratory in the district, said that they would not be testing individuals despite receiving approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research, New Delhi. “We have a mutual agreement with a private hospital in the city, and the tests for patients at that hospital are processed here,” they said. Bioline too has stopped testing outpatients. Meanwhile, at the three private hospitals which are also COVID treating hospitals, tests are only lifted and processed for patients who are admitted to the hospital. When enquiries were made, representatives at one of the hospitals said, “Our doctors will consult patients and check them for symptoms. Depending upon the necessity, samples are lifted. We do not take tests for patients who are not admitted here. We also do not test patients with travel history. They are referred to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital,” they said, requesting anonymity. M.S. Ashraf, former national vice-president, Indian Medical Association, said it is gravely important for the district administration to scale up testing. “The union ministry has advised 16 districts in the country to scale up testing, based on their COVID mortality rate — Tiruchi and Chennai are among the 16,” he said. Dr. Ashraf suggested that testing must be increased among two specific groups - youths up to the age of 30 and adults over 50. The youths usually have mild COVID symptoms and if isolated, can be quickly healed. Due to lack of sufficient testing, they become “asymptomatic super-spreaders,” putting the lives of their parents, grandparents and other senior citizens at risk, he said. “The other group are the senior citizens. Due to their delicate health, they are vulnerable to the infection and are also a large part of the population who succumb to it. If they are tested and isolated before the infection is severe, they can be saved,” he said. However, S. Sivarasu, Tiruchi Collector, said that even without the private laboratories, the number of tests conducted in Tiruchi was higher when compared to some other districts. “Our positivity rate has fallen significantly. We have three private hospitals where tests can be processed, apart from the high-tech lab at the K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College, which is more than what is required for our district,” he maintained.
15 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||New anti-materiel rifle launched||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday inaugurated an anti-materiel rifle ‘Vidhwansak’ developed by the Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, through video-conference from New Delhi. The weapon was developed by the in-house Research and Development team of the Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, without any support from external agencies. The 14.5/20 mm Anti- Materiel Rifle could be used for destroying enemy bunkers, lightly armoured vehicles, radar systems, communication equipment, parked aircraft and fuel storage facilities. It is a single shot, bolt action weapon having a detachable three round magazine and a range of 1,800 metre for 14.5 mm calibre and 1,300 metres for 20 mm calibre. The rifle could be quickly dismantled and carried in two portable man packs each weighing about 12 to 15 kilograms. Hitherto, the requirement of 14.5 / 20 mm anti-materiel rifle for the Indian Army was met by import of the weapon from M/s Denel Land Systems, South Africa. The Central Armed Police Forces were in need of this weapon as well. Hence, the initiative was taken and the Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi developed the weapon through in-house R&D. Due to indigenisation of this weapon, foreign exchange to the tune of US dollars 90 million would be saved. A press release from Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi said the factory could manufacture this weapon and it was likely to give a workload for another five years. Meanwhile, the Ordnance Factory has indigenously developed Under Barrel Grenade Launcher (UBGL) for AK-47 assault rifle and Trichy Assault Rifle for launching high explosive grenades at enemy targets. The UBGL was an additional facility fitted to the in-service AK-47 and Trichy Assault Rifle (TAR) providing an option to the soldiers to fire both AK-47 bullets and explosive grenades at enemy troops to destroy them and prevent them from marching forward. The UBGL could be attached to the rifle in less than a minute and dismantled as well. The range is 400 metres and weighs about 1.6 kilograms. The 40mm UBGL was very useful in combat actions and counter terrorist operations for infantry, special forces and law enforcement units, a press release from Ordnance Factory here said. The Ordnance Factory had indigenously developed the UBGL in two years. Hari Mohan, Chairman and Director General Ordnance Factories, Ordnance Factory Board, Kolkata, inaugurated the UBGL through video conference on Friday.
15 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Foot overbridges coming up at nine railway stations in Tiruchi division||Southern Railway has taken up construction of foot overbridges at nine stations, including Srirangam in Tiruchi Division, as part of improvement of passenger amenities at these locations, during the COVID -19 lockdown period. Works were underway at a total cost of Rs. 15 crore in all the nine railway stations. Barring Srirangam station where the foot over bridge works commenced a month before the lockdown was clamped in late March, the foot over bridgeworks in the remaining eight stations were launched after the lockdown was announced, said a senior railway official. Apart from Srirangam, the foot overbridges were coming up at Pullambadi near Tiruchi, Kallagam, Mattur, Ottakovil, Mambalapattu, Arani Road and Agarasambibbandi. In Srirangam railway station falling under the chord line section where several express trains halt, the major work of erection of huge girders covering platform one to four has been completed above the overhead electrical wire. The landing of the foot overbridge has been provided only for platform one and four at Srirangam station which already has been provided with a subway, the official said. The new foot over bridge runs to a length of 36.43 metres. With the main work of erection of girders having been completed, the railways would now take up the work of executing the gangway and roofing works besides laying of tiles on the foot steps, the official said adding that the plan was to complete the entire works by November. Until the lockdown was announced in late March leading to suspension of passenger train services, important trains such as the Rockfort Expresses from and to Chennai; Mangalore Expresses; Pallavan Expresses and the Guruvayur Expresses had stoppage at temple town Srirangam. The official further said the major work of erecting girders for foot overbridges at the remaining eight stations have also been completed during the lockdown period by ensuring the standard operating protocols such as personal distancing, wearing of mask, use of hand sanitisers for railway officials and labourers involved in the project and checking the temperature of labourers and officials using thermal scanners. The foot overbridge works at the nine stations have been taken up as part of improvement of passenger amenities, the official further said. Making use of the lockdown period, the Southern Railway has completed major portion of the construction of a subway at Thiruvennainallur road near Villupuram by inserting cement concrete boxes below the double railway line stretch. Approach roads for the subway would be laid soon. Similarly, the approach roads on either side of the subway coming up near Valadi a few kilometres away from Tiruchi was expected to be completed in two to three months.
15 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||CSG steps up vigil in coastal areas||Personnel of the Coastal Security Group (CSG) stepped up vigil in the coastal districts in central region ahead of the Independence Day celebrations. Patrolling on board Fast Interceptor Boat in the Bay of Bengal were carried out by the field-level CSG personnel in Pudukottai and Nagapattinam on Friday as part of an effort to intensify vigil. CSG sources said personnel serving Pudukottai district carried out boat patrolling in the 41 -km coastal stretch from Kattumavadi to Yenathi which comes under their jurisdiction. In addition to this, CSG teams have also been conducting vehicle checks at a couple of check posts manned by them at Mumbalai and Semankottai along the East Coast Road in the district. Fishermen residing in the 32 coastal villages in Pudukottai district have been asked to keep a watch on movement of any suspicious elements or strangers in their respective village or suspicious looking objects. The villagers in the coastal areas have also been asked to alert the toll free number of the Coastal Security Group in case they came across movement of strangers or suspicious elements. In Nagapattinam district, the CSG personnel carried out boat patrolling using the Fast Interceptor Boat in the sea from Nagapattinam to Nagore and from Nagore to Velankanni on Friday. In addition to mounting vigil in the sea, CSG personnel used the All Terrain Vehicle for carrying out patrolling along the beach front in Nagapattinam, Velankanni and Nagore. A little over 50 CSG personnel were involved in ensuring vigil at coastal places including Velankanni, Nagapattinam, Nambiyarnagar, Poompuhar, Tharangambadi, Akkaraipettai, Kameswaram, Pudupettai and Thirumullaivasal. Vigil was also being maintained at vital installations and at landing points in Nagapattinam, a CSG officer said.
15 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Joy of ‘below average’ students over ‘all pass’ decision short-lived||The joy of scores of ‘below average’ students in government and government-aided schools, who had got through the SSLC public exam owing to government decision to declare 'all pass' in view of the COVID 19 pandemic, seems to be short-lived as their progression to Plus One appears difficult. School heads here say it is simply impossible to accommodate all the students in Plus One due to capacity constraints. In several schools, the students were given 'just pass' status by adding grace marks in abundance. "Students who used to score in single digits in quarterly and half-yearly exams are out of the radar for Plus One admission. They naturally lose out as the better performers have to be prioritised," a teacher of a government-aided school in the city said. Government and government-aided schools are understood to consider the applications of only those students who had scored not less than 50% in the quarterly and half-yearly exams for Plus One admissions. The formula for final evaluation suggested by the government was 80% weightage for marks obtained in quarterly and half-yearly exam and 20% for attendance. Inevitably all students had to be given the 20% weightage for attendance uniformly despite their absence during the latter part of the academic year since the nominal rolls for the public exams are prepared much earlier. "The all-pass decision, though inevitable, is bound to further burden the government schools with the responsibility of handling students who are not fit enough for higher secondary education,” a school head said. According to a section of teachers, the prevailing situation is expected to bolster patronage for Industrial Training Institutes from 'below average' students. "There is a large possibility for students in this category to opt for vocational education in the Industrial Training Institutes. But, the question is to what extent the ITIs would be able to absorb the students. The number of ITIs was meagre in proportion to that of the higher secondary schools," they said. “ It will be prudent for the government to devise measures at this juncture to make sure that students do not drop out of mainstream education after SSLC," a senior teacher in Lalgudi block said.
15 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BDU departments in the process of conducting PG admissions||Departments of Bharathidasan University (BDU) are in the process of admitting candidates for the PG programmes, based on the performance of students in the fifth semester in UG, in the backdrop of higher educational institutions awaiting the outcome of the plea by some State Governments in Supreme Court for scrapping the final semester exams in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Department of Commerce and Financial Studies, for instance, has invited applications for admission to MBA (Financial Management). “With colleges going ahead with the PG admission process, it is only proper that the students are given an opportunity by the university departments to gain the utility of niche programmes,” Department Head M. Selvam said. The MBA programme, he said, prepares students in the areas of risk management, insurance, banking, mutual funds, merchant banking and corporate finance. Finance Manager, Payroll Manager, Financial Accounting Analyst, Financial Reporting Lead Analyst, Hedge Fund Manager, Corporate Treasury Manager, Trade Desk Analyst, Equity options trader, Equity Research Associate, Investment Banking Analyst are some of the job profiles available for the Finance professionals, Prof. Selvam said. Likewise, the Department of Environmental Biotechnology in the university has also invited applications for 2020-21, as in the case of many other departments. The Tamil Nadu Government, university sources said, is also awaiting the verdict of the Supreme Court prior to taking a call on the conduct of exams for final year students. The UGC has questioned the decisions of the Delhi and Maharashtra governments to cancel final year exams of State universities amid the COVID-19 pandemic, and has directed universities to conduct the exams unfailingly by September. The two States took the matter to the Supreme Court after the directive by the UGC. The State universities have not been able to take any decision on the issue as the Unlock 3 notification directs educational institutions to remain closed till August 31, and delegates power to States to take liberty to impose further restrictions if required. According to sources, affiliated colleges have, nevertheless, taken a lead in carrying out PG admissions, based on the marks scored by students till the fifth semester. The confirmation of the admission will, of course, be subject to the students clearing the final semester exams, in the event of its conduct. But, those students with backlog of arrears have been stranded. As things stand, a break of one year for pursuing higher studies appears inevitable for students with arrears, a college principal said.
15 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Gold jewellery, cash stolen from car||Unidentified persons stole gold jewellery, cash, a couple of mobile phones and ATM cards after breaking open the window of a car that was parked close to the Cauvery river at Murungapettai near here on Wednesday. The occupants of the car who had come from Chennai to immerse ‘asthi’ had gone to the river to take bath, said police. Three persons, including the complainant N. Vaidhyanathan (34), had left Chennai to immerse the asthi of a 'swamigal’ at Rameswaram. However, finding it difficult to proceed to Rameswaram during the lockdown, the three persons came to Amma Mandapam in Srirangam where they were asked by the police to leave the spot. The three then drove to Murungapetttai on the way to Jeeyapuram and parked the car near the river to have a bath. They, however, chose not to immerse the 'asthi' at that spot and went to take bath leaving behind the bags containing gold jewellery they wore inside the vehicle. The sources said upon coming back after having bath, they found one of the window glasses of the car broken and their bags containing gold chains, rings besides a diamond studded ring, Rs. 20,000 cash, a couple of mobile phones, ATM card and driving licence stolen. The matter was reported to Jeeyapuram station where a case was booked.
15 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Bi-weekly flight services to Mumbai from Tiruchi||IndiGo airlines on Friday launched bi-weekly flight services in the Mumbai-Tiruchi-Mumbai sector, providing direct connectivity to the country's financial capital from the city. However, the services will be operated only for a limited period up to August 31, said airline sources. The Airbus A-320 aircraft, operated by the airline, arrived in Tiruchi from Mumbai with 97 passengers on board, at around 5.18 p.m. The flight left for Mumbai at 6 p.m. with 68 passengers. The services will be operated on Monday and Friday, till the month-end. This is the first new domestic service to be introduced from Tiruchi since the lockdown was put in place in late March. Sources said that all incoming passengers were screened and their swabs were lifted as per protocol.  Mumbai is the fourth domestic destination connected to Tiruchi, from where daily flights are being operated by IndiGo airlines to Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. Sources said the continuation of the service would depend on the load.
15 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered||A man aged around 35 years was murdered allegedly by a group of persons at Sengalakudi in neighbouring Pudukottai district on Friday. Police identified the deceased as Rahman alias Akbar of Palakkarai area in Tiruchi. Dispute over money transaction is suspected to be the cause behind the murder. The Mathur Police have picked up some persons and are interrogating them. A car has been seized by the police. Further inquiries are on.
15 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Railways conducts special cleanliness drive||The Tiruchi Railway Division has been carrying out a special cleanliness drive at various stations and its vicinity to mark the 74th Independence Day celebrations. The week-long drive which commenced on August 10 would go on till August 16 with the objective of keeping the railway premises clean and hygienic even during the COVID-19 pandemic and create awareness on the need to keep railway premises clean. The drive has been primarily focusing on cleanliness of railway stations and its premises, railway tracks, railway colonies, work sites, water vending points, toilets, drains and other areas such as approach roads in the vicinity of railway stations. Special attention has been given to collection of plastic waste along with other waste along the tracks. A Southern Railway press release here said all laid down safety protocols such as wearing of mask and personal distancing were being strictly enforced among employees participating in the cleanliness drives. The railways has appealed to the general public to join hands with it in maintaining high standards of cleanliness at railway stations and on trains.
15 August 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Nod for private vehicles on govt. bus routes flayed||The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation’s decision to allow private players to operate vehicles on routes in which government buses ply has agitated trade unions that have warned the government that it was an attempt towards privatising the public transport system. The amendment made by the State Government on July 29 in the Motor Vehicles Act paves way for private firms to operate their vehicles on routes wherein TNSTC or State Express Transport Corporation were operating buses. Conducting an online emergency meeting recently to discuss this development, trade union representatives expressed displeasure over the amendment. “It is an attempt to privatise the public transport system,” they said. The participants said the TNSTC and SETC administrations, which “are in shambles” for the past several years, were spreading a red carpet to private players. Resume public transport “After the public transport system was crippled in the wake of the lockdown, autorickshaw, taxi and other mode of private vehicles are being allowed. The TNSTC and the SETC should resume public transport with adequate precautionary measures,” said R. Arumugam of AITUC. Trade union representatives, who participated in the online meeting, were of the opinion that private players would soon be allowed on routes like Tirunelveli – Madurai, Tirunelveli – Tiruchi, Tirunelveli – Coimbatore etc. Urging the Chief Minister to withdraw the amendment and appealing to the Opposition parties to intervene to save the public transport system in Tamil Nadu, the trade unions will soon write letters to everyone before August 20. Highlighting the impending threat to the TNSTC and the SETC, the trade unions will organise continuous protests in front of the depots until the amendment was revoked, Mr. Arumugam said.
15 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Officials seal resort near Udumalpet||Revenue Department officials sealed a private resort at Manupatti village in Udumalpet taluk on Friday, days after a woman allegedly died of electrocution by its solar-powered electric fencing. Udumalpet Revenue Divisional Officer R. Ravikumar and Tahsildar Jeyasingh Sivakumar sealed the 17-acre resort in the presence of officials from Tiruppur District Police. Mr. Sivakumar said the resort lacked a few essential documents and that the electric fencing was poorly maintained. Lakshmi (55) was found dead on August 10 at the fence around the resort near the check-post at the village. Police arrested the resort’s manager Mohan (64) under Sections 285 (Negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter) and 304A (Causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. He was released on bail on Thursday. “Once the necessary documents are submitted, the resort will be allowed to reopen,” Mr. Sivakumar said. An inquiry into the woman’s death is on and the cause of death could be ascertained only upon going through the autopsy report, he said.
15 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Sloth bear gets stuck under boulder, dies||A male sloth bear died after getting stuck under a boulder at Kappatty village in Kattabettu Forest Range on Friday. Forest department officials said the sloth bear got one of its paws trapped under a boulder. It is believed that the boulder had rolled onto the animal when it was digging for food under the rock. District Forest Officer D. Guruswamy, Assistant Conservator of Forests, Nilgiris division, K. Saravanakumar and other forest staff rushed to the spot to rescue the animal. They decided to tranquillize the animal before trying to extricate it from the rock. However, soon after it was tranquillized, the animal died. Officials said the animal was under stress and it could have contributed to the death. The carcass was destroyed after autopsy.
15 August 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||23 minors found working in fireworks units||Many minors were found engaged in cracker making at a fireworks unit near Kanniseripudur here on Friday. During a routine inspection, a mobile inspection team of Department of Industrial Safety and Health, led by its Joint Director, Prema Kumari, and Deputy Director, Chithra, found the girl children working in the amorces unit of Rita Fireworks and amorces factory near Thiagarajapuram. The officials found that many schoolgoing children were working with their parents in the same unit. “The parents claimed that since it was a lockdown, the children were working in the unit,” an official said. The children were brought to the Government Hospital in Virudhunagar and their age was ascertained. While seven of them were below 14 years of age, 16 of them were adolescent. The children were sent home with their parents. An official said that the factory management would be prosecuted under Child and Adolescent Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 1986. Collector R. Kannan said that office-bearers of the fireworks manufacturers were issued a stern warning against any such recurrence.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Grasslands and wetlands of upper Nilgiris under threat||The recent attack on a forest guard by tribal residents, who had encroached upon forest land in the grasslands surrounding Wenlock Downs in the Udhagai North forest range, has brought to the fore the tense relationship between the department and the community inhabiting the upper Nilgiris. According to forest department officials, the Todas and Kotas inhabiting the villages in the range, have encroached up to 25 hectares of land this year alone, mostly taking advantage of the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The latest surge in encroachments has again led to confrontations between the tribal groups and the forest department. The Todas and Kotas blame each other for the burgeoning encroachments. A Toda community leader alleged that it was the Kotas who first encroached on 150 acres of forest land which is home to a wide variety of native flora and critically endangered fauna. The dispute has led to fights between the members of the two communities in the recent past, officials said. “The range is already populated by many eucalyptus and wattle plantations, and the Todas don’t have enough land to graze their buffaloes, and added to this, the Kotas first encroached on around 150 acres of land, leading to a dispute erupting between the two communities,” said the leader who requested anonymity. This made the Todas to encroach on reserve forests, he added. A top forest department official said that the two communities had been encroaching on reserve forests as early as 2008. “A meeting was held by the department with the two communities in 2016, as the groups had encroached on more than 300 acres of land, claiming traditional rights to cattle grazing,” said the official. Agreement violated To defuse the situation, the forest department had even appealed to the communities to claim the encroached land as per provisions in the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act of 2006, based on an agreement that there would be no new encroachments. However, that agreement has now been violated, with new encroachments continuing to come up at an accelerated rate. “The worst part of all this is that the encroached land, most of which are some of the last remaining patches of undisturbed wetlands and grasslands in the upper Nilgiris, are not even being cultivated by the Todas and Kotas. The two groups first encroach into forests, and prevent evictions by claiming harassment from the forest department. They then lease the land to non-tribal groups in subsequent years,” said a forest department staff who was familiar with the issues in the range. According to officials, the Udhagai North forest range encompasses around 11,000 acres, with around 9,000 acres being reserve forest and a further 2,000 acres being marked to be declared as reserve forest in the future. There were multiple reserve forests within the range, including Keradamund, Sandynallah, Emmaikkal, Pykara and Mudithevermund - all home to patches of grassland and wetland synonymous with the upper Nilgiris hills. A. Sathyaraj, from the Todar Samuthayam Munnetra Sangam, said the district administration should host a meeting to sort out the issue. When contacted, District Forest Officer, Nilgiris division, D. Guruswamy, said the department was continuing to work on protecting the grasslands and wetlands from further encroachments. “This year, we have issued 16 eviction notices to encroachers,” he said.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvarur to see increase in samba, thaladi coverage||The swift increase in storage level of Stanley Reservoir at Mettur over the past few days has raised hopes among officials of Agriculture Department that samba and thaladi coverage will substantially expand this season in Tiruvarur district. Last year, samba paddy was cultivated on about 1.31 lakh hectares in the district when farmers were encouraged to opt for direct sowing method on about 70,800 hectares out of the total samba area since Mettur dam was opened only during August. Normally, thaladi is cultivated on about 20,000 hectares in the district and given the fact that this year kuruvai cultivation was taken up in about 39,000 hectares, the chances of cultivation of thaladi in an equal area are more since water for irrigation was released from Mettur on the scheduled date of June 12 and reached canals in tail-end areas of the district. Sporadic rainfall has also boosted the confidence of farmers. Official sources say with sufficient storage at the Stanley Reservoir to meet water requirements for samba preparation and cultivation during August-September and prediction of a good northeast monsoon, the total area of cultivation of samba and thaladi is expected to cross 1.50 lakh hectares in the district.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi MP condemns recruitment of north Indian candidates||Tiruchi Lok Sabha MP Su.Thirunavukkarasar on Wednesday condemned the selection of north Indian candidates mostly from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh for various posts especially in Southern Railway. In a statement, Mr. Thirunavukkarasar said there were nearly one crore youth in Tamil Nadu registered with employment offices. Besides, there was a large number of temporary staff awaiting permanent employment. The selection of a majority of candidates from various north Indian States for the Golden Rock Railway Workshop in Tiruchi was shocking and a matter of concern. It was surprising as to how more than 300 candidates came to Tiruchi with e-pass for verification of certificates during the pandemic. Priority should be accorded to native candidates when employment opportunities were created in the States and the government could bring in legal amendments.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem SP to receive CM’s medal||Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger will be awarded the Chief Minister’s gold medal for good public service. According to a release, Dr .Ganiger will receive the medal and cash prize of Rs. 25,000. Six officers from the Salem City police will receive appreciation certificates for good service from the District Collector during Independence Day celebrations. S. Ananth Kumar, assistant commissioner of police, B. Palaniammal, inspector, A. Sivanyagnam, sub-inspector, K. Madhesh, special sub-inspector, A. Kumar, head constable, and Revathi, section superintendent at the Salem Commissioner’s office will receive the certificates. Six officers from the District Police will also receive certificates.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police personnel suspended||City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan on Thursday ordered the suspension of three police personnel after an accused in a murder case escaped from the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital on August 10. Police sources said that special sub-inspector Govindaraj and head constable Thirunavukkarasu from the Race Course police station along with Armed Reserve constable Raja were placed under suspension for their alleged carelessness, which led to the escape of Hem Sagar Naik (30), a native of Balangir district in Odisha. The accused was arrested by the Palladam police in April in connection with the murder of his roommate.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||For fitness sake||
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||In the report “Painganadu villagers in T.N.’s Tiruvarur district are elated over Kamala Harris’ nomination” published in these columns on August 14, P.V Gopalan’s job description was wrongly mentioned. He worked in various Central Ministries. The error is regretted.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till August 14  No. of cases on Friday: 385 Persons tested +ve so far: 8.274 Active cases: 2,062 Persons recovered: 6,048 Deaths: 164    No. of cases on Friday: 53 Persons tested +ve so far: 1,431 Active cases: 459 Persons recovered: 932 Deaths: 40
15 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Maharashtra starts releasing water from Koyna dam||Maharashtra began releasing only a minimal amount of water from the Koyna dam on Friday afternoon. Officers opened three gates to release 2,100 cusecs of water to ease the burden on the dam that is now around 80 % full. Inflow into the dam stood at 62,083 cusecs (around five tmcft of standing water) on Friday evening. This is nearly thrice the inflow into the dam recorded on Wednesday. The outflow could increase three to five times, if the inflow stays above 60,000 cusecs. The dam has 80.4 tmcft of water as against a gross capacity of 105 tmcft of water. This follows a spell of heavy rain in Satara and surrounding areas on Thursday. This is the first time this year that Maharashtra has begun releasing water from the dam built over the Koyna, a tributary of the Krishna. Till now, that State has released water from the seven reservoirs on the Krishna and other riparian rivers in south Maharashtra. Release from Maharashtra stood at 94,000 cusecs on Friday. This is nearly thrice the release in the first week of August. Message conveyed Maharashtra irrigation officers conveyed to Karnataka irrigation officers the quantum of release on Friday morning. Irrigation officials in Belagavi estimate that the Koyna dam would be full if the same amount of rain continued through the week. Inflow into the Hidkal on the Ghataprabha increased to 15,112 cusecs as against an outflow of 5,000 cusecs. Hidkal dam is nearly 95 % full. If the inflow continues to be above 10,000 cusecs, the outflow could increase to around 10,000 cusecs in the next two-three days, the officials said. The average inflow into the Alamatti dam was around 99,800 cusecs, compared to 1.2 lakh cusecs on Thursday. But the outflow reached 1.32 lakh cusecs. The storage is 113.59 tmcft of water, officials said. Reduced rainfall in Belagavi and Khanapur ensured that the inflow into the Malaprabha and the Mahadayi were low, officers said. Inflow into the Navilu Teertha dam on the Malaprabha river was at a rate of 8,208 cusecs and the outflow has been steady at 1,264 cusecs. The dam now has 30 tmcft of water against the gross capacity of 37.73 tmcft. Officers were following the zero storage technique in the Hippargi dam where the inflow and outflow was 96,800 cusecs. The Markandeya dam had an average inflow of 2,195 cusecs and outflow stood at 2,276 cusecs.
15 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru biggest contributor to State’s 2.11 lakh COVID-19 tally||As Karnataka crossed the 2.11 lakh mark in the number of COVID-19 cases on Friday, Bengaluru continued to be a significant contributor with a total of over 84,000 cases. While Bengaluru Urban has 84,185 total positive cases, Bengaluru Rural has 3,264. Other districts with the highest number of total positives include Ballari (13,048), Mysuru (9,280), Kalaburagi (8,351), and Dakshina Kannada (8,373). The least number of cases have been reported in Kodagu district, which has 886 total positives. Bengaluru’s journey to the top spot was primarily buoyed by the massive increase in cases in July. According to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) war room data, areas under the civic body had added 32,106 cases between July 1 and July 31. In June, the BBMP areas had 4,904 cases. As on May 31, it had only 386 cases. But the BBMP has attributed the spike in cases to increased testing too, among other factors.As for deaths, Karnataka has 3,717 overall. Of these, 1,360 have been in Bengaluru Urban. Other districts with higher fatalities are Mysuru with 284 deaths, Dakshina Kannada with 254 deaths, and Dharwad with 222 deaths (as against 7,147 total positives). The least number of fatalities has been in Bengaluru Rural (10) and Kodagu (11). Corresponding to its high number of positives, Bengaluru Urban also has the highest number of active cases — 33,432. Ballari has 5,952 active cases, while Belagavi has 3,777, and Mysuru 3,166 active cases. Kodagu has the least at 298. As against a total of over 1.28 lakh recoveries, Bengaluru Urban has 49,392, while Ballari has 6,948.  Experts believe ramped up testing, apart from internal migration, are major factors for the present numbers. C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and nodal officer for labs and testing in Karnataka’s COVID-19 task force, told The Hindu , “During the lockdown and unlock, there was repeated internal migration from cities such as Bengaluru to other places and back, which resulted in repeated internal circulation owing to which the disease is spreading. There will be always two to four weeks’ time lag, which is the usual scenario in the rest of the country; first in metro cities and then spread to tier-2 and tier-3 cities.” He said vigorous testing had also helped in early detection and isolation.
15 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Arrest of councillor’s husband leads to another round of political slugfest||The police on Thursday night arrested Kaleem Pasha, husband of a Congress councillor, for his alleged role in the riots that broke out in D.J. Halli late on Tuesday night, resulting in three deaths in police firing. The latest arrest — one among 206 so far —has triggered another round of political slugfest involving the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Congress, and the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI). The Central Crime Branch (CCB) probing the riot cases arrested Mr. Pasha, husband of Irshad Begum, two-time Congress councillor from Nagawara. “He was in touch with the accused in the case during the riots and we suspect he was also part of those who instigated the violence,” said a senior police officer. On Friday, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the violence occurred owing to “internal differences” within the Congress and strained relationships between the Congress and the SDPI. “Political differences in Pulakeshinagar constituency and matters related to a previous election and the forthcoming BBMP election were involved in the violence. I have already said that we are investigating the SDPI’s role, along with the role of local councillors,” Mr. Bommai said. Soon after, MP for Bengaluru (Central) P.C. Mohan, referring to Mr. Pasha’s arrest, tweeted that skeletons were tumbling out of the Congress’ cupboard. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar tweeted that the incidents “had unmasked the violent face of Congress”. BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel said the SDPI had become emboldened because of the leniency shown by former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah by “withdrawing cases that were filed against them and closing investigations by filing B-reports”. Former Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president Dinesh Gundu Rao, who visited the area MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy at his house, which was set fire to by rioters, said the attack seemed part of a “conspiracy” that started with a derogatory post online. “Naveen, who posted the inflammatory message, has been posting communally provocative content for sometime now. It has to be probed whether the post was intentional and part of a conspiracy to trigger unrest,” he said. Several Congress leaders, including party president D.K. Shivakumar, have said that Naveen, now arrested, had Sangh Parivar links. Though Naveen is Mr. Murthy’s nephew, the familieswere estranged. K.J. George, MLA for Sarvagna Nagar (of which Nagawara ward is a part), acknowledged that Pasha, now arrested, was a local Congress leader. “We have unconditionally condemned the riots and are not protecting anyone. Let us not politicise it even as the police are carrying out the probe,” he told presspersons. Former Mayor Sampath Raj and MLA B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan have said that the BJP was only making insinuations by talking of an internal rift. Meanwhile, Ilyas Mohammed Tumbe, State president of SDPI, alleged that it was the BJP that was behind the D.J. Halli violence. “We have come to realise that the BJP is behind Naveen, whose social media posts triggered the riots. Pulakeshinagar constituency has a strong presence of Muslims and Dalits, which led to a thumping victory for the Congress. The BJP wants to break the unity of Muslims and Dalits and hence used a Dalit boy like Naveen to trigger the riots and blame the SDPI,” he alleged, demanding an inquiry by a sittingHigh Court judge.  Political differences in Pulakeshinagar and matters related to a previous election and the forthcoming BBMP election were involved in the violence Basavaraj Bommai,Home Minister   We [Congress] have condemned the riots and are not protecting anyone. Let us not politicise it even as the police are carrying out the probe K.J. George,MLA for Sarvagna Nagar
15 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||GP-level committees at work in 12 districts to help the flood-hit||Given the experience of last year’s floods, Karnataka has pressed into service gram panchayat-level flood management committees at 826 GPs in 12 flood-prone districts of the State to help those affected. The hope is that this will help those in distress as State this year too has been hit by rains. The committees have been given training for undertaking various rescue operations during floods under the supervision of the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA). Flood-vulnerable areas were mapped and teams constituted at the GP level in 12 vulnerable districts for swift response, Manoj Rajan, Commissioner, KSDMA, told The Hindu . Keeping COVID-19 also in consideration, a survey was conducted to identify vulnerable people such as the physically challenged, children, and the elderly to shift them to safer locations during floods. A total of 1,780 shelters have been identified in 12 districts for relocating people in case of floods, he said. A total of 826 GPs have been identified as flood-prone in Bagalkot (76), Belagavi (209), Chikkamagaluru (47), Dakshina Kannada (72), Hassan (24), Kodagu (104), Koppal (21), Mysuru (33), Raichur (32), Shivamogga (101), Udupi (36), and Uttara Kannada (71).  Tasks for committees Six committees have been formed in each GP and the committees have been assigned six tasks such as sending flood alerts through SMS and WhatsApp, evacuation of people, shifting them to shelters for temporary relocation, supply of food to people shifted to shelters, maintaining hygiene, and assessing distress and losses caused by floods. These committees have been coordinating with district- and taluk-level disaster management committees for establishing critical infrastructure, obtaining tools and equipment required to rescue people, and clearing fallen trees and uprooted electric poles on the roads, he said. The district, taluk and GP-level committees were being updated about the rain forecast periodically, Mr. Rajan added.
15 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||50% of beds reserved for COVID-19 patients are vacant||Although the number of COVID-19 positive cases is high, the city has adequate number of hospital beds. As of Thursday evening, around 50% of the total 5,802 beds in government hospitals, government medical colleges and those allocated by private private hospitals and private medical colleges for COVID-19 patients under government quota were vacant. The details were put up on the BBMP website. R. Ravindra, president of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said that although beds reserved for COVID-19 patients are available, some hospitals are facing a shortage of beds to treat other patients and even those who are suspected of contracting the virus. But Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds across most private hospitals have an occupancy of 90 to 95%, according to Dr. Ravindra. He added that private hospitals have asked the State government to pay them 25% of the daily charges if hospital beds under the government quota for COVID-19 patients are vacant. “These beds are locked. Although we do not have COVID-19 patients for these beds, we have been told they cannot be used for any other purpose. It is becoming hard for us to maintain our finances as we have hiked the salaries of nurses and doctors who are on COVID-19 duty,” he added. Many families are demanding that hospitals should ensure that non-COVID-19 patients don’t go through unnecessary hardship. “My uncle had kidney stones. We did not get a bed in a hospital in south Bengaluru. The management told us even though they had empty beds, they were reserved for COVID-19 patients. It is a distressing time for non-COVID-19 patients. We hope that the government will find a solution in the interest of patients,” said a 40-year-old software engineer. Only 19 % of the 2,721 beds in COVID-19 Care Centres managed by private hospitals are occupied. Doctors and medical experts point out that this is because many asymptomatic patients have chosen home isolation.
15 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Neev Literature Festival for children goes online||The Neev Literature Festival for children (NLF) will conduct its fourth edition online this year. Unlike previous editions, the duration of the festival is not restricted to two days. Instead, there will be activities and events conducted throughout the year on social media platforms. Focus on Partition  The theme of this year’s event is ‘Imaginary Lines’, and will primarily focus on the subject of Partition. “This is a topic not often discussed with children who generally only know of the incident as a chapter from their textbooks. It is important to understand the impact of Partition in a time like this when there is a lot of divisiveness in society,” said Kavita Gupta Sabharwal, co-founder and curator of the festival. “Lines divide, but they also connect. We thought it fitting that on Independence Day we start a dialogue on the significance of these lines. A random line drawn by Sir Cyril Radcliffe has had lasting ramifications on thousands of families and until about three years ago, there was no book which dwelt on the topic in a way children would relate to, with perhaps the exception of ‘Chachaji’s Cup’ by Uma Krishnaswami,” she said. Sessions  NLF 2020 will comprise two sessions on August 15. The first will deal with ‘Partition: Memory and Memorialisation’ with authors Kamla Bhasin and Mallika Ahluwalia and film-maker Santosh Sivan as panellists. Ms. Ahluwalia is also the co-founder of the Partition Museum in Amritsar. The second session, ‘Peripheries: Boundaries on the Edge, Boundaries Within,’ will have children’s author and social activist Rinchin, film-maker and author Kenny Basumatary, and storyteller and film-maker Aijaz Khan as the panellists. Author Siddhartha Sarma, who will be moderating both the sessions, explained why it is necessary to have a dialogue on Partition, “especially in the current times with young readers, so they know how things began and why they concern them today.” The event will be held from 4 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. on August 15. Interested participants can register on the Neev Literature Festival Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter pages.
15 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many contractors submitted fabricated documents to bag tenders: Mayor||Is there another scam brewing in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) in the execution of various infrastructure works? Mayor M. Goutham Kumar has alleged that many contractors have submitted fabricated documents to bag tenders for civic works and they were hand in glove with several BBMP officials. Mr. Kumar told reporters on Friday that he had written to the Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Urban Development, urging that such contractors be blacklisted. He claimed that apart from submitting fabricated documents, contractors had colluded with officials and raised bills for civic works that have not been executed. He urged the State government to conduct an inquiry into the alleged scam. Incidentally, the Mayor had raised this issue recently during the BBMP council meeting as well and found support from many councillors. At the time, he cited an alleged scam pertaining to road and drain works. Directing BBMPCommissioner N. Manjunath Prasad to look into the allegations, the Mayor had urged him to initiate stringent disciplinary action against any official found to be involved, apart from blacklisting contractors. Report sought  Mr. Prasad said he has directed senior officials to submit a report and identify contractors who had submitted fabricated documents. “Engineers and other officials involved will also be identified. Both officials and contractors have cheated the government. We will book criminal cases against them,” he said. About work orders already issued to contractors who had submitted fabricated documents, the Commissioner said there was a provision in the work order to cancel the same if it is established that the documents are fake. “After cancelling the work order, we will blacklist such contractors,” he added.
15 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||In police complaint, MLA claims losses to the tune of Rs. 3 crore||MLA for Pulakeshinagar R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy lodged a complaint about the attack on his house at D.J. Halli police station on Friday. The complaint, while not naming any suspects, has claimed damages to the tune of Rs. 3 crore. Mr. Murthy also sought police protection for himself, his family, and the citizens of his constituency. “There is nothing left in the house to call it home. It has to be demolished,” he said, alleging a conspiracy behind the attack. He said he had not named any suspects as he was also at a loss on the matter. “Muslims, Christians, and Hindus have been living in harmony in this area for decades. I think my voters would not have done this,” he said, hinting at outsider involvement. Meanwhile, the city police arrested 60 more people on Thursday and Friday, taking the total number of arrests in the matter to 206. The police have been working with tower locations and call detail records to map out who were present at the sites of violence and who they had been touch with during the riots. More arrests are expected, senior police officers said. The father of Farhan, one of the accused, passed away after suffering a massive cardiac arrest on Friday. The accused was released and allowed to participate in the last rites, sources said. Some of the undertrials have been shifted to Ballari prison. The police are also cracking down on drug peddlers in D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli. “Many of the youngsters who were rioting that night were intoxicated and were in no state of mind to listen to any reason, which was also why it became tough to control the mob,” said a senior officer. A senior community leader, who unsuccessfully tried pacifying the mob that fateful night, also told The Hindu that ganja was being circulated. Netra Narayan, JD(S) councillor from Kaval Byrasandra, told presspersons that the drug menace had gone out of hand in these areas with youngsters, mostly unemployed, being addicted to ganja.
15 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No public installation, immersion of Ganesha idols||The government on Friday issued an order prohibiting installation and worship of Ganesha idols in public places and advised people to celebrate Ganesha Chaturti festival within homes. In the order, Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar said Ganesha idols can be kept athomes but should be immersed within premises of the residence itself.“Ganesha idols should not be immersed in public lakes, rivers, wells, or kalyanis. There should not be any kind of public procession,” the order stated. Temples have been directed to follow norms such as ensuring social distancing, and regular sanitisation.
15 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||President’s Medal for six Fire and Emergency Services personnel||As many as six personnel from the Karnataka State Fire and Emergency Services have been awarded the President’s Fire Service Medals for their meritorious services, on the occasion of the Independence Day. According to a press note, the award recipients are M.G. Vijay Kumar, Regional Fire Officer, Fire and Emergency Services, Workshop, Bengaluru; N. Narasimhamurthy, Regional Fire Officer, Fire Prevention 1, Head Office; Doddaiah, District Fire Officer, Head Office; K.M. Rangaswamy, Fire Station Officer, R.A. Mundkur Fire and Emergency Service Academy, Bengaluru; Chandrakanth, Assistant Fire Station Officer, Vijayapur Fire Station, and S. Krishnappa, Fireman - 10, Bantwal Fire Station.
15 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Applications invited for awards||The Department of Agriculture, government of Karnataka, has invited applications for the Krishi Pandit and crop competition awards for 2020–21. According to an official press release, farmers can obtain details regarding the crop competition, application, and eligibility from the nearest Agriculture Department office or Raitha Samparka Kendra. The last date for submitting applications is September 15, 2020.
15 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||7,908 new cases, 104 deaths on Friday||The number of new COVID-19 cases in Karnataka continued to scale new heights with as many as 7,908 cases being reported on Friday, along with 104 new deaths. Of the new cases, 2,452 were reported in Bengaluru Urban, 608 cases in Ballari, 413 in Shivamogga, 351 in Davangere, and 334 in Belagavi, according to the Department of Health and Family Welfare’s media bulletin. There were 22 new deaths in Bengaluru Urban, 10 in Mysuru, nine in Ballari, and eight in Dharwad. Deaths were also reported in Shivamogga, Davangere, Belagavi, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Kalaburagi, Raichur, Gadag, Tumakuru, Mandya, Koppal, Hassan, Vijayapura, Haveri, Chikkamagaluru, Bidar, Uttara Kannada, and Chamarajanagar.As many as 6,940 people were discharged, taking the numbers up to 1.28 lakh. The number of patients in ICU is 747. The total number of active cases in the State is now 79,201, total deaths 3,717, and total positives 2.11 lakh. Eight COVID-19 patients have died owing to other reasons.
15 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Highlight Modi’s work in fighting pandemic: Nadda||The ‘bold and timely decisions’ taken by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi to protect 130 crore population from COVID-19 pandemic should be part of any political discussion of the BJP workers, BJP national president J.P. Nadda said on Friday. “Mr. Modi showed how to fight and protect the country. In contrast, Western nations were confused. Lockdown time was used to create infrastructure. It is necessary to tell people the statistics,” he said in his address to BJP workers during the virtual foundation stone laying ceremony for BJP offices in eight districts and one taluk centre across Karnataka. “The Prime Minister has not only addressed health issues, but also economic and social ones,” he said. He appreciated the B.S. Yediyurappa-led BJP government in State for all pandemic-related efforts, said that this was the only government to have provided financial support to flower-growers, drivers and weavers among others, at this time.
15 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Allow people to submit views on PRR online as well’||The Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) will hold a public consultation for the Peripheral Ring Road (PRR) project on August 18. Citizens groups and environmental activists are up in arms against the project, which, according to the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA), will impact more than 33,000 trees. In the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic, several organisations have demanded that the BDA postpone the consultation. Others have suggested that the development authority convene multiple meetings to reduce crowds, and receive suggestions and objections online as well. The Bengaluru Urban DC and the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board will be part of the public consultation, which will be held at Nityotsava convention hall on Doddaballapur Road in Yelahanka taluk. The consultation will start at 11 a.m.
15 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC questions mandatory registration||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the State government to explain how it can make mandatory for people entering Karnataka from other States to register on the Seva Sindhu portal when the Union government has removed earlier restrictions on inter-State travel and requirement of e-pass for such movement. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition by M. Indira Priyadarshini, a city-based advocate. The Centre, the bench observed, has not empowered the State governments to modify the guideline on inter-State movement. The petitioner has questioned the legality of requirement of e-pass by registering online through the portal while pointing out that such restrictions have adversely affected the people working in organised sectors in and around Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border.
15 August 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Woman accuses official of misbehaving with her||A woman officer of the Women and Child Development Department has filed a complaint against a senior colleague accusing him of assaulting her with intent to outrage her modesty. K.G. Deepak, Deputy Director (in-charge) of Women and Child Development in Hassan, is the accused. At a press conference here on Friday, the complainant said the accused often misbehaved with her and she avoided filing a complaint fearing it would attract the attention of the public. “Once he even tried to pull me. On July 18, he called about 50 times between 10.30 p.m. and midnight. Considering all these incidents, I have filed the complaint,” she said. The complainant also claimed that the officer often threatened her with dire consequences if she refused to listen to him.
15 August 2020||Hassan/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Flag’ furore: man held in Sringeri||The Sringeri police have arrested 28-year-old Milind, a native of Bylugadde near Sringeri, in connection with the case over the placing of a cloth resembling the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) flag on the canopy of the Shankaracharya statue at Veerappa Gowda Circle in the town. According to the police, the accused has admitted to have committed the act under the influence of alcohol. Akshay M. Hakay, Superintendent of Police, Chikkamagaluru,said at a press meet on Friday that Milind did not belong to any political party or organisation. “It was found that the act was not premeditated,” he said. The accused was arrested for instances of theft in 2012 and 2017. The SP formed a team of officials after the incident came to light on Thursday morning. The officials verified CCTV footage from various parts of the town and traced the accused. They got to know that banners, put up last year during Id, were missing from a mosque. CCTV footage showed the accused going inside the mosque around 10.30 p.m. on Wednesday. “During interrogation, he admitted that he took the banner touse it as a blanket as it was raining heavily that night. As he realised that the banner was special and had religious significance, he chose to place it at another place of religious significance. He said he was not aware of what he was doing. The next day, he got admitted to a hospital for giddiness. Based on the video footage, we traced him and arrested him,” the officer said. The residents of Sringeri and devotees of Shankaracharya were agitated on Thursday after noticing the cloth on the canopy of the statue. Former Minister D.N. Jeevaraj took the name of a Congress member of Sringeri Town Panchayat, accusing him of being involved in the act. The BJP unit accused the SDPI in the incident and demanded that the organisation be banned. BJP spokesman Ganesh Karnik said that some anti-social elements in the minority community were itching for a communal flare-up. ‘Conspiracy’ The SDPI has condemned the BJP for jumping the gun and blaming it for the incident. “Mr. Jeevaraj was openly seen asking the police to arrest SDPI activists over the incident.Two Muslim youths were held and produced before the magistrate. This activist arrested now is known to be close to Mr. Jeevaraj. This is a conspiracy to create communal unrest, blame the SDPI to create an enemy for the Hindus, foment insecurity and consolidate a votebank,” alleged Ilyas Mohammed Tumbe, State president of SDPI. BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel said, “Culprits involved in the act of sacrilege must be brought to book irrespective of their caste, community, and religion.”
15 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Nearly 20 lakh jobs will be created in the next five years, says Jagadish Shettar||Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar has said that through the new industrial policy it had been planned to generate employment for nearly 20 lakh people in the next five years. Chairing a review meeting of the Department of Industries and Commerce at the Gadag Zilladalita Bhavan on Friday, Mr. Shettar said that through the new policy, efforts had been made to create an industry-friendly scenario across the State and the recent amendment to the Land Reforms Act would further boost industrial development. Mr. Shettar said that there was ample scope for industrial development in Gadag district and there was a need for the officials to make focussed efforts to boost industrial development. The Minister said that 147 industrial plots had been developed in an area of 165.75 acres in Narasapur Industrial Estate and all of them had already been allotted to industrialists. Of them, already, 74 industries had been set up and others were in the process of being set up. Further considering the demand, it had been planned to develop 214 acres for industries, he said. Emphasising the need for creating conducive atmosphere for industries, the Minister said that any technical problems should be resolved through administrative channels. Special Investment Region Mr. Shettar said that Gadag, Haveri, Dharwad and Belagavi districts had been identified as Special Investment Region, special development works would be taken up in these districts. “The Bengaluru Mumbai Industrial Corridor would also further boost special industrial development,” he said.  Minister for Mines and Geology and district-in-charge C.C. Patil emphasised the need for upgradation and development of textile-based industries in Gadag district and asked the officials to work towards achieving this. Chairman of Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development and Finance Corporation Kalakappa Bandi asked the officials to develop basic infrastructure and amenities in industrial estates. MLAs Ramanna Lamani, H.K. Patil, Deputy Commissioner M. Sundaresh Babu and others were present.
15 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Gnyana Sudha Vidyalaya students shine||The Gnyana Sudha Vidyalaya in Bidar has achieved 98.18 % passes in the SSLC exam. Of the 55 students, five secured distinction and 49 students scored First Class. Vijaykumar S. Kankatte topped the school by securing 94.08 %, while Veeresh and Sangappa secured second and third positions by scoring 88.96 % and 88.48 %, respectively. Vijaykumar Kankatte and Vidyashree secured 125 marks and Vivekanand and Vishal scored 124 marks out of 125 marks in the English language. Vijaykumar scored a 100 in Kannada.
15 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Stones thrown at building||Stones were thrown at Maulana Azad Minorities Bhavan here causing damage to three window panes on the first floor in the early hours of Friday. The Bhavan houses the offices of the Department of Minority Welfare, the Karnataka Minority Development Corporation and the Backward Classes Development Corporation. This Bhavan is about 500 m away from the office of the Police Commissioner. According to a complaint filed by Farooq from the Minority Development Corporation, a few stones and glass pieces were found strewn on the first floor. The Mangaluru South Police rushed to the spot and checked the footage from the CCTV cameras in the building. They also checked footage from the various CCTV cameras in the area. The police found two persons throwing stones at the building at around 12.30 a.m. and running away from the scene. Efforts are being made to trace them, the police said.
15 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||2,677 electricity poles damaged in Kodagu||Apart from the loss of life and destruction of houses and crops, the heavy rains that lashed Kodagu in the first week of August had taken a heavy toll on the power supply infrastructure by damaging as many as 2,677 electricity poles. The rains and strong winds had caused widespread damage leading to disruption in electricity supply in many parts of the district. A total of 2,677 electricity poles, 25,650 metres of electricity lines and 75 transformers in the district were damaged, according to an assessment carried out by Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Company (CESC) officials. The total damage to electricity infrastructure alone is estimated to be Rs. 3.05 crore. While 722 electricity poles, 10,700 metres of electricity lines and 24 transformers were damaged in Madikeri, accounting for a loss Rs. 88.83 lakh, a total of 794 electricity poles, 5,500 metres of electricity lines and 22 transformers had been damaged in Somwarpet taluk, accounting for a loss of Rs. 89.91 lakh. In Virajpet taluk, a total of 1,161 electricity poles had been damaged while 9,450 metres of electricity lines and 29 transformers had been affected, causing a loss of Rs. 126.07 lakh. The CESC officials have taken up repairs by deploying additional workers and vehicles. In addition to the 385 permanent employees in Kodagu circle, a total of 200 personnel from neighbouring Mysuru circle and from private contractors have been roped in to carry out the works. In addition to the six lorries and five jeeps of the department, 15 pick-up jeeps, five lorries and two cranes too have been deployed.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||When Bengaluru shouted ‘Quit India’||Mysore Bank Square, August 17, 1942. For the ninth consecutive day, thousands of Bengalureans came out to protest peacefully in response to Gandhiji’s Quit India call. People surged and flowed along Avenue Road and slogans suffused with hope and anger rented the air: “Quit India!”, “Inquilab Zindabad!” But that Monday, some protesters set fire to a post office at Aralepete; others broke into a police station and tried to attack the post office at Chickpet. When the police issued warnings, defiant protesters barricaded the road with carts and boulders and then hurled soda bottles at the policemen, while others threw stones from their rooftops. The police opened fire, six people died and more than 30 were injured. Bengaluru has a long history of revolts and expressions of resentment against the British. Even in 1800, people were arrested for singing songs against the British and in praise of Tipu Sultan. Attempted mutiny Twenty-five years before the First War of Independence swept through India, there was an attempted mutiny in Bengaluru by soldiers who dreamt of overthrowing the British here and then inciting mutiny all over India; their plan was thwarted by a snitch. From the late 1800s, like the rest of the country, Bengaluru too was gripped with nationalistic fervour. This was fanned by the activities of organisations such as the Vokkaligara Sangha, established in 1906, which did much to raise awareness and education in the community, and the Theosophical Society, which established a branch here in 1886. A big stimulus to the still-nascent freedom movement was the return of Mahatma Gandhi from South Africa in January 1915. His first visit to Bengaluru was in May 1915. His second visit in 1920 ushered in a movement for spinning khadi. Khadi sales were frequently held, as were other gatherings — to celebrate Gandhiji’s ending a fast, to mourn the passing of C.R. Das, or protest against a water tax. Such meetings usually began with Gandhians speaking about non-cooperation, Hindu-Muslim unity, against untouchability, and against alcohol. Hundreds attended these gatherings which were held in the so-called Gandhi Maidan opposite Minto Hospital, Doddanna Hall, which was opposite Bengaluru Fort, and sometimes, even Tipu Palace. Many such meetings had an attendee whose job was to report on them to the Mysore administration: one such report by a spy in 1925 records the speeches made and then dutifully notes that khadi worth Re. 1 and 2 annas was sold. Except for when he was here to recuperate from illness, Gandhiji’s visits had him criss-crossing the city, holding meetings at Mahila Seva Samaja, the RBANMs school and grounds, a home on Lalbagh Road, a shop at Commercial Street, and so on. Thousands thronged to listen to him speak passionately about non-violence and the evils of untouchability. A meeting in a house on Victoria Road, for example, drew 2,000 people, at National High School, 25,000 people. Many people who attended these meetings donated generously to the cause, sometimes even giving away their jewellery. But not everyone was so moved: some people held meetings where they denounced Gandhiji’s anti-caste stand as “subversive of Hindu dharma”. The 1920s and 1930s also saw frequent student rallies, boycott of classes, and picketing of shops selling foreign cloth. In that pre-WhatsApp and social media era, when even telephones were uncommon, how did organisers get the word out about upcoming meetings? Enter the cheap flyer. Hundreds of these indispensable handbills were churned out at several small presses around the city and were then distributed door to door, in markets, and stuck on strategic lamp posts. Turning point A turning point in the freedom struggle in Bengaluru came in 1937 when K.F. Nariman, president of the Bombay Congress Committee, was invited to speak here. The Mysore government had banned him from addressing gatherings because of his earlier “incendiary” speeches. On October 24, at Banappa Park, as soon as Nariman came on to the stage to address a crowd comprising mainly students, he was arrested. The next day, when students gathered to protest his arrest, police opened fire on the unarmed protesters. One person was killed and 73 people were injured that day. Little-known memorials at Banappa Park and at Mysore Bank Circle commemorate some of those who died in the 1937 and 1942 incidents.  (Meera Iyer is the author of ‘Discovering Bengaluru’ and the convenor of INTACH Bengaluru Chapter)
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP launches website to rope in volunteers||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), with the help of a few community organisations, launched ‘Bengaluru Local COVID-19 Awareness, Response and Emergency Sahaya’ (BL-CARES) website on Thursday. The website will support the civic body in mobilising and training volunteers at the booth and ward committee levels. Through the website, citizens can sign up to volunteer. Volunteers first need to fill a form regarding how they would like to volunteer, either online or on field, days and hours available for volunteering work, among other things. Household survey, data entry and calling citizens are among the volunteering work options available. The civic body has assigned sector officers across booths to help and coordinate the activities of the volunteers who register through the website. Naavu Bharatheeyaru, Citizens for Bengaluru, Hasiru Dala, Janaagraha and Sensing Local Foundation are among the organisations that will assist the BBMP in this endeavour. Srinivas Alavilli, head, Civic Participation at Janaagraha, said that citizen participation was a key to success in local governance. With this initiative, there would be a formal mechanism for everyone to engage at the hyper-local level. “People power will strengthen efforts in eliminating avoidable suffering due to COVID-19. Booth level volunteers can help manage this situation street by street, by working with community leaders and empowering them with information, tools and resources,” he said. To register, visithttps://blcares.in/#/
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State to add 10 lakh rapid antigen detection tests||The State government is adding 10 lakh rapid antigen detection tests as well as around 18 lakh RT PCR tests to ramp up testing in the State in the coming days. The State’s COVID-19 Task Force met on Friday and decided to procure more tests. C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, and nodal officer for labs and testing in the task force, said previously 15 lakh rapid antigen tests had been procured. “The number of tests have been ramped up now. On Thursday, nearly 56,000 tests were conducted. The idea is to conduct 60,000 to 75,000 tests a day. The government is looking at ordering enough tests to last another 40 days, but, based on the requirement, more may be ordered,” he added. The number of tests has been between 20,000 and 49,000 per day since August 1. To counter the dip in numbers during the weekend, the government is planning to stagger the fumigation process for labs. As on Friday, 19,38,954 tests had been conducted overall. The number of rapid antigen tests were 4,64,286 while RT PCR and others were 14,74,668.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||If doctors turn away non-COVID-19 patients, call KMC helpline||The Karnataka Medical Council (KMC) on Friday told the Karnataka High Court that people can call its helpline if any medical practitioner or any private hospital refuses to render their services to non-COVID-19 patients, who have other health problems. The KMC had issued a circular on August 6 directing medical practitioners not to close hospitals or clinics and to examine non-COVID-19 patients suffering from other health ailments and to render necessary treatment to such patients. The circular has been submitted to a division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi during the hearing of a PIL petition filed by L. Ramesh Naik, a Tumakuru-based advocate. “If any medical practitioner fails to render service to a non-COVID-19 patient, the KMC will have to invoke Sections 2.1 and 5.2 of the Code of Medical Ethics, 2002, and such practitioner is liable for penal action,” the KMC had stated in the circular. People can contact the KMC’s helpline (9916302328 or 080-22200888). The KMC had issued the circular after the court, during an earlier hearing of the petition, questioned the action taken to address grievances of the general public about medical practitioners either have closed their clinics or declining to treat non-COVID-19 patients in the guise of the pandemic. The KMC, which claimed that it had not received any complaint about doctors not treating non-COVID-19 patients, had assured the court that it would set up a helpline for the public to complain about such instances. Taking note of the circular, the bench disposed of the petition as the KMC’s circular has the effect of redressing the petitioner’s grievances.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||RWAs asked to identify people with ILI, SARI||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) wants Residents’ Welfare Associations to undertake the task of carrying out door-to-door surveys to identify people with Influenza Like Illness (ILI), Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and other co-morbidities and submit the details to the civic body. Civic chief N. Manjunath Prasad and Mayor M. Goutham Kumar met members of several RWAs and apartment owners’ associations to urge them to cooperate with the BBMP. Mr. Prasad said that the BBMP had written to the State government with regard to a change in containment zone guidelines. In case of positive cases in apartments or individual homes, just a poster on the door would suffice, and neighbours should be sensitised. Barricading may, however, continue in clusters where the number of cases is high. “The government may issue a circular in a couple of days,” he said.
15 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||113 fresh cases in Alappuzha||In yet another spike, the district logged 113 COVID-19 cases on Friday. Of the fresh cases, 99 contracted the disease through local transmission. Thirteen people who came from other States and one from abroad also tested positive for SARS-COV-2. Kadakarapally, Thumpoly, Chettikkad and Kayamkulam municipality, all four large COVID- 19 clusters, reported more cases. Among the locally transmitted cases, 39 were reported from Kadakarapally, while Thumpoly and Cherthala recorded 14 cases each. Five cases each were reported from Chettikkad and Pattanakkad. Kayamkulam registered two cases on Friday. Recovery Meanwhile, 66 people including 55 who had contracted the disease through contact tested negative. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 1,281. Containment zone Wards 10 and 16 in Chennam Pallippuram, ward 20 in Aroor, ward 11 in Thrikkunnapuzha, and ward 2 in Amabalappuzha South grama panchayat, were declared as containment zones.
15 August 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Pet dog leads rescuers to child’s body||Dhanushka’s pet dog Kuvi helped recover the two-year-old’s body from a river nearly four km from the landslip-hit estate lanes of Pettimudy on Friday. A series of landslips had hit the Nayamakkad tea estate at Pettimudy, near Rajamala, in Idukki district last Thursday. Four layams (workers’ quarters) were buried under debris as a hill nearly 3 km away from the housing lines slid down. Dhanushka was the youngest daughter of Pratheeshkumar, whose body was recovered a few days ago. His wife, Kasturi, and elder daughter, Priyadarshini, are missing. The only surviving member of the family was her grandmother who identified the body and recognised Kuvi as their pet dog. For the past several days, Kuvi was found wandering in the area and had accompanied the search team. When the body of the child was found in the river, it continuously barked alerting search workers. With the recovery of Dhanushka’s body, the toll in the Pettimudy landslip rose to 56 on Friday. Officials say 14 persons are still missing in the landslip and the search operation will continue.
15 August 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Farmers to switch to online marketing||The Brahmagiri Development Society (BDS), a farmer initiative in the district, is gearing up to launch Farmers’ Trade Market (FTM), a project to link farmers with the online market. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac will inaugurate the electronic marketing and digital outlet network of the FTM on Saturday at 2 p.m. through video conferencing. Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunilkumar will release the logo of the FTM on the occasion. The FTM aims at online trade of value added agricultural products through electronic marketing platform and the profit from the project would be returned to farmers, P. Krishnaprasad, chairman, BDS, said. The first phase of the project would be launched in Wayanad. The farmers’ own online marketing network will be enabled through the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) of BDS, Mr.Krishnaprasad said. The products of Malabar Meat, Wayanad Coffee and agro-chemical products would be made available online for customers through the 14 selected outlets in the district initially by home delivery and later through 30 outlets, he said. In the second phase which would start by the end of November, all kinds of food items including fish, milk, lentils, vegetables would be made available online which would be catered to consumers by home delivery through the nearest outlet in Malabar. In the third phase, which is expected to unfold on March 1, 2021, the entire State would be brought under the ambit of the FTM supply network, Mr Krishnaprasad said. With this initiative, the farmers would be able to collectively own modern food industrial units and the market,” he said.
15 August 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Carcass of man-eater found||A tiger, aged around 12 years, believed to be the man-eater that triggered panic in areas near Pulpally, was found dead at Velukolly area in South Wayanad forest division on Friday evening. The animal had killed a youth at Basavankolly on June 17. The big cat attacked two forest officials recently while they were trying to chase it away from a human habitation near Pulpally. The forest department had set up a cage to trap the animal, South Wayanad Forest Divisional Officer P. Ranjith Kumar said. The carcass was found during a combing operation for the tiger. The animal had serious wounds on its body and it might have suffered them in a territorial fight with another tiger, Mr. Ranjith Kumar said. The animal, named TR-80 by the department, had reached the forest division from adjacent Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary, Vijay Anandan, Chief Conservator of Forests, Wildlife, Palakkad, said.
15 August 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Murder: youth remanded in judicial custody||The Kasaragod Second Class Judicial Magistrate Court on Friday remanded Albin, who is accused of murdering his sister by administering lethal poison, in judicial custody in the Kanhangad subjail till August 27. The 22-year-old youth, from Balal in Kasaragod, allegedly murdered his 16-year-old sister Ann Marry by adding rat poison in ice cream. She died on August 5. His father Benny is also in critical condition after consuming the ice cream. He confessed to the police that he had planned the murder after searching the internet. He had planned to murder his entire family. However, his initial attempts failed when he mixed rat poison in chicken curry. Second attempt His plans succeeded in the second attempt when he mixed poison in ice cream prepared at home on July 31. A day after consuming it, his sister fell severely ill and started vomiting and suffered from diarrhoea. She later died at a hospital. Although poisonous substance was found in the bodies of others in the family, no toxins were found in Albin’s body, which raised doubts and he was arrested. The police said Albin was in a relationship with a woman and his family was opposed to it. Besides, he wanted to live a comfortable life and considered his family members an obstacle.
15 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC raps Kochi Corporation over canal desilting claims||The Kochi Corporation has come under severe criticism from the Kerala High Court over the desilting of the Thevara-Perandoor canal and pollution abatement measures at its slaughterhouse at Kaloor. The court also expressed its displeasure at the flood management system in Mullassery canal. Regarding the Mullassery canal project, Advocate General C.P. Sudhakara Prasad submitted that the District Collector and the team behind the Operation Breakthrough project were certain that if the restoration of the canal was not carried out to make water flow from east to west and the 12 link canals from Atlantis to Vaduthala, Punchathodu, and Kareethodu were not immediately restored, flooding could not be ruled out in the future. He submitted that the court might order to reserve Rs. 5 crore for completing the projects within 50 days. The court impleaded the mission director, State Mission Management Unit of AMRUT projects, as an additional respondent in the case and directed him to file a statement on whether Rs. 5 crore could be reserved for the work. The court came down on the civic body for its casual approach to the directive to inform the court of the pollution abatement measures taken by it at the slaughterhouse at Kaloor. The State Pollution Control Board too submitted that the corporation had not filed any response. The court gave the civic body a final chance to file a statement on the slaughterhouse and measures taken to mitigate pollution. On the direction of the court to specify the quantity of silt removed from the Thevara-Perandoor canal and the money expended for the work, the corporation submitted that an an area of 1,79,825.488m3 had been excavated. However, the quantity disposed of was shown as only 54,129.92 m3. The petitioner in the case submitted that the corporation’s stand that the canal had been desilted was without any factual basis, and that the work was carried out partially. The court directed the Corporation Secretary to file an affidavit by August 21.
15 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam records 114 cases||A total of 114 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday, with 110 acquiring the infection through contact. Two persons from Fort Kochi and 12 from Mattancherry, including four children below the age of 10, have been infected. Six persons from Chellanam have tested positive. Ten persons from Nellikuzhi and 10 from Ayavana near Muvattupuzha, have also tested positive. A 67-year-old at Karunalayam, a home for the elderly and convent in Thrikkakara, has tested positive. A 29-year-old working at a private hospital at Kalamassery has been infected, besides a 55-year-old construction worker from West Bengal. Other positive cases were reported from Vengola, Perumbavoor, Vennala, Thammanam, Kadamakudy, Kavalangad, Kuttampuzha, Koothattukulam, Kothamangalam,Chengamanad, Eloor, Edathala, and North Paravur. Eight persons admitted at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, remain in critical condition. In the eight first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) in the district, 660 people are being treated.
15 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Pandemic spread keeps cops on the edge||As many as 28 police personnel at the Vazhakkulam station within the Muvattupuzha sub-division of the Ernakulam Rural police have been sent into quarantine, further driving home the danger of exposing the entire workforce to the pandemic simultaneously. A writer at the station was initially tested positive in the antibody test, and a subsequent test of his swab samples confirmed that he was infected. This sent all, except four of his colleagues who were on airport duty, into quarantine. The station is now being run by 10 men deployed from a special unit at Aluva. The State Police Chief had directed to follow a rotational work arrangement, whereby 50% of the strength of every station was kept as reserve at any given time. District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik had issued a circular on July 13, directing the enforcement of this arrangement. According to the circular, 50% of the workforce was to do continuous duty for a week and was to be replaced by the other half after a week. However, the arrangement was dropped abruptly. “Every department is working in full swing in the fight against the pandemic, and the police could not be any exception. The force is getting stretched with their ever-increasing responsibilities. These are extraordinary times, and it was near impossible to do with half the workforce,” said Mr. Karthik. A Kerala Police Association office-bearer said at least one-third of the staff in every station could have been kept on reserve. This could have averted a situation like the one at Vazhakkulam. However, Mr. Karthik said even then the functioning of the station was not disrupted, as replacements were provided.
15 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fishing harbours set to begin operations||Fishing harbours in the district are likely to open up soon under strict regulations. Instead of the blanket restrictions that have been in place in all 28 divisions of West Kochi for nearly two weeks now, containment zones or micro containment zones will be put in place after assessing the situation in each division. The decisions were taken at an online meeting convened by V.S. Sunil Kumar, Minister for Agriculture, with representatives of the Department of Fisheries and police, health officials and people’s representatives, on Saturday. The Chellanam harbour will be allowed to function from Monday after it is disinfected. Only workers from within the district, even from containment zones, will be allowed to work from the harbour. Other harbours in the district will begin functioning soon after they are disinfected. Maintenance work on fishing boats at the Chellanam and Thoppumpady harbours will resume. The situation in West Kochi continues to remain grave and strict vigil was necessary to contain the spread of the disease, the Minister said.
15 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Swapna held talks with Sivasankar in UAE||Swapna Suresh, one of the key accused in the diplomatic gold smuggling case, held discussions with M. Sivasankar, the former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, in the UAE when the State machinery was there seeking assistance for flood relief operations, according to the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The agency revealed these details while seeking the extension of the custody of the accused on Friday. Mr. Sivasankar was in the UAE from October 17, 2018 to October 21 for discussions. Swapna had considerable influence in the office of the Chief Minister. Mr. Sivasankar was aware of the dubious integrity of the accused. The ED said the officer had to be interrogated further following Swapna’s revelations of her close links with the official. The revelations require more questioning of Swapna and other two accused, it said.
15 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Banks told to comply with protocol||The Ernakulam Rural police have directed banks to strictly comply with the COVID-19 protocol. At a video conference on Friday, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik asked bankers to adhere to the protocol to avert rush. Only those who cannot avoid visiting banks for transactions alone should be allowed inside, and in such cases, banks should fix appointments in advance and make arrangements accordingly. Sanitisers should be made available at banks, and the COVID-19 protocol should be exhibited in Malayalam and English and, if possible, in Hindi as well.
15 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Work on metro stretch wins Centre’s praise||The efforts made by the Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) team to adhere to timelines while launching girders on the Pettah-SN Junction stretch, despite challenges thrown up by the COVID-19 crisis, have won applause from the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA). MoHUA Secretary Durga Sanker Mishra acknowledged the efforts by the metro team to launch pre-cast pier caps and girders on Thursday. “Heartiest congratulations to the metro’s Kochi team. I am sure you will continue working with [the] same grit and determination to get the metro rail [stretch] operational in time to bring ease in living to citizens,” he said. KMRL began work on the 1.50-km stretch in October 2019 and has fixed October 2021 as the deadline to complete the work. The work has regained speed, after a lull caused by inadequate availability of workers due to the pandemic, KMRL sources said. This is the first metro stretch that the agency is constructing on its own. KMRL managing director Alkesh Kumar Sarma said work resumed in the corridor on April 21. “Despite challenges, we were able to retain the labour force. We are planning to complete the construction in a time-bound manner,” he added. The Phase-I extension of the Kochi metro consists of two stretches. The first from Petta to SN Junction also includes two stations—Vadakkekotta and SN Junction—and a two-lane bridge parallel to the Panamkutty Bridge. The second stretch proposed from SN Junction to Thripunithura has one station—the Thripunithura terminal.
15 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Collector told to take custody of church||The Kottayam District Collector should keep the St. Marthasmooni Church, Thiruvarppu, and its premises under lock and key and shall not allow others to use the church or its premises, the Kerala High Court ordered on Friday. A single judge of the court issued the order on a petition moved by Fr. A.V. Varghese of Meenadam, Kottayam. The Collector shall inform the court when the church and its premises could be handed over to the petitioner, the court said. The petitioner submitted that despite an interim order passed by the court, he was unable to function as its vicar. A civil court had earlier passed a detailed order in the case after acknowledging the right of the petitioner. An appeal filed by the respondents in the case was also dismissed, the order pointed out. Affidavit The Kottayam Collector, in an affidavit filed before the civil court, had submitted that nothing was mentioned in its order about the manner in which the church had to be opened if it was in a locked stage. The official had also sought a directive from the civil court about the manner in which the court order had to be implemented. He had also submitted that the church faction, which was holding its control, was not ready to hand over the key to the plaintiff. A law and order situation was prevailing in the region and cases had been registered, the Collector submitted. The High Court also directed the Collector to initiate necessary steps within one week.
15 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Petition to probe air crash||A petition was filed at the Kerala High Court seeking a judicial probe into the recent air crash at Karipur airport. The petitioner, Yeshwanth Shenoy, has also sought a probe by a former judge of the Supreme Court or High Court. A CBI probe should be ordered into the criminality of the accident, he submitted.
15 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Chargesheet filed in Uthra murder case||The Kollam Crime Branch (Rural police) filed a 1,000-page chargesheet in the Uthra murder case before the Punalur Chief Judicial Magistrate Court here on Friday. Sooraj, Uthra’s husband and prime accused in the case, has been charged under various Sections of the Indian Penal Code for murder, attempt to murder and destruction of evidence. A rare and first in the history of Kerala, scientific and circumstantial evidence bear considerable significance in the case. While Deputy Superintendent of Police A. Ashokan led the investigation, G. Mohanraj has been appointed special prosecutor for the case. The investigating team had recreated the incident to ascertain that the snakebite was induced and not natural. The fang width in natural cases will be different from induced bites, a procedure usually followed by snake milkers for extracting the venom. “Though there is no eyewitness, approver and scientific evidence in the chargesheet will fortify the allegation,” said Mr. Mohanraj. According to experts who conducted the post mortem of the snake, the DNA of the same venomous reptile was found in the jar that Sooraj had used to keep the snake. Since its outer skin, scales, fangs and hood were found intact, it was easy for the team to infer the reptile was a cobra. Later, the DNA match turned out be another crucial piece of evidence. Uthra’s body was found on May 7 at her home at Anchal and her parents had alleged foul play in the death of the 25-year-old. She had died due to snakebite and her family filed a case with the District Police Chief (Kollam Rural) alleging her husband Sooraj and his family planned the crime. At the time of her death, she was recuperating after a similar incident in which she had sustained a snakebite on March 2 at her husband’s home in Adoor. Sooraj later confessed that he brought the snakes in a bottle and threw them over Uthra while she was asleep.
15 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||75 cases in Kollam||The district reported 75 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 26 recoveries on Friday. While 65 patients contacted the infection through contact, others include two persons from abroad and eight persons who had travelled from different Indian states. Under observation The district currently has 7,536 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 36,420. While 402 people completed home quarantine on Friday, the Health Department has traced 8,350 primary and 2,154 secondary contacts of the fresh cases. Care facilities At present six COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FTCs) at Valakam, Sasthamcotta, Asramam, Vilakudy, Karungapally and Chandanathope are operating in the district. Though Government Medical College Hospital, Paripally, confirmed the death of patient, his final COVID-19 swab report from NIV, Alappuzha, is awaited and hence the death has not been included in the State’s tally.
15 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||101 test positive for virus in Kottayam||The fresh COVID-19 cases in Kottayam once again crossed the 100-mark with 101 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. Of the fresh cases, 85 persons contracted the virus through local contact. Apart from the existing clusters, positive cases showed a surge in many local bodies with Manimala grama panchayat recording 12 positive cases, followed by Athirampuzha with 11 cases, and Arppookkara with nine cases. Seven of a family, who were the relatives of a patient, tested positive in Kanjirappally. Virus infection was also reported among people who had attended a funeral in Cheepungal in Arppookkara. The cluster formed at a rubber factory in Vadavathoor appeared to be widening with five more employees testing positive. According to authorities, more than 20 out of nearly 375 employees at the factory tested positive. Cases are on the rise in local bodies like Kottayam, Ettumanoor, Vaikom, Kurichi, Madappally, Thalayazham and Manarcad. Two more health workers tested positive. The district currently has 592 active cases.
15 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Author steps down from MG varsity board of studies||Author K.R. Meera here on Friday announced her decision to step down from the PG Board of Studies in the School of Letters under Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU), Kottayam. In a message posted on her social media page, the writer said she had already sent a letter indicating the decision to the Vice Chancellor. The post further said she had never been aware of her inclusion on the panel except for a call from the university earlier seeking permission for the same. Social media ire A notification issued by MGU Registrar Prakash Kumar B. earlier this month included Ms. Meera’s name as an external expert member on the board of studies of the School of Letters. The appointment apparently drew criticism on social media with a section terming it as a politically motivated move.
15 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Calicut airport to go ahead with repatriation flights||The Calicut airport will continue to operate special flights under the India-UAE air bubble arrangement till August 31. About 40 flights have been planned for the month under the Vande Bharat Mission. However, changes would be made based on operational, technical and other considerations. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has suspended the operation of wide-bodied aircraft at the airport following the Air India Express crash that claimed 18 lives and injured several others on August 7. Despite the pandemic, the Calicut airport handled 939 aircraft during May, June and July. The airport handled 80,478 passengers and 2,846.724 tonnes of cargo during the period. International repatriation flights by Air India and Air India Express under the Vande Bharat Mission from various destination airports in UAE, Qatar, Oman, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia started arriving at the airport from May 7. Subsequently, after getting approval from the Ministry of Civil Aviation, chartered flights also operated from June. Various foreign carriers also began to operate, officials said. More than 40,600 passengers arrived from the Gulf Cooperation Council nations in 245 flights in June. A total of 30,408 passengers flew down in 180 flights in July.
15 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||99 more test positive in Kozhikode||The Health Department on Friday confirmed COVID-19 for 99 more persons in Kozhikode district. With this, the total number of persons undergoing treatment for the infection in the district reached 1,216. Of the newly confirmed cases, nine are persons who came from outside the State. According to a Health Department communication, 75 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The source of infection in 15 other cases remained unclear, they said. Three migrant labourers are also among the newly infected within Kozhikode Corporation limits. As many as 379 persons were added to the list of the quarantined. With this, the total number of people in quarantine in various locations in the district has reached 14,750. Meanwhile, 111 persons who had been undergoing treatment in various hospitals have recovered. Health Department officials said they were awaiting the test results of 6,686 persons in Kozhikode district.
15 August 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||198 new cases in Malappuram||Malappuram district recorded 198 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan and two dozen officers of the district administration are among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. They were at the Air India Express flight crash site at Karipur last Friday and Saturday. However, the district witnessed 424 recoveries on Friday, the highest on a single day since the virus spread began in March. The source of infection of 18 people, including the Collector, could not be traced. Out of the 198 fresh cases, 179 got the infection through local transmission. In Palakkad In Palakkad district, 180 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. While 151 persons were found to have been infected through local transmission, 10 came from abroad and eight from other States. The source of infection in nine cases could not be traced. District Collector D. Balamurali said 91 persons recovered from the disease on Friday. Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and Backward Classes A.K. Balan has warned of an impending lockdown in the district. In a statement here on Friday, Mr. Balan said a lockdown would be imposed in the entire district if the present rate of local spread continued. In Kannur Ninety-five persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur district on Friday. Of the total cases, 58 people contracted the disease through local contact, four arrived from abroad, 26 from other States, and seven are health workers. As many as 75 people recovered on Friday. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 49 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. Of the infected, 35 contracted the disease through local transmission, while five are from other States and nine arrived from abroad. Meanwhile, 51 people were discharged from hospitals and COVID care centres in the district on Friday. In Thrissur As many as 80 cases of COVID-19 were reported in Thrissur on Friday while 53 people recovered from the infection. There are 497 active cases in the district at present. The samples of a 65-year-old man from Arimbur who died at a private hospital on August 8 have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. A lorry driver, the man was admitted to the hospital following chest pain. Of the 80 cases reported on Friday, 68 persons have been infected through contact. As many as 18 people were tested positive from the Amala Hospital cluster. In Wayanad As many as 57 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Friday. Of them, 56 contracted the infection through contact, while one arrived from Nagaland.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Kannur, Kasaragod, Thrissur and Wayanad bureaus)
15 August 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Flight tragedy reveals its COVID impact||Exactly a week after the Air India flight tragedy, two dozen key Malappuram district officers who supervised the rescue and relief operations at Karipur have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. After District Police Chief U. Abdul Kareem tested positive on Thursday, the result of District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan was found to be positive on Friday. District Medical Officer K. Sakeena confirmed that Sub Collector Anju K.S., Assistant Collector Vishnu Raj and 20 other officers too have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Among them are a few deputy collectors and senior revenue officials. The officers had interacted with several ministers and top officials in the wake of the Air India Express B-737 flight crash at Karipur. The list included Union Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri, Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Assembly Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan, Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja, Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar, Ports Minister Kadannappally Ramachandran, Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran, Local Self-Government Minister A.C. Moideen, Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel, Excise Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan, Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta, and Director General of Police Loknath Behra. Dozens of people on the primary list of contacts have gone into self-quarantine. The number of COVID-19 cases in Malappuram has risen in alarming proportions with the district reporting more than 200 cases every day in the last four days.
15 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Farmer’s death: police submit primary report to court||A police team probing the death of 41-year-old Mathai in Kudappana, under alleged custody of forest officials here, submitted its preliminary investigation report on Friday. Official sources said the report, submitted to the Revenue Divisional Office court and then transferred to the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court, Ranni, sought to invoke action against the accused forest officials for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. However, no person has been arraigned as accused in the case. The report, prepared on the basis of a legal opinion received by the police, also seeks to book the forest officials under various Sections, including forgery of documents, destruction of evidence, illegal confinement, threatening, and physical and mental torture, among other things. Procedural violations It also spoke about the various procedural violations committed by the forest officials who had taken the victim into custody, including the delay in registering a case against him, and the attempts to manipulate the entries in the General Diary as well as the mahassar. “The report has been prepared on the basis of a primary investigation into the allegations raised by the victim’s family. The chargesheet will be prepared based on a detailed investigation,” said K.G. Simon, Superintendent of Police, Pathanamthitta.  Mathai was found dead in a well near his residence on July 28, hours after being taken into custody by the forest officials for allegedly damaging a camera installed by the department on the forest fringes. While a probe led by Chief Forest Conservator (Southern Circle) Sanjayan Kumar had confirmed the death as a case of suicide, the relatives allege that the forest officials had thrown Mathai into the well after beating him to death. Two forest officials — deputy range officer R. Rajesh Kumar and section forest officer A.K. Pradeep Kumar — have been placed under suspension based on a departmental inquiry.
15 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||39 more cases in Pathanamthitta||The district on Friday recorded one more COVID-19 related death as a 65-year-old person, who died here a couple of days ago, was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. According to officials, the patient had been undergoing treatment for breathing-related illness and was declared dead on August 12. A TrueNat test later confirmed him positive for virus infection. With this, the total number of COVID-19 related death in Pathanamthitta rose to three. The latest death case is yet to be included in the State’s tally. Besides the diseased, 39 persons including a health worker at the Thiruvalla Taluk hospital too tested positive for the virus infection during the day. Local contact Of this, 24 persons contracted the virus through local transmission while five persons landed from abroad. The remaining 11 cases came from outside the State. The contact sources of two persons were yet to be traced. Meanwhile, 31 persons who were undergoing treatment for the disease were discharged from the various treatment centres here. Pathanamthitta currently has 266 active cases and 8,315 persons under surveillance.
15 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||UDF gives notice for no-trust||The Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) on Friday gave fresh notice for moving a no-confidence motion in the Assembly against the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government and a resolution for the removal of Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan from his office. A one-day session of the Assembly has been convened on August 24 to pass the Finance Bill. Technically, the no-confidence motion can be taken up on the day. Assembly rules and procedures state that the notice has to be issued three clear days before the date on which the member proposes to move it in the House. The resolution for the removal of the Speaker, however, can be tabled only after 14 days from the date of receipt of the notice by the Assembly Secretary. Charge against CMO V.D. Satheesan of the Congress has given the notice for moving the no-confidence motion highlighting certain allegations against the Chief Minister's Office in connection with the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. M. Ummer of the Indian Union Muslim League has issued the notice for tabling the resolution for the removal of the Speaker. The Speaker has tarnished the image of the House by attending a function sponsored by Swapna Suresh, an accused in the gold smuggling case, according to the Opposition.  Meanwhile, Mr. Sreeramakrishnan indicated on Friday that “the Speaker has no problem considering it (the notice) provided there are no technical issues. Such a resolution will not be blocked merely on the grounds that it is a motion against the Speaker.”  Arrangements are being made to ensure proper physical distancing in the House on August 24.
15 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Experts make a case for Statewide sero survey||As community transmission of SARS-CoV-2 seems to be fairly established in the State, the time might just be right for Kerala to undertake a sero surveillance study across districts. This will help the State assess the course of the epidemic, plan its testing strategy among specific populations, and adopt suitable public health interventions. It also helps that there are better antibody testing kits (ELISA IgG kits) and modalities (CLIA immuno assay) validated by the Indian Council of Medical Research, available in the market now, than during the initial months of the pandemic. Silent cases “A population-based sero surveillance study will help the State pick up silent or asymptomatic cases. Our current information on the epidemic is based solely on the data we have derived from the test results. But a serial sero epidemiology study can help us track the epidemic, monitor the trend of infection in specific populations and geographic locations and any socio-demographic factors influencing the epidemic,” says Rakhal Gaitonde, Professor, Achutha Menon Centre for Health Science Studies. In fact, the expert committee headed by B. Ekbal has now recommended that the State does a sero surveillance study like the one done in Delhi and Dhaaravi in Mumbai so that the extent of the spread of the virus in the community as well as the proportion of the population which might have been rendered some level of natural immunity against the disease can be ascertained. On earlier study The committee has also suggested that the State come clean on the sero surveillance study it had done in the second week of June, the details of which have never been shared in the public domain. It has pointed out the importance of analysing and interpreting the data from that study properly. The data has never seen the light of the day and the Health Department blamed the “poor” quality of the rapid antibody kits for the “unexpected results” and high levels of sero prevalence — reportedly between 3% and 19% — found in districts . No perfect test “Burying that data blaming the quality of the rapid test kits is a huge mistake because a proper statistical assessment of that data could have given us an early warning about the clusters that broke out in different parts of the State soon after. In the midst of the pandemic, there could be no perfect test. Even the PCR [polymerase chain reaction] test, given its sensitivity, is expected to miss about 30% of the infections and yet we consider it as the gold standard for COVID-19 testing,” a public health expert says. “Kerala should have no hesitation about doing this [sero survey] because at this stage of the epidemic, it would set our minds at rest if we can assess what proportion of the State’s population has already been exposed. It will give us an idea how soon the current public health crisis will blow over,” he adds.  An expert panel has recommended that the State does a sero surveillance study like the one done in Delhi and Dhaaravi in Mumbai
15 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District records 310 new cases||The capital district reported 310 cases of COVID-19 on Friday, taking the number of active cases to 3,455. The official death toll rose to 30 with six more cases being confirmed by the National Institute of Virology, Alappuzha. Those who succumbed to the disease include four women and two men, all aged 60 and above, who died in the past few days. As many as 300 contracted the infection through local transmission, while five health workers were also diagnosed with the disease. A total of 199 people recovered from the illness in the district on Friday. 63 more positive The infection continues to ravage the Poojappura Central Prison where 63 more inmates tested positive when 143 people were subjected to antigen tests. With this, the total number of infected inmates has gone up to 164 within four days. One prisoner was also diagnosed with the disease in the special sub-jail. The Prisons Headquarters was closed for three days starting Friday after two prisoners deputed for cleaning the premises began to display COVID-19 symptoms. Following orders issued by the Director General of Prisons and Correctional Services Rishi Raj Singh, the department has also closed its Food for Freedom cafeteria as well as the food-making unit manned by prisoners. Its newly launched petrol pump will, however, continue to function. A police officer and a guard, both Kollam natives and deputed for security in the State Secretariat, have tested positive. Two police officers attached to the Special Armed Police camp in Peroorkada have been diagnosed with COVID-19. New COVID-19 cases emerged in significant numbers from the coastal areas. Five people, including an ASHA worker, tested positive when 100 people were subjected to antigen tests at Kovalam. Cases were also reported at Vizhinjam (4), Karumkulam (8) and Anchuthengu (9).
15 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lockdown curbs lifted in capital city||Lockdown restrictions have been lifted across Thiruvananthapuram city except the containment zones. The withdrawal of curbs, which came into effect from Friday midnight, brought an end to the lockdown that has remained in effect in the State capital since July 6. In an order issued by District Collector Navjot Khosa in her capacity as the chairperson of the District Disaster Management Authority, she stated that the lockdown is being relaxed to resume social and economic activity. Besides, the intensive containment activities have contained a further surge in disease spread to a large extent and the incidence rate of disease has shown considerable reduction, the order added. Home delivery till 9 p.m. All shops have been permitted to function from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. While all restaurants and cafes can open until 9 p.m. for supplying parcels through takeaway counters, home delivery has been permitted up to 9 p.m. Hotels can open all their facilities, except conference halls and banquet halls. Shopping malls, hypermarkets, salons, beauty parlours, and barber shops too have been permitted to open. These outlets have been strictly instructed to adhere to the standard operating protocol issued by the District Collector. Bars and beer parlours can also open with only takeaway services. Weddings, funerals Gymnasiums can be opened in accordance with the guidelines and all games and sporting activities can be resumed. All markets, including fish markets, are permitted to function with strict entry-exit protocols. The maximum number of persons allowed at a time inside the market, parking and entry-exit points will be regulated by the police. The maximum number of people permitted in the city, except in containment zones, for marriages and funerals are 50 and 20 respectively. In containment zones, only 20 people shall be allowed for such occasions. Those still suspended The activities that will remain suspended are functioning of educational institutions including tuition centres, auditoriums, assembly halls, cinema halls, entertainment parks, theatres, and swimming pools. Social, religious, political, entertainment, academic and other congregations also remain prohibited. All government, public and private establishments, banks and other financial establishments can function with 50% staff. More employees can be called for work in essential service departments if the need arose.  Restrictions remain in containment zones
15 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LED street lights in all local bodies||Following a gradual shift to LED street lights in major city Corporations, the State government is now planning to implement the same in all municipalities and grama panchayats as part of the Nilavu project. The aim of the project is to cut down on the power bills and reduce the carbon output. As part of the project, at least 500 existing street lights will be replaced with LED lights under each local body every year. The local bodies can increase or decrease the number as per their needs or available financial resources. The Local Self-Government Department (LSGD) estimates that there will be a drastic fall in power bills for the local body if at least 40% of the lights are replaced with LEDs. Corporations such as Thiruvananthapuram began the shift to LED lighting three years ago, with a specific number of street lights in each of the wards being replaced by LEDs periodically. As the LED street lights are connected to a web-based monitoring system, remote operation is possible. Nodal agency The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) will be the nodal agency of the project. The KSEB has chosen the Energy Efficiency Services Limited, under the Central government, as the project management consultant. The lights will have seven-year warranty, during which period there will be free replacement in case of faults. The lights are of six different wattages, ranging from 18 Watts to 110 Watts. The local bodies have been asked to calculate the number of lights they will need and inform the KSEB. As part of the Annual Maintenance Contract (AMC) offered by the KSEB, the cost per LED is Rs. 34.46. The local bodies can choose whether to ink the AMC with the KSEB or go in for a different arrangement. The KSEB will calculate the financial gain from the shift to the LED lighting system and transfer the same to the local bodies. The KSEB and LSGD will appoint a nodal officer for the coordination of the project. A monitoring committee has also been formed at the State level with the Secretaries of Local Self-Government and Electricity, KSEB Chairman, directors of the Panchayat and Urban Affairs Department, and nodal officers as members.
15 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||e-way bill to control gold movement||Kerala will introduce e-way bill to check smuggling and regulate gold movement within the State, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. Briefing reporters about the decisions of the Ministerial Subcommittee of the Goods and Services Tax Council here on Friday, Dr. Isaac said the subcommittee had cleared the State’s demand to introduce e-way bill within the State. Earlier, when the State pressed for introducing e-way bill to check tax evasion and deter smuggling, Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra and some other States had opposed the proposal saying that publicising the details of gold movement would risk the lives of the traders. Kerala stuck to its demand and the panel consented to the demand. Traders were so far carrying gold using a delivery note which was not a legally valid document. 3% penalty On seizing smuggled gold, those held could get away after paying a 3% tax and an equal penalty as per Section 129 of the GST Act. As per Section 130, the State had the right to confiscate the contraband, but this was not attempted. Recently a Gujarat High Court order had granted permission to invoke Section 130 and hence the State would go ahead with confiscation of the contraband. Since the provisions for confiscation had already been incorporated in the Act, there was no need for a new legislation, he said. The government would offer a 20% reward to the informants and maintain the confidentiality of their details. The government has sought the opinion of the Advocate General for going ahead with the reform, he said. Gold smuggling has been rising and there was a rise in the quantity of gold seized.
15 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M) warns against bid to malign LIFE Mission||Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has cautioned against attempts to smear the LIFE Mission housing project by dragging it into controversies. Briefing reporters about the decisions of the party secretariat here on Friday, Mr. Balakrishnan said a statement purpotedly made by Swapna Suresh before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) should not be used to malign a project that constructed 2.25 lakh houses for the poor. She had reportedly told the NIA that she had received Rs. 1 crore as commission from the Red Crescent that is implementing the housing project at Wadakkancherry in Thrissur. Mr. Balakrishnan clarified that the government would take action on the statement upon getting an official communication from the NIA. The party was opposed to cyberbullying of any sort. The party would organise an agitation on August 23 in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol against the anti-people policies of the Union government.
15 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ecotourism centres to reopen on Aug. 19||The ecotourism centres which have remained closed for visitors for five months will reopen on August 19. The facilities will operate under stringent curbs in line with the COVID-19 protocol. Chief Wildlife Warden Surendrakumar, who issued an order in this regard recently, said the ecotourism centres would reopen in a phased manner by streamlining visitor entry. The decision was taken in view of the plight of forest-dependent marginalised communities, 2,000 people were directly and nearly 70,000 indirectly affected by the closure of the centres. COVID protocol Complying with the guidelines of the Centre’s Unlock 3.0 and those laid down by the National Tiger Conservation Authority, the Forest Department will prohibit entry for children aged below 10 years and people aged over 65 years to the ecotourism centres. While stay and dining will remain prohibited during the initial phase of reopening, food parcels will be made available. Allied activities including trekking, safari, museum, eateries and eco shops will also resume with tight visitor management measures in place. Ticket booking can only be done online. Trekking will be permitted during daytime alone. Only seven people will be permitted in each batch for the purpose.
15 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||President’s award for six cops||As many as six police personnel from the Kerala Police are among the winners of the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service announced on Friday, the eve of Independence Day. The winners include M. Rajan, Deputy Commandant, Special Branch headquarters; V. Madhusoodanan, DySP, Vigilance (retired); G. Hariharan, Sub-Inspector, Vigilance, Kollam; R.V. Baiju, ASI, Naruvamoodu; K. Sooraj, SI, Crime Branch, Thrissur; and P.N. Mohanakrishnan, ASI, Vigilance, Malappuram.
15 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Chennithala slams govt.||In deciding to convene a single-day session of the Assembly on August 24, the Governor and the State government have denied the Opposition an opportunity to move a resolution demanding Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan's removal from office, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said on Friday. The Opposition expects to move a no-confidence motion against the State government on August 24. The House should convene again after Onam, on September 3, to consider the resolution seeking the Speaker's removal, Mr. Chennithala suggested.
15 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Assembly to launch TV channel||The Kerala Assembly will formally launch its ambitious television channel project, which also features an OTT (over-the-top) platform, on August 17. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla will inaugurate Sabha TV via videoconference, Assembly Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan said here on Friday. Initially, the Assembly will rent half-hour slots on prominent television channels to telecast programmes pertaining to the Kerala Assembly. The OTT platform is perhaps the first of its kind planned by an Assembly. The channel will showcase the Assembly and its activities.
15 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Smart anganwadi’ opened||Mayor K. Sreekumar on Friday inaugurated a smart anganwadi at Rajaji Nagar, which was modernised as part of the civic body’s Smart City project. As part of the project, the building was modernised, a play area with sand pit was created, and CCTV cameras installed to ensure the safety of children.
15 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||MLA alleges norms violation||Congress legislator P.T. Thomas has accused the government of permitting a U.S. company to access the data of 35 lakh clients of the Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE) in violation of norms. Mr. Thomas told reporters in Kochi on Friday that the tender for providing a mobile application and a customer care web portal for KSFE was floated in violation of norms. Mr. Thomas demanded that the government order a probe into the awarding of the tender. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac termed the allegations as unfounded.
15 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cleanliness drive at railway stations||A cleanliness drive was launched by the Thiruvananthapuram railway division, focussing on railway stations and tracks, to mark the 74th Independence Day. Sanitation drives were organised at Thrissur, Aluva, Ernakulam Junction, Ernakulam Town, Kottayam, Chengannur, Alappuzha, Kollam, Varkala, Kochuveli, Thiruvananthapuram Central, and Nagercoil Junction railway stations.
15 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Governor’s I-Day greetings||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has greeted Keralites the world over on Independence Day. He said: “As proud citizens of the largest democracy in the world, it is our duty to uphold the loftiest values and standards of democracy. Preserving our freedom through self-reliance and responsible citizenship is the most befitting tribute we could pay to the millions of patriots whose struggles and sacrifices paved the way to our Independence.”
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Home-bound||
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Eye for detail||
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Muzzled for freedom||
15 August 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Procedural issues plague VIMS||A strange situation prevails at the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS). The candidates, selected in 2019, have not been issued appointment orders, so far, while the doctors, appointed to deal with the pandemic situation, have not been paid salaries for the past three months, reportedly due to procedural issues. The 650-bed hospital, has around 150 doctors, with about 100 of them deputed from Andhra Medical College (AMC) recently.  Appointment of doctors The hospital was inaugurated in 2016, and since then all the doctors are being deputed from other hospitals. In early 2019, a hue and cry was raised by the public on the lack of full-time doctors and the need to improve amenities at the hospital. Subsequently, applications were called for appointment of doctors on contract basis, and a merit list was prepared. But, the appointment orders have not been issued to this day. “There are over 90 candidates, selected for appointment on three-year contract. We had represented the matter to the authorities at various levels but nothing has happened,” said one of the doctors, who was shortlisted for appointment. Pay anomalies The pay scales of the doctors, who were selected on contract basis, last year, were fixed on the basis of the 7th Pay Commission, while the pay scales of the existing State government doctors have not been revised since 2006. This will result in a huge anomaly in the pay scales of fresh recruits and senior doctors. The recruitment process was stopped following an objection raised in the Finance Department on the plea that the anomaly would cause disharmony among the two groups of doctors, say sources in the Medical and Health Department. “I have taken the issue to the notice of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, when he invited suggestions during the ‘Mana palana – mee suchana.’ I told him that pay revision will boost the morale of the doctors in the pandemic situation,” P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College, told The Hindu , when his attention was drawn to the issue. About 60 doctors were recruited for rendering COVID-19 duties in the district. A few of them were deputed to VIMS and to the quarantine centres, while most of the remaining doctors were deputed to the ‘Mukhyamantri Aarogya Kendralu’ in the district. Dr. Sudhakar attributed the delay in payment of salaries to these doctors to procedural issues. Once they are sorted out, doctors would start getting their salaries regularly, he added.
15 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Indian Police Medal for Chittoor officer||The Union Home Ministry on Friday conferred the prestigious Indian Police Medal on Deputy Superintendent of Police (Chittoor), K. Eeshwar Reddy, on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day celebrations. Belonging to the 1989 batch of the A.P. Police, Mr. Eeshwar Reddy has put in a service of 31 years, during which period he had received as many as 45 cash rewards, 62 special rewards and 30 commendations. In 2002, Mr. Reddy received the Police Service Medal, followed by the Chief Minister’s Gallantry Medal and President’s Gallantry Medal in 2009. “I am humbled by the Indian Police Medal and this has enhanced my responsibilities as a police officer in safeguarding public interest,” the Deputy SP said.
15 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||6 T.N. youth held for attack on highway||The Satyavedu circle police on Friday nabbed six youth from Tamil Nadu near Varadaiahpalem. According to preliminary investigation, the gang was identified as the one, which reportedly attacked a village revenue assistant at Yanamalagunta village on August 6 and robbed him. Circle-Inspector B. Srinivasulu said the youth belonged to Chennai and surrounding areas.
15 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||17-year-old ends life in Chittoor||A 17-year-old girl reportedly died by suicide at her residence in Rompicharla mandal headquarters on Thursday night, after her boyfriend allegedly broke up with her. Police said that the girl ended her life after coming to know that her boyfriend was planning to marry another woman. A probe is under way. Those in distress can call dial 100 for guidance and counselling.
15 August 2020||DEVIPATNAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Boats kept ready to evacuate people||At least 16 motor boats and three tourist boats have been deployed to intensify the evacuation operation in the Agency area as the Godavari and its tributaries continue to receive huge inflows . “In Devipatnam, at least 10 boats have been kept ready. At the Singanapalli point in West Godavari district, one boat is made available,” G.V. Raghavara Rao, in-charge port officer, Kakinada said on Friday. In Devipatnam mandal of Rampachodavaram Agency, the officials alerted the residents to move to the relief camps. “We have launched the evacuation operation in Devipatnam by shifting pregnant women and elderly people to the relief camps. We are persuading the locals to come to the relief camps, instead of preferring to stay in the upland areas,” said ITDA-Rampachodavaram PO C.V. Praveen Adithya. Executive Engineer (Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage, Dowleswaram) R. Mohana Rao said the flood monitoring teams and Revenue officials must stay alert till Saturday morning in the wake of the tributaries — Sabari, Kinnerasani and Taliperu — feeding waters to the Godavari. Flood warning “The first flood warning will be issued when the discharge reaches 10 lakh cusecs at Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage. The discharge may reach the 10 lakh cusecs by Saturday morning,” Mr. Mohana Rao said. The outflow at the barrage was 7.7 lakh cusecs on Friday evening. If the first flood warning is issued, people from many villages in Devipatnam mandal will have to be shifted to the relief camps. East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy visited the control room set up at Pochamma Gandi in Devipatnam mandal to monitor the evacuation process.
15 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Treat public with respect’||“We are living in a democratic society and police should abide by the Constitution in which all the rights, duties and liberties of the citizens are enshrined. I urge police to shun high-handedness and treat people with respect and courtesy. The AP Police is following the mandate given by Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy to transform the police and serve the people,” Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang said after launching the two-day training programme on ‘Transformation of police - people first’, an initiative of Superintendent of Police, Guntur Rural, Vishal Gunni. “The police is the first point of contact in the criminal justice system, which also consists of judiciary and correctional justice,” Mr. Sawang said adding: “The police have to remember that India is a democratic society where all the rights and liberties are enshrined in the Constitution.” There was a great expectation on the police and there should be a collective thinking to bring a change and transformation in the police, said Mr. Sawang while addressing the officers and policemen and women of the Guntur rural police. The DGP also said that the police should exercise self-restraint and not get provoked while replying to a query. He also said that the training programmes would be conducted continuously. “In such cases where police are found guilty of abusing a person, we will not only take a disciplinary action but also register cases under IPC Sections. In recent incidents, we have taken action against such policemen,” said the DGP.
15 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cabinet meet to be held on Aug. 19||The State Cabinet will meet on August 19 at the Secretariat complex in Velagapudi. Chief Secretary Neelam Sawhney said in a release on Friday that the Cabinet meeting would be presided over by Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy.
15 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ravindra Babu sworn in as MLC||Former MP P. Ravindra Babu was sworn in as MLC on Friday. Legislative Council Chairperson M.A. Shariff administered him the oath of office. Mr. Ravindra Babu thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for nominating him as MLC in the Governor’s Quota.
15 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pharmacist among three held for selling illicit liquor||The Special Enforcement Bureau (Sand and Liquor) arrested three persons, including a pharmacist, for allegedly preparing and selling adulterated liquor in Sakhinetipalli of East Godavari district on Friday. The trio reportedly used to prepare the illicit liquor using homoeopathy medicines and food colour. “The accused have been identified as Nalli Rajesh, Adapa Srinu and K. Srinivas, a pharmacist running a homoeopathy medicine store in Malkipuram town. They all belong to Amalapuram police division area. The trio has explored the possibility of preparing liquor by adding homoeopathy medicine to water and food colour and selling it to the consumers as liquor,” Amalapuram DSP (Law and Order) Masun Basha said. On Friday, police seized eight litres of illicit liquor from the accused during the raid. Police registered a case and an investigation is on. The accused have been produced before a local court on Friday.
15 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police arrest 58-year-old woman for son’s murder||Prakasam police announced a breakthrough into the case of a missing person named K. Narasimha Rao here on Friday. Narasimha Rao (35) of Dubagunta village near Kandukur had gone missing some four months ago, leaving the police baffled as to his whereabouts. Their investigations hit a dead end until they finally got a tip-off on August 8, hinting at the role of the missing man’s mother. Police began tracking the phone calls made by Narasimha Rao’s mother after she failed to give satisfactory replies as to what transpired with her son before his disappearance. A detailed investigation then revealed that Narasimha Rao was murdered by a contract killer, hired by none other than his mother, police said. The woman was identified as Lakshmamba (58). Police arrested the woman as well as eight other persons for their involvement in the murder. “Analysis of Call Data Records revealed that Narasima Rao was murdered by a rowdy-sheeter named Raghava Rao at the behest of the deceased man's mother Lakshmamaba, who was reportedly vexed by her son’s harrasment,” Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal told reporters here on Friday. Police said the accused had struck a deal for Rs. 1.70 lakh and paid Rs. 50,000 as advance and another Rs. 55,000 for doing away with her son’s body. Police exhumed the body and recovered a knife, axe, crowbar and spade used to commit the offence.
15 August 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||16 deaths in 24 hours in Nellore, Prakasam||Sixteen more patients succumbed to coronavirus in south-coastal Andhra Pradesh, taking the combined death toll in the districts of Nellore and Prakasam to 283 in the last 24 hours, officials said. The toll in Prakasam district alone increased to 152 with six deaths, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Friday night. Ten more patients lost the battle against the virus in Nellore district, taking the toll in the district to 131. The spread of the virus refused to abate in the region as 669 more persons contracted the disease in Nellore district. In Praksam district, 300 more persons got infected during the same period. On the bright side, the number of discharged patients outnumbered the number of fresh admissions into COVID-19 hospitals by 201. While 916 patients were cured of the virus in Nellore district, 254 patients were discharged from hospitals in Prakasam district at a time when the health authorities worked overtime to treat the over 9,000 active cases in the two districts. In Prakasam district, Ongole continued to bear the brunt of the pandemic with 53 more persons getting infected in the last 24 hours. Two persons from the Deputy Transport Commissioner's office were among those who tested positive. Addanki town emerged as a COVID-19 hotspot after accounting for 35 new cases, while the remote village of Ulavapadu registered 17 new cases. New cases came from across the district including Podili (12), Kandukur (12), Chirala (9), V.V. Palem (8), Giddalur (7) and Chinnaganjam (7).
15 August 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Polavaram works suspended as cofferdam, spillway inundated||With the flood waters inundating the cofferdam, the spillway, and the Polavaram site, works on the irrigation project were suspended on Friday. This apart, all the 2,300 workers engaged at the site were shifted to safety. With heavy rain forecast in the catchment areas in the next 24 hours, the officials, apprehending a further surge in the flood level, shifted all the machinery from the project site. The flood waters touched the Necklace bund at the Polavaram boating point. The water level in the Godavari at various places was as follows: Bhadrachalam 37.90 feet, Koida 20.360 metres, cofferdam 26.750 metres, Polavaram 11.990 metres, and old railway bridge (Havelock bridge) 15.670 metres. The discharge at the Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage (at Dowleswaram) was 7.77 lakh cusecs by 6 p.m. on Friday. Meanwhile, West Godavari Joint Collector K. Venkataramana Reddy, K.R. Puram ITDA Project Officer R.V. Suryanarayana , Jangareddygudem Revenue Divisional Officer Y.N. Prasanna Lakshmi and Polavaram tahsildar Md. Nazeemulla Shah visited the Godavari bund. “The water level in the Godavari may increase further at Bhadrachalam and reach the first warning level (43 feet) by Saturday. Water level may increase at Polavaram as there is huge discharge from Taliperu and Donkarayi dams, and the Sabari is in spate,” Mr. Suryanarayana, who is also Polavaram Sub-Collector, said. With about five-foot water flowing on the Kothuru causeway, communication to many villages, including Koruturu, Gaddapalli, Kondrukota, Vadapalli, Paidipalaka Mamidi, Sirivaka, Cheeduru, Tekuru, Tella Dibbala and others snapped. “Officers have been asked to take measures to strengthen the Godavari bund. Control rooms have been set up at Kukunur Sub-Collector’s Office and at Jangareddugudem RDO office,” said Ms. Prasanna Lakshmi. The Godavari, which was in spate at Kovvur, inundated the Gospada Kshetram. At Prakasam Barrage In the Krishna, the discharge was 50,750 cusecs at Prakasam Barrage by 6 p.m. on Friday. The officials sounded an alert in the downstream mandals of Challapalli, Avanigadda and Nagayalanka in Krishna district. Krishna river conservator Raja Swaroop Kumar said about 60,000 cusecs was expected to reach Prakasam Barrage and cautioned the villagers staying along the river bund. Meanwhile, Krishna Collector A.Md. Imtiaz directed the Revenue, Irrigation and Police officials to be alert and take measures to prevent untoward incidents in wake of the rising flood level.
15 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ambedkar University holds I-Day competitions||National Research Development Corporation and B.R. Ambedkar University jointly conducted competitions for students through digital platforms on the eve of the 74th Independence Day. Sustained Rural Development, Society-Health-Safety, optimum utilisation of water resources, 100% literacy-financial discipline and other subjects were given to students of post-graduation, degree and others, said University Vice-Chancellor Kuna Ramjee and Registrar K. Raghubabu. Mr. Raghubabu said that optimum utilisation of time through digital platforms would be of much help in this academic year and help students gain knowledge easily as all educational institutions were closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. He thanked NRDC authorities for conducting innovative programmes for students and said that the meritorious students’ list would be announced on August 15.
15 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exempt teachers from Nadu-Nedu works: MP||Srikakulam Member of Parliament Kinjarapu Rammohan Naidu on Friday asked the State Government to exempt teachers and officials of the Education Department from Nadu-Nedu school renovation works as many of them had contracted COVID-19 in the last one month. Mr. Rammohan Naidu expressed shock over the death of Gara Mandal Education Officer (MEO) Mamidi Bhaskar Rao due to COVID-19. “We are not against Nadu-Nedu works. But at the same time, safety of teachers and officials is equally important. Special care for teachers is also required as it was extended to frontline warriors like police officials and municipal staff,” Mr. Rammohan Naidu said in a letter that he had written to the government which he released it to the media here.
15 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Restore old pension scheme’||Andhra Pradesh Teachers' Federation (1938) State associate president Sannasetti Rajasekhar on Friday asked the State government to scrap the new pension scheme and restore the old one which was implemented till the year 2013. Following the call given by the All India Government Employees' Federation, he led a protest in Srikakulam. He said that the new pension scheme prevented many meritorious from joining the government services due to lack of social security after retirement. He said that the association would continue to fight against delay in regularisation of services of contract and outsourcing employees.
15 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Disha SI to get Indian Police Medal||Disha police station sub-inspector Vaidyabhushan Netaji has been selected for the prestigious Indian Police Medal which will be presented to him during the Indpendence Day celebrations on Saturday. Mr.Netaji, a native of Temburu village in Patpatnam mandal, joined the Police Department as a constable in 1984. He was selected for the Indian Police Medal for his relentless service. He had resolve many cases, ensuring justice to the women victims in the last six months.
15 August 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Corona warriors to be honoured at I-Day fete||This year, the Independence Day is going to be celebrated in a low-key manner. The people who have been in the frontline in the fight against the deadly virus, will be honoured. The theme is ‘Honour the corona warriors.’ A few hundred people who have been in the frontline from the field of medicine such as staff nurses, paramedics, doctors and sanitation staff have been selected and they will be given certificate of appreciation. Speaking to The Hindu , a senior staff nurse from King George Hospital, who have been on deputation to Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), a State COVID hospital, said there are about 500 nurses working in different government hospitals in the city such as VIMS, KGH, GHCCD, ENT, and RCD, and all of them have been exposed to the risk of contracting the virus. More than the nurses, the sanitation staff are the real unsung heroes. The government has done the right thing to honour them on this occasion, said district COVID-19 Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar.  Doctors who have been in the forefront will also be honoured. The junior doctors and PG students have been rendering yeoman service, said District Collector V. Vinay Chand.
15 August 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Families of deceased archakas left in the lurch, says Dikshitulu||Honorary chief priest A.V. Ramana Dikshitulu stirred a fresh controversy on Friday when he took to the Twitter demanding that the families of deceased archakas be sanctioned financial help. Tagging Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy in his tweet, Mr. Dikshitulu said, “No protection of any kind has been given to the families of the deceased though a senior pradhana archaka, who was illegally retired by the trust board, died fighting for restoration of the hereditary system and a junior priest breathed his last serving in the temple.” It was only during last month that the TTD Trust Board Chairman had urged him to refrain from airing his grievances. In case of any grievances , he should not post it on social media platforms and, instead, bring them to the notice of the management in his capacity as honorary priest and agama adviser. The advice had come when Mr. Dikshitulu had kicked up a controversy with his allegations that the TTD Trust Board authorities were still obeying former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and that they were reluctant to implement the court orders given in favour of the archakas.
15 August 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stone laid for new Parakamani complex||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Friday laid the foundation stone for a new Parakamani building opposite the Anna Prasadam complex. A donor Murali Krishna from Bengaluru bore the entire cost of Rs. 8.90 crore for the project. Facilities “The building will be an integrated complex of two blocks with an in-built provision for offices, strong rooms, waiting hall and donor cell,” Mr. Reddy told the media on Friday. The first block will house the offices of the temple and security officials, while the second one will be devoted to Parakamani and activities such as a sorting hall for segregating the offerings , ten strong rooms to benefit bankers to park collected proceeds ahead of shipping them to their respective banks, and a donor cell.
15 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govindaraja choultry likely to become COVID Care Centre||The TTD’s sprawling Govindaraja choultry complex, abutting the Tirupati railway station, is likely to be the next COVID Care Centre, if the plans of the district administration are any indication. This falls in the series of pilgrim accommodation complexes like ‘Srinivasam’, ‘Madhavam’, ‘Vishnu Nivasam’ and ‘Sri Padmavathi Nilayam’, which have been taken over to house mild and asymptomatic cases. Chittoor Collector Bharat Narayan Gupta inspected the choultry complex, which is one of the oldest buildings to serve the pilgrims visiting the shrine from far-off places. Accompanied by Joint Collector (development) S. Veerabrahmam and Assistant Collector Vishnu Charan, Dr. Gupta visited the rooms and common area. He sprang a surprise on the officials by immediately moving to ‘Srinivasam’ complex, which has already been made a COVID Care Centre. The Collector directed officials to make it mandatory to conduct X-Ray and blood test for all the patients aged above 50 years. Dr. Gupta, himself a medical practitioner, expressed ire at the lab technicians using just one of the two X-Ray machines deployed at the centre and insisted on bringing the older one also to use, so as to cover at least 200 persons a day, against the present 80.
15 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Fearless’ Sardar of Srikalahasti remains an unsung hero!||Sardar Veedhi remains a dusty, little-known street in Srikalahasti. Not many know that they dwell at a place that was once home to a valorous fighter, who played a key role in bringing the British regime to its knees. ‘Sardar’ Pasupuleti Subbaramadasu, born to Govindaiah and Ademma in 1902, played a key role in ensuring the success of Mahatma Gandhi’s tour of Srikalahasti on May 14, 929. He conducted picketing at toddy outlets along with his wife, Subbamma. When Srikalahasti Tahsildar levied a ‘hefty’ fine of Rs. 24, people volunteered to mobilise money and paid on his behalf. He went to Madras to participate in a protest to boycott foreign clothes, for which he spent six months in Egmore jail. Though he became an easy target for the British, and he garnered popularity in Chittoor. He was invited to the AICC meeting held in Tripura in 1939. Violent act The violent part of Subbaramadasu’s protests was registered during the Quit India movement. He and his team of 29 members damaged the track near Akkurthi railway station, causing the derailment and crash of a goods train. “It was apparently after this incident that the locals reverently called him as ‘Sardar’. He was in the forefront in arranging for the Harijan’s entry into Srikalahasti temple,” says M. Deenadayal, an academic consultant in history at Sri Venkateswara University.. Subbaramadasu worked with legends like Potti Sriramulu, Tanguturi Prakasam Panthulu and Madabhushi Ananthasayanam Ayyangar , but remained largely an unsung hero. His bust unveiled in 2016 inside a government complex in Panagal area of Srikalahasti town remains the only witness to his contribution to the freedom struggle.
15 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leader booked||The police have registered a case against BJP leader Sadineni Yamini on the charge of making controversial remarks against the TTD based on a complaint filed by the TTD’s vigilance wing. Ms. Yamini had expressed displeasure over Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC), the TTD’s official broadcaster, for not airing live the Bhoomi Pujan ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya.
15 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police grill Ramesh Hospitals staff||The police team probing the fire accident in the Ramesh Hospitals COVID-19 care centre at Hotel Swarna Palace have questioned the hospital’s administrative staff and doctors on running such centres with poor safety and infrastructure. The police on Friday summoned Dr. Mamata, chief operating officer of Ramesh Hospitals, and grilled her for about five hours. The police were understood to have questioned Dr. Mamata over running the “unauthorised” COVID care centres, admission of patients, collection of exorbitant fee, lack of safety and medical facilities, and absence of hospital management for the last few days. The hospital’s managing director, P. Ramesh Babu, has absconded one day after the tragedy, and eight police teams are searching for him and the hotel staff. Ten patients died and 20 others suffered burns in the blaze that occurred at 4.45 a.m. in the COVID care centre on August 9. The Police, Revenue, Fire Services and Medical and Health personnel are investigating the case separately. Meanwhile, Krishna district Collector A.Md. Imtiz issued orders cancelling permission to the hospital to admit COVID-19 patients. The hospital management was directed not to admit any COVID patient until further orders. ‘Rules violated’ The investigation authorities observed that the Ramesh Hospitals was allegedly running COVID care centres without obtaining permission from the government at the M5 Hotel and Metropolitan Hotel. The hospital management reportedly violated Rule (9) of A.P. Allopathic Private Medical Care Establishments Registration and Regulation Rules, and collected exorbitant fee from the patients. The Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department served notices on the hospital management to respond to the charges by appearing either before the DMHO office in Machilipatnam, or the camp office in Vijayawada, on August 30. “The hospital MD can authorise a person or legal practitioner to be present before the DMHO and inform in writing at least six days before the hearing. It is imperative that the certificate of registration should be surrendered before, or on the date of hearing,” the DMHO said in the notice.
15 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State records 97 deaths, 8,743 new cases||The State reported 97 new COVID deaths while 8,743 people were tested positive for coronavirus during the past 24 hours, ending on Friday morning. The total number of deaths has gone up to 2,475 and the tally to 2,73,085. Once again, the State has seen more recoveries than new infections as 9,779 patients were tested negative for the virus after treatment. The total number of recoveries now stands at 1,80,703, with the recovery rate climbing up to 66.17%. There are 89,907 active patients at present.  On the other hand, the positivity rate has also increased to 9.90% for the 27,58,485 tests conducted till date. Of them, 53, 026 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. The daily positivity rate has been not less than 15% in the past two weeks even as more people are being tested daily. The State’s tests per million ratio now stands at 51,657. The death rate of the COVID infections stands at 0.91%.  Single-day spike Kurnool reported 12 new deaths while Chitoor, East Godavari, Guntur, Nellore and West Godavari districts witnessed 10 deaths each in the last 24 hours. Anantapur, Kadapa, Prakasam, Srikakulam and Visakhpatnam districts reported six deaths each. Vizianagaram reported three deaths and Krishna reported two deaths. East Godavari district reported the highest number of positive cases, with the single-day spike being put at 1,146. It is followed by Chittoor (987) and Kurnool (956). Visakhapatnam district reported 885 new infections, while 762 cases were detected in Anantapur, followed by West Godavari (748), Nellore (669), Vizianagaram (548), Srikakulam (547), Kadapa (530), Guntur (527), Krishna (338) and Prakasam (300). The district tallies so far are as follows: East Godavari (38,292), Kurnool (32,012), Anantapur (28,096), Guntur (24,940), Visakhapatnam (23,402), West Godavari (22,077), Chittoor (21,519), Nellore (16,169), Kadapa (16,133), Srikakulam (13,320), Krishna (11,783), Vizianagaram (11,684) and Prakasam (10,763).
15 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sawang reviews I-Day preparations||Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang participated in the Independence Day rehearsals at the Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation (IGMC) Stadium here on Friday. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and many VIPs will attend the celebrations at the IGMC on Saturday. Police and revenue officers conducted complete review on the celebrations. Mr. Sawang reviewed the contingents and the tableaux. The DGP reviewed on the security, VVIP and VIP galleries and other arrangements. Police have imposed traffic restrictions on M.G. Road and Eluru Road and diverted traffic on the National Highways as a security measure on Saturday.
15 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||President’s Medal for two police officers from State||Additional Director General (Law and Order) A. Ravi Shankar Ayyannar and Principal Secretary (Home) Kumar Vishwajeet, have been selected for the President’s Police Medal (PPM) on the occasion of 74th Independence Day celebrations, from Andhr Pradesh. Fourteen officers were selected for Indian Police Medal from the State. They include L.V. Srinivas Rao, Additional SP, CID, Visakhapatnam; N. Venkat Reddy, Regional Vigilance and Enforcement Officer (RVEO), Vijayawada; E.S. Sai Prasad, Additional Commandant, APSP 6th Battalion; K. Eswara Reddy, DSP, Chittoor; M. Mahesh Babu, Assistant Commandant, SARCPL; Vidya Bhusana Netaji, SI, Disha Women Police Station, Srikakulam; S. Sarah Kumari, SI, PCR, Ongole; K. Vakalaiah, AR SI, Machilipatnam; Venkateswara Rao, AR SI, Vijayawada; J. Srinivasulu, AR SI, PTC, Anantapur;, Ch. Ranga Rao, head constable, ACB, Vijayawada; K. Gurrayya Babu, head constable, AR, Visakhapatnam; A. Suryanarayana Reddy, AR head constable, Kadapa; and Dudekula Moulali, AR head constable, Vijayawada.
15 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Honour for city photojournalist||A distinction has been bestowed upon city-based senior photojournalist Ch.V.S. Vijaya Bhaskara Rao by the Proficiency Photographic Society of America (PPSA) under Recognition of Photographic Achievement (ROPA). Mr. Rao received a communication recently from the PPSA that awards the distinction. The PPSA will officially announce the distinction on its website in October as the 2020 PSA Photo Festival, has been cancelled due to COVID-19 pandemic.
15 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) slams govt. on delay in housing||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged a protest at Ajith Singh Nagar here on Friday against delay in handing over houses to the identified beneficiaries. Addressing the gathering, CPI(M) State committee member Ch. Babu Rao said that the government disappointed the beneficiaries and the poor by postponing the distribution of house-site pattas for the third time. The government failed to keep its promise. The government was deceiving the people citing court cases, he alleged. Which court orders that four lakh houses which were ready for occupation should not be allotted? The government was misleading the people that the court has ordered not to hand over houses. Chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy failed to keep the promises he made to the people, he said. The government was planning to auction the valuable lands under the garb of Build AP. On the other hand, it was allotting the lands which cannot be used for any purpose, he said.  'Victims of politics' The beneficiaries deposited Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 1 lakh expecting that the government would allot the houses. They were forced to pay the rents as there was an inordinate in handing over the lands. They lost Rs. 2,500 crore in the form of interest and rents. The poor and beneficiaries have become the victims of political fight between the YSR Congress Party and the TDP, he said, requesting the government to hand over the house-site pattas and construct houses immediately to the beneficiaries.
15 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police station attack: Somu decries move to drop cases||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Friday condemned the government’s reported decision to withdraw prosecution of the youth of a particular community, who were allegedly involved in the attack on the police station in Guntur. Taking to the Twitter, Mr. Veerraju said the decision smacked of the erstwhile Congress government’s “crony politics.” Calling it unfortunate, he said it might lead to attacks in our State (Andhra Pradesh) like the one recently witnessed in Bengaluru. He said, in a democracy, all were equal and people found guilty of an offence should be punished. But the government was resorting to “politics of opportunism” by dropping cases against those involved in the assault case, the BJP leader said. He warned that if the government functioned keeping in view the sentiments of only one particular section, it might harm the self-esteem of other sections of society.
15 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) holds online memorial meeting||Leaders of CPI(M) and the family members of former Bhadrachalam MLA Sunnam Rajaiah organised a memorial meeting of the leader online. Leaders from of AP and Telangana participated in the meeting. CPI (M) Politburo member B.V. Raghavulu, Tammineni Seetaram, and others paid tributes to Rajaiah, and recalled their association with the departed leader.
15 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 885 new cases||As many as 885 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Visakhapatnam district on Friday, taking the cumulative tally to 23,814. Six more persons from various areas succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 162. As many as 1,752 persons who were being treated in hospitals and under home quarantines in the district have recovered from COVID-19 on Friday, as per an official COVID-19 bulletin. This is said to be the highest number of recoveries in a day since March. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC), Visakhapatnam, P.V. Sudhakar, the number of active cases in the district is 5,432 while the number of discharged is 18,220. The total number of clusters in the district as on Friday is 736. Among them, very active clusters are 66. The number of active and dormant clusters is 255 and 415 respectively. According to the district administration, as many as 131 clusters from the district have not reported any COVID-19 case since the last 28 days. The Health Department officials have sent the report to the District Collector and he allowed them to denotify the clusters. On August 13, as many as 59 clusters were denotified and on August 14, norms were relaxed in 34 more clusters. It may be noted that it was in June, when a few clusters were denotified by the officials. For information regarding tests in Visakhapatnam, citizens can contact Control Room 0891-2501233 or 0891-2501244.
15 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain likely in some places||Intermittent rains, with occasional heavy spells, seem to cast a shadow on the Independence Day celebrations in the district on Saturday. The Waltair Division of East Coast Railway(E Co R), which has planned to hold the celebrations at the Waltair Railway Football Stadium, changed the venue to the portico at the main entrance of the Visakhapatnam Railway Station. District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that the celebrations would be held at the Police Grounds near Suryabaugh, from 9 a.m. Meanwhile, the Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC), Visakhapatnam, has informed that heavy to very heavy rainfall very likely to occur at one or two places over coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam during the next 24 hours. Rain or thundershowers is very likely to occur at most places over coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam.
15 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies in road accident||A 38-year-old man reportedly died when the two-wheeler he was riding hit the median at BRTS Road near Sujatha Nagar here on Friday evening.
15 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu audio song released||Supreme Shaker of Vizag, who owns Supreme Orchestra, released his Telugu audio song, which describes about Telugu culture and the beauty of Telugu language at VJF Presss Club here on Thursday. The lyrics were written by Jada Subbarao, the basic tune was given by Vidya Sagar and the music was composed by Leela Siva. MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana launched a poster of the song. Actor Ambati Srinu, Mrs India World second runner-up Karem Mamtha,attended.
15 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Renovated police welfare canteen inaugurated||Secretary of City Police Family Welfare Society Anamika Meena inaugurated the renovated Police Welfare Canteen at the police barracks in Visakhapatnam on Friday. According to the officials, the canteen is completely air-conditioned and has supplies worth Rs. 35 lakh. DCP (Zone I) Aishwarya Rastogi, and DCP(Crimes) V. Suresh Babu were present.
15 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Forum: provide nutritious food to hostel students||The Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) has sought provision of nutritious food to students of tribal welfare hostels as the they have been suffering from malnutrition due to lack of food in view of the pandemic situation. In a letter to the Tribal Welfare Minister on Thursday, FDNA general secretary Aja Sarma said that the hostels were closed during the lockdown and the schools, which were supposed to have been opened in June, remain closed. The students of welfare hostels were not getting proper nutrition as the hostels, which provide food and eggs three times a day are closed, he said. There are 1,37595 students in 2,362 schools in the State. The maximum number of tribal welfare hostels are in north Andhra and none of the students are getting nutritious food, he said. The government was advising people to consume nutritious food to boost their immunity and save themselves from COVID-19 pandemic. But, these students were not even having enough food to eat, Mr. Aja Sarma said.
15 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waltair Division organises cleanliness drive||The Railway officials and staff participated in the cleanliness drive at Visakhapatnam Railway Station on Friday. They also created awareness among the travelling public on the need to keep the trains and platforms clean. Pamphlets were distributed among the public on the importance of keeping public places neat and clean.
15 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five held for ‘smuggling liquor from Telangana’||Officials from the Excise and Prohibition Department, Gajuwaka, arrested five persons who were allegedly involved in transporting liquor from Telangana and selling in Visakhapatnam at higher price. A total of 509 liquor bottles was seized from their possession.  Three more persons involved in the case are yet to be nabbed, it is learnt.
15 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RINL to telecast ID celebrations||Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL), the corporate entity of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, will be celebrating Independence Day at Thrishna Ground, Ukkunagaram, on Saturday. To enable everyone watch the proceedings it will be telecast live.People can watch the celebrations on the official twitter handle of RINL: @RINL_VSP or by opening the linkhttps://twitter.com/RINL_VSPand on YouTube by opening the linkhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fKm0_4281_w
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to build cold storage in every mandal||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the officials to construct warehouses not only to cater to the present needs but also keeping the future in view. The Chief Minister held a review meeting on the need to construct more warehouses and cold storages in the State here on Friday. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the officials to build at least one cold storage in every mandal across the State and ensure that cold storage and warehouse facilities were available in the tribal areas. Welfare schemes Referring to the welfare initiatives, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said,“ The government has launched schemes such as YSR Cheyutha, YSR Asara among other to help the women from poor financial background.” The Chief Minister further asked the officials to prepare a plan for all the smmoth functioning of Rythu Bharosa Kendras and milk procurement units. Special Chief Secretary (Agriculture) Poonam Malakondaiah, Chief Secretary (Finance) S.S. Rawat, Commissioner of Marketing P.S. Pradyumna and others officials were present in the review meeting.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dressed for occasion||
15 August 2020||Bhongir (YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI),TELANGANA||100 more isolation beds in Yadadri||Bhongir MLA Paila Sekhar Reddy along with District Collector Anita Ramachandran inaugurated an isolation centre at the Area Hospital here on Friday. The newly set up facility has 20 beds and can provide oxygen supply. In addition, 50 more beds were arranged at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bibinagar, and a 10-bed facility each at Alair, Ramannapet and Choutuppal were also opened. Officials said that the new additions would help medical officers in monitoring high-risk patients more effectively.
15 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Ensure access to private train operators’||Private passenger trains on the Indian Railways network in 109 proposed select routes will be closely aligned with the existing maintenance facilities for the current trains at various terminating stations. The Railway Board has directed all zonal railways to provide for either space in the existing maintenance depots or allot ‘green space’ for the private parties to build their own depots. In a recent direction to the zonal heads, the Railway Board has asked the general managers to ensure there is proper road and rail connectivity to the upcoming new maintenance facilities to come up to service the private trains. While the chosen private party will be building the maintenance depot at its own cost, the railway officials have been tasked with the responsibility to provide space in the existing depots so that it could be upgraded to the modern train sets likely to be running. Secunderabad railway station will be playing a key role in the forthcoming running of modern private passenger trains slated to come into operations in a couple of years, from among the 12 clusters identified across the country. It will be the main originating and terminating station and existing railway facilities in and around it will be utilised for the maintenance works. General managers have been asked not only to identify the originating and terminating stations but also about reserving slots for timings and days of possible operations.
15 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,921 new COVID cases in Telangana||The State saw as many as 1,921 COVID cases on Thursday, making the total tally 88,396. The number of fatalities was recorded as nine, taking the total number of deaths to 674. According to the bulletin released by the office of the Director of Public Health and Family Welfare on Friday, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) continued to record the highest number of cases in the State – and saw a spike of 58 cases since a day before – with 356 reported on Thursday. Meanwhile, the number of cases recorded in Medchal-Malkajgiri district was 168, Rangareddy district 134, Sangareddy district 90, Warangal Urban 74, Warangal Rural 54, Karimnagar district stood at 73, Khammam district at 71, and Nizamabad district at 63. The number of those who recovered on Thursday stood at 1,210, taking the total number of those who had recovered to 64,284. The bulletin stated that the recovery rate in the State stands at 72.72% as against the country’s 70.76%. The bulletin also claimed that the fatality rate in the State is 0.76% as against the country’s 1.96%. The number of active cases now stands at 23,438 with as many as 16,439 in home or institutional isolation. The State tested as many as 22,046 samples taking the tally to 7,11,196 tests. The number of samples tested per million of the population now stands at 19,156. Giving a break-up of gender-wise details of COVID cases, the bulletin recorded as many as 65.10% as male and 34.90% as female.
15 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Trauma faced by family of 4 COVID victims shows apathy||The High Court has been informed by the State government that it has been doing everything to provide succour to coronavirus patients and their families. However, the horror stories continue to come from affected families, as is evident in the ordeal being faced by a family of four — all of them testing positive. Srinivas, working in a corporate real estate firm, had received an SOS from NRI friend Prasad stating that his parents in their 60s, his grandmother in her 80s and his two-year-old son, living in Kukatpally Housing Board (KPHB) Colony, had tested positive. In fact, six flats in the apartment had inmates with COVID-19 symptoms. The friend immediately tried to provide them some medical aid and with tensions running high and oxygen levels dropping, managed to get the father admitted to a corporate hospital just in time after frantic calls, but they refused to admit the grandmother citing lack of ICU beds even as the family was still worrying how to take care of the infant. Billing woes Finally, another private hospital took in the elderly woman but only after payment of Rs. 2 lakh and when her condition worsened, it sought another Rs. 2.5 lakh and advised purchasing Remdesivir injections costing another Rs. 32,000 to be delivered to the hospital. From then on, the demand for treatment was in lakhs only while the pharmacy billing was to the tune of Rs. 75,000 without detailing on what was the line of treatment and what was the billing for, Mr. Srinivas said. “It has been more than a week and my friend’s father’s bill has crossed Rs. 5 lakh with no sign of any let up. We are expecting a total bill of up to Rs. 10 lakh or more. His mother and his child are in home isolation with the support of neighbours and consultation through doctors’ video calls,” he bemoaned. “While my friend had means to pay the hospital bills, I was aghast at the official apathy. At least nine people from the apartment had tested positive, yet none from the municipal corporation or the medical & health department called or visited them, forget about disinfecting the building,” he complained. Mr. Srinivas wonders: “Where is the advisory and guidance from the local authorities? Where are those regulators supposed to monitor COVID hospitals and their charges? It is complete anarchy in containment or treatment of coronavirus. I hope this story will stir the conscience of the powers that be and wake them up to the horrendous situation around us which we are trying not to accept”.  (Names have been changed on request).
15 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Moazzam Jahi Market makeover pegged at Rs. 15 cr.||Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) Minister K.T. Rama Rao pegged the cost of renovation of Moazzam Jahi Market at Rs. 15 crore. Speaking at the inauguration function of the newly-renovated market complex on Friday, he said, “We have restored it at a cost of Rs. 15 crore but the maintenance will be an issue. It should remain clean and beautiful. It will be up to the citizens of Hyderabad to take care of heritage and preserve it.” He began his speech immediately after the chimes of the clock tower echoed across the area at 6 p.m. “It is to the credit of MA&UD Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar for adopting and seeing through the renovation process. Two years back when we inspected the site, we were terribly disappointed with the absence of repair and lack of maintenance,” he said in his 8-minute speech. The Minister promised that all heritage structures in the city including Golconda Fort, Katora Houz and Murgi Chowk, would be renovated and preserved. “The Telangana government is dedicated to preserving and showcasing the State’s heritage. We are spending Rs. 1,000 crore on the Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Yadadri. We plan to restore the step wells in State,” he said. “Hyderabad is a blend of old world charm as well as new age vibrancy. You can find people of all faiths, regions and states here. The city is a symbol of cosmopolitan culture of the country,” said Mr. Rao at a function that was truncated due to fears about rain.
15 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Four members of a family found dead under suspicious circumstances||In a suspected case of ‘witchcraft’ for hidden treasure trove, four members of a family, including a sexagenarian and her 10-year-old grand-daughter, were found dead under mysterious circumstances at their residence in Nagapur village of Revally mandal in Wanaparty district here on Friday. The victims were identified as Hazeera Bee, 65, daughter Asma Begam, 42, son-in-law Khaja Pasha, 42, and grand-daughter Arsin Haseena, 11. Wanaparthy Superintendent of Police Apoorva Rao, who rushed to the spot, told The Hindu that bodies were found lying at different places in the house. While Aziram’s body was found in the kitchen, Asma and her daughter Haseena’s were lying dead in different bedrooms. “Khaja was found in the rear side of the house, next to a pit, he allegedly dug up for treasure trove,” Ms. Rao said.
15 August 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||State signs pact on Telangana Sona||A tripartite agreement was signed virtually on strategic branding and marketing of Telangana Sona (RNR-15048) superfine variety rice between the Agriculture Department, Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) and Indian School of Business (ISB) on Friday. Secretary (Agriculture) B. Janardhan Reddy, on behalf of Agriculture Department,Vice-Chancellor V. Praveen Rao, on behalf of PJTSAU, and Prof. D.V.R. Seshadri, Clinical Professor Marketing and Executive Director of ISB Centre for Business Markets, on behalf ofIndian School of Business, signed the MoU. Speaking after signing the MoU, Mr. Janardhan Reddy said talks being held over the MoU for the last few weeks had culminated in signing the MoU and expressed the hope that results of the agreement would become visible from the next month. He said cultivation of Telangana Sona variety paddy had increased considerably this season. Mr. Reddy, who is also Agriculture Production Commissioner, complimented the scientists of PJTSAU for developing the unique RNR-15048 superfine variety with low glycemic index and higher protein, carbohydrates, energy and vitamin B3. ‘Three challenges’ The Vice-Chancellor said with the hard work of the university staff and cooperation of the State government, PJTSAU had become one of the top three agricultural universities in the country. He stated that the farming community was facing three major challenges of risk in raising crops, increase in production costs and lack of remunerative prices to the produce and it was for the government, scientists and marketing experts to find out ways. Prof. Seshadri of ISB said the role of rural areas and the farming sector in the country’s economy was ignificant. He said ISB would take up study for developing branding and marketing strategy for Telangana Sona as part of theirJumpStartIndia@ISBinitiative. University Registrar S. Sudheer Kumar, director of Extension of Anand Singh and representatives of ISB D.N.V. Kumara Guru, Prof. Manish Gangawar and Prof. Madhu Viswanathan also participated in the virtual event.
15 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Honour for 14 TS police officers||Inspector-General of Police (Crime Investigation Department) Palkamsetti Pramod Kumar and Sub Inspector (Civil), Cyberabad Police Commissionerate Thota Subramanyam have been awarded President's Police Medal for Distinguished Service on the occasion of Independence Day. Mr. Kumar, who is also in-charge Deputy Inspector-General of Karimnagar and Warangal ranges, is also holding full additional charge as Warangal Police Commissioner. Twelve other officers from the Telangana Police Department were awarded Indian Police Medal for their meritorious service by the President. The officers include Bhongir ACP N Bhujanga Rao, Deputy Director Anti Corruption Bureau - M Ravinder Reddy, Cyberabad Cyber Crimes ACP - Ch. Yadagiri Srinivas Kumar, TSSP Additional Commandant (4th Battalion), Warangal - M. Jayaraju, DSP (Intelligence), Hyderabad - D Anand Kumar, DSP (Counter Intelligence) - P Venkatagiri, Additional SP Bhadradri Kothagudem - B Kistaiah, DSP (RBVRR TSSP) - K Ravinder Reddy, Inspector IT&C (Technical Service) - E Nagaraju and Malkajgiri Zone Special Branch Sub-Inspector - Shaik Sadiq Ali. Meanwhile, Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar appreciated SI Subramanyam for bagging President’s Police Medal. The officer joined the police department in 1984 as constable and got promoted as head constable in 2002. Later in 2013, he was promoted as Assistant Sub-Inspector, and in 2018 - as SI. Presently, he is working in KPHB Colony police station.
15 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ISB unveils portal on indicators of India’s economy||The Indian School of Business (ISB) has launched a portal that brings together several high-frequency indicators (HFIs) of India’s economic recovery. The launch of the portal — https://indiadataportal.com/jsi — as part of the JumpStartIndia@ISB project is to facilitate a meaningful, real-time analysis of patterns of economic recovery. It will provide visual insights into important indicators at daily or monthly frequency in near-real-time and at district or State-level, a release from ISB on Thursday said. Speaking at the launch, executive director of Bharti Institute of Public Policy at ISB Ashwini Chhatre said: “as the economy recovers from the pandemic-induced lockdown, we are identifying and monitoring selected parameters that indicate change in the level of economic activity on the ground at a high spatial resolution. This would help governments and policymakers in their plans and decision making to get India back on track of economic growth in post COVID scenario.” The HFIs provide a range of data on multiple aspects of the economy.
15 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Webinar on benefits of newspaper reading||A webinar on ‘Benefits of reading newspaper’ for students exposed them to the nuances of news gathering process, differentiating fake news from the genuine, and how newspapers open a whole new world giving them fresh perspectives. The webinar was organised by Vignana Jyothi Institute of Management, Hyderabad, for their students and faculty. SDT Rao, Cluster Head – TS & AP., The Hindu Group of Publications, addressed the webinar touching on brief history of news and newspapers and subsequently elaborated on the various advantages that are in store for students. He detailed the students on the characteristics of good quality news, differentiate quality news from ‘fake news’ and derive the desired benefit. As there is a significant increase in online news consumption, he has also presented various aspects of ePaper, online edition and their features and benefits. Answering questions, Mr Rao reiterated that management students should read the complete newspaper as they are expected to know the developments around the world, in addition to business and corporate news. About 150 students and faculty of the college participated in the session, including VJIM director Ch. S. Durga Prasad..
15 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Srisailam dam likely to get more flood||The chances of Srisailam reservoir, the lifeline for several irrigation and drinking water systems both in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, getting surplus flood this season have increased with the Central Water Commission (CWC) indicating continuation of heavy flood from the upstream for the next 4-5 days increasing its storage substantially. According to a CWC bulletin, heavy to very heavy rains at few places and extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places in the catchment areas of the Krishna river and many of its major tributaries have been forecast both in Maharashtra and Karnataka over the next 2-3 days. It is expected to result in heavy flood to the reservoirs across the tributaries in Maharashtra and in Karnataka. Ujjani dam across Bhima, a tributary of Krishna in Maharashtra, Hidkal dam across Ghataprabha, another tributary, in Karnataka above Almatti, and Tungabhadra dam also in Karnataka are approaching the surplus stage. Release of surplus water from them would bring in heavy flood into Jurala and Srisailam reservoirs in Telangana and AP. The possibilities of Almatti dam getting more heavy flood have increased with Mahabaleshwar recording 17.7 cm rainfall, Koyna 11.2 cm and Warana 5 cm during the 24-hour period till 8.30 a.m. on Friday. Good rainfall was also recorded at several places in the Central Maharashtra rising water levels in all rivers in the region. As a result, Koyna, Veer, Warana and Ujjani dams are expected to surplus and release flood downstream — into Almatti and Ujjani dams. As on Friday evening the flood cushion in Ujjani dam was about 35 tmc ft followed by less than 7 tmc ft in Tungabhadra dam and less than 1.5 tmc ft in Hidkal dam. Inflows into Almatti were around 87,000 cusecs, 60,000 cusecs into Tungabhadra and into Narayanpur around 1.4 lakh cusecs. As a result, Jurala was getting about 1.58 lakh cusecs flood and Srisailam 1.4 lakh cusecs. With heavy rains in the catchment areas of tributaries of Godavari below Sriramsagar project, the flood at Laxmi (Medigadda) barrage was about 1.91 lakh cusecs but it was a whopping 8.48 lakh cusecs at Polavaram with the help of heavy rainfall of 8 cm to 16 cm in the catchment areas of Godavari’s tributaries in Maharashtra, Telangana and Chhattisgarh.
15 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||More rain forecast across Telangana||Heavy rains lashed the State at several places across the State with the South West monsoon being active and also due to the low pressure across Bay of Bengal on Friday. It rained heavily at several places in J. Bhupalpally and at isolated places in Mahabubabad districts. More rain has been forecast for the next two days The twin cities received up to 3.5 cm of rain on Thursday, and though the sky was overcast throughout the day, it was only drizzle at several places on Friday. Temperatures recorded was 25.4 degree C during the day IMD forecast more rain, and the day temperature is likely to creep up to 27 degree C while no major change is expected during the night.
15 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Former school teacher held for burglaries||A former private teacher in Wanaparthy, and four of his accomplices involved in house burglaries, were nabbed by sleuths of Central Crime Station, Shamshabad, on Thursday. The accused are Kosuri Srinivasa Rao (50), a teacher, who hails from Guntur, Rathalavath Shanker Naik (28) of Secunderabad, Mallacheruvu Rama Rao (51), an auto driver from Guntur, Chinthala Sisindhri (24), a labourer from Prakasham district, and Muvva Suresh Babu (43), a petrol pump supervisor from Guntur.
15 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Webinar of Hyd. Runners||Hyderabad Runners, as part of its weekly webinar series, is hosting a talk by Vishwanathan Jayaraman, a Gandhian runner, on August 15, at 7.30 p.m. Mr. Jayaraman, an alumnus of IIT Kanpur, has become synonymous with simplicity, patience, endurance, and has imbibed Mahatma Gandhi's philosophies not only into his lifestyle, but also in running, according to a press release. Those interested can join the webinar at Hyderabad Runners Facebook page.
15 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Children from orphanage shifted to State Home||Children shifted from the Maruthi Orphanage in Ameenpur, where a girl had been sexually assaulted and died later, have all been brought to the State Home of the Women Development and Child Welfare (WDCW) department in Yusufguda on Friday. Earlier, they were evacuated from the home and sent to four different orphanages in the city, while the girl was sent to the government run home in Nimboli Adda. COVID test done Upon directions from Commissioner D. Divya, a total of 29 children have been shifted to the Bala Sadan in Yusufguda, after conducting COVID-19 test on them. All the children tested negative, Ms. Divya informed. While there were a total of 49 inmates, girls above 18 years of age have been shifted to Swadhar homes, she said. Among other actions post this incident, a decision has been taken to take stock of all other children sent home from various CCIs in the State. While a total of 13,000 children stayed in the CCIs, 9,000 of them have left for their parents’ or guardians’ homes following the emergency situation arising out of the spread of COVID-19. Details of the children have been taken and recorded digitally by the WDCW department, and efforts will be made to check on them at their respective homes. “We will send Anganwadi workers to the children’s addresses, who will check on their status and post the details to us along with a photograph of the visit,” Ms. Divya informed. Committee formed A high power inquiry committee has already been constituted to probe into the issue of the child’s death, with members from the CWC, State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, Women’s safety wing of the Police, and Women’s Commission. The committee is to submit its report and recommendations by August 20. A meeting was convened of the committee on Thursday, where a plan of action has been charted out, sources informed. Meanwhile, the exact cause of death of the girl was yet to be ascertained as the post- mortem report has not come. With suspicion that the victim may have been administered drugs, the department has sought a thorough investigation for assessment of the toxicity levels in the body. Sources from the hospital, however, inform that the child died of multiple organ failure probably through septicaemia.
15 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||100-feet tricolour to be unfurled||MA&UD Minister K.T. Rama Rao said that the government is making efforts to give ‘UNESCO Heritage’ tag to Hyderabad. Mr. Rama Rao also informed that a 100-feet tricolour would be unfurled in the market premises on August 15 (Independence Day). He released a book on the market, and felicitated 16 persons who worked to bring the glory back to the structure. Ministers Sabitha Indra Reddy, Mohammed Mahmood Ali, Talasani Srinivas Yadav, MP Asaduddin Owaisi and Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan were present.
15 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Aarogya Setu’s server side source code to be out soon||The Centre will soon release the source code of the Aarogya Setu app on the server side, a Right to Information (RTI) Act query has revealed. Srinivas Kodali, an independent security researcher, who sought the server side source code, had filed the RTI query with the National Informatics Centre, the custodian of the information on the COVID-19 contact tracing app. “The government had released a version of the source code for Android, and not the source code in its entirety. This snowballed into a controversy. The server side source code is important to understand how the whole app functions,” Mr. Kodali said. “The database schema is a technical design component which is specific to Aarogya Setu. Disclosing this may adversely affect the app and its security. This information could also be misused by any other person with malicious/criminal intent,” a reply from the PIO and Deputy DG Nagesh Shastri stated. After the Android version, the IOS version’s source code was made public on Open Forge on August 13.
15 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Kathi Mahesh sent to jail for objectionable remarks on Lord Rama (with photo)||Tollywood actor and film critic Kathi Mahesh was arrested by Hyderabad Cyber Crime police on Friday for his alleged objectionable remarks on Lord Rama on Facebook. Cyber Crime ACP KVM Prasad said that Mahesh, who was remanded to judicial custody, posted derogatory comments about Lord Rama on his Facebook page on Thursday, and several complaints were made against him for hurting religious sentiments.
15 August 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Policemen who had COVID back to work||District SP R. Bhaaskaran welcomed the 24 policemen, who recovered from COVID-19, back to duty on Friday. He handed over an electric vaporiser to each officer as a gesture of congratulation. The recovered police officials thanked the department for words of support and courage during their isolation.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||A commendable attempt||At a crucial juncture in debut director Teja Marni’s Telugu political-social drama Johaar (streaming on Aha), political leader Vijay Varma (Chaitanya Krishna) explains how funds can be gathered, or rather diverted from the allocated budget, with an analogy. If he’s in need of Rs. 100 and usurps the whole amount from his father, he’s likely to get caught. If he took Rs. 25 each from his father, mother, and siblings, they may not notice it. Or, they will make peace with it assuming they didn’t have much to begin with. Vijay needs Rs. 3000 crore to build a statue in memory of his late father, former Chief Minister of the State. He wants a statue that’s taller than 500 feet, can be spotted from a satellite and will pave way for his father, and him, to become a part of history. For this, funds are siphoned from the budget allocated to key sectors. First-time writer-director Teja shows the ramifications of such a political move on agriculture, education, small businesses, and sports, through four stories said to have been inspired by real life incidents. It’s an ambitious idea. As the stories unravel simultaneously in Varanasi, Vizag, Rayalaseema and Srikakulam, and the prime characters are shown to reel under the ripple effects of politics, some stories evoke a strong sense of empathy while others fall short. An ensemble cast breathes life into the stories. Cinematographer Jagadeesh Cheekati, art director Gandhi and music composer Priyadarshan give these four worlds distinct textures. An upbeat music score leads us into Varanasi and this could well be the story of first love, between tea seller Siddharth (Ankith Koyya) and Jyothi (Esther Anil). However, danger lurks in Jyothi’s home that doubles up as a brothel. It’s a telling story of an adolescent who is aware that she won’t be safe if her mother discovers that she has attained puberty. A village near Srikakulam is steeped with waterborne diseases. When Gangamma’s (Easwari Rao’s) child asks how water, a life giver, can also take away someone’s life, there are no answers. Like her late father, the child too is affected by a kidney condition. Gangamma’s only hope is her small farm. In Rayalaseema, a man in his 70s (Subhalekha Sudhakar) holds on to what he learnt as a child from Subhash Chandra Bose and hopes that in new India, there will be a way to provide a decent accommodation for street children.  (Johaar streams on Aha)   Johaar  Cast: Esther Anil, Ankith Koyya, Naina Ganguly, Easwari Rao  Director: Teja Marni  Streaming on: Aha
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 cases cross 1.5 lakh mark in Delhi||As many as 1,192 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 1,50,652, according to a health bulletin released by the government on Friday. Also, 11 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 4,178. Of the total cases, 1,35,108 people have recovered and there are 11,366 active cases. The active cases and also COVID-19 positive people under home isolation have slightly gone up over the past three and two consecutive days respectively. While the active cases increased from 10,868 to 11,366, the people under home isolation increased from 5,598 to 5,882. The number of active cases, which was 27,007 on July 1, had fallen to 9,897 — below the 10,000 mark in months — on August 4, but since then it has remained above that mark. But the number of new cases has been less than 1,500 for the past 29 consecutive days, which is less compared to June. On June 23, daily new cases touched almost 4,000 — highest so far and since then it has been dropping. Though Delhi has a capacity to do around 11,000 RT PCR tests in a day only 6,472 such tests were done in the past 24 hours. Of the total 15,045 tests done in the past 24 hours, over 61.9% of the tests were rapid antigen tests, which have shown a low positivity in the city compared to RT-PCR tests. The positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive, has also dropped from 12.2% to 7.9% compared to July 1. The number of containment zones in the city was 523 as on Friday.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||DU e-mails incorrect paper to students during open book exam||The undergraduate political science students at Delhi University were allegedly sent mock test papers instead of exam papers for a short period during their open book exam on Friday, leading to confusion and anxiety. Saurya Mishra, a student at Indraprastha College for Women, called it “heights of mismanagement”. She said: “We got the mock test paper at 11 a.m. from the university email ID. About half an hour after attempting the paper, a different paper appeared on the portal for the open book exam,” she alleged. “I had already started writing the mock paper when I found out there was a different paper from our class WhatsApp group,” said Ms. Msihra. ‘Re-writing papers’ Tseyang, another student in her class, ended up attempting the first paper and had to re-write the second paper later in the evening. While the test was scheduled at 11.30 a.m., the initial mock test paper was mailed to students at 11.00 a.m. and the final question paper was mailed at 11.40 a.m., the students said. Complaints raised Several students took to social media to complain about the issue with Sharanya Jha, a third-year student, saying that her professors called her up to inform that the paper had been changed. “I was already done writing one answer and then had to start all over again. I can only imagine the number and plight of students who didn’t find out about this new paper at all or not in time,” she said.
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man drowns during idol immersion||A 23-year-old man drowned in the Yamuna during idol immersion in south-east Delhi's Kalindi Kunj on Thursday, the police said. Two of his friends have been rescued, they said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) R.P. Meena said the deceased has been identified as Amit, a resident of Okhla Phase-II. The police said a PCR call was received regarding drowning of a person who had come for idol immersion at Shiv Ghat. On reaching the spot, it was revealed that three persons were stuck in the water due to the currents.“The men were then taken out of the water with the help of private divers,” Mr. Meena said. The three were identified as Rahul (24), Jaspal (15) and Amit. While Rahul and Jaspal were fine, Amit was unconscious and was rushed to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead. Mr. Meena said a further enquiry is under way and a case under Section 174 CrPC has been registered.
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Neighbour rapes teen in Sarita Vihar||A Class IX student was allegedly raped by a neighbour near a public toilet in south-east Delhi’s Sarita Vihar on Friday night, the police said. An officer said they received a PCR call at 11 p.m. from a 40-year-old resident of a camp in Madanpur Khadar stating that his 13-year-old daughter had been raped. The police took the girl to a hospital for medical examination. The father said his daughter, a student of a government school, had gone outside the jhuggi to the public toilet to relieve herself when the incident took place. “Her 18-year-old neighbour and his friend took her behind the bushes and the former raped her,” the officer said. He added that the accused then fled from the spot, leaving the girl semi-conscious. The victim later went home and told her parents. Based on the complaint, a case under Section 376 of the IPC and Sections of Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been registered. Hunt is on for the accused.
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||40-year-old AIIMS doctor found dead in Hauz Khas||A 40-year-old AIIMS doctor was found dead inside his rented accommodation in south Delhi’s Hauz Khas on Friday afternoon, the police said. They said no note has been recovered. The police said they received information that a foul smell was emanating from a house in Gautam Nagar. “After reaching the spot, the police found the decomposed body inside a room on the second floor. The room was locked from the inside,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur. It was revealed that he was doing research in the department of paediatrics in AIIMS Hospital here and last attended office on Tuesday, the DCP said. He had been residing in the room alone since 2006. Inquest proceedings have been initiated. Recently, a 22-year-old student at AIIMS, who was upset, jumped to death. On July 10, a 25-year-old junior doctor also jumped to death.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||SDMC waives off fine for vehicles without RFID tags||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation on Friday said it has decided to waive off penalty imposed on commuters for not having an RFID tag or for inadequate balance in it till October 15 in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The decision was taken at a review meeting on the working of the system and implementation of remaining RFID systems along with members of the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority. So far, commercial vehicles not carrying the tag or having inadequate balance were being charged a penalty of double the amount of toll. Currently, RFID systems have been installed at 13 locations on the city’s borders. Installation of the remaining 111 RFID systems will be completed by January of next year, the SDMC said. Until then, toll plaza employees will be given handheld devices starting in November 2020.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||Gupta- brief||BJP Rohini MLA Vijender Gupta has been judged the most efficient legislator in a survey on 3,958 MLAs from 30 State Assemblies across the country in addition to finding space among the top 50 MLAs from the country by Fame India Asia, a ratings-based publication.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||Nikhil- Landfill brief||The AAP on Friday attacked the BJP-run municipal corporations for the three landfills in the city, in light of the collapse of a portion of Bhalswa landfill, in which three people were injured. The party said these were the “Taj Mahals” of garbage gifted by the BJP to the people of Delhi and said they will go door-to-door to take this matter to the people.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- landfill brief||A day after a portion of the Bhalswa landfill collapsed, North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash inspected the site. Three people engaged in rag-picking and cattle rearing had been reportedly buried under a portion of the landfill. The Mayor said the situation is now under control.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||BJP lashes out at govt. on women’s safety in the city||The BJP Opposition on Friday attacked the Delhi government on the issue of women's safety. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta demanded why the party had not taken any action against a leader arrested on charges of sexual assault despite having pitched the issue of women’s safety among its priorities in its election manifesto. “It was the prominent issue in the manifesto of AAP. But today when the leaders, karyakartas of their own party are involved in crime against women then all the senior leaders and CM Kejriwal are silent,” Mr. Gupta alleged. The Delhi BJP demanded that action be taken against all AAP leaders involved in crime against women and Mukesh Tokas be expelled, he added. In response, the AAP stated the “BJP doesn’t care” about women’s rights and there were position holders and elected members in the BJP who had “serious allegations” of harassment, assault and other serious crimes against them. “If any evidence is found against any AAP member, we will not only expel them from the party but also demand double the punishment for them,” the AAP said.
15 August 2020||Mumbai,||MUHS final year exams to begin on Monday; HC refuses to order stay||The Bombay High Court on Friday refused to stay the final year exams of the Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) and Master of Dental Sciences (MDS) courses scheduled to be conducted by the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS). A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice S.P. Tavade was hearing a petition filed by students Akash Rajput and others through advocate Kuldeep Nikam. As per the petition, the final year BDS exams are scheduled to begin from August 17, while the MDS exam is slated to start on August 25. Mr. Nikam sought a stay on the exams as it would be impractical for students to physically appear for the exams amid the COVID-19 pandemic. He said the students were willing to give the exams if they are held online. Advocate R.V. Govilkar, representing the varsity, said in spite of the pandemic, MUHS is making earnest endeavours to conduct the exams by maintaining physical distancing norms. He said exams would not be conducted for undergraduate students not in the final year. ‘Arrangements in place’ Mr. Govilkar said staying the exams would be a blow to the varsity, which has made arrangements for their smooth conduct, and students who are willing to physically appear for them. The court also questioned the petitioners saying, “You are doctors. If you don’t want to appear for the exams physically, then how are you going to step out to treat patients? We do not consider it proper to grant interim relief at this stage by staying the examinations.” The Bench said there could be students, other than the petitioners, who might be prepared to write the exams, and ordering a stay would be detrimental to their interests. “On the other hand, allowing the exams to be conducted without prejudice to the rights and contentions of the petitioners and subject to the result of this writ petition would sufficiently protect their interests,” the Bench added.
15 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘Won’t appoint private persons as administrator in gram panchayats’||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Friday that no private person would be appointed as an administrator in gram panchayats and preference would be given to government officers. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik was hearing two petitions. One was filed by Vilas D. Kunjir and others, and the other by Pradeep Shivaram Hulawale and others, concerning the Maharashtra Village Panchayat (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, and the government resolutions (GRs) dated July 13 and 14 issued by the State Rural Development Department respectively. The GRs and the ordinance were related to the appointment of private individuals as administrators of gram panchayats and the petitions challenged them on various grounds. Earlier, senior advocates Milind Sathe and Pralhad Paranjpe, appearing for Mr. Hulawale and others, pleaded that no administrator, at least no private person, be appointed to the post. End of tenure An affidavit filed by Eknath Garage, deputy secretary, Rural Development Department, said the terms of 1,566 gram panchayats from 19 districts ended between April and June this year, while the terms of 12,668 gram panchayats would end between July and December. The 52-page affidavit said, “Only about 1,669 out of the sanctioned posts of 1,950 extension officers are filled and certainly these are not sufficient to cover 14,234 gram panchayats. The government servants need to be officers who are personally aware about the overall functioning, working and administration of the gram panchayat.” Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said only government servants will be appointed as administrators till the matter is decided. The court said, “Gram Sevaks normally work in close tandem with the Sarpanch and hence are aware of all the work and procedures. They would be a better option than appointing a private person as administrator.” The matter is posted to be heard on August 24.
15 August 2020||Mumbai,||COVID-19 situation not conducive to reopening of temples, says HC||Observing that the current situation was “not conducive” to reopen places of worship, the Bombay High Court on Friday refused to pass an interim order directing temples in the State to open for the public. A Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice P.V. Tavade said the COVID-19 situation in the State had not improved and people must pray at home. The Bench was hearing a public interest litigation filed through advocate Dipesh Siroya. “The government could open temples and allow only a limited number of worshippers at a time in accordance with its COVID-19 lockdown guidelines,” Mr. Siroya said. The Bench, however, asked him which temple he considered personally, to be the “biggest?” “The biggest temple is humanity,” Mr. Siroya said. To which, the Bench responded, “If you have any love for humanity, do not press for such prayers then. For the love and safety of humanity, pray at home.” The government on August 12 submitted a detailed reply before another Bench of the court explaining how COVID-19 cases were on the rise and that opening temples or any other places of worship was not feasible.
15 August 2020||Mumbai,||State Youth Congress workers detained for protest outside BJP office||The Mumbai Police detained members of the Maharashtra Youth Congress on Friday for protesting outside the BJP’s office in the city claiming that the Centre’s Rs. 20 lakh crore Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan stimulus package was nothing but an eyewash. State Youth Congress chief Satyajit Tambe-Patil said its workers reached out to the intended beneficiaries of the package, but could not find anyone who had received actual help. He said, “We interacted with farmers, people running micro, small and medium enterprises, and unemployed youth, but found no one who received help from the Centre.” Mr. Tambe-Patil said the three BJP MPs from Mumbai should account for the disbursement of funds from the package to the marginalised. Mr. Tambe-Patil said, “We shall exercise our right to protest even after we are released as long as Maharashtra continues to be governed by Dr. B.R. Ambedkar’s Constitution.” BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said if the Youth Congress workers actually care about the poor, then they should pressurise Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to announce a package for them. “But Congress leaders will not show that much courage,” he said. Mumbai BJP president Mangal Prabhat Lodha said, “The Congress is lying. It better undertake a course correction. Otherwise, we will reply in a similar manner.”
15 August 2020||Mumbai,||Court rejects Rana Kapoor’s anticipatory bail plea||A special court on Friday rejected the anticipatory bail plea filed by Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor in a cheating and criminal conspiracy case registered against him by the CBI. Mr. Kapoor is currently in judicial custody after being arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a related case. He had moved the anticipatory bail application before the special CBI court in June. During the pendency of Mr. Kapoor’s plea, the central agency had filed its charge sheet in the case. Mr. Kapoor’s lawyer submitted that since the charge sheet has been filed and the agency has made a plea for the issuance of summons, there was no need for his custodial interrogation. However, the public prosecutor argued that while submitting the charge sheet, the agency had obtained permission for further investigation about the role of Yes Bank officials. He also submitted that since it was a serious economic offence, no ground exists for granting him anticipatory bail. Accepting the central probe agency’s submission, special court judge S.U. Wadgaonkar rejected Mr. Kapoor’s plea. “Considering the facts of the case, the applicant is principal accused and played active role in the crime in question, out of which multi-crore bank fraud was committed,” the court observed. According to the CBI, Mr. Kapoor entered into a criminal conspiracy with Kapil Wadhawan for extending financial assistance to Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd through Yes Bank. The scam took place between April and June 2018.
15 August 2020||Nagpur/Mumbai,||Constable killed in Naxal attack in Gadchiroli||A constable was killed and another was injured in a Naxal attack in Gadchiroli district on Friday morning. A police official said the two constables had gone to a shop in Koti village under Bhamaragadh taluka, where they were fired upon by an “action team” of Naxals. “One of the constables was martyred, while the other got injured in the incident,” he said. The slain constable was identified as Dushyant Nandeshwar and his injured colleague as Dinesh Bhosale. State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh paid tributes to Nandeshwar. “We are part of his family’s grief. Also praying for the speedy recovery of injured jawan,” he tweeted.
15 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Top honour for Navi Mumbai policeman||Navi Mumbai police officer Kondiram Popere (58), who caught the culprits who planted an improvised explosive device near a school in Kalamboli in June 2019, is among 10 personnel from the Maharashtra Police to receive the Union Home Minister’s medal for excellence in investigation. A team headed by Mr. Popere, who is currently posted with the Crime Branch’s Unit II, arrested the four accused within a fortnight. A native of Akola, Mr. Popere lost his father when he was two years old and his mother, a daily wager, raised him and his two siblings. After completing his M.Com and LLB on a scholarship, he worked as a clerk in a bank before joining the police force in 1990, with his first posting in Chembur. The other awardees are Superintendent of Police Jyoti Kshirsagar, Assistant Commissioner of Police Shivaji Pawar, Sameer Shaikh and Kisan Gavali, sub-divisional police officer Anil Gherdikar, Deputy Superintendent of Police Narayan Shirgaonkar, senior police inspector Narendra Hiware and inspectors Rajendra Bokade and Uttam Sonawane. 58 win President’s medal A total of 58 personnel from the State have been chosen for the President’s police medals. Fourteen officers posted in Gadchiroli district will be awarded medals for gallantry for their role in the fight against Naxals.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC rejects DU’s plea on panel||The Delhi High Court on Friday turned down Delhi University’s plea to reconstitute a five-member Grievance Redressal Committee for students that was ordered by a single-judge Bench last week. The court however, decided to add another member to the panel and make it a six-member body with the rider that in the event of any cleavage in opinion, the casting vote will be by chairperson.
15 August 2020||Pune,||Pune industrial units warned against suppressing information||Though Pune is finally beginning to show a dip in the number of positive cases, the COVID-19 situation in Pimpri-Chinchwad, rural regions of Pune, and Solapur, Kolhapur and Satara districts continue to remain worrisome, Pune Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao said on Friday.   He said there were a number of complaints against some industrial units in the rural areas for not following precautionary measures, and warned that these units would face action under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. “There has been a notable rise in COVID-19 cases in rural parts, especially those in the Chakan and the Ranjangaon Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporations (MIDCs). We have received complaints from local elected representatives that companies are not taking steps to ensure the safety of their employees and that they are suppressing information by failing to inform authorities of cases among their workforce,” he said. Orders soon Mr. Rao said they would be issuing an order to all industrial units in Chakan, Rajgurunagar and Ranjangaon mandating them to follow regulations or face action. Earlier, Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar chaired two meetings to review the COVID-19 situation in Pune district, including one on the spread of the pandemic in rural areas. While Mr. Pawar, who is also Pune’s Guardian Minister, expressed satisfaction at the high recovery rate in the district, he also urged the authorities to increase testing in rural areas.   “We have decided to purchase 50,000 antigen kits immediately for this purpose,” Mr. Pawar said. Mounting cases While Pune city has been seeing an average daily surge of more than 1,100 cases for the past three weeks, Pimpri-Chinchwad has been reporting an average of 900 new cases daily. Likewise, Pune rural and the semi-urban areas have been averaging at 250 fresh cases daily. While Pune city currently has around 14,800-odd active cases, Pimpri-Chinchwad has 7,500. Three weeks ago, this number was just a little over 2,500. “In wake of the mounting cases, we have identified 52 hospitals across the district which will be brought under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (the State government’s flagship health insurance scheme) to provide free treatment to COVID-19 patients,” Mr. Rao said. Medical establishments in rural areas too would follow a centralised bed system allocation like in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. “We will be monitoring cases of hospitals overcharging in these parts, while teams will be constituted to follow up on the bed management system, just like in the PMC and the PCMC areas,” Mr. Rao said.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||How Biden chose Kamala Harris as candidate for Vice-President||It was early in Joe Biden’s vice-presidential search when he asked his advisers a sensitive question about Sen. Kamala Harris. He kept hearing so much private criticism of her from other California Democrats, he wanted to know: Is she simply unpopular in her home State? Advisers assured Mr. Biden that was not the case: Ms. Harris had her share of Democratic rivals and detractors in the factional world of California politics, but among regular voters, her standing was solid. Mr. Biden’s query, and the quiet attacks that prompted it, helped begin a delicate audition for Ms. Harris that has never before been revealed in depth. She faced daunting obstacles, including an array of strong competitors, unease about her within the Biden family, and bitter feuds from California and the 2020 primary season that exploded anew. Though Ms. Harris was seen from the start as a front-runner, Mr. Biden did not begin the process with a favourite in mind, and he settled on Ms. Harris only after an exhaustive review that forged new political alliances, deepened existing rivalries and further elevated a cohort of women as leaders in their party. Ms. Harris was one of four finalists for the job, along with Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan and Susan E. Rice, the former National Security Adviser. But in the eyes of Mr. Biden and his advisers, Ms. Harris alone covered every one of their essential political needs. Ms. Rice had sterling foreign-policy credentials and a history of working with Mr. Biden, but was inexperienced as a candidate. Ms. Warren had an enthusiastic following and became a trusted adviser to Mr. Biden on economic matters, but she represented neither generational nor racial diversity. Ms. Whitmer, a moderate, appealed to Mr. Biden’s political and ideological instincts, but selecting her also would have yielded an all-white ticket. Other candidates rose and faded in the process: Sen. Tammy Duckworth of Illinois powerfully impressed Mr. Biden’s search team, but his lawyers feared she would face challenges to her eligibility because of the circumstances of her birth overseas. Rep. Karen Bass of California emerged as a favorite among elected officials and progressives — Speaker Nancy Pelosi spoke glowingly of her to Mr. Biden — but the relationship-focused Mr. Biden barely knew her. Pragmatic and personal In the end, Mr. Biden embraced Ms. Harris as a partner for reasons that were both pragmatic and personal — a sign of how the former Vice-President, who is oriented toward seeking consensus and building broad coalitions, might be expected to govern. Indeed, Mr. Biden has already told allies he hopes a number of the other vice-presidential contenders will join his administration in other roles. This account of Mr. Biden’s decision is based on interviews with more than three dozen people involved in the process, including advisers to Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris, allies of other vice-presidential prospects and Democratic leaders deeply invested in the outcome of the search. Mr. Biden’s instincts were not destined to lead him to Ms. Harris: He and members of his family had long expressed discomfort with the way she attacked him at a Democratic primary debate, and his political advisers remembered well the seemingly constant dysfunction of her presidential campaign. There was a particular distrust in the Biden camp for the sharp-elbowed California operatives with whom Ms. Harris has long surrounded herself, fearing that they might seek to undermine Mr. Biden in office to clear the way for Ms. Harris in 2024. Yet no other candidate scored as highly with Mr. Biden’s selection committee on so many of their core criteria for choosing a running mate, including her ability to help Mr. Biden win in November, her strength as a debater, her qualifications for governing and the racial diversity she would bring to the ticket. No other candidate seemed to match the political moment better. Harry Reid, the former Senate majority leader, said race had been essential to Mr. Biden’s decision. “I think he came to the conclusion that he should pick a Black woman,” Mr. Reid said. Ms. Harris worked to soothe misgivings in the Biden family, including from Jill Biden and Valerie Biden Owens, Mr. Biden’s sister and longtime adviser. But Ms. Harris also drew upon a family link unmatched by any other candidate: her friendship with Mr. Biden’s elder son, Beau, who died from cancer in 2015.NY Times
15 August 2020||Riyadh,||Saudi ex-spy’s lawsuit makes explosive claims||A former Saudi intelligence czar’s lawsuit in the U.S. courts makes a host of incendiary claims, including that the powerful Crown Prince tried to have him killed, and threatens to spill more royal secrets. A source close to the Saudi royal court has shrugged off Saad Aljabri’s 107-page lawsuit filed last week, insisting that the former spy chief himself faced serious allegations of corruption. But the case, lodged after Riyadh detained two of Mr. Aljabri’s adult children without charge, threatens to become a public slanging match that could pull aside the curtain on the kingdom’s Shakespearean power plays. Silencing critics The lawsuit marks the first time a former top official has legally challenged Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and, if true, exposes what observers call a violent government campaign to snare overseas rivals and critics. “There is virtually no one (Prince Mohammed) wants dead more than Dr Saad,” the suit said, claiming a hit team was sent after him just two weeks after members of the same squad murdered journalist Jamal Khashoggi. Mr. Aljabri, exiled in Canada, is a former intelligence chief and top aide to Prince Mohammed bin Nayef, who was deposed as heir to the throne by Prince Mohammed in a 2017 palace coup.  Releasing what it says are WhatsApp exchanges with Prince Mohammed, the suit accuses him of strong arm tactics to induce Mr. Aljabri to return to the kingdom after Mr. Nayef’s downfall prompted him to flee. They range from trying to entice Mr. Aljabri with a job offer to an unsuccessful attempt to have him extradited through Interpol, and the detention in March of his two children as a bargaining chip. Then in October 2018, the suit alleges, the Prince sent “Tiger Squad” assassins armed with forensic tools to kill him in Canada — chillingly similar to the way Khashoggi was targeted in Istanbul. A senior Saudi official said the government was preparing its response to the lawsuit, while Canada has not denied the claim that it intercepted a Saudi hit squad. An ally to CIA Former CIA officials have come out in support of Mr. Aljabri, praising him as a long-time partner in counterterrorism efforts who helped thwart multiple attacks on U.S. interests. It is unclear how the lawsuit will play out in the United States, where neither Mr. Aljabri nor the Crown Prince is based. But it could still worry Riyadh as it emphasises that Mr. Aljabri possesses “sensitive, humiliating and damning information” on the Crown Prince, including recordings that will be made public if he is killed. Offering a foretaste of the secrets Mr. Aljabri harbours was an explosive claim buried in the lawsuit — that in 2015, Prince Mohammed secretly encouraged Russia to intervene in the Syrian conflict, a move that infuriated the CIA. Two months later, Russian forces launched their intervention, effectively eliminating any chance of a military victory for the Syrian opposition, which the kingdom claimed to support. Neither Moscow nor Riyadh have addressed the claim.
15 August 2020||Washington,||Trump stokes false ‘birther’ claim||U.S. President Donald Trump said on Thursday that he had heard Democratic vice-presidential running mate Kamala Harris was not eligible to serve, stoking a false claim echoing the baseless “birther” theory he had promoted about former President Barack Obama. At a White House news conference, Mr. Trump was asked about “claims circulating on social media” that Ms. Harris was not eligible and whether he could say she met the legal requirements for Vice-President. “I heard it today that she doesn’t meet the requirements. And, by the way, the lawyer that wrote that piece is a very highly qualified, very talented lawyer. I have no idea if that’s right,” said Mr. Trump. “I would have assumed the Democrats would have checked that out before she gets chosen to run for Vice-President,” he said. “But that’s a very serious — you’re saying that — they’re saying that she doesn’t qualify because she wasn't born in this country.” The reporter replied that Ms. Harris was born in the United States but her parents might not have been permanent residents at the time. Mr. Trump appeared to be referring to a Newsweek op-ed by a conservative law professor wrongly claiming the California Senator was not eligible to serve as Vice-President or President because of the immigration status of her parents when she was born. Ms. Harris was born in Oakland, California in 1964 to a father from Jamaica and a mother from India. Claims against Obama Mr. Trump earned national political prominence by promoting the “birther” lie that Mr. Obama, America’s first black President, was not born in the United States. He grudgingly acknowledged late in his 2016 presidential campaign that Mr. Obama was born in the United States. In his Newsweek op-ed, Chapman University law professor John Eastman claimed some “commentators” said Ms. Harris was ineligible as she was not a “natural born citizen” as her parents were not naturalised U.S .citizens at the time of her birth. According to the Constitution, any natural born U.S. citizen over the age of 35 is eligible to be President or Vice-President. Constitutional law expert Erwin Chemerinsky told CBS News the claim about Ms. Harris “is a truly silly argument.” Mr. Eastman’s op-ed was published a day after Democratic challenger Joe Biden announced Ms. Harris as his running mate, the first woman of colour tapped by a major party for the post.
15 August 2020||Kabul,||Afghan govt. frees ‘dangerous’ militants||Afghan authorities said on Friday that they had started to release 400 Taliban prisoners, the final hurdle in long-delayed peace talks between the two warring sides, even as President Ashraf Ghani warned they were a “danger to the world”. The Afghan government and the Taliban are set to meet within days of the prisoner release being completed, in a move that has drawn widespread condemnation after it emerged that many of the inmates were involved in attacks that killed scores of Afghans and foreigners. A group of 80 prisoners had been released on Thursday, National Security Council spokesman Javid Faisal said, tweeting that it would “speed up efforts for direct talks and a lasting, nationwide ceasefire”.  Starting peace talks The release of 400 militants was approved at the weekend by a gathering of thousands of prominent Afghans who said they wanted to pave the way for talks to begin in Doha, Qatar, and a possible ceasefire. But the decision has caused heartache for the families of those killed by the insurgents. “If (the Taliban) can’t bring peace and they attack again, thousands of people will be killed and their families will be tormented,” said Bashir Naween, whose brother was killed in a 2017 truck bombing near the Germany embassy in Kabul, an attack involving one of the militants due to be released. “But if the real peace comes, we won’t have any problems because... our big dream is peace,” he said. The prisoners include at least 44 insurgents of particular concern to the United States and other countries for their role in high-profile attacks, according to an official list. Mr. Ghani warned on Thursday that the hardened criminals were “likely to pose a danger both to us and to (America) and to the world”.
15 August 2020||Jerusalem,||Iran, Turkey lash out at UAE over Israel deal||Iran and Turkey lashed out at their regional rival the United Arab Emirates (UAE) on Friday over its decision to normalise diplomatic relations with Israel, accusing it of betraying the Palestinian cause, even as much of the international community welcomed the move. Iran’s Foreign Ministry called the U.S.-brokered deal a “dagger that was unjustly struck by the UAE in the backs of the Palestinian people and all Muslims.” Turkey said the peoples of the region “will never forget and will never forgive this hypocritical behavior” by the UAE. The UAE, which has never fought Israel and has quietly been improving ties for years, said the agreement put a hold on Israel’s plans to unilaterally annex parts of the occupied West Bank, which the Palestinians view as the heartland of their future state. But the Turkish Foreign Ministry said the UAE had no authority to negotiate with Israel on behalf of the Palestinians or “to make concessions on matters vital to Palestine.” The agreement would make the UAE the first Gulf Arab state — and the third Arab country, after Egypt and Jordan — to have full diplomatic ties with Israel. The Palestinians say the deal amounts to “treason” and have called on Arab and Muslim countries to oppose it. Later on Friday, Turkish President Recep Erdogan said he was considering downgrading Turkey’s relations with the UAE and recalling its Ambassador. Oman welcomes move Oman, a Gulf country that has cultivated closer ties with Israel in recent years, even hosting a visit by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu last year, meanwhile welcomed the agreement. Germany’s Foreign Minister Heiko Maas welcomed both the agreement and the decision to suspend annexation, and called to congratulate his Israeli counterpart Gabi Ashkenazi on “this historic step.”
15 August 2020||Beirut,||Judge named to lead Beirut blast probe||Ten days after the deadly Beirut explosion, rescue workers recovered the remains of firefighters killed while battling the initial blaze, as authorities appointed a well-respected judge to lead the investigation. Authorities named judge Fadi Sawan, known, according to judicial sources, for his independence and integrity, to lead investigations into the explosion. But he will not himself question current and former Ministers on the ammonium nitrate that was stocked at the port. They will instead be referred to a special judicial body specialised in questioning government officials. Mohammad Javad Zarif, Foreign Minister of Iran was set to meet officials in the capital on Friday. At the now-devastated port, rescue workers continued to recover the remains of those killed by the ignition of a huge shipment of ammonium nitrate fertiliser left unsecured in a warehouse for six years. Relatives of three firefighters from the same family, who had been at the port attempting to put out the fire thought to have ignited the blast, were informed that the remains of two of them had been identified by DNA analysis.
15 August 2020||Istanbul,||Turkey hits out at France over sea stand-off||Turkey accused France on Friday of acting like a bully and stepped up its own charm offensive as EU Foreign Ministers met to address an emerging crisis in the energy-rich eastern Mediterranean. The search for oil and gas in disputed waters not far from Cyprus has pitted Turkey against its uneasy NATO ally Greece and the entire EU bloc. Turkey’s decision to send a seismic vessel accompanied by a small Navy fleet into the increasingly volatile region on Monday prompted Greece to dispatch in its own military assets to observe what was going on. France on Thursday also announced it was “temporarily reinforcing” its military presence in the eastern Mediterranean in support of Greece. That decision only further worsened France’s tensions with Turkey — already high because of opposing approaches to the Libya conflict and other parts of the region — and saw the diplomatic rhetoric rise another notch. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Thursday underscored the fraught nature of the stand-off by warning of a “heavy price” to pay for those who threaten Turkey’s Oruc Reis research ship. The Greek Defence Ministry denied being involved in any incident with the ship.
15 August 2020||Islamabad,||Pakistan ‘defeated’ terrorism despite ‘heavy odds’: President says in Independence Day speech||Pakistan on Friday said that it has “defeated” terrorism and has “come a long way” despite battling “heavy odds” both at “external as well as internal fronts”, as the country celebrated its 74th Independence Day. President Arif Alvi urged the people to stay united in order to meet the country’s challenges.PTI
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||The life and death of a ‘gangster’ in exile||Brindavanam runs an eatery in a shack in Balaji Nagar in Coimbatore, a calm residential area less than five km from the airport. Normally he is busy selling hot dosas to customers, but now Brindavanam unwittingly finds himself in the spotlight. He is now a witness in a case involving a gangster and two nations. On August 2, Brindavanam’s sedate routine was disrupted when news channels flashed the photo of a well-built man, a customer who used to buy dosas at his eatery, with the ‘breaking news’ tag that he was dead. News channels said the taciturn man in his thirties was Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera alias Angoda Lokka, an underworld operative from Sri Lanka. Watching the news, it struck Brindavanam that the two-storied house close to his eatery had been swarming with men in khaki and plain clothes a day before, and that the police had been on the trail already. It was the first time he was hearing the name Angoda Lokka. Brindavanam had a feeling that this was just the beginning of a long story. “He used to walk past my shop to the nearest garbage bin to dump waste once or twice a week, mostly after sunset,” Brindavanam said. “While walking back to his home, he would stop to place an order for dosa or ghee roast, and take the parcel home. He would not speak an extra word.” One of his employees added: “The police came by and showed us the photo of a man with a large tattoo on his biceps, which we recognised.” Brindavanam’s employees told the police that on some days, a woman also accompanied Lokka. The police later identified her as Amani Thanji, a 27-year-old Sri Lankan. Soon, every person who was a part of the gangster’s limited life outside his home was interrogated. Lokka also used to frequent a grocery store to buy cigarettes. “At times, he spoke in broken Tamil. The conversation was mostly limited to the brand of cigarette he wanted,” said shopkeeper Velmurugan who did not know his regular customer’s name. Prabhu, an instructor of a gym, where Lokka was a regular visitor since August 2019, was also questioned. He too painted what had become a familiar picture: that of a man who just minded his own business. Investigators also tried to find footage of Lokka from the surveillance camera at the gym, at a nearby locality called Cheran Ma Nagar, but they drew a blank. From Sri Lanka to India Though his was an unfamiliar name in India, in Sri Lanka, Angoda Lokka’s name popped up in the media every now and then over the last few years. Whenever the police arrested suspects in connection with narcotics smuggling cases, news reports would refer to some arrested men as associates of “underworld gangster Angoda Lokka”. It was not just alleged drug traffickers who came under the police radar because of their suspected links to Lokka. On July 30, the local media reported that the police seized an eagle “suspected to have been used by underworld kingpin Angoda Lokka” in his alleged drug trafficking ring. The police intelligence unit also arrested two others at the time, while raiding a farm in the Western Province. The white bellied sea eagle, that the police suspected was “imported”, joined a growing list of “associates” of the wanted suspect. Angoda Lokka, who took his name from the locality ‘Angoda’, 12 km from Colombo, was wanted in connection with several crimes in Sri Lanka, including murder, illegal sand mining, land reclamation, extortion and drug smuggling, local media reports in the country indicate. Notably, he was a key suspect in the February 2017 attack on a prison bus, in which notorious underworld leader ‘Samayan’, among others, was killed. The Sri Lankan police believe Lokka fled the country days after the incident and considered him to be “absconding” since. “As per investigations at the time, he left Sri Lanka on March 1, 2017, by boat from Mannar,” Police Spokesman Senior Superintendent of Police Jaliya Senaratne said. Located on the western tip of the island’s Northern Province, Mannar is the closest point to India, separated only by the narrow Palk Strait. On whether the Sri Lankan police sought any information from their Indian counterparts after Lokka reportedly fled the country, Senaratne said: “It was only suspected that he could have fled to India. Since we had no confirmation of that, we had not sought any information from India at the time.” Lokka’s case coincided with Sri Lanka’s heightened war on the growing “drug menace” in the country. Vowing to hang offenders, former Sri Lankan President Maithripala Sirisena instructed the police to step up action. Last year, the police made huge hauls of heroin worth millions. At the time, there was speculation that Lokka may have fled to Dubai, to meet ‘Makandure Madush’, Sri Lanka’s most wanted underworld drug kingpin, whom the Dubai police subsequently arrested along with his associates and deported. “There was no evidence, but some of us suspected that Lokka had left for Dubai from India,” said a senior official source, requesting anonymity. While Madush’s arrest in Dubai made top headlines in Sri Lanka, there was relatively less media coverage of the possible whereabouts of Lokka at that time. In March 2018, the state-run Sunday Observer weekend newspaper reported that two underworld figures, Lokka and his aide Athurugiriya Ladiya, had escaped from their detention facility in Chennai. The report, quoting police sources, said the two were part of an “underworld gang war”. Lokka and Madush, the report said, were suspected to have played a role from abroad, in executing a spate of killings in Sri Lanka from 2017 to 2018, of several individuals including a police officer. Death and a fake Aadhaar card In the days that followed the startling revelation of Lokka’s death, on August 2, local police personnel and ‘Q’ Branch, CID officials sweated to sketch the portrait of a man who had kept an extremely low profile. It emerged that he had lived in Coimbatore since October 2018. Apart from Balaji Nagar, he had also lived in Saravanampatti, only five km away. There had been speculative reports by the Sri Lankan media that the wanted criminal had been killed in India early this July, and the August investigation revealed that he had lived under an assumed name and had died on July 3.   The police arrested D. Sivakamasundari, 36, an advocate from Madurai district; her law college junior S. Dyaneswaran, 32, a native of Erode district; and Lokka’s companion Thanji on various charges including criminal conspiracy, furnishing false documents, harbouring an offender, personation and forgery of records. The First Information Report initially registered by the Peelamedu police after the suspect’s death, under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, said Thanji took the help of two neighbours to rush Lokka, who had suddenly collapsed after complaining of chest pain, to a private hospital close by at around 9.30 p.m. on July 3. The doctors at the hospital declared him brought dead and asked those accompanying him to take the body to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). Thanji sought the help of Sivakamasundari who arrived from Madurai and approached the police on July 5  to complete formalities for the post-mortem. The FIR said Sivakamasundari, who posed as a relative, submitted a copy of the Aadhaar card of the deceased which bore the name Pradeep Singh with a Madurai address. After the post-mortem was completed on July 5, she took the body to Madurai where it was cremated, according to the police. Some Sri Lankan media reported that a video of the last rites at Madurai was shown to a family member in the island nation. Once this intelligence reached Tamil Nadu, the police rechecked the background of the deceased and found that the Aadhaar card, a copy of which the woman advocate submitted at the station, had been obtained through forged documents. The police altered the FIR on August 2. Based on that, Sivakamasundari, Dyaneswaran and Thanji were arrested the same day. “Had the local police checked the background of the deceased and the Sri Lankan woman who lived with him, soon after the death, these details would have emerged earlier,” said a senior police officer, on condition of anonymity. CB-CID investigators said Lokka was booked by the police in Chennai in 2017 for illegal arrival in India. Though he had obtained bail, the police were not sure whether he had been deported to Sri Lanka or had continued to stay in India. “As per the information available to us, he had lived in many parts of India,” said a ‘Q’ Branch official. Local police and the CB-CID found that the Aadhaar card in the name of Pradeep Singh was actually obtained in West Bengal, and the address had later been changed to Madurai. Cause of death The CB-CID, which formed seven special teams to handle the investigation, is clear about its priority: “ It is to confirm the identity of the individual (who died in Coimbatore),” said K. Shankar, Inspector General of Police, CB-CID. Though the available evidence and the confessions of Sivakamasundari, Dyaneswaran and Thanji established the identity of the deceased as Lokka, based on which the local police said the deceased was the Sri Lankan fugitive, the CB-CID wants to prove this scientifically so that it will stand judicial scrutiny. Efforts are on to confirm the identity of the deceased by matching his DNA with the DNA of Lokka’s blood relatives in Sri Lanka. The CB-CID is also trying to match the fingerprints found at the Balaji Nagar house with the fingerprints of Lokka collected by the police in Chennai in 2017. The investigators are not yet ready to buy the information floating in the public domain that Lokka could have been killed by a rival gang by employing Thanji, whose husband had reportedly been killed in a gang rivalry battle in Sri Lanka in 2017. They feel that the need to probe this aspect will arise only if the post-mortem report finds that the death was unnatural as against the claim of the three accused that he died of a cardiac arrest. The post-mortem certificate issued by the Department of Forensic Medicine at CMCH, which The Hindu has seen, does not make mention of any unnatural findings. However, one senior civil assistant surgeon who performed the autopsy observed that the “finger and toenails of the deceased were bluish in colour”. Though this was recorded, a forensic surgeon said that kind of discolouration can occur due to a number of factors such as low levels of oxygen when a person dies of heart attack and strangulation, and not just in a case of poisoning. Also, since the deceased did not have any external and internal injuries, there was no ground for suspecting foul play. There was no suspicion of poisoning at the time of post-mortem to commission a detailed visceral analysis. The viscera collected during the autopsy was later sent for chemical analysis while the heart was preserved and sent for histopathological examination. The results of these are awaited. “We have requested the team to expedite the results,” said T. Jeyasingh, Head of the Department of Forensic Medicine at CMCH. A nose job It was Dyaneswaran who found the houses for Lokka in Coimbatore, said the police and a person close to the house owner. “Dyaneswaran took the house at Balaji Nagar on rent in February this year. He told us that a friend who was going to get married would stay at the house for a brief period before leaving for Dubai,” a woman neighbour said. The FIR registered by the police said Thanji arrived at Madurai airport in early March this year and later moved to Lokka’s house in Coimbatore with the help of Sivakamasundari. She told the police that she could not go back to Sri Lanka as India by then was under a lockdown and had cancelled regular international flights. Initial investigation by the police and the CB-CID found that Dyaneswaran and Sivakamsundari had helped Lokka several times. They had even helped him get a rhinoplasty surgery at a hospital in R.S. Puram in Coimbatore in February this year. Lokka told the doctors that he wanted to pursue a career in acting, and thus wanted to get the nose job done. “They initially approached a clinic doing cosmetic surgeries at Peelamedu in Coimbatore. We are not sure why he got the procedure done, because the before and after pictures did not show much of a change in his appearance,” said a ‘Q’ Branch official. CB-CID, ‘Q’ Branch and sleuths from the Research and Analysis Wing are also investigating whether Lokka got help from sympathisers of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam to hide in India. Digging into the antecedents of his accomplices yielded more proof of a shady past. Sivakamasundari’s father Dinakaran had a case registered against him at the Manamadurai police station in Sivaganga district of Tamil Nadu in 2006 in connection with the transportation of explosive materials, allegedly meant to be despatched to Sri Lanka. Investigations found that Sivakamasundari had unusual transactions through her multiple bank accounts which, according to the Inspector General of the CB-CID, were under scrutiny. No phone found While the reason behind Lokka’s death is yet to be concluded, investigators are probing several other aspects too. Among them is the fact that Lokka’s phone and other possible digital devices used by him are missing. The Peelamedu police, who investigated the case before the CB-CID, had seized mobile phones, a tablet, a laptop and multiple SIM cards belonging to Thanji, Dyaneswaran and Sivakamasundari. However, no digital device used by Lokka was found, said G. Stalin, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Coimbatore City Police. Did he not own a mobile phone? Neighbours said Lokka used to order food through food delivery applications. For this, he would have needed a mobile phone, a tablet or a computer. The police recovered a cache of dinars and Singapore and American dollars from the house. All the materials collected by the police were handed over to the CB-CID when the latter took over the investigation. Meanwhile, the Sri Lankan police has sent photographs and fingerprints to the Indian authorities. “We have also collected DNA samples,” Senaratne told The Hindu . Further, the spotlight appears to have returned to neighbourhoods around Angoda, going by developments this week. On Tuesday night, police shot dead a man identified as Lokka’s “ally”, after he tried “hurling a grenade at the police.” Local media also reported the arrest of the “finance manager of Angoda Lokka”, based on Lokka’s money trail. As the investigations span two countries, sleuths are trying to go back and establish if the deceased was indeed Lokka, when and how he had come to India, and how the presence of a foreign ‘gangster’ completely escaped the attention of the authorities in India. Police hope that as the investigation progresses, they will be able to tie up all the loose ends, and explain the mysterious last few years of the life and the death of Pradeep Singh alias Angoda Lokka alias Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera. Meera Srinivasan contributed to reporting from Sri Lanka
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Gaps in the casting of India’s foreign policy||At a time ‘when sorrows come’, not as ‘single spies, but in battalions’ with an unprecedented pandemic, Chinese soldiers squatting on India’s side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), cartographic aggression by little Nepal, Iran joining a virtual alliance with China, Russia getting close to China, Pakistan shooting across the Line of Control (LoC), a looming financial crisis and other challenges, fundamental questions are being asked about the strategic depth of our foreign policy. Fervent calls are being made to go back to the drawing board and shape new policies in these and other cases. It goes without saying that the government will examine all these and other international developments and apply correctives wherever possible. Since the global situation itself is in a flux, there will be many surprises on the way and our own positions will also influence the shape of the post-COVID-19 world. Many in India have been taken by surprise at these developments because of the numerous fairy tales which surround international issues, a number of them having been created for the feel-good factor. The understanding of every issue is at three different levels. One is the real situation, which is known only to those at the higher levels and the interlocuters in the government. The second is the official version, properly calibrated for the guidance of spokespersons of the government, while the third is a more rosy picture for the general public who should feel comfortable that the government that they have elected is doing well. The fairy tales are created by the official and friendly press and commentators and are lapped up by public opinion, with a sense that all is well with the world. The dream world gets disturbed occasionally when the reality pierces through the carefully created layers of positive impressions and the surprise turns into concern and even panic. Fire-fighting follows to reset relations and to bring back a sense of comfort and normalcy. The fundamental issues remain dormant, but a few high-level conversations, some business deals and carefully crafted joint statements take care of concerns, which disappear as public memory is proverbially short. This is a game that all governments play, not only in India but around the world. Dealing with China The most recent example of a relationship clouded by fairy tales is the one with China. With all the investments made by the Prime Minister and our large galaxy of China experts, we had no inkling of the Chinese perfidy as we had romanticised the ‘Wuhan Spirit’ and the ‘Chennai Connect’ in Mamallapuram, Tamil Nadu. The Prime Minister who alone knew what transpired at these informal summits, said nothing, but his body language and enthusiasm lulled us into thinking that these leaders would never fight a war. It came as a complete surprise that the Chinese amassed troops on the LAC and the Prime Minister characterised the Chinese action as expansionist. But strangely, apart from calling for a reset of relations, we have begun to create a legend that China has committed a “Himalayan blunder” by its military adventure on the border. Even before the promised disengagement has taken place, we have concluded that China lost the battle, which it had begun after careful planning and preparations. We have declared victory in a battle that has not ended. Russian ties We were surprised in 1962 that the erstwhile Soviet Union refused to intervene in the India-China conflict on the plea that “one was a brother and the other was a friend”. Even with that experience, we had taken the support of Russia for granted this time, obviously because of the new relationship which has been established after the Prime Minister’s visits to Sochi and Vladivostock. We now know that the rose-tinted glasses of reliability through which the general public sees Russia are unreal. A President of India had remarked that Russia is an exception to the rule that there are no permanent friends. Russia’s quasi-alliance with China is a reality, while our perception of Russia has the veil of a fairy tale. Our close defence relationship, with 60% of our arms supply coming from Russia is explicable, but not sustainable. A ministerial meeting of India, China and Russia a week after the loss of 20 Indian soldiers at the LAC was intriguing to say the least. UNSC high table and NSG The most celebrated fairy tale is the impression created that the UN Security Council will be expanded soon, and that India will be a permanent member. The impression is widespread even in informed circles because of the occasional optimistic reports emanating from New York. We have been campaigning for a reform of the Security Council since 1979 and there has been really no progress on the issue of new permanent members. Many reports have been written, but as of today there is no formula which can enjoy two-thirds majority of the General Assembly and the unanimous support of the permanent members. The vast majority of the members of the UN would want to abolish the veto rather than give it to more countries. To maintain the myth that India is likely to get a place on the high table with veto power is to keep an illusion alive. A former Foreign Secretary has recently clarified that there was no offer of a permanent seat to India during the days of Jawaharlal Nehru, hopefully ending the speculation on that score. Membership of the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) is another mirage that the public believes is a reality. India joining the NSG is like Russia joining the North Atlantic Treaty Organization because the NSG was set up originally to deny India any nuclear material following India’s nuclear tests in 1974. Every member of the NSG is a signatory to the NPT and the best it could do was to give us an unconditional waiver, which we already have. The civil liability law We hear about six American nuclear reactors being set up in Andhra Pradesh every time there is a discussion on bilateral relations. Here again, the presumption is that the hurdle of our Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage Bill, placing the responsibility of any damages being on the supplier, will wither away. Many formulae are being suggested, but a senior nuclear scientist admitted a couple of years ago that the United States was using the Liability Law as a smokescreen not to transfer nuclear technology to India. The Clinton White House was of the view that India could use the India-U.S. Agreement on Civil Nuclear Cooperation for acquiring technology and material from other countries, and the U.S. should refrain from strengthening India’s nuclear capability. This position does not seem to have changed. There could be instances of other unsubstantiated expectations among the public because of repeated expressions of optimism which are considered harmless. The exaggerated faith in the value of soft power as an instrument of foreign policy and the theory that there is no point in nursing constituencies such as the Non-Aligned Movement may be some of them. But the danger of disillusionment when hopes are belied is greater than removing the cobwebs of fairy tales that shroud key foreign policy questions. T.P. Sreenivasan is former Ambassador of India and Governor for India of the IAEA, Chairman, Academic Council and Director, NSS Academy of Civil Services, and Director General, Kerala International Centre
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Democracy needs an Internet ombudsman||In any triangle of relationship, trust is the first casualty. In the interplay between government, companies and citizens for big data, information asymmetry has become so skewed that it has eroded the very spirit of democracy by limiting the unbiased communication of ideas. Governments and private companies are using the Internet as ‘a means of control and surveillance, extending from cases of fraud detection, storage and exchange of criminal and financial records to those of political surveillance and control’. Citizens who receive a flood of unfiltered information, information with colour but no patterns, information with images that can never add up to the real picture, recirculate the same back into the infantile world for greater chaos. Resultantly, “Information Superhighways” (coined by the U.S.’s “almost” President Al Gore) in democracy are leading to “re-tribalisation” of politics in cabals and cocoons while deliberations are fast transforming into ‘consultations among computer systems’ where trust and security are illusions. At a time when the Internet is the new jazz and a tool as also a venue for all political hues, it is important to understand how government, political parties and citizens are responding to this new triangular interplay between data protection, privacy and a flow of information. When the Government of India banned 59 Chinese apps on the ground of transgressing Indian security, the question as to why in the first instance were they allowed into India did not get sufficient importance. Was there no security or privacy audit? While Facebook and Amazon are facing scrutiny on their own soil for their data mining policies, how did we allow so many apps without any check? Government policy on national security should be based on advance strategic assessment rather than on a reactive basis. ‘Control’ and also data theft On the privacy front, even after the Supreme Court of India had declared privacy as a fundamental right, the government insisted on affidavit in the top court that informational privacy or data privacy cannot be a fundamental right. The Aadhar Act diluted the notion of ‘privacy’ and the standard of proportionality test set up by the Supreme Court. In an ongoing dilemma, even the ‘Aarogya Setu’ app is battling to satisfy the conscience of privacy overseers. The clear impression is that the government is more interested in ‘control’ than ‘protection’ of data. A national policy on data privacy of individuals is still a non-starter. People continue to suffer because of the regular incidents of data theft. India’s cybersecurity watchdog, CERT-In, last year reported huge data theft of Facebook and Twitter users by malicious third party apps. Reportedly, more than 1.3 million credit and debit card details from Indian banks and the data of 6.8 million users from an Indian health-care website were stolen in the same year. Private firms and elections Private data analytics companies have emerged to exploit the electoral process with the sole objective of customising political messaging. While the customisation of political messaging is not per se illegal, it certainly is unlawful to indulge in unauthorised data mining and collection by the industry. According to a report by Omidyar Network India and Monitor Deloitte, many private enterprises routinely share the personal data of individuals with third parties including political organisations. The fact that there are dedicated IT cells which carry out a digital form of warfare with propaganda and fake news being two powerful weapons is making things more complicated. The present legal framework leaves these menaces outside the ambit of election laws as they were framed in a time and space that was primitive when compared to contemporary technological advancements. For citizens, digital media are carriers of images and sounds, rather than words and thoughts, and the system where images run faster than thoughts is suitable for the spread of fake news. Times of fear and uncertainty also provide a fertile ground for disinformation to grow. The fake WhatsApp forwards that triggered the primitive “Us v/s Them” group mentality and is manifested in Delhi riots reports, and the forwards on the novel coronavirus which declare COVID-19 a bacteria and the World Health Organization stating that vegetarians cannot be infected with COVID-19, are all reminders of the potency of data, true or false, in a democracy. Regulation and independence Should there be a gatekeeper to balance appetites for technology, security and privacy? The answer is yes, so long as the gate keeper is for regulation, not surveillance, and so long as it is completely and genuinely independent. Otherwise it will perform an unacceptable legitimation function. The Personal Data Protection Bill, struggling to be born in Parliament despite conception in 2018, is more about control and surveillance than about promoting privacy and protection of data. Far-reaching exemptions, in large measure swallowing the rule, have been carved out where personal data can be processed. Section 35, which provides the government with unfettered access to personal data, negates the three tests of legality, necessity and proportionality given by the Supreme Court in Justice K.S. Puttaswamy (Retd.) vs Union Of India . The Bill also allows State and private parties to process personal data without obtaining consent and such broad exemptions would not only open the floodgates for misuse but also reduce India’s prospects of entering into bilateral arrangements for law enforcement access. Selection committees, terms of appointment and of removal establish beyond doubt that the Authority is likely to be like a rehabilitation centre for retired bureaucrats, yet a sinecure wholly controlled by the government. It is a classic case of rolling up judge, jury and executioner. Only an Internet ombudsman with experts on cyber and Internet laws, IT, data management, data science, data security, public administration and national security, and consciously involving eminent sections of civil society, can be an effective antidote to unregulated technological disruptions. Abhishek Singhvi is an MP, former Chairman, Parliamentary Standing Committee; former Additional Solicitor General, India; senior National Spokesperson, the Congress party, and eminent jurist. Jaiveer Shergill is a Supreme Court lawyer and National Spokesperson, the Congress party. The views expressed are personal
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Limited peace||The peace agreement reached between Israel and the United Arab Emirates has formalised the thaw in Arab-Israeli relations that has been under way for a few years. As part of the deal announced by U.S. President Trump on Thursday, the UAE would recognise the state of Israel and establish formal diplomatic relations, while Israel would halt its controversial plan to annex swathes of the Palestinian West Bank. It is a landmark agreement given that the UAE is only the third Arab country and the first in the Gulf recognising Israel. It could pave the way for the region’s Sunni Arab kingdoms and the Jewish-majority Israel enhancing regional cooperation against their common foe, Shia Iran. Israel has said it would focus on “expanding ties with other countries in the Arab and Muslim world”, while the U.S. has expressed hope that more Arab countries would follow the UAE’s lead — Arab-Israeli relations have largely been conflict-ridden ever since the state of Israel was declared in 1948. For Mr. Trump who played a critical role, it is a rare diplomatic victory just months before he seeks re-election. His other foreign policy bets — Iran, North Korea or Afghanistan — were either disastrous or inconclusive. But in the case of Israel and the UAE, both allies of the U.S., quiet diplomacy worked. The U.S. had arranged several meetings between Israeli and Emirati officials last year, which probably laid the foundations for the agreement. While the deal has the potential to change Arab-Israeli relations for good, it also shows how the Arab countries are gradually decoupling themselves from the Palestine question. The UAE offered full diplomatic recognition in return for Israel’s suspension of a planned annexation, not for any relaxation of the actual occupation. As Prime Minister Netanyahu said, Israel made peace with an Arab country without “our returning to the 1967 borders”. The Arab Peace Initiative, a Saudi Arabia initiative endorsed by the Arab League, offered recognition to Israel in exchange for its full withdrawal from the occupied territories. Ironically, the UAE’s peace agreement comes close on the heels of the Trump administration’s back-to-back decisions to recognise Jerusalem as Israel’s capital and its sovereignty over the Syrian Golan Heights. Clearly, the UAE has moved away from the Arab initiative. The question now is whether the Emiratis would be able to press the Jewish state to relax its inhuman and illegal occupation of the Palestinian territories and start talks between the occupier and the occupied. If it cannot, the UAE-Israel deal would be of little significance for the Palestinians. The Palestinian leadership, on its part, should understand the emerging reality in West Asia — the Arab-Israel conflict is coming to a close, but the Palestine-Israel conflict is to continue without any respite.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking tough||Five years since the signing of a framework agreement between the Indian government and the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah), the deadlock in the talks that came about in October 2019 persists with the emergence of bottlenecks. The NSCN (I-M) has demanded that Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi should be removed as the interlocutor for talks on the Naga accord. Talks were expanded in 2017 by including other Naga groups under the banner, the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs). Clearly, the Governor’s letter in June addressed to Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio, alleging the collapse of law and order and that armed gangs “who question the sovereignty and integrity of the nation” were engaging in “blatant extortion”, touched a sore spot for the NSCN (I-M). While the group defended the practice by terming it “tax collection”, the letter was not entirely off the mark. Yet, this has become an issue for the peace process with the NSCN (I-M) going on to release details of the 2015 framework agreement that has not been shared in the public domain so far. While the other Naga groups also took exception to the Governor’s remarks to the Chief Minister, they have differed with the NSCN (I-M) on the demand for Mr. Ravi’s removal as interlocutor. Since 2015, the engagement with other Naga groups has increased, even if the NSCN (I-M) is perceived as the major rebel organisation. The differences between the NNPGs and the NSCN (I-M) are not insignificant. The NSCN (I-M) still insists on a “Greater Nagalim” beyond the boundaries of Nagaland State besides seeking a flag and constitution. Most of the NNPGs based in Nagaland on the other hand have sought to settle the issue without disturbing the State boundaries while keeping the “Greater Nagalim” question in abeyance. Any moves to alter boundaries will intensify ethnic conflicts and insurgencies beyond Nagaland, especially in Manipur. The increasing support in Nagaland for a solution without affecting boundaries should have compelled the NSCN (I-M) to move away from its intransigent position. Instead, the rebel group has sought to redefine the talks process by expressing its lack of confidence in Mr. Ravi. The NNPGs, political parties and other civil society organisations also took exception to the Governor’s stern letter that went beyond raising concerns over law and order; Mr. Ravi wrote that functions such as the “transfer and posting of officials” in charge of law and order above the district level would be done with his approval. But they have delineated clear differences with the NSCN (I-M) on the peace talks issue. The Central government needs to take their concerns on board and reiterate its commitment to finalising the Naga accord while seeking to re-engage with the NSCN (I-M) without giving in to its arbitrary demands.
15 August 2020||SOUTHAMPTON,||Rizwan stands firm||Pakistan’s wicket-keeper Mohammad Rizwan hit a defiant half century on a difficult batting pitch to guide his side past the 200-mark in its first innings and frustrate England in the second Test on Friday. Having resumed on 126 for five, Pakistan reached 215 for eight at tea on the second day with Rizwan, who was dropped by Jos Buttler on 14, on 53 and Mohammad Abbas on two. Earlier, Stuart Broad accounted for Babar Azam (47), while James Anderson picked up Yasir Shah (5). Shaheen Afridi was run out without scoring. After the start of play was delayed by 90 minutes by bad light, Babar Azam and Rizwan managed to negotiate a one-hour session before lunch without further loss. Superb delivery Azam went shortly after lunch for 47 when he was done in by an excellent delivery from Stuart Broad which straightened just enough to shave the outside edge. A key moment followed when Buttler, diving high to his left, dropped a difficult chance offered by Rizwan. The England ’keeper, however, made no mistake when Yasir Shah nicked James Anderson’s outswinger. Shaheen Afridi followed when he was naively run out for a 19-ball duck, setting off from the non-striker’s end and getting caught out of his ground as Dom Sibley scored a direct hit. Aggressive That left Pakistan on 176 for eight which prompted Rizwan to adopt an aggressive approach, hitting two fours off the same Sam Curran over before driving Chris Woakes to the extra-cover boundary. England began to show signs of frustration and Pakistan reached 200 thanks to a gift from Woakes who conceded four byes from a loose delivery down the legside, before Rizwan completed his 50 off 104 balls.  Pakistan was 223/9 when bad light stopped play for the day. Mohd. Rizwan was unbeaten on 60.
15 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Dhoni is back in Chennai for Super Kings||The Lion is back in its lair. Mahendra Singh Dhoni has landed in his city of destiny ahead of Chennai Super King’s IPL campaign in the UAE. The King’s lieutenants, including the mercurial Suresh Raina, touched down on Friday. The ultra-successful and popular franchise will train in its den till it flies to the Middle East on August 21. The team will practise at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium on August 15, 17, 18, 19 and 20. Since August 16 is a ‘lockdown’ Sunday, it will be an off-day for the cricketers. L. Balaji, CSK’s bowling coach, will oversee the camp. As many as 13 CSK players are in the city and the three remaining Indian players — Ravindra Jadeja, Harbhajan Singh and Shardul Thakur — will join the team here on August 21 owing to personal commitments. Because of travel restrictions, the eight foreign players and the coaching staff will catch up with the side in the UAE on August 21. Three tests Talking to The Hindu , CSK CEO K.S. Viswanathan, who will be travelling with the side, revealed every player will be tested for COVID-19 thrice before departure. “They already underwent a test on Thursday. So two more tests remain,” he revealed. Even during days when the I, J, and K stands were closed, the CSK practice sessions were a huge draw with more than 10,000 fans chanting “Dhoni, Dhoni.” Now when all the stands are available, the only ones allowed into the stadium to watch practice will be the CSK players, staff and essential TNCA officials. Sadly, after a relentless pursuit by the TNCA — the I, J, K stands were last open in December 2012 for an India-Pakistan ODI — and when the entire stadium is now available, Chepauk will be silent. The pandemic and its safety protocols have altered everything.
15 August 2020||Bengaluru,||As sportsmen, you tend to adapt to any situation: Kumble||Anil Kumble is happy that cricket action is finally set to resume with the Indian Premier League. Kumble, the Kings XI Punjab (KXIP) Head Coach and Director of Cricket Operations, is, however, aware of the challenges involved with the ‘new normal’ setting. Quarantine, COVID-19 testing, isolation in a bubble, and a new standard operating procedure (SOP) is sure to take some getting used to. Having the vastly experienced Kumble by its side in this new environment is sure to benefit the KXIP squad. The former India captain spoke to the media on the sidelines of a training session for Karnataka players in the KXIP squad here on Friday. Excerpts:  Handling anxiety Players are eager to get out and play. But you have to pull them back, because they haven’t played enough in recent times to go at 100 per cent from day one. You have to gradually build up their skill level and fitness, and ease them into match-readiness. The players will naturally ask themselves, ‘Am I ready to play?’. It takes time to get ready. The most important aspect we (coaching staff) must address is to help players cope with this anxiety. Post-COVID-19 arena All of us have been sitting around and not venturing out for the last four-six months. It has been a challenge. The good thing is that we now have an opportunity to play, in an environment which is safe. At best, we can only minimise the risk of infection. It’s new to all of us, but as sportsmen you tend to adapt to any situation. Ups and downs For a player, the challenge is to get into the groove quickly and maintain it. Every team goes through ups and downs during the IPL season. It is a long tournament — you have to keep calm and not react to every good and bad result. Keeping a balance is key. With my experience, I will be able to help the players maintain that balance. From the coach’s perspective, we have to manage living in the bubble, and ensuring player safety over a long duration. Sometimes, coaches have to egg them (players) on, as it is not easy to live in a bubble. We have to keep the players in a happy space.
15 August 2020||Sydney,||Australia’s England tour to go ahead||Australia’s limited-overs tour of England will go ahead this month at bio-secure venues, officials said on Friday, after its players were given government clearance to travel. The confirmation ensures Australians will pad up for their first internationals in nearly six months, with Glenn Maxwell, Nathan Lyon and Marcus Stoinis recalled to the squad, while Usman Khawaja and Travis Head missed out. IPL takes a hit With this tour on, IPL teams will likely be without those selected for the tour for at least a week. The latest the players can arrive in the UAE is September 18 and as per the IPL SOP, will be quarantined for six days with RT-PCR tests on day 1, 3 and 6. On the seventh day, they will enter the bio-bubble provided they test negative all three times. Effectively, none of the players will be available for at least the first two to three games of their respective franchises. A total of 29 players from England and Australia are part of the eight IPL squads, including top draws like David Warner, Ben Stokes, Jofra Archer, Steve Smith and this year’s record buy Pat Cummins. Rajasthan Royals is likely to suffer the most. as Buttler, Smith and Archer are in its ranks. Original schedule Australia was originally scheduled to play three ODIs and three T20Is against England in July, but the trip was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic. Detailed biosecurity plans have now been agreed to ensure it can go ahead, including government exemptions, which are required for Australians to leave the country. The team has also agreed to self-quarantine for 14 days on return. The squad will depart from Perth on August 23 en route to Derby ahead of four practice matches — three T20s and a one-dayer — before three T20Is and three ODIs in Southampton and Old Trafford, which have hotels on site.  The schedule:   T20Is: Sept. 4, 6 and 8 (all at Southampton).   ODIs: Sept. 11, 13 and 16 (all at Manchester).   The squad: Aaron Finch (Capt.), Sean Abbott, Ashton Agar, Alex Carey, Pat Cummins, Josh Hazlewood, Marnus Labuschagne, Nathan Lyon, Mitchell Marsh, Glenn Maxwell, Riley Meredith, Josh Philippe, Daniel Sams, Kane Richardson, Steven Smith, Mitchell Starc, Marcus Stoinis, Andrew Tye, Matthew Wade, David Warner, Adam Zampa.
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Inspire Institute happy to play its part||On the eve of its second anniversary, the Inspire Institute of Sport in Vijayanagar, was happy to play its part supporting the athletes during the pandemic. Addressing a media conference, the CEO of IIS, Rushdee Warley said that it was a fantastic journey, with many memorable moments, both in terms of medals won by the athletes, as well as their 100% success in education. “It is great for the young athletes to be training with Bajrang Punia, Vikas Krishan and Pooja Dhanda,” said Warley. Looking at the athletes development, especially in the light of the Tokyo Olympics, Manisha Malhotra, the head of sports excellence, said that it was an opportunity for the elite athletes to take a step back and regroup themselves. Stating that about 100 athletes were training at the institute, Warley was categorical that the best efforts were made for sanitisation, especially of the high contact areas like the gym, dormitories, and physio room. He also said that the non-essential service staff were working from home. “We have asked the athletes to look after the hostel themselves to minimise the entry of outsiders. We have a good medical system. We have arrangements for isolation rooms,” said Warley. It was mentioned that there was scope for having an archery centre and that work had started for the swimming pool, at the institute spread over 42 acres. Manisha said that athletes like Rohit Yadav and Praveen Chitravel had good chances for medals as and when the World Junior Athletics Championships was held. “For the young athletes preparing for the 2024 Olympics, not much has changed. We have good prospects for Paris in judo,” she said. For the elite athletes Bajrang, Vikas and Pooja, it was a great opportunity to train, particularly with their coaches, and enthusiastic young athletes, as it served as a win-win situation for all. ( With inputs from Uthra Ganesan )  It is great for the young athletes to be training with Bajrang Punia, Vikas Krishan and Pooja Dhanda Warley
15 August 2020||Kolkata,||Dept. of Posts to issue special cover on Bengal’s COVID-19 warriors||Kolkata:More than 20 doctors and over a dozen police and security force personnel died while battling the COVID-19 pandemic in West Bengal till the second week of August. In an attempt to honour frontline warriors, the Department of Posts will release a special cover on the COVID-19 warriors of West Bengal on the 74th Independence Day. “By issuing a special cover and cancellation on the theme ‘COVID fighters Brave Hearts of Bengal’, the Department of Posts recognises the great service rendered in the fight against COVID-19 by multiple agencies. This will remain as a record for future generations,” Mervin Alexander, Chief Post Master General of West Bengal Circle said. Mr. Alexander added that along with personnel from the health sector, the police, civil administration and postal staff have been fully involved with the delivery of letters, parcels and money at the doorstep of citizens during the pandemic. The West Bengal government has launched an insurance scheme of Rs. 10 lakh for frontline medical staff, including jobs for family members who have died due to the viral infection. Stamps on terracotta temples Earlier this month, India Post issued a set of seven commemorative postage stamps and a miniature sheet on the ‘Terracotta Temples of India’. The temples on which the stamps have been issued are — Indralath temple, Ranipur Jharia , Odisha; Nebiya Khera temple, Bhadwara, Uttar Pradesh; Lakshman temple, Sirpur, Chhattisgarh; Madan Mohan temple, Bishnupur, West Bengal; Jor Bangla temple, Bishnupur; Shyam Rai temple, Bishnupur; and Lalji temple, Kalna, West Bengal. Among the seven terracotta temples, four are in West Bengal under the jurisdiction of the Archaeological Survey of India, Kolkata Circle. “What makes the terracotta temples in Bengal unique is that each of the temples is decorated with terracotta plaques which depict religious and social scenes dating to the late medieval era,” Subha Majumdar, Superintending Archaeologist, ASI, Kolkata Circle, said.
15 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Bishop, Sthalekar bat for women’s cricket’s resumption||International cricketers-turned-broadcasters Ian Bishop and Lisa Sthalekar have stressed the need for cricket boards to resume women’s cricket activities post-pandemic to ensure the momentum generated after the Women’s T20 World Cup in Australia earlier this year isn’t lost. Bishop was recently involved as a commentator for West Indies’ Test series in England, the first taste of international cricket during the pandemic. “It should give cricket boards and the ICC greater insight into how to carry this game out. Now the women’s game and the administrators can look at this without endangering anyone’s lives and say: we can play cricket safely,” Bishop said, after a documentary — Beyond the Boundary — about the T20 World Cup in March was released by the International Cricket Council on an OTT platform. “So now it’s time to get on the bicycle and start putting things in place because I don’t think women’s game can continue to be as inactive as has happened. We must look at how to drive it forward. Even if it’s for bilateral tours, because we know that now we can do it safely.” Positives Sthalekar, the former Australia international, was pleased with the fact that the Women’s Big Bash League and the Women’s T20 Challenge are planned by Cricket Australia and the Board of Control for Cricket in India. While she admitted that the clash of both the tournaments in November isn’t ideal, she preferred to draw positives. “It’s not necessarily going to be the best product since you are definitely going to miss the Australian players, and potentially some international players but from an Indian domestic players’ perspective, it’s going to give a chance to those girls to play more cricket and open up doors to a few more on the fringes and give them a chance,” Sthalekar said. “That will hopefully allow BCCI to see that there’s enough depth and hopefully next year we’ll get a full-fledged women’s IPL and everyone can join in in April and May.”
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nakamura, Carlsen open with a draw||Magnus Carlsen and Hikaru Nakamura played out a well-fought 49-move draw to kick-start the best-of-seven-set title clash of the $300,000 Magnus Calrsen Chess Tour Finals on Friday. Nakamura, the highest-rated blitz player in the world, showed he was not intimidated by the favourite and came out a briefly worrying position to prove equal. Carlsen opted for the Sicilian Najdorf and drove the game into an unfamiliar territory for Nakamura. With the kings castled on the opposite flanks, queens off the board and 12 pawns in play, Carlsen offered a central pawn on the 22nd move. Nakamura took the pawn spending much of his extra time. Later, with Carlsen's pieces showing more harmony, Nakamura even sacrificed his rook for a bishop to keep the balance of the position.  The result:   Final: (Set One, Game One): Hikaru Nakamura (USA) drew with Magnus Carlsen (Nor) .
15 August 2020||Washington,||Serena wins battle of the Williamses||Serena Williams rallied to defeat sister Venus Williams 3-6, 6-3, 6-4 on Thursday in a second-round match-up at the WTA Top Seed Open. Top-seeded Serena, a 23-time Grand Slam winner, said the victory would boost her confidence heading into the US Open as she improved to 19-12 against Venus. “I wanted to win this for my game and my confidence,” said Serena, whose only title as a mother came in January at Auckland. Serena improved to 100-110 after losing the first set, the best of any active WTA player. In the Williams sisters rivalry, the first-set winner has taken 26 of 31 meetings.
15 August 2020||New York,||Jordan’s sneakers fly high again||A pair of Michael Jordan’s game-worn sneakers sold for $615,000, Christie’s auction house said on Thursday, shattering a record set just months ago by the sale of another pair of the basketball legend’s shoes. The sneakers were a pair of Air Jordan 1 Highs the NBA megastar wore during a 1985 exhibition match in Italy when he dunked the ball so hard it shattered the glass backboard. The sale broke the record set in May.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Back in action||
15 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Undoing habits not easy||Anil Kumble stated that players will have to consciously break old habits to adhere to the saliva ban. “The saliva ban hasn’t affected Test matches; all recent Test matches have produced results. So I don’t see any reason why it should affect T20s. That said, to undo what you have been doing for a long time is not easy. “Even when I used to bowl, my hand would go to the face. I have to keep an eye on it and tell the players to change their old habits,” Kumble said.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 13:48 IST,||Sudoku - August 15, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||The taste of memory||My sister called on Rakhi and asked if we’d like some ghevar . With a heavy heart, I had to say no. I love ghevar, and it is a monsoon special that was a part of my childhood. But it is one of those sweets that I can’t have enough of, so I end up eating too much of it. But the talk of ghevar got me thinking of my go-to place for the honey-comb-like sweet. Kaleva, in Gol Market, was where I went regularly to pick up the sweet — and a lot more. I think I am among the sweet-and-savoury shop’s first customers. I landed up there within a week after it opened more than three decades ago, and went regularly for years after that. There was a time when I was there twice a week for puri and aloo (a spicy potato curry), and on Sunday mornings, for bedmi (puris stuffed with a lentil paste) and gattey ki sabzi , a delicious dish of steamed lentils in gravy. Another favourite was the dahi bhalla . There was a sweet called chak-a-chak (a kind of saffron-tinted rasmalai) that we all loved. All that nostalgia triggered a yearning for some of these. I found out that Kaleva was delivering food through Zomato to our neighbourhood. I went through the menu and zeroed in on a few of the old favourites: p uri-sabzi (Rs. 69), dahi bhalla (Rs. 88), chholey bhaturey ( Rs. 115), and gol gappey (Rs. 50). I couldn’t find chaka-a-chak on the menu, so asked for some milk cake (Rs. 330 for 500g). The food arrived and, as they say in impolite circles, all hell broke. I loved the puri and aloo — the potato curry was tart but only mildly spicy, and I could get the heavenly flavour of the desi ghee that it had been tempered with. I only had a bit of the bhatura with the chholey , which had been mixed with pieces of paneer. The chholey, in thick gravy, was spicy, as it usually is. I managed to get just one gol gappa — which disappeared in front of my eyes before I could say “ thodda aur paani dena” — but was happy to find that it had all the right flavours: sweet, tart, and hot. The dahi bhalla , however, was not the way I remembered it. It may have been the weather, but I found the curd a bit sour. The milk cake was alright, but, of course, couldn’t come anywhere near the one I have had at a nondescript little shop in Kucha Ghasiram in Chandni Chowk. I am glad Kaleva is getting its food delivered across the city. When I lived in central Delhi it was a part of my life, and I remember spending hours there talking to the gentleman who ran it then, and later with his sons. They are a family from Bikaner, and their great-grand father started the food business with the sale of rasgullas . There is, incidentally, one school of thought that believes the chhena sweet originated neither in Bengal nor in Odisha — but in Rajasthan. This was also where I had my first fruit kulfi — kufli stuffed in a mango. It was sublime. And then, for several years, I would go there whenever it rained, for a big and sweet chunk of ghevar (without malai on top, if I had a choice). The author is a seasoned food critic
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Toy story||That Ambujam Mami was furious was evident even through her maroon and turquoise silk mask with zari bootas . Her eyes expressed the raudra rasa quite eloquently. With my limited knowledge of the Natya Shastra , through the glass panel next to our door, I tried to mime that maybe it wasn’t such a good time for her to come over. But Mami’s skills were superior. She used the goddess-slaying-demon pose to indicate what my fate would be if I didn’t let her in. So I let her in. ‘What the hell is the meaning of this abomination?’ she said without preamble, displaying a news item on her phone. I tried to get a better look maintaining social distance. ‘65% increase in the sale of sex toys in India during the lockdown’ said the scarlet headline in Poster Bodoni. It was accompanied by the illustration of a woman licking her lips and holding aloft something that Murugan Stores wouldn’t be caught dead stocking. ‘Mami,’ I stuttered. ‘You are mistaken. What the delivery boy brought was an economy pack of Bhabi Ji Papad to boost my immunity...’ ‘ Ada po, pa ,’ she cut me off mid-sentence. ‘As if I’ll ever think of you like that!’ Inexplicably, I felt a tad hurt by Mami’s utter belief in my gentlemanliness. ‘What is our country coming to? Do you know Tamil Nadu comes third! In ordering these asingams online.’ ‘No cause for worry, Mami. Next year, we’ll come second,’ I said. ‘Are you mad?’ she said. ‘The Tamil Nadu I grew up in would have come last. We used to sing patriotic songs and collect stamps when we were young. And when we felt... er... more than we were supposed to, we watched Gemini Pictures’ Avvaiyar . The only toys we used to get were soft toys from periamma in the US. ’ ‘Sundaram Mama is a genuine teddy bear,’ I said. ‘Don’t unnecessarily bring him up now,’ she said, her face going the colour of her mask. ‘What did he do now?’ ‘Well,’ she said. ‘Yesterday, a pair of handcuffs arrived via courier... addressed to him.’ ‘So what’s wrong with that?’ I said. ‘Maybe he wants to play Robber-Police. In fact, you can have my toy guns. I have two or three lying around. ’ ‘These were purple and had a lace trim,’ she said. ‘What kind of police uses those?’ ‘Immoral police?’ I said, feebly attempting humour. Mami gave me a look that she usually reserved for Sundaram Mama. Reading from the news item on my phone, I tried to console her. ‘I’m sure there is a simple explanation. Chennai is nowhere in the stats. We are still maintaining our purity. Poor Mama is innocent. Maybe he ordered doggie toys for Sri Vegan and the order got mixed up,’ I said. ‘Mumbai is first, followed by Bengaluru, and Delhi is in third position.’ ‘At a time like this, it is quite uncultured of you to mention positions to me,’ she said. ‘Those statistics give me no solace. My elder sister lives in Bengaluru. And my great-aunt is in Delhi.’ I decided it wouldn’t be wise at this point to tell Mami that the article said Surat, where she got her made-to-order khakras from, was rocking the charts. ‘What is your objection, Mami, honestly?’ I said. ‘After all, we have been asked to be self-reliant.’ ‘How foolish you are,’ she said. ‘How can we ever be atmanirbhar when 99% of these wretched things are made in China?’ Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||‘My people have no skin tone’||It is Saturday morning and Jeff Kinney is on the road for his socially-distant book tour; the GPS is heard faintly in the background of our call, directing him to East Sandwich, Massachusetts. The author of the hugely-popular Wimpy Kid series is promoting his new book, Rowley Jefferson’s Awesome Friendly Adventure . “I’ve noticed that everyone [who attended the book tour] seems a lot happier than usual; parents and children are glad to be doing something that is outside the quarantine,” he says, adding that he too shares the sentiment. Although Kinney identifies strongly with his main protagonist Greg Heffley, he admits that his favourite is the latest Rowley Jefferson book. “I wrote and illustrated it in two months, and it gave me a great sense of accomplishment to pull that off. It also works as a good fantasy story and says a lot about children's book publishing and marketability,” he explains. The second in this spin-off series, the book takes us on an adventure with Rowley and his endeavour of writing a book. Greg plays editor, agent, best friend and critic in a way only he can — while being of no help at all. Rooting for Rowley When working on and watching the Wimpy Kid movie and musical, Kinney realised that Rowley was the one everyone was rooting for and wanted to give him a moment in the spotlight. “When the first book did well and kids seemed to like it, I decided to keep it going. Besides, it is fun to write in a different voice; I want to challenge myself,” he says. Many have suggested that the next character to get their own series be Rodrick, Greg’s older brother, but he does not know what that would look like as a book. “I find that as my readers get a little bit older, they really look back at Rodrick with a lot of fondness,” he muses. The series and its characters have clearly stayed with both young millennials and Gen Z who grew up reading the books that were first published in 2007. Manny Heffley, Greg’s kid brother, was used by activist Tik-Tokers as a meme icon in the Black Lives Matter movement. However, Kinney was not a fan, tweeting (then deleting) that using a cartoon character trivialises the seriousness of the issue. While he does not comment on the episode, he talks about writing inclusively and having diverse characters. “The people in my stories are just outlines with no skin tone — they tell a generic story of childhood. We all have parents, pets, bullies and teachers in common. That’s what I’m trying to write about. When I go to India or Turkey or Australia or China, I want kids to see themselves in that character,” he says. As for representing current pop culture in his books, Kinney explains that he will bring in the more timeless topics — like the anti-bullying campaigns that had a huge push five years ago — or parody them in some way. “I want a kid reading this book 15 years later to still be able to relate to it. Things like cancel culture may not stand the test of time,” he says. He draws the line at reading fan fiction though, indicating that some of what he read in the early days was “disturbing” and that he was “a bit horrified by it”! Support the stores A vocal supporter of bookstores, Kinney is also the founder of An Unlikely Story, an independent bookstore and cafe in his city of residence, Plainville, Massachusetts. Through the lockdown, they have been conducting virtual events, with high-profile authors like Hillary and Chelsea Clinton, John Grisham and Kirsten Bell. “We have lost about 85% of our income though. At a time like this it is important to support your neighbourhood bookstores, many of whom are delivering or offering curbside pickup,” says the author, who remains tight-lipped about his upcoming animation series on Disney Plus. Going back to his own works, Kinney says the 15th book, Diary of a Wimpy Kid: The Deep End , is set to launch in mid-October, and sees the Heffley family going on an RV vacation with watery results. And in the following one, he definitely feels the need to address quarantine and the Covid situation. Giving us a teaser, he says, “They have to live in their grandmother’s basement and they go through what we are going through now.” In the author’s case, this involved writing in a cemetery. “Because of the lockdown, everyone was at home all the time and I needed a quiet place to write. The cemetery was also a humbling location, and there is no better place to remind you of your own mortality,” he concludes. Rowley Jefferson’s Awesome Friendly Adventure (Penguin Random House) is available at Rs. 399 in bookstores and online.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Keep it plane and simple||It was a bright, sunny day. Birds were chirping, rivers flooding, a tree had been lopped down, all was well. Then this friend called; a guy I’ve known for years. Nice chap, the type that reads books and stuff. Non-fiction tomes on history, science, anthropology. Our teachers tried talking him out of it, but back then there was nothing actually built into the syllabus that could prevent kids from reading. Now, of course, one can remove entire chapters on evolution or federalism or human rights. In fact, we can slowly remove learning altogether and ensure that kids focus on mechanics or plumbing or coding, get a move on you know. Imagine being 30 and still studying, like the JNU types — unbelievable. I am told Charles Darwin voyaged five years on the HMS Beagle just collecting natural history specimens. What a colossal waste of time! But I digress. I was telling you about, well, let’s call him Samar. So Samar called and he was miserable. ‘Plane crash in Calicut; Bombay and Assam are drowning; virus on a rampage. What a ghastly year!’ I was puzzled. Bad news yes, but why get so gloomy? ‘Calm down Samar. Lots of good stuff happening too,’ I said. ‘Are you kidding? Name one!’ ‘Well, duh! We’re going to have a grand temple soon,’ I said. ’Don’t you watch TV? The flowers, songs, posters? We’re almost there.’ ‘Where is there?’ That’s Samar — nice but not always bright. So I explained. ‘Ram Rajya, Samar. We’re almost there. Once the temple is up, that’s pretty much it.’ Samar accused me of being sloshed, getting booze when nobody else in Chennai could get a drop. He went on such a rant I had to hang up. It makes me sad when people get things all wrong. Samar was raving about India having the most infections this month and emerging as a global hotspot. Now this can’t be. The Union Health Minister has himself announced that “the spread of Covid-19 has been contained”. The problem with Samar is he still believes data even though ministers and TV channels tell him every day what to believe. Why, for instance, does Samar think Saifuddin Soz is under house arrest in J&K? Sure, a video shows Soz straining over his home’s boundary wall before being dragged away by cops, but the government has declared he is free and that’s good enough for me. It’s like those videos that showed Delhi cops calmly standing by as people made incendiary speeches, hurled stones or opened fire. Does this make them culpable? Never. Learn from the courts, Samar, I said. Believe what cops and government officers say. They never lie. And when they put it in a sealed envelope, it pretty much reaches Satyameva Jayate levels. It’s in this spirit, I told him, that professors and poets are bunged in jail when the police claim they are terror suspects or violence abettors. Remember, it’s the claim that matters. If you are actually in a car with a terrorist, like Davinder Singh was, you will get bail. If you are a proven rapist, the judge will ask the victim to tie you a rakhi before releasing you. If you defraud thousands of people of their savings, you will be hospitalised as soon as you clutch your stomach. But the absence of hard proof? That’s the clincher — you can be jailed for years without bail or even medical help, never mind dementia or diabetes. This is the zeitgeist that TV channels have understood so well. Focus on claims and planes. On every pit-stop of the Rafael journey; every theory on a filmstar’s demise; every kilometre of territory the Chinese have not intruded into. The important thing is to keep viewers calm and clueless. Be positive, Samar, I said. Learn from TV. Very soon, thank god, we won’t have too many people with my pal’s mental deficiency. Schools will step in and prepare our kids to receive the delightful bromides that Prime Time provides. Remember that old Tom Paxton song from the 60s? ‘What did you learn in school today, dear little boy of mine? I learned our government must be strong, It’s always right and never wrong, Our leaders are the finest men, And we elect them again and again, And that’s what I learned in school today.’ Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||In real life: 5 designers unmasked||The humble face mask has powered dozens of charity drives this year. Behind the Mask is the latest in this category, uniting five of the country’s leading designers, a global magazine publisher and a fashion e-tailer. “Years from now, we will agree that the mask was the metaphor for our times…for 2020,” begins Alex Kuruvilla, MD of Conde Nast India on a Zoom call. Kuruvilla’s lockdown project began by getting a few fashion designers on the phone. Would they allow an intimate look at their lives during the pandemic, as they address isolation and being locked in with their fears and conquests? The first five he reached out to for the web-series — Manish Malhotra, Anita Dongre, Tarun Tahiliani, Gaurav Gupta and Rahul Mishra — agreed almost instantly. Each of them was also expected to create a prototype of a mask, to then inspire 20 different designs made in cotton. Retailed on Myntra, the profits would reach Indian karigars (craftspeople) through online donation platform, GiveIndia. But Kuruvilla, former chief at MTV Networks India, wasn’t done with the planning. “We needed something that was broadcast quality and not just for a website,” he says. Homemade, with backup Having worked on Long-form Originals at the company and on shows like Vogue BFFs , Anita Horam, director of Video at Conde India, knew they would have to improvise. With everyone housebound, the five designers had to use their own smartphones for video. Horam sent a tool-kit that included thumbnails as reference to shoot like a pro, tips on exposure as per device, etc. “We did not want a staged piece, so no PR lines, no standard answers. There is a realness that is endearing,” she adds. In the series’ promos, Rahul Mishra, who presented at Paris Haute Couture Week in July, is caught stressing over camera angles, while Manish Malhotra stumbles over the pronunciation of ‘masks’ (we’ve all been there, really). Tarun Tahiliani is self-possessed as usual, while Anita Dongre thinks long and hard before responding to a question (note that hers is the most successful Indian designer brand with a retail turnover of Rs. 800 crore in 2019-2020). Dongre was also the only one with a ring light, that blogger and YouTuber essential, during production. No stone unturned At a time when publishing houses are pulling out all the stops to engage audiences, will this ‘unmasking’ translate into sales? Kuruvilla, 60, is not taking any chances. The masks have been shipped to over a 100 top influencers. And for Instagrammers not keen to splash out Rs. 499 on a mask, avataar.me, a Bengaluru-based AR advertising platform, has created a filter with the 20 designs.  The episodes will be streamed on the Myntra app and aired on TLC and TLC HD and streamed on Discovery + on August 17/18, 2020  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||How art survives a crisis||A torrential downpour and the pandemic couldn’t dampen the spirit of enthusiastic buyers at Pundole’s Fine Art Sale last week. The Mumbai-based auction house sold 98% of its 64 lots, at a hammer price of Rs. 14.78 crore (inclusive of 15% buyers’ premium). The technology-enabled sale included world record auction prices for six artists, including Krishen Khanna, Piraji Sagara, Mehlli Gobhai, Navjot Altaf and works on paper by Sudhir Patwardhan and Homi Patel. “There were works for every budget, beginning at Rs. 20,000 and they were a combination of good quality, superb provenance and hard-to-find subjects, which created the perfect storm,” says auctioneer and fine art specialist Mallika Sagar. Auction sales for Indian art have remained buoyant since March, when Sotheby’s modern and contemporary South Asian art sale netted Rs. 35.7 crore. In June, Saffronart’s auction totalled Rs. 17.5 crore. Last month, Christie’s July sale yielded Rs. 35.7 crore and Asta Guru’s Rs. 51.4 crore. With discretionary spending on leisure activities, be it travel or shopping trips, coming to a halt, even casual art buyers are willing to spend more. After all, how many people will shop for high-end bags on the Internet, and more importantly, where will they wear them? Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Fashion: Waste not, want not||Indians love recycling and repurposing, from plasticdabbas to grandmum’s cutlery. I remember my mum’s 1960s red plaid skirt and white top. One of the last outfits her parents bought her before they moved back to Kerala from London, it was handed down to an eight-year-old me and later used by both my cousins. I still have it — albeit with a few darns — ready for my niece. But in the last decade or so, our love of fast fashion and chasing trends has meant that similar memories have lain forgotten in cupboards and box rooms. Lockdown changed everything, and social media conversations about the failing economy have shaken things up. Suddenly we are thinking twice about replacing something that’s damaged, and are googling darners and tailors (the good ones have disappeared). This is where designers and brands like Doodlage and LataSita are stepping in. These professional upcyclers are helping us realise our need to save, to stretch what we own, and yet be ‘with it’. “Our resources are few and the pandemic has really highlighted that,” says Meghna Nayak, of LataSita. “[Coming out of lockdown] I really want people to think twice, thrice about where they want to put their money.” This list will get you started if you want to ‘wear your nostalgia’ and go zero waste.   With inputs from Nidhi Adlakha andSusanna Myrtle Lazarus                    Meghna Nayak LataSita | Dresses made frompuja pandals For a person in fashion, Kolkata-based Nayak hates fashion. The industry’s “negative environmental impact and sweatshop culture” to be precise. So eight years ago, instead of writing about it, the former journalist decided to do something about it, with her closed loop brand. “I didn’t have much money to make samples out of... and then my mum opened up her wardrobe,” she recalls. Today, she creates her rich tapestry of designs from saris and fabrics tucked away in wardrobes across the country. “Since I’m literally working with waste, I get my materials from weird and wonderful places. One of my most fun projects is an ongoing collection that I’m making out of 900 saris that once made up a Durga Pujapandal,” says Nayak, 34. While her bespoke pieces are made from fabric sent through her ‘Send Us Your Saree’ campaign, her prêt line uses a huge variety of materials, including jeans, tablecloths and curtains. Though lockdown has paused production, her March collection has been flying off her digital shelves. Up next is a collaboration with Indian-American singer Zoya and a new website. Priced between Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 25,000, on latasita.in.  Aishwarya Kutty & Madhulika Umapathy Pomagrenade | Reversible jacket dress In 2016, the twofriends began the Bengaluru-based brand with a (still popular) line of 50 kimonos. Using locally-produced fabric and textile waste, their functional clothing underlines their message of ethical fashion. And lockdown has been a great time to push this idea. “We’ve seen an increase in inquiries of late and a lot of engagement on social media,” says Kutty, 30. While their adaptable designs — such as a reversible dress with a ‘U’ and ‘V’ neck than can also turn into a jacket — are their signature, they believe their USP is their pricing. “We are one of the most affordable slow fashion brands out there. We want to help the majority of the country make the transition from fast fashion,” says Umapathy, 34. Their new Zoomtastic line of shorts are a hit, and the duo is now expanding their upcycled line. “We’ve tied up with several handloom houses to use their dead stock,” says Kutty, adding that a new collection of dresses (expected to launch in a couple of weeks) are being made from surplus handwoven cotton fabric. Also expect a menswear line of free-size shirts. P riced between Rs. 599 and Rs. 3,500, on pomogrenade.com   Kavisha Parikh Patch Over Patch | Panelled kaftan dresses “Upcyclingis a big playground. You get all kinds of textures, colours and fabrics to play with,” says Parikh, 26, an accessory design graduate from NIFT Himachal, who launched her Surat-based brand 18 months ago. With a playful mix of shift dresses, kimono jackets and cotton blazers, her bywords are sustainable and minimal carbon footprint. “As a designer who explores texture and form, my designs work with both linear and curve geometry,” she says. Surface exploration is a passion — one of the most challenging was a design where she layered and quilted 25 different pieces of fabric. Working exclusively with post production waste, which she sources from wholesale markets and local shops in Surat and Ahmedabad, she also upcycles waste from her own production line. While lockdown affected sales at the Paperboat Collective (Goa) and Go Native (Bengaluru), where she retails, orders on Instagram increased. “Currently we are collaborating with Athlos [the athletic wear brand] to use their bamboo jersey fabric dead stock,” she says. Also expect a line of tops and kaftan dresses with their in-house panelling technique. Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 6,000, @patchoverpatch_upcycled   Lovebirds x Smoke Lab Smoke Wear | Suede rompers This clothing line— an extension of Delhi-based umbrella entity, Smoke Lab — embraces diversity or, as creative director Sanya V Jain puts it, it is “hypermodern and gender-neutral, embodying freedom, functionality and living responsibly”. The collab with Delhi contemporary wear label Lovebirds, by Amrita Khanna and Gursi Singh, was inevitable. “We are in a world that has limited resources and this is a reality we wanted to negotiate, experiment and be creative with. We’ve used only upcycled materials [including handwoven denim and handloom fabric] that was available in the studio, and reimagined as luxe and timeless pieces,” says Jain, adding that demand has increased during lockdown, with customers opting for “non-cluttered, easy-to-wear basics”. Expect dungarees and suede rompers to blouson coats.Rs. 10,000 onwards, on smokewear.in. Aneeth Arora Pero | Layered and embroidered jackets Pero’s upcycling initiative began with one of Arora’s much-worn denim jackets. Now at least two decades old, it has been repaired and embellished with tassels and badges from her travels. “Later, when we started adding details and layers to our designs [to avoid plagiarization], we realised they were becoming heirloom pieces. It is the need of the hour now — everyone is talking about buying less and valuing what you have in your wardrobe,” she says. With 2020 marking 10 years of pero, they’ve launched a 50-jacket capsule with Ogaan. From Rs. 25,000 onwards, on pero.co.in.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Vir Das at Rs 30||Actor-comedian Vir Das’ unscripted crowdsourced sessions from the lockdown feature in his upcoming comedy special,Inside Out. On his site, viewers can choose to donate Rs. 30 to one of four charities before getting access to the show. Launching on August 21 on virdas.in. Details: @virdas on Instagram. Meanwhile, lawyer Menaal Munshey and writer Fatima Bhutto’s initiative to raise funds for Beirut — Li Beirut — featured creatives from across the world, like writer Elif Shafak and musician Nitin Sahwney. To donate: menaalsmunshey@gmail.com
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Hymn for the weekend||The YouTube channel ‘Classic Hymns’ marks Independence Day with one of Mahatma Gandhi’s favourite songs, ‘Lead Kindly Light’. Over 200 singers from 24 states — including Jammu, Kashmir, Tripura and Mizoram — coordinated for this virtual rendition. They are accompanied by pipe organ and piano and feature six Indian instruments during interludes. Chennai-based conductor Augustine Paul is the music director for this venture, which is spearheaded by The Indian Christian Association of Tamil Nadu and the Good Governance Forum.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Edinburgh Festival online||The Edinburgh International Festival, which brings together talent from music, theatre, opera and dance since 1947, has taken a new avatar in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. Brand new performances have been commissioned for an online series titled 'My Light Shines On' that runs on their website till August 31. This includes works by the Scottish Ballet, the Scottish Chamber Orchestra playing Beethoven’s Piano Concerto No 2 and a new play created for the National Theatre of Scotland by writer and director Hope Dickson Leach. Details: eif.co.uk
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Madras Day 2020: Every year in August, Chennai is abuzz with events, walks and activities that celebrate founding day which falls on August 22. The city has even got international attention, with US Vice Presidential candidate Kamala Harris sharing fond memories of walking by Elliot’s Beach in Besant Nagar with her grandparents. This year, of course, the talks are virtual, and cover the gamut from print culture in Tamil Nadu to a household heritage exhibition. Today, the preliminary round for the annual quiz on Madras will take place at 10.30 am. Details: themadrasday.in
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Celeb treatment||Earlier this week, actor Anushka Sharma and cricketer Virat Kohli became the first Indians to appear on @instagram'sTake a BreakIGTV series. The couple quizzed each other in segments about each other’s professions, their quirks and more. Over atJimmy Kimmel Live, pop star Dua Lipa virtually interviewed elderly people who had no idea who she was. They freely commented on her music, her style and remained unabashed when she revealed her true identity. The singer’s latest remix album,Club Future Nostalgia, releases on August 21. Watch on YouTube.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Eye in the sky||Aerial shots of 900 million voters, the Kumbh festival and Tamil Nadu’s solar plant, among other historical and cultural wonders, will feature in National Geographic’s series,India from Above.Narrated by actor Dev Patel, it features 4K drone footage of the country’s geographical, cultural and historical aspects. Today at 10 pm. For the wildlife enthusiast, SpiderIndia is hosting Spider Week to encourage people to photograph and document the insect. Till August 23, share your observations on indiabiodiversity.org/ and inaturalist.org.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||I-day watchlist||To learn about our country’s role during World War I, tune in for the screening of the documentary,India’s Forgotten Army. Featuring rare archival footage, first-person narratives and expert testimonials, the one-hour show features the country’s valiant heroes who are often left out of history books. August 15 at 9 pm on HistoryTV18. For Hollywood offerings to commemorate the day, choose fromLincoln,Mandela: A Long Walk To Freedom,The White Crow, among others, as part of &PrivéHD’s Independence Day Special. On August 15 and 16.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||This week, we had Bharatanatyam dancer and choreographer Janaki Rangarajan in conversation with Akhila Krishnamurthy of Aalaap, on our continuing Instagram Live series. They talked about the importance of each dancer finding unique ways of expressing themselves, why dancers should learn the difference between criticism and bullying and learn to speak up against the latter and how hard work is the only shortcut to success in the dance world. Available on our IGTV channel @thehinduweekend.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Housing enquires on the rise||India’s residential real estate segment is witnessing a decisive return of serious enquiries, which are now at 50% of pre-Covid levels in the top cities. Recovery is fastest in Bengaluru, where current enquiries have reached 70% of the January-February period, followed by Gurugram with nearly 65%. Prashant Thakur, Director & Head – Research, ANAROCK Property Consultants says, “Despite site visits being far from the previous levels, the site-visit-to-closure conversion rate has increased considerably as only serious buyers are venturing out, with casual window shoppers fairly dormant currently. Hyderabad now sees an average of 15% site visits converting to sales, against 8% in the pre-Covid period. Gurgaon, with just 4-5% conversions earlier, is now clocking in at 8-10%. Other cities report similar trends.” In terms of the preferred budget range, homes priced between Rs. 40 Lakh and Rs. 1.25 crore now attract a major chunk of the post-Covid buyer enquiries. Bengaluru, Chennai, Ghaziabad and Noida are seeing maximum traction for homes in the under Rs. 1 crore budget. Gurgaon is seeing maximum enquiries for properties priced between Rs. 75 lakh and Rs. 1.25 crore, for flat sizes 1,400-1,600 sq. ft. built-up area. MMR is witnessing enquiries for homes priced in the Rs. 60 lakh to Rs. 1.2 crore range, for property sizes between 400 sq.ft. and 800 sq. ft. carpet area. In terms of property configurations, 2BHKs and 3BHKs are in highest demand. While buyers in Bengaluru, Gurgaon, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Noida are more inclined towards 3BHKs and upwards, MMR sees a higher preference for 2 BHKs. Notable city-specific trends   Bengaluru   lIn the last 3 months, enquiries for larger homes have increased by 40% with property seekers predominantly scouting for 3BHKs. lMost buyers prefer gated communities with all amenities. lEast and South Bengaluru seeing rising queries for properties sized 1,800-2,500 sq. ft. built-up area, led by IT professionals and business owners.   Gurgaon   lAffordable properties are seeing some traction: 30% demand for affordable housing is from investors, 70% from end-users. lHigh demand for 2 and 3 BHKs in full-fledged housing societies.   MMR   lSite visits were back to nearly 50% of pre-Covid levels towards July-end, from predominantly serious buyers. lBesides RTMI properties, under-construction homes with completion timelines between 6 months to 1 year are in high demand. lBuyers in the 30-35 year age bracket, currently living on rent, have the highest purchase inclination.  Anarock Property Consultants
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Hanging by a thread||The craft world is reeling from the Development Commissioner for Handlooms’ notice, announcing the abolishment of the AIHB, the almost 70-year-old All India Handloom Board, established in 1952 and nurtured by Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay. Done without a whisper of warning, it came as a surprise even to those directly part of it. It was followed by a notice that the All India Handicrafts Board had been similarly dissolved. With unconscious irony, the news broke just before Handloom Day (August 7). The notification went viral on social media, evoking both emotion and questions. Among handloom weavers themselves, there have been protests and demonstrations, showing the importance they gave that official forum for their voices. Finding answers It is true that all these years on, the Boards had become increasingly moribund, toothless and politicised. Successive governments appointed members ad hoc, as a reward to loyal constituents. The Boards hardly met. Nevertheless, AIHB and its twin, the Handicrafts Board, had more than historical value. They remained the one official forum, albeit watered down, where the voices and views of weavers and craftspeople could be shared directly with the Government. The rationale for “abolishing” the AIHB (the wording is stark; it doesn’t say “re-constituting’’) is that the move is “in consonance with the Government’s vision of Minimum Government and Maximum Governance” and “a leaner Government machinery”. Somehow, this is not reassuring. Setting up the AIHB, it was intended that those members (it currently has a strength of over a 100), were makers and practitioners, who could speak with authority and a knowledge of ground realities. The Cottage Industries Emporia, the State Handicrafts & Handloom Corporations, The Crafts Museum, the magnificent Vishwakarma and ADITI exhibitions, the National Award for master craftspersons, were all institutions and initiatives that emerged from those early discussions. That pool of collective wisdom is much needed now, at a time when craftspeople and the sector are struggling for survival and imaginative solutions, while the gulf between the Government and the people it serves seems to be widening. Good ideas should not be scrapped because of bad implementation. Those who justify abolishing the AIHBs because they have not achieved much recently, only meeting six times in 11 years, are making the argument for me. A Board cannot be effective if it doesn’t meet and deliberate. The onus of calling meetings is with the officials of the Ministry under which it falls; in this case, the Ministry of Textiles. Beyond digital campaigns Three days before Handloom Day, industry leaders, Bollywood stars, designers, media, and other influencers were sent letters urging them to support a digital campaign by sharing pictures wearing handloom, using the official Ministry of Textiles’ hashtag. Handloom Day, however, is not just about wearing pretty saris and posting selfies on social media. It needs to actively promote the stories and professional skills of the makers, and ensure that they receive recognition. What weavers need today is not rhetoric or pats on the back, but practical assistance to work through these hard times. A re-constituted and active All India Handlooms & Handicrafts Board, with grassroots experience, youth and energy, could be the first reassuring step forward. Laila Tyabji is chairperson of Dastkar, an NGO that works to support traditional Indian craftspeople Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Toy story||That Ambujam Mami was furious was evident even through her maroon and turquoise silk mask with zari bootas . Her eyes expressed the raudra rasa quite eloquently. With my limited knowledge of the Natya Shastra , through the glass panel next to our door, I tried to mime that maybe it wasn’t such a good time for her to come over. But Mami’s skills were superior. She used the goddess-slaying-demon pose to indicate what my fate would be if I didn’t let her in. So I let her in. ‘What the hell is the meaning of this abomination?’ she said without preamble, displaying a news item on her phone. I tried to get a better look maintaining social distance. ‘65% increase in the sale of sex toys in India during the lockdown,’ said the scarlet headline in Poster Bodoni. It was accompanied by the illustration of a woman licking her lips and holding aloft something that Murugan Stores wouldn’t be caught dead stocking. ‘Mami,’ I stuttered. ‘You are mistaken. What the delivery boy brought was an economy pack of Bhabi Ji Papad to boost my immunity...’ ‘ Ada po, pa ,’ she cut me off mid-sentence. ‘As if I’ll ever think of you like that!’ Inexplicably, I felt a tad hurt by Mami’s utter belief in my gentlemanliness. ‘What is our country coming to? Do you know Tamil Nadu comes third! In ordering these asingams online.’ ‘No cause for worry, Mami. Next year, we’ll come second,’ I said. ‘Are you mad?’ she said. ‘The Tamil Nadu I grew up in would have come last. We used to sing patriotic songs and collect stamps when we were young. And when we felt... er... more than we were supposed to, we watched Gemini Pictures’ Avvaiyar . The only toys we used to get were soft toys from periamma in the US. ’ ‘Sundaram Mama is a genuine teddy bear,’ I said. ‘Don’t unnecessarily bring him up now,’ she said, her face going the colour of her mask. ‘What did he do now?’ ‘Well,’ she said. ‘Yesterday, a pair of handcuffs arrived via courier... addressed to him.’ ‘So what’s wrong with that?’ I said. ‘Maybe he wants to play Robber-Police. In fact, you can have my toy guns. I have two or three lying around. ’ ‘These were purple and had a lace trim,’ she said. ‘What kind of police uses those?’ ‘Immoral police?’ I said, feebly attempting humour. Mami gave me a look that she usually reserved for Sundaram Mama. Reading from the news item on my phone, I tried to console her. ‘I’m sure there is a simple explanation. Chennai is nowhere in the stats. We are still maintaining our purity. Poor Mama is innocent. Maybe he ordered doggie toys for Sri Vegan and the order got mixed up,’ I said. ‘Mumbai is first, followed by Bengaluru, and Delhi is in third position.’ ‘At a time like this, it is quite uncultured of you to mention positions to me,’ she said. ‘Those statistics give me no solace. My elder sister lives in Bengaluru. And my great-aunt is in Delhi.’ I decided it wouldn’t be wise at this point to tell Mami that the article said Surat, where she got her made-to-order khakras from, was rocking the charts. ‘What is your objection, Mami, honestly?’ I said. ‘After all, we have been asked to be self-reliant.’ ‘How foolish you are,’ she said. ‘How can we ever be atmanirbhar when 99% of these wretched things are made in China?’ Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||In real life: 5 designers unmasked||The humble face mask has powered dozens of charity drives this year. Behind the Mask is the latest in this category, uniting five of the country’s leading designers, a global magazine publisher and a fashion e-tailer. “Years from now, we will agree that the mask was the metaphor for our times…for 2020,” begins Alex Kuruvilla, MD of Conde Nast India on a Zoom call. Kuruvilla’s lockdown project began by getting a few fashion designers on the phone. Would they allow an intimate look at their lives during the pandemic, as they address isolation and being locked in with their fears and conquests? The first five he reached out to for the web-series — Manish Malhotra, Anita Dongre, Tarun Tahiliani, Gaurav Gupta and Rahul Mishra — agreed almost instantly. Each of them was also expected to create a prototype of a mask, to then inspire 20 different designs made in cotton. Retailed on Myntra, the profits would reach Indian karigars (craftspeople) through online donation platform, GiveIndia. But Kuruvilla, former chief at MTV Networks India, wasn’t done with the planning. “We needed something that was broadcast quality and not just for a website,” he says. Homemade, with backup Having worked on Long-form Originals at the company and on shows like Vogue BFFs , Anita Horam, director of Video at Conde India, knew they would have to improvise. With everyone housebound, the five designers had to use their own smartphones for video. Horam sent a tool-kit that included thumbnails as reference to shoot like a pro, tips on exposure as per device, etc. “We did not want a staged piece, so no PR lines, no standard answers. There is a realness that is endearing,” she adds. In the series’ promos, Rahul Mishra, who presented at Paris Haute Couture Week in July, is caught stressing over camera angles, while Manish Malhotra stumbles over the pronunciation of ‘masks’ (we’ve all been there, really). Tarun Tahiliani is self-possessed as usual, while Anita Dongre thinks long and hard before responding to a question (note that hers is the most successful Indian designer brand with a retail turnover of Rs. 800 crore in 2019-2020). Dongre was also the only one with a ring light, that blogger and YouTuber essential, during production. No stone unturned At a time when publishing houses are pulling out all the stops to engage audiences, will this ‘unmasking’ translate into sales? Kuruvilla, 60, is not taking any chances. The masks have been shipped to over a 100 top influencers. And for Instagrammers not keen to splash out Rs. 499 on a mask, avataar.me, a Bengaluru-based AR advertising platform, has created a filter with the 20 designs.  The episodes will be streamed on the Myntra app and aired on TLC and TLC HD and streamed on Discovery + on August 17/18, 2020  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capital turns into a fortress for Independence Day celebrations||A day before the Independence Day celebration, the city has been turned into a fortress with multiple layers of security. Due to the pandemic all the necessary safety guidelines will be enforced and arrangements have been made on the rampart for only 100 VVIPs as per social distancing norms. A senior police officer said that Delhi Police has made multilayered arrangements in connection with the Independence Day celebrations. Necessary coordination has been made with agencies like the NSG, SPG and ITBP. All the agencies will work in close coordination with each other to cater to all kinds of threat inputs. SWAT teams and ‘Parakram’ vans have been strategically stationed and the borders have been sealed. “Deployment of security personnel is being made both in plain clothes and uniform. Facial Recognition System has also been set up at vantage points for suspect identification. There will be elaborate traffic arrangements with optimal deployment of staff, and signages for public convenience,” added the officer. “All security personnel, who will be part of marching contingent or will be at the rampart, were tested for COVID-19 on Thursday. A team of doctors is examining them. The personnel who will be part of marching contingent and guard of honour ceremony and will come close to the PM are already in quarantine,” added the officer. A set of instructions on social distancing has been made to the corona warriors, who will be attending the event, as this year the event is restricted for general public, said the officer. Apart from securing the main venue at Red Fort, adequate security arrangements for ‘At Home’ function at Rashtrapati Bhavan have also been made. City wide alert is being exercised by all district Deputy Commissioners of Police, added the officer. Security personnel have been deployed at railways stations and along the tracks. There will be no movement of trains from 6.45 a.m. to 8.45 a.m. on Independence Day on particular tracks near the Red Fort due to VVIP movement,” said DCP (Railways) Harendra Kumar Singh. Police have also been carrying out anti-sabotage checks and visiting hotels in the vicinity in search of suspicious elements, added the officer.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||Seven ‘corona warriors’ to be invitees at Secretariat event||The Delhi government has issued special invites to seven ‘corona warriors’ who have risked their lives in the line of helping virus-infected patients at an event to be held at the Delhi Secretariat on Independence Day. “Due to their hard work, effort and dedication, timely treatment, food, and other relief materials could be provided to the affected people and the Delhi model was recognised all over the world,” the government said. “The Delhi government has sent special invites to these corona warriors for the Independence Day programme in appreciation of their special contributions during the pandemic. The corona warriors will represent the people working in their fields during the event to be held tomorrow [Saturday],” it also said. These individuals belong to fields of administration, medicine, nursing, police, civil defence and sanitation, the government said, According to the government, the invitees include Rajeev Singh Parihar, ADM of the Central District, and the Nodal Officer on COVID duty. Dr. Hirdesh Kumar, a resident of Dwarka, who was posted at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital (RGSSH). Among the other invitees are Sonu, a nursing officer at the Lok Nayak hospital, Delhi Police constable Pradeep Chauhan, a CATS ambulance driver at GTB Hospital Tej Bahadur, Civil Defence Volunteer Dina Nath Yadav, and supervisor of sanitation workers with the South Delhi Municipal Corporation Ashok Kumar. Low-key affair Independence Day celebrations will be held at the Delhi Secretariat instead of the Chhatrasal Stadium this year in accordance with social distancing norms in the wake of pandemic, General Administration Minister Gopal Rai announced here on Wednesday. A small function will be organised at the players building with 100 dignitaries, including Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Cabinet Ministers, and the Delhi High Court Chief Justice among the main invitees. Besides them, 70 MLAs, seven Lok Sabha MPs and three Rajya Sabha MPs, and the three MCD Mayors have also been invited.  The corona warriors will represent the people working in their fields during the event to be held on Independence Day Delhi government
15 August 2020||GUWAHATI/IMPHAL,||Congress seeks another trust vote in Manipur Assembly||The Opposition Congress in Manipur has demanded a fresh trust vote in the State Assembly, rejecting the “inconclusive and procedurally illegal” vote of confidence on August 10. In a representation to Governor Najma Heptulla on Friday, former Chief Minister and leader of the Congress Legislature Party Okram Ibobi sought a special Assembly session under Article 174 of the Constitution to conduct a trust vote. This, he said, was necessary as the trust vote four days ago violated laid-down rules and Supreme Court judgments. The six-page letter cited violations of two rules of the ‘Procedures & Conduction of Business of Manipur Assembly’ and two judgments by the apex court — one of the Union of India against former Uttarakhand CM Harish Rawat in 2016 and the other of current Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan versus his State’s Assembly Speaker this year. “Mr. Ibobi’s letter to the Governor is a clear reflection of the unprecedented Constitutional blunder committed on the floor of the House, proving that there was no bona fide trust vote with counting of votes,” said Congress spokesperson Ningombam Bupenda Meitei. Earlier in the day, Speaker Yumnam Khemchand accepted the resignation of Paonam Brojen, who was in 2017 elected on a Congress ticket.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||Decide list of people seeking cash withdrawal from PMC Bank: HC||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the Reserve Bank of India to decide on a list of persons seeking withdrawal of their money deposited in scam-hit Punjab & Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank for treatment of life threatening ailments, including novel coronavirus. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked Bejon Kumar Misra, who has filed the petition highlighting difficulties faced by depositors in withdrawal of their money, to prepare the list of depositors and submit it to the banking regulator. The court also clarified that the ceiling of withdrawal on hardship grounds, which include treatment of cancer and other ailments concerning heart, kidney, liver etc., will not be beyond Rs. 5 lakh. The High Court’s direction came after advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi, appearing for Mr. Misra, contended that many of the depositors had written several times to RBI seeking withdrawal under the hardship guidelines but their request was denied. The RBI has imposed restrictions on the operations of PMC Bank, including curbs on withdrawal limits, after an alleged fraud of Rs. 4,355 crore came to light. Preliminary enquiry has revealed that PMC Bank issued over 70% of its total loans to Housing Development Infrastructure Limited. RBI said it was not possible to raise the current withdrawal limit, reviewed on June 19, 2020, of Rs. 1 lakh due to lack of liquidity. This enhanced withdrawal limit of Rs. 1 lakh will allow more than 84% of the depositors to withdraw their entire account balance. In an affidavit, RBI stated that PMC Bank’s reported financial position as on March 31, 2020 (unaudited) continues to be “precarious”. It said against the total deposit liability of approx Rs. 10,000 crore as on March 26, 2020, liquid assets available with the PMC bank were to the tune of Rs. 2,955 crore. This, RBI said, was “grossly insufficient to fully pay all its depositors considering the position that approx 78% of the advances (where 56.33% of its deposits were deployed) are non-performing and therefore cash flows are constrained”.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebrations in the Transformed World:||Come 2020 and the world quickly plummeted into the deep abyss of the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdowns. The common people of our nation, as a result, have had to stay inside their homes. Being a nation of festivals and celebrations, we cannot keep ourselves in for too long. A significant number of our festivities have been put on hold. Many people have already given up hope and others are on the verge doing so. But, let us tell you why celebrations shouldn’t stop this independence day. Because the spirit of independence flows through each and every one of us, commemorating a free, strong and prosperous India must never stop. The pandemic is no reason to cease festivities. Of course, that never means safety and precautions have to take the backseat. Zinggalas.com is here to give you this liberty we all so crave. The freedom to choose your celebration packages ranging from birthdays, weddings, house parties, conferences, virtual events etc and excellent work by professional party planners at ZingGalas.com would make your day. They are not just experts in safety, but also offer you convenience. Their affordable packages ensure no pandemic can ever stand between you and your happiness. Explore the available packages on www.zinggalas.com or call - 8804336699 / 9652266669
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Committed to support artisan community||Earthica, a social enterprise based in Hyderabad works with artisans all over the country to produce a line of conscious women’s wear. The handloom weavers have been massively hit by the economic effects brought about by the pandemic. Most of the weavers are struggling with dead stock. It is everyone’s onus to support the Indian artisan community. The market has made discounts a norm going by which customers expect heavy discounts which is sometimes not a workable solution. The talk around vocal for local and support local has brought attention to the handloom industry but needs to be supported by other measures to actually boost off take from the weavers. Earthica is taking steps to get the staff, artisans and vendors adjust to the new normal. Like several other businesses, they have diverted resources into their online channel. They have an ongoing sale both in store and online to keep things moving. They are committed to ensure safe shopping experience. Since the announcement of a nationwide lockdown in March, Earthica has supplied raw material in clusters where there was unavailability and are supporting clusters like jamdani in Westbengal that are stuck with heaps of yardage (making means of survival a question for the weavers) by purchasing as much as they can. Priyanka Kondaveeti, Sudhamshu Kondaveeti & Manjula Reddy, Founders, Earthica, have decided to expand their product category so that they as an organization get to consume more handloom and also have something unique on offer for any patron of handloom.
15 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mohan Chand Sharma to be awarded gallantry medal posthumously for 7th time||Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma, who was killed during the 2008 Batla House encounter, is among the 35 Delhi Police personnel to be conferred police medal for their services on the occasion of Independence Day. Sharma has been awarded a gallantry medal posthumously for the seventh time. A statement released by Delhi Police said that 16 personnel will be awarded Police Medal for Gallantry, three for President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service and 16 for Police Medal for Meritorious Service. Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Manishi Chandra, ACP Govind Sharma, Inspector Vinay Kumar, Inspector Sanjay Gupta, Inspector Rajesh Kumar, late Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma (posthumously), Sub Inspector Banay Singh and Assistant Sub Inspector Shiv Mangal Yadav will be awarded Police Medal for Gallantry. Special Commissioner of Police (Intelligence) Rajesh Khurana, ASI Mahesh Singh Yadav and ASI Bhupender Singh will be awarded President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service. DCP Amit Roy, DCP Anil Kumar Lall, DCP Mohammad Irshad Haider, ACP Nirmala Devi, Inspector Narender Kumar, SI Manju Chauhan, ASI Rakesh Kumar Sharma and Head Constable Mukesh Kumar are among those who will be awarded Police Medal for Meritorious Service.
15 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||Hapur child rape accused arrested||The Uttar Pradesh police on Friday arrested Dalpat Singh, who allegedly raped a six-year-old minor in the Garh area of Hapur on August 6, from the jungle adjoining the Ganga bank in the Gajraula area of Amroha district, officers said. On Thursday, the accused had tried to mislead the police by leaving his clothes and a suicide note on the banks of the river, said Sarvesh Mishra, Additional Suprintendent of Police (ASP), Hapur, adding “The note said he did not want to die of a police bullet and would choose his own death.” Mr. Mishra told The Hindu that the accused, who hailed from Mehmoodpur village of Gajraula, did not have a criminal record. “When he was taken to the spot for recreation of the crime scene, he tried to run away after snatching the service revolver of a sub inspector, but he was soon nabbed after a brief encounter in which he was shot in the leg, below the knee,” Mr. Mishra said. He added, “He [Singh] has told us the sequence of events. The clothes that he was wearing at the time of crime have been recovered and will be sent for forensic test.” Mr. Mishra said the rape survivor was out of danger and would be discharged in a week.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. sanctions Rs. 170 cr. to set up technology innovation hub on Cobotics at IIT||Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi on Friday said that the Department of Science of Technology, Govt. of India, has sanctioned Rs. 170 crore under the National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber Physical Systems to set up a Technology Innovation Hub on Cobotics at the institute. The focus will be the technologies where robots should be able to work together with humans.
15 August 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal- brief||AAP national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will virtually address party volunteers at 4 p.m. on Independence Day. It will be live on his Facebook page.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Vir Das at Rs. 30||Actor-comedian Vir Das’ unscripted crowdsourced sessions from the lockdown feature in his upcoming comedy special,Inside Out. On his site, viewers can choose to donate Rs. 30 to one of four charities before getting access to the show. Launching on August 21 on virdas.in. Details: @virdas on Instagram. Meanwhile, lawyer Menaal Munshey and writer Fatima Bhutto’s initiative to raise funds for Beirut — Li Beirut — featured creatives from across the world, like writer Elif Shafak and musician Nitin Sahwney. To donate: menaalsmunshey@gmail.com
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Hymn for the weekend||The YouTube channel ‘Classic Hymns’ marks Independence Day with one of Mahatma Gandhi’s favourite songs, ‘Lead Kindly Light’. Over 200 singers from 24 states — including Jammu, Kashmir, Tripura and Mizoram — coordinated for this virtual rendition. They are accompanied by pipe organ and piano and feature six Indian instruments during interludes. Chennai-based conductor Augustine Paul is the music director for this venture, which is spearheaded by The Indian Christian Association of Tamil Nadu and the Good Governance Forum.
15 August 2020||August 15 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Madras Day 2020: Every year in August, Chennai is abuzz with events, walks and activities that celebrate founding day which falls on August 22. The city has even got international attention, with U.S. Vice Presidential candidate Kamala Harris sharing fond memories of walking by Elliot’s Beach in Besant Nagar with her grandparents. This year, of course, the talks are virtual, and cover the gamut from print culture in Tamil Nadu to a household heritage exhibition. Today, the preliminary round for the annual quiz on Madras will take place at 10.30 a.m. Details: themadrasday.in
